        1969 A SPACE ODYSSEY or: 
HOW KUBRICK LEARNED TO STOP WORRYING AND LAND ON THE MOON

                 by

             Stephany Folsom

Aaron Kaplan
Kaplan/Perrone Entertainment
280 South Beverly
Suite 513
Beverly Hills, CA 90212
310.285.0116
Kaplan@kaplanperrone.com

                             October 15, 2013

The following is inspired by true events surrounding the 
moon landing in 1969....

...or maybe it's all made up.

A CRESCENT MOON AGAINST A BLUE SKY

The moment where the sun and moon are visible together.

ANGLE DOWN TO:

EXT. CAPE KENNEDY LAUNCH COMPLEX - DAY

A massive rocket rising from the horizon. Taller than a 
skyscraper. The biggest thing for miles.

TITLE: Apollo 1 Test Launch - Cape Kennedy, 1967

Astronauts DAVE GRISSOM, ED WHITE and ROGER CHAFFE stand at 
its base. They’re wearing space suits, helmets tucked under 
arms. American heroes looking like mere ants against this 
tribute to exploration.

JULIAN SCHEER, 40. He’s good looking, charming and quite 
aware of these things. Camera around his neck. “NASA Public 
Affairs” written on his ID badge.

             JULIAN
      How about a photo of the first men 
      landing on the moon?

The astronauts stand beside each other with smiles of pure 
joy. They have the best job in the world.

Julian snaps the photo. The astronauts break their pose.

             ED WHITE
      Can I get a copy for my kids?

Julian nods.

             JULIAN
      You guys better get up there before 
      Deke freaks. You know how he is 
      about staying on schedule.

The astronauts laugh at this and quickly return to business. 
They do a final check of their suits. Helping each other with 
a few straps. These guys are a team. Family.

             DAVE GRISSOM
      Ready?

Ed and Roger nod. Together the astronauts step on the 
elevator that will take them to the launch pad. It’s a long 
way up.



INT. COMPLEX 34 MISSION CONTROL ROOM - DAY

CHIEF OF ASTRONAUTS DEKE SLAYTON wears a headset. White 
button down shirt and black tie. Classic looks. 43. A good 
ol’ boy to his core.  

             DEKE
      We’re behind schedule. Let’s get 
      moving!

TITLE: Kennedy Space Center Mission Control

Deke sits at a control panel. Radar screens, dials and 
flashing buttons: the height of technology, 1967. A HALF-
DOZEN OPERATORS in similar headsets surround him.

FLIGHT ASSISTANT GENE KRANZ, 34, sits at Deke’s side. Same 
white shirt and black tie. A harsh military haircut that 
belies the teddy bear underneath.

             GENE
      Roger. Initiating communication.

             DEKE
      Apollo 1, this is CAPCOM -- how do 
      you read me?

A crackle over the speakers and:

             DAVE GRISSOM 
      Reading you loud and clear.

Kranz and Deke exchange a smile. So far so good.

             DAVE GRISSOM  
      Deke, we’ve got a strange odor in 
      here. Smells like sour buttermilk.

             DEKE
      You sure it’s not that bologna you 
      had for lunch?

             DAVE GRISSOM 
        (laughing)
      Negative, Deke. No bologna.

Deke smiles. 

             DEKE
      Roger. We’ll get someone from 
      operations to take a look. Stand 
      by, buddy.
        (under his breath)
      More fucking delays.


Kranz shoots Deke a nervous look.

             DEKE 
      You want a Soviet beating us to the 
      moon?

Kranz knows better than to answer when Deke is like this.

             OPERATIONS 
      Deke? Air seems fine in the 
      capsule. You are clear for test 
      launch. Over.

             DEKE
      Thank you, Lord.
        (into headset)
      Apollo 1, we’re initiating test 
      launch countdown. T-minus ten, 
      nine, eight, seven --

             GENE
      -- we have loss of signal.

Deke throws down his headset in frustration.

             DEKE
      How are we getting to the moon if 
      we can’t talk to our astronauts 
      sitting a couple hundred yards 
      away?

The speakers crackle. Going in and out. Barely audible:

             DAVE GRISSOM 
      Fire...in the cockpit --

             DEKE
        (scared)
      Dammit.

             GENE
      All communication down.

EXT. LAUNCH COMPLEX - DAY

Julian holds his camera up to snap a photo of the rocket -- 
he lowers the camera. Panic on his face.



EXT. APOLLO 1 COMMAND MODULE - DAY

The smoke and flood lights give the feel of a dream. CLOSE ON 
the capsule window. Hands desperately beating against it to 
get out. Please God, open --

EXT. COMPLEX 34 BUILDING - DAY

Deke runs from the nondescript building. He stops. Staring 
straight ahead in shock. He’s going to be sick from what he 
sees -- 

EXT. APOLLO 1 COMMAND MODULE - DAY

FIREMAN and EMERGENCY PERSONNEL in gas masks approach the 
capsule. Surreal. Time disjointed. 

QUICK CUTS: The capsule window. Nothing moving on the other 
side. The door removed. Smoke escaping. Everything black 
within. No one could have survived --

We follow the tendrils of smoke up to:

A CRESCENT MOON IN THE LIGHT GRAY WINTER SKY

             PRESIDENT NIXON 
      As we explore the reaches of space, 
      let us go to the new worlds 
      together --

TITLE: Two Years Later - Nixon’s Inaugural Address

ANGLE DOWN TO BARBARA PENN. Late 20’s. Fashionable bouffant, 
long wool coat with wide sleeves, giving the appearance of a 
typical Washington DC socialite. 

EXT. FRONT LAWN - WHITE HOUSE - MORNING

She stands at the far edge of a MASSIVE CROWD. Nose bleed 
seats. Everyone looking straight ahead. But not Barbara. She 
gazes to the moon. There’s nothing typical about Barbara.

             PRESIDENT NIXON 
      -- Not as new worlds to be 
      conquered, but as a new adventure 
      to be shared.

PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON barely perceptible on the stage in 
the distance. VIETNAM PROTESTORS behind trying to shout over:


             PRESIDENT NIXON 
        (over the loud speaker)
      With those who are willing to join, 
      let us cooperate.

The CROWD applauds, startling Barbara from her sky gazing. 
She politely CLAPS. The PROTESTORS become louder --

-- as we TRANSITION TO ARCHIVE FOOTAGE of the event on a 1969 
color television in --

INT. PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - WIDER - DAY

HERBERT G. KLEIN, Nixon’s 51-year-old DIRECTOR OF 
COMMUNICATIONS shuts off the TV. Runs his hand through his 
graying hair. Deep lines of stress on his face. He does not 
have an easy job.

TITLE: White House Public Affairs Office

             HERBERT
      Has Nixon ever watched the news? He 
      wants us to sell “peace” to the 
      public after we just came out of 
      the bloodiest year in Vietnam. Any 
      ideas? Miracles?

Herbert addresses a table filled with young men in 
conservative suits: WHITE HOUSE PUBLIC AFFAIRS ASSISTANTS.

             BARBARA 
      Maybe we need to change the news.

All heads turn to Barbara. She sits along the wall. No room 
at the table.

             BARBARA 
      When I was the Vice President of 
      marketing at Singer --

             HERBERT
      -- we aren’t selling sewing 
      machines.

A few nervous laughs. Eyes avert in the hope she’ll go away, 
but Barbara isn’t going.

             BARBARA
      People want to see we can do more 
      than destroy each other. We need 
      people focused on the moon landing.


             DIRECTOR HELMS 
      That’s what I’d like to discuss.

CIA DIRECTOR RICHARD HELMS steps forward. 56. A striking 
figure. Hard to believe he’s been in the corner the entire 
time. Watching and waiting like any good spook. 

Herbert Klein less than pleased to have the CIA at his 
meeting.

             HERBERT
      Right. This is Director of Central 
      Intelligence, Richard Helms. Nixon 
      wants us working with the CIA on 
      our press efforts for the moon 
      landing.

A few murmurs of confusion from the table. CIA Director Helms 
goes to the far wall and pulls down a screen. Dims the 
lights, CLICKS the remote connected to the projector on the 
table --

A picture of a grandfatherly looking MAN in his 60’s fills 
the screen. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      This is Vasili Mishin. He’s been 
      put in charge of the Soviet rocket 
      program by --

CLICKS to the slide of MIKAHIL SUSLOV, 67. An old hardliner. 
Slicked back white hair and angry as all hell.

             DIRECTOR HELMS 
      -- Mikahil Suslov. When the commies 
      took over Russia, Suslov carried 
      out the slaughter of millions of 
      his own people. If you thought the 
      Nazis were bad, this guy is worse. 

Director Helms CLICKS the slide of a young couple on their 
wedding day. Blonde. Blue eyes. Classic Americana.

             DIRECTOR HELMS 
      This is Cindy and Howard Marcus. 
      Our CIA operatives in Moscow posing 
      as tutors in the Suslov household. 
      Yesterday they discovered Suslov’s 
      plans to launch a manned lunar 
      landing before the end of the 
      month.


             PR ASSISTANT #1
      Isn’t NASA scheduled to launch in 
      the spring? That puts us at least 
      four months behind the Soviets.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Suslov has been very outspoken 
      about his distaste for the current 
      nuclear stalemate between our 
      countries. I’m going to be blunt -- 
      if Suslov wins the space race, he 
      will come to power and will not 
      hesitate to launch an attack 
      against us. The Soviets cannot be 
      allowed to win the moon.

The thought makes everyone uncomfortable.

             HERBERT
      What do you want from my public 
      affairs team?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      NASA is doing what it can to get us 
      there first, but winning the Cold 
      War will largely depend on public 
      perception. We need you to create 
      press materials that reinforce 
      America will land on the moon 
      first.

             HERBERT
      You want propaganda?
        (Helms nods)
      And what am I supposed to create 
      these “press materials” with? Have 
      you seen the photos NASA shot in 
      space?

He holds up a flat and blurry black and white photo from the 
table. 

             BARBARA
      Excuse me, I think it would be more 
      productive to focus on what we can 
      do. We need to remind people of 
      Kennedy’s words: “We choose to go 
      to the moon not because it is easy, 
      but because it is hard. Because 
      that challenge is one that we are 
      willing to accept, one we are 
      unwilling to postpone, and one 
      which we intend to win.” 


Herbert looks to the grainy black and white photo of the 
moon’s surface.

             HERBERT
      Not inspiring press material.
      And Nixon is no Kennedy. 

He tosses the grainy picture of the moon on the table. The 
picture TRANSITIONS TO --

THE MOON IN THE NIGHT SKY

WE ANGLE down to quaint street lamps lighting a city park. A 
huge monumental structure with Corinthian columns looms at 
the entrance. A testament to Communist aesthetic.

TITLE: Gorky Park - Moscow, USSR

On a bench sits CINDY MARCUS, 21, the lovely young bride we 
saw in the CIA photo. Her husband, HOWARD MARCUS, 25, seated 
beside. They tightly hold hands. A reassuring smile 
exchanged, but neither one really buying it.

A SOVIET GUARD approaches. Cindy tightens her grip on 
Howard’s hand, giving the only hint of danger. The guard 
gives a friendly nod in their direction and keeps walking. 

Cindy begins to relax, as a man in a nondescript suit takes a 
seat beside them. This is AGENT MILES HARRIS, 25. Wet behind 
the ears and even more nervous than our couple. Speaking in 
lowered voices:

             CINDY
      Suslov suspects we’re working for 
      the Americans. He is having our 
      activities closely monitored.

Cindy casually gestures to the man across the lawn in a KGB 
UNIFORM.

             HOWARD
      I’ve requested extraction. 

             AGENT HARRIS
      Your extraction request has been 
      denied.

             HOWARD
      If Suslov realizes I worked with 
      NASA, he will use me to advance 
      their rocket program. 
             


             HOWARD 
      If that happens, you can guarantee 
      the Soviets will beat us to the 
      moon and that puts us all in 
      serious danger.

             AGENT HARRIS
      We know the risks. Suslov is a 
      priority target. You are to 
      continue monitoring his activities 
      and gathering intelligence. Those 
      are your orders.

Agent Harris gets up with an awkward:

             AGENT HARRIS 
      I’m sorry.

Cindy and Howard watch him walk away. Howard pulls Cindy 
close. Seeking any kind of comfort in each other’s arms. 

             CINDY
      We could disappear.

They pull away from each other. 

             HOWARD
      And who would stop Suslov? It would 
      take years for them to get someone 
      this close again. 

She knows he’s right.

             HOWARD 
      We have to stay. Just a little 
      longer.

             CINDY
      We’re doing the right thing?

             HOWARD
      I won’t let anything happen to you.

She believes him. They stand and walk forward. Hand in hand. 
Like any couple out for an evening stroll.

A STRING QUARTET plays to a few ONLOOKERS. Cindy and Howard 
stop to watch. The classical melody easing their nerves -- 

TWO MEN in official KGB uniforms approach --

Cindy looks up. Sees the men. She releases Howard’s hand. Too 
late --


Howard and Cindy grabbed from behind. The KGB forces them to 
the ground. The MUSIC stops. Howard and Cindy on their knees. 
Arms up in surrender --

AGENT HARRIS watches from a few yards away. Helpless to 
intervene --

Cindy and Howard dragged to their feet. SCREAMING as they are 
escorted god knows where. 

The QUARTET starts again like nothing happened. Arrests like 
this are common.

HARRIS continues down the sidewalk. Howard and Cindy’s 
SCREAMS ring in his ears. But he can’t look back. 

THE MUSIC crescendos taking us into --

INT. CONGRESSIONAL COUNTRY CLUB - BALLROOM - NIGHT

Barbara dressed in an elegant cocktail dress moves through a 
CROWD of old money and Washington elite. 

A young girl in a party dress and a boy in a suit run up. 

             DAVID
      Mom!

This is KIMBERLY (4) and DAVID (3). The spitting image of 
Barbara. She bends down and wraps her arms around them in a 
big hug. Releases. Little Kimberly gives her a stern look.

             KIMBERLY
      Grandma is mad you’re late. 

             BARBARA
      I was tied up at work.

             KIMBERLY
      She thinks you should stop trying 
      to be better than everyone. She 
      says it’s a wife’s duty to support 
      her husband.

             BARBARA
      How about we play a little game 
      tonight? It’s called hide from 
      Grandma. Now, I’m going to need 
      both of you to keep an eye out for 
      her, okay? And we’ll hide every 
      time she gets close.

Kimberly and David nod. They’re up for it.



             BARBARA 
      Where’s Dad?

             KIMBERLY
      With Mr. Kissinger.

Kimberly points to a WALTER PENN. 30. Boyish good looks in a 
conservative suit. He stands beside his father HAROLD PENN, 
60, and NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR HENRY KISSINGER.

Barbara waves to Walter. His face lights up at seeing her and 
he gives a little wave back, obviously he can’t talk right 
now.

             BARBARA
      It’s going to be a long night.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Walter carries sleeping Kimberly in his arms. Barbara carries 
sleeping David. In hushed voices:

             WALTER
      I think Dad enjoyed his birthday.

             BARBARA
      I’m glad he likes something.

Walter sets Kimberly in a bed with pink bedding.

             WALTER
      You can’t let my parents get to 
      you. They’re old-fashioned. They 
      dislike anyone who didn’t fight in 
      World War II. 

Barbara sets down David in the bed with blue blankets. 

Walter takes Barbara in his arms. Holds her close. The first 
intimate contact they’ve had all night.

             WALTER 
      I miss you. We don’t have to work 
      this hard.

             BARBARA
      Yes we do. We like it.

Walter releases Barbara. She’s right.

             WALTER
      Be glad you missed the conversation 
      I got dragged into tonight.



             BARBARA
      With Henry Kissinger?

             WALTER
      How that guy got put in charge of 
      National Security is beyond me. He 
      wants U.S. Aeronautics to give up 
      on designing rockets for NASA and 
      get back to making more effective 
      missiles. He actually had the nerve 
      to tell me NASA couldn’t get us to 
      the moon. 

             BARBARA
      Can they?

             WALTER
      Of course they can. I don’t know 
      what it’s going to take for these 
      guys in Washington to believe it.

             DAVID 
      Mom?

Barbara goes to David.

             DAVID 
      Will you read me a story?

Barbara takes a seat at the edge of his bed. Walter joins.

             WALTER
      It’s late, so only a couple pages, 
      okay?

David nods. Barbara looks to the bookshelf:

             BARBARA
      How about Peter Pan? 

             DAVID
      What’s it about?

             BARBARA
      A boy from a magical place that can 
      fly.

             DAVID
      I don’t believe that story. It’s 
      silly.

             BARBARA
      Why?



David crosses his arms. Determined.

             DAVID
      Mommy, it’s only true if you see 
      it. Boys don’t fly.

Barbara considers this. The wheels turning in her head.

INT. WEST WING - DAY

Herbert walks at a fast clip. Barbara close behind. A sealed 
blue file in her hand.

             BARBARA
      Director Klein, I think you should 
      look at this research.

Herbert not slowing.

             BARBARA 
      They’re projecting the Apollo 11 
      moon landing will have over 12 
      million TV viewers worldwide.

             HERBERT
      I know.

             BARBARA
      Then you know we’ll have a big 
      problem when the landing airs. 

             HERBERT
      If we ever land. 

             BARBARA
      Why take that risk? NASA hasn’t 
      been able to get their cameras to 
      consistently work under extreme 
      lunar conditions.

Herbert walks faster. Barbara struggling to keep pace in her 
heels.

             BARBARA 
      Sir, I believe we will land on the 
      moon and when we get up there, 
      we’ll have nothing to show for it. 
      You heard what Director Helms said, 
      winning the Cold War depends on 
      public perception. 


             HERBERT
      Exactly. So get the CIA off my back 
      with a happy press release that 
      says everything at Kennedy Space 
      Center is swell.

             BARBARA
      12 million television viewers is 
      bigger than any press release. 
      People need to see the moon 
      landing, or it will be like it 
      never happened. Seeing is 
      believing. 

Herbert steps through his office door. Barbara spots 
SECRETARY OF STATE WILLIAM P. ROGERS waiting inside. Late 
50’s and reeking of nervous paranoia.

             BARBARA 
      Is that the Secretary of State?

Herbert attempts to slam the door in Barbara’s face. She 
forces it back open and whispers:

             BARBARA 
      Sir, I think we need to consider 
      faking the moon landing.

It takes a second for this to register.

             HERBERT
      That is the most idiotic thing I’ve 
      ever heard. 

The door SLAMS in Barbara’s face.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Barbara takes off her heels. She massages her feet that are 
rubbed raw from her chase of Herbert.

A SECRETARY exits a stall and joins Barbara at the mirror.

             SECRETARY
      Looks like we’re both in trouble.

Barbara looks over -- a giant run down the side of the 
secretary’s pantyhose.

Barbara reaches into her purse and hands the secretary a 
balled set of extra pantyhose.


             SECRETARY 
      Thanks. Sorry I can’t return the 
      favor. You should invest in a set 
      of wedges. Makes it easier to chase 
      the boys.

Barbara considers this.

             BARBARA
      Are you taking notes in the meeting 
      with Secretary of State Rogers?

The secretary nods. She hands her blue file to the secretary.

             BARBARA 
      Could you give this to him in front 
      of Public Affairs Director Herbert 
      Klein? 

             SECRETARY
      What’s in it?

             BARBARA
      You’ll have to keep it sealed.

             SECRETARY
      Will it get me in trouble?

             BARBARA
      Not any more than torn pantyhose.

The secretary smiles at this. Barbara SLAMS her heel against 
the counter, breaking it off --

INT. WEST WING SITUATION ROOM  - DAY 

SECRETARY OF STATE WILLIAM P. ROGERS and CIA Director Richard 
Helms sit at a table. Barbara’s blue folder to the side. 
Pictures of the Soviet facilities and maps on the walls. 

             ROGERS
      You want to tell me why the CIA is 
      going behind my back and meeting 
      with public affairs?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Secretary, two of our operatives in 
      Moscow have been captured by the 
      KGB. We believe they are still 
      alive.

Helms sets photos of Cindy and Howard on the table.


             DIRECTOR HELMS 
      We sent Howard Marcus on this 
      assignment because of his 
      experience with our rocket program. 
      He knows all our designs. If the 
      Soviets break him, there’s no 
      question about it -- we’ll lose the 
      space race and Suslov will have 
      enough public support to stage a 
      nuclear attack. 

             ROGERS
      Can we get our spies out?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Not at this time. Any extraction 
      attempt would be perceived as an 
      act of war. We can’t risk it. We’re 
      exploring other options.

Rogers shoves Barbara’s blue folder at Director Helms. 

             ROGERS
      Is that what this is?

Helms eyes the contents of the folder. Surprised.

             ROGERS 
      You want to fake the lunar 
      landing?!

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Secretary, I only asked public 
      affairs for some propaganda 
      materials --

             ROGERS
      Did Kissinger put you up to this 
      joke? I know he wants my job.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Secretary, we currently have no 
      plan to fake the moon landing, but 
      given our situation, it may be 
      worth considering --

             ROGERS
      The President tasked me with 
      overseeing troop withdrawal from 
      Vietnam. So I don’t care about an 
      old Russian making a power grab, or 
      two captured spies, and I sure as 
      hell don’t care about the moon. Get 
      the CIA focused on Vietnam!


Frustrated, Director Helms scoops up his documents along with 
Barbara’s blue folder.

INT. WEST WING CORRIDOR - DAY

Barbara waits outside the closed door. She shifts her weight 
from one foot to the next, testing her newly created flats. 

The door opens. Barbara quickly positions herself to make it 
seem she’s casually walking by.

Director Helms and Rogers walk out.

             BARBARA
        (acting surprised)
      Secretary Rogers, did you get my 
      folder? 

             ROGERS
      I did.

Rogers continues down the hall. CIA Director Helms holds back 
and watches Barbara stick by Rogers side with ease in her 
“new” shoes.

             BARBARA
      It would probably be best to 
      discuss this in private. I can have 
      our office arrange a meeting.

      

             ROGERS
	I’m busy.

Rogers steps onto an elevator. A SECRET SERVICE AGENT blocks 
Barbara’s way forward. 

             BARBARA
      Secretary Rogers, I --

The doors close. She can’t hide her look of frustration.

Director Helms looks from Barbara to the blue folder in his 
hand.

INT. PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - DAY

Barbara walks in and stops in her tracks. All the desks 
empty. Only the female secretary from earlier still at her 
post.

             BARBARA
      Is it a holiday?


             SECRETARY
      They take off early every Friday 
      for a “strategy session” at the bar 
      round the corner.

Barbara obviously not invited. She picks up her purse from 
her desk and walks out. Led Zeppelin coming in loud --

INT. BAR - NIGHT

The MUSIC plays on the jukebox. News footage of Vietnam on 
the TV behind the bar. Herbert watches the news from his 
table. Glass of whiskey in hand. Holding court with his press 
assistants.

             HERBERT
      You ever think you made the wrong 
      choice?

             PR ASSISTANT #1
      Like picking this place? Scotch is 
      watered down.

             HERBERT
      No. I’m talking big picture. Life 
      choices. Sometimes I wonder how the 
      hell it got like this. I’d 
      originally set out to be a sports 
      writer. Loved sports. Who doesn’t? 
      Sports make sense. They have rules, 
      uniforms, a clear winner, a clear 
      loser...but once I got into 
      politics, it stopped making sense --

Gestures the news footage of Vietnam.

             HERBERT 
      -- who the hell is even winning?

The men at the table look up at something behind Herbert. 
Herbert turns and finds Barbara standing there. 

             BARBARA
      I thought this might be a good 
      opportunity to talk.

She pulls up a chair and sits. The tone at the table turns 
tense. Barbara not letting it have an affect, until --

             HERBERT
      This another one of your stunts?


             BARBARA
      Excuse me? 

             HERBERT
      That folder you got in Secretary 
      Rogers hands-- what? You think I 
      wouldn’t notice?

             BARBARA
      I want you to notice. NASA will 
      land us on the moon, and we need a 
      plan to show it --

             HERBERT
      Wake up. We can’t land on the moon. 
      Secretary Rogers is about as 
      interested in your ridiculous plan 
      as I am. 

             BARBARA
      It’s this outdated, negative 
      thinking that will cost us the 
      space race.

             HERBERT
      Look sweetheart, Nixon’s Task Force 
      on Women’s Rights and 
      Responsibilities forced me to hire 
      you, but I sure as hell don’t have 
      to sit here and drink with you. 

Yeah, that’s awkward. The WAITRESS walks up.

             WAITRESS
      Herbert Klein? You have a private 
      call.

Herbert gets up and goes to the phone at the bar. Barbara 
looks to her coworkers at the table. No eye contact. No one 
knows what to say. For the first time, this is getting to 
Barbara.

Herbert returns to the table with a glass of whiskey in hand.

             HERBERT
      You’re up, Barbara.

He places the glass of whiskey in Barbara’s hand. She smiles.

             HERBERT 
      Someone read your little blue file, 
      and thinks it’s a good idea. You 
      leave for Kennedy Space Center in 
      the morning.


Barbara takes a triumphant sip of whiskey and attempts to 
hide her disgust at the taste.

             HERBERT 
      God help us.

EXT. KENNEDY SPACE CENTER - DAY

Barbara perfectly put together with a small overnight bag at 
her feet, stares at the massive rocket reaching into the sky. 
Unable to hide her amazement.

Julian Scheer joins Barbara. A little more disheveled than 
when we saw him last. 

             JULIAN
      You Barbara?

She peels her eyes away from the rocket and looks to him.

             JULIAN 
      Hey, I’m Julian. NASA Public 
      Affairs. We’ll be working together.

Barbara shakes his hand. Firm.

             JULIAN 
      For future reference, you’re 
      required to wear a hard hat in the 
      launch area. 

             BARBARA
      You’re not wearing one.

             JULIAN
      I don’t look good in one. And if 
      that rocket malfunctions it won’t 
      matter what you have on your head.

Barbara looks to the rocket again. It suddenly seems more 
ominous. 

INT. NASA PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - DAY

Barbara and Julian enter. Two desks. One typewriter.  A giant 
NASA wall calendar. The days marked off in red leading to the 
moon launch -- there isn’t much time.

             JULIAN
      This is NASA Public Affairs.

Julian sets down her bag.



             JULIAN 
      So who’d you burn to get stuck on 
      moon watch?

             BARBARA
      It was my idea. You “burn” someone?

             JULIAN
      Ruffling feathers is my specialty. 
      I think Public Affairs Director 
      Herbert Klein secretly hopes I get 
      shot into space down here.

             BARBARA
      That goes for both of us.

Julian smiles and points to the desk along the wall. 

             JULIAN
      Clear off a spot and it’s yours.

Barbara wipes the sweat from her brow and goes to the desk. 
The surface littered with photographs of astronauts standing 
in various desert locations. Camera equipment strewn about. 
Barbara picks up one of the photos.

             BARBARA
      What are these?

             JULIAN
      Camera tests I did under simulated 
      lunar conditions. Had a guy here 
      from Kodak. Thought he was going to 
      cry when I told him we needed to be 
      able to shoot at negative 200 
      degrees. 

             BARBARA
      Some of these came out.

             JULIAN
      Some isn’t good enough. The cameras 
      aren’t reliable, and if they fail 
      up there -- it’s game over. There’s 
      no do over.

Julian sits at his desk. Casually kicks his feet up.

             JULIAN 
      Babs, so tell me, how the hell did 
      you get the suits in DC to pay 
      attention to NASA’s publicity 
      issues? 



             BARBARA
      The CIA should have sent you the 
      dossier on the mission. I have a 
      copy --

Barbara takes a manila envelope from her bag stamped: 
CLASSIFIED.

             JULIAN
      Right. I didn’t read it. You have 
      any idea how many of those we get? 
      The Soviets change their rockets, 
      so we have to change ours and it 
      goes round and round --

Barbara tosses the envelope on his desk.

             BARBARA
      Read it. We have two captured spies 
      in Moscow. Their lives and the fate 
      of the free world depends on us 
      televising the moon landing before 
      the Soviets.

Julian laughs. Off Barbara’s expression:

             JULIAN
      You’re serious?
        (shit)
      So what’s the plan?  Are we going 
      to fake the moon landing?

             BARBARA
      I know it sounds crazy --

             JULIAN
      It is crazy. And I already tried. 
      Take another look at those photos. 
      They look fake as hell. You have 
      another trick up your sleeve?

             BARBARA
      I don’t need tricks. I have Nixon’s 
      full support on this.

             JULIAN
      Really? What’s your title?

             BARBARA
      Public Affairs...assistant.

Julian laughs. Barbara bristles.


             BARBARA 
      It’s a step down from my last 
      position, but I wanted an 
      opportunity to work in government.

             JULIAN
      Sorry, Babs. Honestly, I mean no 
      offense. But if Nixon really cared 
      about people seeing the moon 
      landing, he’d sent his top dog. 
      That windbag never got he lost the 
      election to Kennedy because he 
      looked like an ass on TV. 

Julian puts down his feet. Leans forward. Very serious.

             JULIAN 
      It’s up to you and me to make this 
      look good -- we’re on our own. 

Deke Slayton storms through the door. Now 45. Still intense. 

Without saying a word, Deke picks up a red marker from 
Julian’s desk and changes the launch date on the wall 
calendar. Much less time. Deke walks out. The door slamming 
behind.

             BARBARA
      What was that?

             JULIAN
      Deke Slayton. Our Flight Director. 
      He’s just worried more people are 
      going to die around here...the 
      stress can get a little intense.

Julian pulls a joint from his pocket.  

             JULIAN 
      We have the highest workplace 
      divorce and suicide rates in the 
      nation.

Julian places the joint between his lips and lights. Takes a 
hit. He hands the joint to Barbara.

             JULIAN 
      Welcome to Kennedy Space Center.

A Pink Floyd song kicks in, taking us to --



EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

Barbara’s head hangs out the window of a 1969 Camaro. She 
smiles up to the stars in the night sky.

Julian drives. He takes the joint from his mouth and holds it 
to Barbara. She takes a long drag. A smoky haze gives way to 
a movie theater ahead -- On the marquee: 2001 A SPACE 
ODYSSEY. A FILM BY STANLEY KUBRICK.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Barbara leads Julian into the darkened theater. Smoke 
mysteriously rising from the front row --

A DOZEN HIPPIES sprawled out in front of the screen. Barefoot 
and smoking weed. A blonde HIPPIE GIRL with daisies in her 
hair slowly waves over Barbara.

Barbara, almost in a trance, takes a seat. Julian sits 
beside. The girl passes Barbara a joint and the classical 
“Thus Spake Zarathustra” takes us into BARBARA’S POV:

-- The apes in 2001 screech and howl at the black monolith 
and we TRANSITION to:

-- The Soviet N-1 rocket towering overhead.  Wider and taller 
than what we’ve seen at Cape Kennedy. A large red hammer and 
sickle painted on its side. TRANSITION to: 

-- A red hammer and sickle painted on the wall. Howard and 
Cindy stand below. Cindy has Howard’s hand in hers, holding 
tightly as they walk towards COMMUNIST PARTY CHIEF MIKHAIL 
SUSLOV, the man that would have no problem nuking the world, 
and we TRANSITION INTO:

-- Dave in 2001 walks in the circular module as Hal speaks:

             HAL
      I’m sorry, Dave. I can’t do that.

-- Deke paces in empty mission control. Tense. He looks to 
the golden Apollo 1 pin he wears on his lapel in memoriam of 
his lost friends. The moon launch map on the wall ahead as we 
MOVE INTO --

-- 2001’s final sequence. The STAR CHILD approaches Earth 
with “Thus Spake Zarathustra” coming to an apex.


EXT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Barbara and Julian exit the theater. Barbara reaches to the 
sky.

             BARBARA
      God, what I wouldn’t give to 
      capture images like that up there.

She sits on the curb.

             JULIAN
      Hey, you all right?

             BARBARA
      I’m thinking. 

             JULIAN
      Don’t. We work in government.

Julian sits beside her. Reminiscent of two conspiring kids.

             BARBARA
      If we want something to look real, 
      we need someone that can fake 
      it...professionally.

             JULIAN
      And who is this magical person that 
      will give us perfect moon landing?

             BARBARA
      Stanley Kubrick.

INT. UPPER EAST SIDE PENTHOUSE APARTMENT - DAY 

CHRISTIANE KUBRICK, 37, with light brown hair she likes to 
keep short, paints in front of large windows overlooking 
Central Park. 

A MAN in khakis with a button down shirt comes up behind. 
Thick black beard and shaggy hair in all directions. Intense 
eyes examining her painting over her shoulder. 

This is STANLEY KUBRICK. With a slight Bronx accent:

             KUBRICK
      How do you think it would look with 
      a little more red on the right?

A phone RINGS. Speaking with a German accent:


             CHRISTIANE
      If it needed red, I would have 
      painted it with more red.

             KUBRICK
      Are you sure?

Christiane sets down her brush.

             CHRISTIANE
      Don’t touch it.

Christiane gets up. She answers the phone out of view. 
Kubrick doesn’t move, analyzing her painting. 

Christiane returns with the phone. She holds it out for 
Kubrick.

             CHRISTIANE 
      It’s a woman from NASA.

Stanley backs away from the phone like it’s going to bite.

             KUBRICK
      Are they upset about 2001?

             CHRISTIANE
      Why would NASA be upset?

             KUBRICK
      Maybe they didn’t understand the 
      ending? I hate explaining that 
      shit. They probably think it’s 
      inaccurate.

             CHRISTIANE
      Stan, I don’t think NASA called to 
      criticize your work. 

             KUBRICK
      Why else would they call? People 
      need to find their own truth. You 
      tell her that.

             CHRISTIANE
        (into phone)
      He is unavailable. Yes, he usually 
      doesn’t take meetings, but I will 
      let him know.

Christiane hangs up the phone.

             KUBRICK
      What did they say?

             CHRISTIANE
      She wants you to call her back.

Christiane sits at her painting. She SLAMS down her brush. 

             KUBRICK
      You think I should have talked to 
      NASA?

             CHRISTIANE
      No...I don’t know -- I’m upset 
      because you’re right; it needs more 
      red.

Kubrick comes up behind and gives her a warm hug. She relaxes 
into his embrace. 

INT. NASA PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - DAY

Barbara hangs up.

             BARBARA
      Kubrick won’t talk to me.

She looks to Julian seated at his desk. The calendar counting 
down the days on the wall behind. A constant reminder.

             JULIAN
      Maybe we could get the guy that 
      directed Barbarella? What’s his 
      name?

Barbara doesn’t laugh.

             JULIAN 
      Come on, it was an out there idea. 
      We’ll figure something else out. 

             BARBARA
      We have nothing else.

             JULIAN
      Hey, don’t beat yourself up over 
      it. This is a losing battle. You 
      gave it your best shot. 

Did she? 



INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Barbara rings the bell on a large wooden door of an upscale 
penthouse. A cacophony of dogs BARKING responds on the other 
side. A gruff Bronx accent yells:

             KUBRICK 
      Can you be quiet!?

The door swings open to Stanley Kubrick. A few inches shorter 
than Barbara. Looking like he never sleeps and wearing the 
same khakis, tennis shoes and white button down shirt he will 
always be wearing.

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick?

Kubrick will always be chewing gum or smoking. Right now, 
he’s chewing gum.

             KUBRICK
      You’re NASA? 

             BARBARA
      Yes, I’m Barbara Penn --

             KUBRICK
      You were told I don’t take 
      meetings.

Kubrick goes to shut the door -- Christiane walks up behind 
and pulls it open. A warm contrast to her husband.

             CHRISTIANE
      Please, Ms. Penn, I’m Stanley’s 
      wife, Christiane. Come in. You’ll 
      have to excuse the mess, we’re in 
      the process of moving.

Christiane scoots Kubrick aside so Barbara can walk through.

INT. ENTRYWAY - DAY

Dozens of cats lounge on the staircase and in the window 
sills. TWO YOUNG GIRLS run by screaming and chasing each 
other, followed by a pack of eight dogs that rush Barbara. 
All sizes and breeds. Jumping. Licking.

Kubrick making no effort to help. 

             KUBRICK
      We collect strays.



INT. BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY

Christiane motions Kubrick and Barbara inside. She gives a 
polite nod and shuts the pocket doors, blocking out the chaos 
of the rest of the apartment.

             KUBRICK
      Would you sit here?

Kubrick motions to the chair at the table set with only a 
chess board. Barbara takes a seat in the chair. She doesn’t 
really have a choice.

Kubrick sits across, leaning back and chewing loudly on his 
gum.

             BARBARA
      Before we start, let me say that I 
      love your work --

             KUBRICK
      -- do you think I care?

             BARBARA
      I’ll get straight to the point. 

             KUBRICK

      Would you?

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick, we saw what you did in 
      2001 and we believe you can solve a 
      problem for us.

Barbara stands. Checks the door. 

             BARBARA 
      Can anyone hear us in here?

             KUBRICK
      Of course not. 

Barbara goes to the window. She closes the drapes to keep out 
watchful eyes.

             KUBRICK 
      What are you doing?

She sits. Very serious.

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick, your country needs you 
      to film the moon landing.



             KUBRICK
      In 2001: A Space Odyssey I filmed 
      the moon and the entire universe. 
      Why would I do it again? I move 
      forward in my work, Ms. Penn.

             BARBARA
      I can assure you, you’ve never done 
      anything like this.
        (lowers voice)
      NASA and the CIA want you to film a 
      fake moon landing.

Kubrick takes this in for a long moment.

             KUBRICK
      How about a little game?

Barbara nods. She reaches for the black pawn on the chess 
board.

             KUBRICK 
      Would you be white?

Barbara takes the white pawn and movies it forward. Kubrick 
moves his knight. They will continue to play as they discuss:

             KUBRICK 
      Has NASA cancelled the real moon 
      landing?

             BARBARA
      NASA has every intention of landing 
      on the moon, but we’ve had a lot of 
      problems with our cameras. The 
      harsh conditions on the lunar 
      surface make it very difficult to 
      film. It’s essential the public see 
      the landing on TV --

             KUBRICK
      You mean the Soviets? That’s what 
      this is really about. Don’t 
      bullshit me, Ms. Penn. I have a 
      short wave radio where I monitor 
      the broadcasts from Russia. Usually 
      it’s chatter about Vietnam, but 
      lately it’s been about beating us 
      to the moon, and this Suslov 
      character.

Barbara takes her turn on the chess board.


             BARBARA
      Will you help us?

             KUBRICK
      Ms. Penn, reality in art is always 
      boring. But outside of art, the 
      only immorality that exists is 
      dishonesty. There is no art in 
      faking the moon landing. It is 
      simply dishonest. 

             BARBARA
      I understand your position, but if 
      we lose the moon, we will lose the 
      Cold War. That Suslov character 
      will come to power and he will not 
      hesitate to launch nuclear weapons 
      against us.

Kubrick captures one of Barbara’s pieces.

             KUBRICK
      A fake moon landing is still 
      dishonest, Ms. Penn.

             BARBARA
      I’m giving you an opportunity to 
      inspire generations. Show them we 
      can work together to achieve 
      something other than war. These are 
      all very honest motives, Mr. 
      Kubrick.

Kubrick captures her bishop. A smile crosses his lips.

             KUBRICK
      You are not very good at chess.

Kubrick leans back.

             KUBRICK 
      I won’t fuel your government 
      deception.

             BARBARA
      I’ve read your file, Mr. Kubrick. 
      The CIA and FBI have you classified 
      as “dangerously subversive.” 

             KUBRICK
      I like that.



             BARBARA
      They’ve also had you under 
      surveillance for years. They know 
      you’ve been experimenting with 
      filming at extremely low-light 
      levels for a film you want to do on 
      the life of Napoleon. It’s your 
      obsession. 

Barbara leans forward.

He can.

             BARBARA 
      Can you imagine it? An entire film 
      shot with only candlelight?

             BARBARA 
      NASA has a camera that can capture 
      images in dark space at low light 
      levels -- it’s not much use to us 
      in filming a moon landing, but I 
      can give you this camera lens...if 
      you work for us.

She has him. 

INT. TWA FLIGHT CENTER - DAY

TITLE: JFK Airport

This looks nothing like a modern airport. Its fancy decor can 
only be described as an attempt at space age modern.

Kubrick sits at a bar in the center made of aerodynamic white 
plastic, looking like something out of the opening of 
Clockwork Orange (without nude mannequins). 

Barbara keeps an eye on him from the pay phone, as she places 
a call --

INT. EXECUTIVE OFFICE - U.S. AERODYNAMICS - DAY

Walter stands in an expensive suit stands over a desk covered 
with rocket design plans. He answers his phone:

             WALTER
      Barb? Hi, beautiful.

INTERCUT BARBRA AND WALTER’S CONVERSATION:


             BARBARA
      Sorry I didn’t call earlier. I’m 
      not going to be able to come home 
      this weekend. Something has come 
      up.

             WALTER
      That makes two of us. NASA has 
      moved up the launch date again. Do 
      you know what’s going on there?

Barbara looks to Kubrick. He is inspecting one of the white 
stools at the bar.

             BARBARA
        (lying)
      Not a clue. I’ve been stuck writing 
      press releases.

             WALTER
      Well, keep me in the loop. U.S. 
      Aeronautics needs this 
      contract...you sure you’re all 
      right?

She hates lying to him.

             BARBARA
      I’m tired.

             WALTER
      Me too. I love you.

             BARBARA
      Love you.

She hangs up and joins Kubrick at the bar. He doesn’t look 
up. Completely absorbed in writing in a little black 
notebook. 

             KUBRICK
      I’m not getting on the plane, Ms. 
      Penn.

Kubrick looks up.

             KUBRICK 
      I never fly. 

             BARBARA
      You might have mentioned that in 
      the taxi ride here.



             KUBRICK
      You needed to make a call, and I 
      wanted to see the new terminal. 
      Done. 

             BARBARA
      Are you afraid of flying?

Kubric walks away. Barbara quickly at his side.

             BARBARA 
      Your CIA file stated you had a 
      pilot’s license --

Kubrick stops. Faces Barbara.

It didn’t.

             KUBRICK
      Ms. Penn, will you always be 
      referencing my file?

             BARBARA
      No.

             KUBRICK
      Did my file tell you I crashed?

             KUBRICK 
      I destroyed my plane. I almost died 
      because I forgot to flip one 
      switch. 

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick, this is a commercial 
      airliner --

             KUBRICK
      Every time I fly, I wait. I listen. 
      There will always be a loud click 
      from under the wing when we leave 
      the ground. If you don’t hear that 
      click -- it means the pilot forgot 
      to turn on the flap, and we are 
      going to die. 

             BARBARA
      I’m sure they have safety measures 
      in place.

             KUBRICK
      One click...everyone is capable of 
      fatal errors, Ms. Penn. I can’t be 
      trusted and neither can you.

EXT. JFK AIRPORT - DAY

Kubrick stands at the curb diligently writing in his 
notebook. Barbara pulls up in a yellow VW bug. Kubrick looks 
up.

             KUBRICK
      That is a ridiculous car, Ms. Penn.

             BARBARA
      One click, Mr. Kubrick.

Kubrick gets inside.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The VW moves along the winding road. The CAMERA TRACKS along 
with it. Reminiscent of the opening of Kubrick’s The Shining.

INT. VW BUG - DAY

Barbara sits behind the wheel. Kubrick beside, writing in his 
notebook. He furtively glances to the speed gage.

             KUBRICK
      A little fast, don’t you think? 

             BARBARA
      I’m barely going 40.

             KUBRICK
      You shouldn’t drive at speeds over 
      35 miles per hour. 

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick, I’ve got to get you to 
      the Space Center. You refused to 
      fly, so we’re going to have to 
      drive a little fast. 

             KUBRICK
      Did you know studies show you are 
      far more likely to hydroplane and 
      skid off the road at speeds over 35 
      mph?

             BARBARA
      The road isn’t wet. It’s a clear 
      day.

Kubrick gives her a look.

             KUBRICK
      Why be unprepared? 

Barbara starts to realize there is no winning with this guy. 
She slows down. 

We follow the VW bug down the highway and TRANSITION TO:

A TRANSPORT TRUCK bumping along a dirt road --

EXT. LAUNCH PAD - WIDER - DAY

The truck comes to the stop at the base of the huge Soviet N-
1 rocket. 

TITLE: Soyuz Launch Pad, USSR

A SOVIET GUARD gets out. He walks to the back. He pulls open 
the door and helps down our spy couple, Cindy and Howard 
Marcus -- 

Stretching before them are DOZENS OF PRISONERS in gray 
uniforms. They work around the massive Soviet N-1 rocket like 
a nest of ants. 

Cindy’s hand instinctively grabs Howard’s. 

VASILI MILSHIN, 50, the rocket scientist we saw in the CIA 
debriefing, walks up. 

             VASILI
      You are to help me with the rocket, 
      yes?

He hands them each a gray prison uniform and leads them to 
where Communist Party Chief Suslov stands. TWO ARMED MEN 
stand at his side. 

Vasili gives Suslov a half-hearted salute. Suslov’s eyes on 
Howard.

             SUSLOV
      I know who you are and what you can 
      do. 

 Cindy suddenly aware of her tight grip on Howard’s hand. 

             SUSLOV 
      You’ll find it is in your best 
      interest to cooperate with us.

Suslov walks away. Howard watches him go with concern.


             VASILI
      Suslov is the least of your 
      problems. The man in charge of the 
      rocket program before me died of a 
      heart attack brought on by the poor 
      living conditions in this camp, and 
      he wasn’t even a prisoner. For all 
      our sake, I hope you will cooperate  
      quickly.

The guards push Cindy and Howard forward. Under the shadow of 
the massive Soviet N-1 rocket --

INT. YELLOW VW BUG - EARLY MORNING

The sun rises. Barbara rubs her eyes, fighting back her 
exhaustion. She’s been driving all night.

             BARBARA
      There it is, Mr. Kubrick. 

Kubrick looks up from his notebook. The rising sun 
majestically profiling the Saturn V rocket in silhouette on 
the horizon, much like the black monolith in 2001. 

             KUBRICK
      Oh yes, I’m happy now.

Barbara unsure if this is a good or bad.

EXT. LAUNCH PAD - DAY

The yellow bug pulls up in front of a chain link fence with 
the sign, “No Hardball Playing in Launch Area.” 

Kubrick gets out and runs.

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick? We need you to be 
      fully debriefed by the CIA. Mr. 
      Kubrick!

Barbara gets out -- Kubrick pressed against the chain link 
fence, looking up in awe at the rocket.

             KUBRICK
      It’s like I created it myself.

Julian walks up in a hard hat. 


             JULIAN
      Weren’t you supposed to be on a 
      flight yesterday? What happened?

Julian eyes the yellow bug. 

             BARBARA
      Long story. 

             JULIAN
      What is our mysterious directing 
      legend doing?

Barbara looks over -- Kubrick has climbed halfway up the 
fence. His hand reaching up to touch its thruster.

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick!

Kubrick looks over.

             BARBARA 
      Please, come over here.

Kubrick jumps down and strolls over to Julian and Barbara. In 
no hurry. Julian holds out his hand to shake --

             JULIAN
      Julian Scheer. NASA Public Affairs. 
      This is an honor.

Kubrick looks to Barbara.

             KUBRICK
      I don’t want him on my location.

             JULIAN
      This isn’t your film set.

             BARBARA
      I’ll show you what we were 
      thinking.

Kubrick looks up to the rocket and sighs. Sad to lose such a 
stunning prop. He motions to Julian.

             KUBRICK
      He is still banned from my set.

Julian shoots Barbara a - wtf? Barbara shrugs.



INT. EMPTY WAREHOUSE - DAY

The heavy metal door slides open to Barbara and Kubrick 
standing in the doorway. 

             KUBRICK
      How long do I have?

             BARBARA
      Apollo 11 is scheduled to launch in 
      less than a month. It’s not much 
      time.

Kubrick walks into the completely empty warehouse. 

             BARBARA 
      You can you do it, can’t you?

Kubrick looks to Barbara and gives Cheshire grin that tells 
us: “Don’t worry.”

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

             DEKE
      Where the hell is Kubrick?

Julian, Deke, CIA Director Richard Helms and our famous 
Apollo 11 astronauts: NEIL ARMSTRONG, BUZZ ALDRIN and MICHAEL 
COLLINS sit around the table. Waiting. 

             DEKE 
      These boys need to get back in 
      flight sim.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Director Slayton, the President has 
      asked for all our cooperation on 
      this.

             DEKE
      Maybe the President should have 
      more faith in our moon program?

Deke settles in his chair with an expression of absolute 
distaste.

Barbara enters with Kubrick. He furiously writes in his 
notebook. Without looking up, Kubrick takes a seat at the 
table with Barbara. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Welcome to Kennedy Space Center, 
      Mr. Kubrick. I’m --



             KUBRICK
      I know who you are. You make files.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      All right. This is our NASA Flight 
      Director, Deke --

             DEKE
      -- I’ve met Mr. Kubrick before. He 
      and Arthur C. Clarke contacted me 
      about that 2001 film they did. Mr. 
      Kubrick, I have some thoughts on 
      your interpretation of NASA’s 
      research.

Kubrick suddenly stops writing and looks up. Uh-oh.

             BARBARA
      Hey, how about we introduce our 
      Apollo 11 astronauts?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Yes. This is Neil Armstrong, Buzz 
      Aldrin and Michael Collins.

             KUBRICK
      They’ll do nicely.

             BUZZ
      Mr. Kubrick, if you don’t mind me 
      asking, at the end of 2001, were 
      you saying God is merely an 
      advanced alien intelligence?

             KUBRICK
      What do you think?

             BUZZ
      I want to know your intentions.

Kubrick returns to writing.

             MICHAEL
      I thought it was a silly movie.

             DEKE
      This whole thing is silly. NASA’s 
      budget is limited, and you’re 
      wasting it on what? A movie? This 
      is insulting.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      My people’s lives are riding on 
      this.



             DEKE
      So are mine.

Deke stands. The astronauts follow his lead and walk out. 
Neil hesitates a moment in the doorway. A quiet strength 
about him. A total class act.

             NEIL
      Mr. Kubrick, thank you for coming. 
      It’s a real honor to have an artist 
      of your caliber here.

Kubrick nods. Neil leaves with the others. 

CIA Director Helms stares down Kubrick. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      It should go without saying the 
      public can never know we are faking 
      the moon landing.

             KUBRICK
      Does the public know anything?

Helms leans forward. Intimidating.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      If you ever speak a word of this, 
      it will be considered an act of 
      treason. We have ways of dealing 
      with traitors. 

Kubrick smiles. Hard to shake. 

INT. NASA PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - DAY

Barbara leads Kubrick and Director Helms inside.

             BARBARA
      These are our offices, Mr. Kubrick. 
      You can use my desk --

Kubrick sits at Julian’s desk. 

             BARBARA 
      -- or that’s fine.

             KUBRICK
      What lenses do we have?

Kubrick gestures to the cameras and lenses on Barbara’s desk.


             KUBRICK 
      Will you bring those over? I want 
      to see that special low-light lens 
      I am to have. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS

      What lens?

             BARBARA
      It’s the Zeiss f/0.7.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      The what?

Barbara scoops up the equipment and sets it in front of 
Kubrick. He looks them over.

             DIRECTOR HELMS 
      Mr. Kubrick, we still need to 
      discuss the logistics with your 
      film crew. Given the classified 
      nature of this project, we can only 
      have our people working on this.

             KUBRICK
      Ms. Penn, I do not see the lens I 
      am to have. These are all very 
      standard.

             BARBARA
      You’ll get the Zeiss f/0.7 lens 
      when we’re finished. 

             KUBRICK
      These standard lenses won’t do. 
      We’ll have to jury rig something. 

Annoyed, Kubrick hands Barbara and Helm camera bodies and 
lenses.

             KUBRICK 
      I want my set designer. He worked 
      on 2001: A Space Odyssey, and knows 
      more about NASA’s designs than 
      NASA. I also want Ms. Penn to 
      produce.

Helm hands his lens and camera to Barbara. Her hands full.

             BARBARA
      Thank you, but I have never 
      produced --


             KUBRICK
      Do you think a bunch of CIA agents 
      running around my set will know 
      what they are doing? You will 
      manage them, Ms. Penn, so that I 
      don’t have to.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      All right. Ms. Penn will produce. 
      We will give you one set designer 
      that will be vetted by the agency. 
      Is this acceptable?

             KUBRICK
      Ask my producer.

             BARBARA
      Yes.

Director Helm leaves. Barbara sets the cameras and lenses on 
the edge of the desk and tries to attach a lens.

             BARBARA 
      It doesn’t fit.

             KUBRICK
      Are you even trying, Ms. Penn?

Kubrick hands her another lens.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

ON THE TELEVISION: the evening news plays with Walter 
Cronkite addressing the nation --

Barbara crosses in front of the screen wearing her bathrobe. 
Phone to her ear: 

             BARBARA
      Hello, Walt? I love you too...yes, 
      everything is on track here. It is 
      very exciting --

A LOUD KNOCKING at the door comes as a welcomed interruption. 
She can’t keep lying to him like this.

             BARBARA 
      Sorry. I have to go... give 
      Kimberly and David big hugs.

She hangs up and opens the door to --



Stanley Kubrick standing on the other side. A chess set 
tucked under his arm.

             KUBRICK
      How about a little game?

He walks inside without an invitation and gestures to a small 
table and two chairs by the window. 

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick, aren’t you exhausted 
      from the drive?

He isn’t. Kubrick lays out the chess board on the table and 
takes a seat. 

             KUBRICK
      How about you take the white 
      pieces?

Too tired to argue she takes a seat across. Kubrick makes the 
first move.

             KUBRICK 
      I used to play chess for quarters 
      in Central Park. I was good.

Barbara makes her move.

             KUBRICK 
      But Arthur Feldman. He was the 
      best...funny, his is the only name 
      I can recall from those days. I 
      find most people are forgettable, 
      except the ones that are better 
      than me. I always remember those.

             BARBARA
      Is this memorable for you?

Kubrick takes his move.

             KUBRICK
      Arthur Feldman would never ask 
      that.

Barbara makes her move and leans back in her chair.

             BARBARA
      Can we finish this later? It’s 
      getting late.

Kubrick nonchalantly takes his next move.



             KUBRICK
      I need my assistant, Kara Downs, 
      brought here.

             BARBARA
      I’ll have to run it by the CIA.

Barbara moves her chess piece. Kubrick takes his move.

             KUBRICK
      Check. That was not a good move, 
      Ms. Penn. Do you always ask for 
      permission? 

Barbara moves her piece. 

             BARBARA
      If I asked for permission, I 
      wouldn’t be here.

Kubrick captures her king --

             KUBRICK
      Checkmate. And you might want to 
      look behind you.

Kubrick gestures to the TV. Barbara looks. It is not good:

             WALTER CRONKITE
      The Soviets have successfully 
      landed a probe on Venus, venturing 
      further than any known object into 
      our solar system --

             KUBRICK
      Pay attention to the details or you 
      lose the bigger game, Ms. Penn.

A map of the solar system on the screen TRANSITIONS TO:

THE MAP ON THE WALL IN --

INT. RKA MISSION CONTROL CENTER - DAY

This place strangely resembles launch control at Cape 
Kennedy.

TITLE: RKA Mission Control - Korolyov, Moscow

Suslov steps in front of the map, addressing the rows of MEN 
in headsets monitoring the Venus probe on their screens.


             SUSLOV
        (in Russian)
      The successful landing of the 
      Vesena 5 probe makes this a great 
      day in Soviet history... 

The room erupts in applause. Vasili slips out the back. 

EXT. CORRECTIVE LABOR COLONY - DAY

Vasili stares forward. He takes a long, hard sip from his 
flask. It’s not to celebrate. He looks forward with a mixture 
of curiosity and sadness. We follow his gaze to --

The massive Soviet N-1 rocket on the horizon.

TITLE: Soyuz Launch Pad, USSR

Suslov joins Vasili. Speaking in Russian:

             SUSLOV
      A probe on Venus is nothing. A man 
      on the moon, that is how you make 
      history.

They watch CINDY AND HOWARD scrub the concrete with a DOZEN 
PRISONERS in similar gray work clothes. Chains on their 
ankles and wrists. Thin and dirty. 

             SUSLOV 
      What have they told you?

             VASILI
      It is my job is to make rockets. 
      Not interrogate spies. 

             SUSLOV
      Your job is what I say it is.

             VASILI
      Does General Secretary Brezhnev 
      know they are being kept here?

             SUSLOV
      Brezhnev has other concerns.

Cindy slips on the wet cement. Howard instantly at her side, 
helping her to stand. 

             SUSLOV 
      Torture his wife and he’ll talk.

The sound of typewriter keys TRANSITIONS TO:



INT. JULIAN’S OFFICE - MORNING

The office completely transformed into a production trailer. 
Storyboards, camera equipment and production schedules 
everywhere.

Julian walks in and startles to find a CIA AGENT seated at 
his desk TYPING. Kubrick stands over him. 

             KUBRICK
      Exterior lunar module...Stop. Do 
      you think that’s how you spell 
      lunar? And what the hell is 
      “Snoopy”?

             AGENT
      The astronauts are calling the 
      lunar module Snoopy.

             KUBRICK
      They are naming the greatest 
      technological achievement in 
      history after a cartoon dog? These 
      people have no vision. They should 
      call it something regal. Something 
      American - Eagle. Yes, “the Eagle 
      has landed.” That’s good -- move.

             JULIAN
      You can’t rename the lunar module.

Kubrick makes the young agent get up. Takes his seat and 
starts typing. He gives Julian a side glance.

             KUBRICK
      Haven’t you been banned?

             JULIAN
      This is my office.

Julian spots Barbara asleep at her desk. He shakes her awake.

             BARBARA
      He never sleeps, Julian. He’s a 
      machine.

A very pregnant woman in her 20’s walks in. This is KARA 
DOWNS. She sets a hundred page file in front of Kubrick.

Julian points in her direction:

             JULIAN
      Who is that?


             BARBARA
      She’s his assistant.

Kubrick thumbs through the file.

             KUBRICK
      I need more. I want to know exactly 
      what the lunar module looks like, 
      how it feels and smells -- 
      everything!

Kara nods and takes back the file. 

             JULIAN
      Stan, you think it’s a good idea to 
      have your assistant working in her 
      condition?

             KUBRICK
      She is pregnant. Not retarded. And 
      only friends refer to me as, Stan.

Kara hands Kubrick a bag of dirt. 

             KARA
      That’s the moon dust. We washed it 
      three times and painted it gray, 
      just like you asked.

Kubrick dumps the dirt on Julian’s desk beside the 
typewriter.

             JULIAN
      Oh, come on.

             KUBRICK 
        (re:dirt)
      No. It needs to be more fine. More 
      gray. And I don’t like how it 
      smells.

Kubrick scoops up the dirt from the desk.

             JULIAN
      Thank you.

He hands the dirt to Julian.

             KUBRICK
      Why don’t you wash this? Go. Get 
      out of here.

Kubrick shoos Julian over to Kara by the door. She takes the 
dirt from Julian.



             JULIAN
      Why do you put up with him?

             KARA
      He’s Stanley Kubrick.

Julian looks to Barbara with concern. 

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Kara walks around the table handing typed scripts to Barbara, 
Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins.

Kubrick sits at the far end. He types furiously on a portable 
typewriter. The annoying CLICK of keys over:

             BARBARA
      You want us to start reading the 
      script?

Barbara looks to Kubrick for an answer. Kubrick keeps typing. 

             BUZZ
      Right. Okay, so --
        (reads)
      We’ve landed on the moon --

             NEIL
      -- excuse me, I’m sorry. This 
      direction here, it says Buzz steps 
      on the moon first?

             BUZZ
      Makes sense. I do have the most 
      experience.

             NEIL
      As the mission commander --

             BUZZ
      Are you pulling rank on this?

             NEIL
      No. I just think this should be 
      accurate. It only makes sense I 
      would walk out first. I’ll be 
      seated closest to the door.

             MICHAEL
      It’s a script, Buzz. It’s not real. 
      Barbara, do I have to be here? I’ll 
      be waiting in orbit around the moon 
      when those two land on the surface.


They all look to Kubrick for an answer. He keeps typing.

             BARBARA
      Michael, you can go.

Michael walks out, relieved to be getting out of this 
insanity.

             BARBARA 
      And if it technically makes sense 
      for Neil to step out first...then I 
      don’t see why not?

Buzz leans back, frustrated with this process.

             NEIL
      What do you want me to say when I 
      step out?

             KUBRICK
      Say what you feel.

             NEIL
      I feel a little stupid reading a 
      script.

Kubrick stops typing.

             KUBRICK
      You think stepping onto the moon is 
      stupid?

             NEIL
      No. I think it is probably the most 
      important thing I’ll do in my 
      entire life. 

             KUBRICK
      Then start acting like it.

Neil bristles.

             KUBRICK 
      You must have been planning for 
      months what you wanted to say.

             BUZZ
      So you’ve been planning for months 
      to step on the moon first?

             NEIL
      Of course not. I mean, I did write 
      something. 
        (softly recites)
             


             NEIL 
      This is one small step for a man 
      and one giant leap for 
      mankind....what do you think?

             KUBRICK
      Yes, say that! But better. 

Kubrick pulls the paper out of the typewriter and hands it to 
Barbara.

             BUZZ
      Are we done? We’re expected in 
      flight sim, and Deke Slayton 
      decides who steps on the moon 
      first.
        (points to Kubrick)
      Not him.

Barbara distracted by what she’s reading from Kubrick.

             BARBARA
      Yes, you can go. Thank you.

Neil and Buzz leave. Barbara locks eyes with Kubrick. She 
gestures to the memo he typed.

             BARBARA 
      You want me to find out the average 
      barometric pressure at noon on 
      Wednesdays?

Kubrick nods.

             BARBARA 
      Why?

Kubrick stands and walks out without saying a word.

             KARA
      His art is very important to him, 
      Barbara. But he is a good man.

INT. PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - DAY

Barbara enters to find Julian picking dirt out of his 
typewriter. 

             JULIAN
      How’s the film?

             BARBARA
      Kubrick has stopped speaking to me. 
      His assistant hands me these 
      bizarre typed memos.

CIA Director Helms walks in and takes one look at the mess:

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      What the hell happened here?

             JULIAN
      Stanley Kubrick.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Barbara, I will need to review 
      Kubrick’s work.

             BARBARA
      You can’t. He hasn’t filmed 
      anything.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Then what the hell are you doing?

             BARBARA
      Rehearsing --

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      We have to get Kubrick’s moon 
      landing on the air. Every day you 
      waste puts my people at greater 
      risk. If Suslov announces before us 
      --

             BARBARA
      I understand. I’m getting Kubrick 
      to work as fast as he can.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      The information we have on Kubrick 
      hints at some communist leanings. 
      It might explain why he’s taking so 
      long.

             JULIAN
        (laughs)
      You think Stanley Kubrick is a 
      Soviet spy?

One look from Helms and Julian is quiet.



             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Don’t let Kubrick out of your 
      sight. I want a full progress 
      report first thing tomorrow.

Director Helms storms out. Barbara exchanges a look with 
Julian.

             JULIAN
      You’ve got to reign in our genius 
      director.

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - DAY

Kubrick sits on his director’s chair like a king overseeing 
his kingdom. Protective black gloves over his hands giving 
him a Dr. Strangelove-look.

             KUBRICK
      Looking good.

TWO MEN in NASA jumpsuits hang a beaded backdrop overhead. A 
British man with white hair and a kerchief around his neck 
directs them. This is PRODUCTION DESIGNER TONY MASTERS. 

             TONY
      Not a wrinkle. We’re going to need 
      to light this entire bastard from 
      the front.

Kubrick rises. With his gloved hands, he adjusts a 10K light 
to hit the backdrop, revealing the night sky.

             KUBRICK
      Excellent, Tony. Watch the dust 
      behind you.

TWO MEN in NASA jumpsuits are on their hands and knees 
spreading gray moon dust across the floor with hand brooms.

             KUBRICK 
      What are you doing? Stop with the 
      brooms. Blow on the dust. You think 
      there are sweep marks on the moon? 

The two men exchange a look - is he serious? Yup. They set 
down the brushes and start blowing. Kubrick looks over to 
Kara.

             KUBRICK 
      We’ll need to wash the dirt again.

A HALF DOZEN MEN enter, carrying the spider-like lunar module 
(The Eagle). They set it down on the dust. 

             KUBRICK 
      It’s very light. Tony, are you sure 
      this an exact replica?

             TONY
      It’s the real thing, Stan. They 
      made a few of them for testing and 
      such.

Barbara enters behind. Stopping suddenly. Taking it all in --

             BARBARA
      This is the moon?

And we see what has Barbara stopped in her tracks. This looks 
awful. It’s like The Eagle has touched down in a high school 
dramatization of the moon landing.

             BARBARA 
      We can’t use this. Do you even have 
      the camera set up?

             KUBRICK
      Kara, tell Ms. Penn the main camera 
      is over there. 

Kubrick gestures to a two way mirror set at a 45 degree angle  
that reflects Barbara and Kubrick as if they were in a fun 
house.

             KUBRICK 
      Tell her, I also have six TV 
      cameras.

             KARA
      Ms. Penn --

             BARBARA
      I heard. Thank you.

Kubrick removes a glove and calmly puts a stick of gum in his 
mouth. He silently walks from the set into a darkened area of 
the soundstage. His disembodied voice:

             KUBRICK 
      Kara, tell Ms. Penn to join me in 
      mission control.

             KARA
      He wants you to  --



Barbara follows his voice into the shadows.

INT. KUBRICK’S MISSION CONTROL - DAY

Barbara walks up behind Kubrick seated in the middle of a 
bank of six TV monitors, all showing different angles of the 
set. 

Kubrick speaks into a microphone. His disembodied voice 
giving instructions to the crew:

             KUBRICK
      Tony, Ms. Penn wants you to tear it 
      all down and start from scratch. 
      She doesn’t like it.

Tony nods. Shouts out:

             TONY
      Tear it down!

             BARBARA
      Wait. How long will it take to 
      rebuild?

             KUBRICK
      Kara!

Kara runs up behind.

             KUBRICK 
      Ask Ms. Penn if she wants this done 
      right?

             KARA
      Barbara, he wants to know --

             BARBARA
      He can ask me himself. This is 
      ridiculous and completely 
      unacceptable --

Kubrick stands. His voice never rising. 

             KUBRICK
      This is unacceptable? No, Ms. Penn. 
      You are unacceptable.

             TONY 
      Are we still tearing it down?

Kubrick glares at Barbara. He’s intimidating. 



             KUBRICK
      Kara, tell Ms. Penn this is my 
      movie.

Kara SCREAMS. Everyone on the TV monitors freezes. What was 
that?

             KARA
      Sorry. I’m so sorry. My water 
      broke. Sorry.

Barbara instantly at Kara’s side. Helping her stand.

             BARBARA
      It’s okay. Stop apologizing. We’ll 
      get you to the hospital.

Kubrick glances over. Not impressed.

Off Barbara’s look, Kubrick sighs and addresses the crew in 
his omnipotent microphone:

             KUBRICK
      That’s a wrap for today.

He turns to Kara.

             KUBRICK 
      Tell Ms. Penn, I’m afraid this 
      delivery will delay our production 
      schedule further.

Kara’s SCREAM of labor pain takes us to --

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY 

ON KARA wheeled in on a gurney. A DOCTOR checking her pulse. 
She SCREAMS out again.

Kubrick at her side with notebook in hand. Writing. Barbara 
close behind. 

             KUBRICK
      Don’t worry, my dear...I’m making a 
      list of what we will need for 
      tomorrow.

Kara SCREAMS in pain. Sweat pouring down her face.

             KUBRICK 
      We’ll need more lights. I want to 
      see the details on the astronauts’ 
      faces.



             KARA
        (breathing heavy)
      Won’t they be wearing helmets?

Kubrick folds up the list and puts it in Kara’s hand. She’s 
wheeled into the delivery room.

             KUBRICK
        (calls after)
      And I’ll need that moon dust washed 
      again tonight!

The delivery room doors close. Kubrick looks to Barbara --

             KUBRICK 
      Is something wrong?

Barbara unsure how to answer.

             KUBRICK 
      Would you like to see a movie?

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

This is the same place Barbara first saw 2001. The theater 
empty. Kubrick seated beside her. He signals to the 
projection booth and the reel starts to play on the screen. 

Barbara’s expression reveals something miraculous has 
happened --

ON THE SCREEN: The strange set we saw looks like the surface 
of the moon. It’s beautiful. The screen goes dark.

             KUBRICK
      What do you think?

             BARBARA
      I think you may have just won the 
      Cold War.

Kubrick stands.

             KUBRICK
      Shall we celebrate? 

             BARBARA
      What do you mean?

             KUBRICK
      What do you think I mean? Let’s 
      grab a drink. 

EXT. PATIO BAR - NIGHT

A cheesy tiki bar that overlooks the ocean. 

Barbara stands at the edge looking to the full moon in the 
sky. Whiskey in hand. 

Kubrick walks up behind. 

             BARBARA
      I don’t know if we should be in 
      public like this. If word got out --

             KUBRICK
      You need to lighten up, Ms. Penn. 
      All work and no play will make you 
      very dull.

He takes the drink out of her hand and sets it down. 

             KUBRICK 
      Do you dance?

Barbara nods. Not sure what to make of this. Like a perfect 
gentleman, Kubrick takes Barbara by the hands and leads her 
across the floor. This guy can dance.

Kubrick pulls away from Barbara and hands her back her drink. 

He looks up to the clear night sky with a full moon.

             KUBRICK 
      It’s a shame we’ll never make it up 
      there.

             BARBARA
      We’ll make it up there.

             KUBRICK
      I’ve seen NASA’s technology. What 
      they’re landing on the moon is no 
      better than that plane I crashed. 
      Apollo 11 has too many 
      opportunities for human error. We 
      will fail. 

             BARBARA
      We won’t fail. Humans can 
      accomplish great things when they 
      work together. Neil Armstrong will 
      be the first man to walk on the 
      moon, you’ll see.

             KUBRICK
      Do you know what happens to 
      idealists in my movies? 
        (beat)
      They die.

             BARBARA
      Maybe your movies would be more 
      popular if they lived.

Maybe she’s right. Kubrick smiles and goes to the bar. 
Barbara watches as he kindly offers the BARTENDER one of his 
cigarettes. Kubrick can be charming when he wants.

             JULIAN
      Babs?

Julian walks up holding a cocktail with a pink umbrella.

             JULIAN 
      What are you doing here?

             BARBARA
      Keeping Kubrick out of trouble. 
      You?

             JULIAN
      I’m meeting Deke for a drink. 

 He looks from his drink to Barbara’s straight whiskey --

             JULIAN 
      I should order something with less 
      pink.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Julian and Barbara stand at the bar. Julian gestures the 
BARTENDER to give him the same as her.

             JULIAN
      Heard you got the set built today. 
      I was worried, but you seem to be 
      managing Kubrick all right.

Barbara glances to Kubrick at the end. He intently watches 
the TV ABOVE: FOOTAGE of COMMUNIST PARTY LEADER LEONID 
BREZHNEV addressing the cameras about the Soviet rocket 
launch. Suslov stands at his side.

             WALTER CRONKITE 
      The Soviets say they will land a 
      man on the moon in a few weeks --



Kubrick walks up behind. Cigarette in his mouth. 

             KUBRICK
      We have to go. Deke Slayton is 
      here.

Julian waves over Deke seated in a booth.

             KUBRICK 
      What are you doing? He hates me.

             JULIAN
        (smiles)
      I know.

Deke walks up. Old Fashioned in hand. A little drunk.

             DEKE
      Stanley Kubrick. Won’t this be fun?

Deke gestures to the gold astronaut pin on his lapel.

             DEKE 
      You know what this is?

             KUBRICK
      Jewelry.

             DEKE
      It’s the Apollo 1 astronaut pin. 
      Gus Grissom gave it to me. You know 
      who he was?

             KUBRICK
      He was killed during a test launch.

             DEKE
      He was. I was in training with Gus. 
      Was supposed to be in that capsule 
      with him.

             KUBRICK
      Why weren’t you?

             DEKE
      I developed a heart murmur. NASA 
      had me grounded and placed me in a 
      less stressful job. 
        (laughs)
      Shit. I miss Gus. He’d always say -- 
      no matter what happens during your 
      mission, you gotta keep believing 
      it can be done, or what’s the 
      point? 

Deke takes a sip of his Old Fashioned and gestures to Kubrick 
and Barbara.

                                     

             DEKE 
      I find your lack of faith in what 
      we’re trying to do here disgusting.

             BARBARA
      Deke, we’re on your side. I believe 
      Apollo 11 will land on the moon. We 
      only want to make sure the world 
      can see it. 

             DEKE
      What do you believe, Stanley? 

             KUBRICK
      I believe people like a spectacle. 
      And if you don’t deliver one, they 
      will turn on you. You can never let 
      them turn. You keep their 
      attention, and they will believe 
      anything.

Kubrick walks away. Deke watching him go with a glimmer of 
appreciation. 

Barbara gives a nervous glance to the television report and 
we TRANSITION into: 

The real-life moment --

EXT. SOYUZ LAUNCH PAD - DAY

Signs with communist slogans. A wild CROWD cheering with 
excitement. 

ON THE STAGE: COMMUNIST PARTY LEADER LEONID BREZHNEV raises 
his arms to accept their applause. 

Suslov abruptly steps in front. He announces in Russian with 
subtitles:

             SUSLOV
      The Soviets will conquer the moon!

The crowd getting more excited. Out of control. 

Suslov walks off to roaring APPLAUSE. Brezhnev watches him 
with concern. An ADVISOR joins Brezhnev on stage and follows 
his gaze.


             ADVISOR
      Secretary Brezhnev, I fear Suslov 
      will become popular enough to stage 
      a coup -- he wins the space race, 
      and you will lose.

Brezhnev considers this.

INT. SMALL ROOM - SAME

Cindy watches the rally outside through a small barred 
window.

             CINDY
      They held me down and poured water 
      down my throat. I couldn’t breath. 
      I was drowning... 

Cindy shakes at the thought. Howard goes to her side. Both 
thin and weak.

             HOWARD
      They are trying to wear us down.

She cradles her badly bruised and cut hands. 

             CINDY
      They’re wearing me down. 

Howard gently takes her hands in his. Giving a little 
comfort.

             CINDY 
      You’re the one I’m worried about.

             HOWARD
      Don’t. I won’t tell them anything. 
      Our people will get us out. 

Cindy gazes out the window. Afraid. The crowd outside growing 
louder as they CHANT Suslov’s name.

EXT. HOTEL - NIGHT

Julian’s Camaro pulls up to the parking lot of this very 
budget Florida motel. He gets out and opens the door for 
Barbara. She gets out and it’s obvious she’s had a little too 
much.

             BARBARA
      Thanks for the ride.


Barbara stumbles to her door, fumbling for her key. 

Julian close behind to help. She drops the key. Julian picks 
it up and places it in the door. 

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Julian walks in with Barbara. The light on the night stand 
suddenly comes on. Julian jumps back. 

Kubrick sits on the bed.

             KUBRICK
      Ms. Penn, I just got off the phone 
      with your husband.

Julian nods.

             JULIAN
      I’ll catch ya tomorrow, Babs.

He quickly leaves. Barbara left staring at Kubrick like a 
scolded child.

             BARBARA
      How did you get in here?

             KUBRICK
      The nice man at the front desk let 
      me in.

             BARBARA
      Why are you answering my phone?

Kubrick stands.

             KUBRICK
      It was ringing.

             BARBARA
      What did you say to my husband?

             KUBRICK
      He seems very nice. He’ll be down 
      here tomorrow. The rockets his 
      company made for NASA have not been 
      working properly. I had no idea he 
      owned the company that supplied 
      those things.

             BARBARA
      You didn’t tell him why you’re 
      here?



             KUBRICK
      Of course not. But he’s suspicious. 
      And so am I. What are you hiding, 
      Ms. Penn?

             BARBARA
      The only thing I’m hiding is my 
      frustration. We need to talk about 
      the film. 

Kubrick sits at the table by the window. The chess board 
already set for a game.

             KUBRICK
      Will you be white?

Barbara takes her seat across and they start to play. Barbara 
makes the first move. 

             BARBARA
      You are going to have to work 
      faster. You have to film more. We 
      can’t afford to waste any more 
      time.

Kubrick makes his move.

             KUBRICK
      You know why you never win at 
      chess, Ms. Penn? 

They continue to play as they discuss:

             KUBRICK 
      You trap yourself. You assume there 
      is a limit to the possibilities. 

             BARBARA
      There are a limited number of moves 
      in chess.

             KUBRICK
      Are there? You can always go 
      further. Do more. 

             BARBARA
      We have limits. 

             KUBRICK
      Checkmate.

Game over. Barbara shocked she lost so fast. Kubrick packs up 
the board.

             KUBRICK 
      I will not rush my film because of 
      your limits. I already failed with 
      2001. I wasn’t exact enough then. 
      Too many false notes in the 
      details, and people can feel it -- 
      why else is it considered as a 
      ridiculous drug movie.

             BARBARA
      Is that what you think?

             KUBRICK
      That’s what I know.

Kubrick leans back, takes a cigarette from his pocket and 
lights. He offers one to Barbara. She waves it off.

He stands.

             KUBRICK 
      People always sniff out a fake, 
      which is why I must be exact in 
      everything I do. There is no margin 
      for error. One false note and the 
      illusion will shatter.

             BARBARA
      Do you have any idea what’s at 
      stake?

             KUBRICK
      Yes, a mad old Russian that wants 
      to nuke the planet.

Kubrick reaches into his breast pocket. Pulls out a typed 
memo. He places it in Barbara’s hand and walks out. 

Barbara SLAMS the door behind him in frustration. 

She takes a deep breath and reads the memo: You’re doing a 
good job. Yours sincerely, Stan

Barbara unsure how to take this.

             KUBRICK  
      Action!

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - DAY

Kubrick watches from his director’s chair. His eyes filled 
with excitement.


             KUBRICK
      Yes! Good. Move like you are part 
      of the great cosmic dance. 
      Beautiful.

Neil and Buzz stand in their space suits. They awkwardly 
strike a ballet pose. A stern looking BALLET INSTRUCTOR 
oversees the astronauts’ every move.

             INSTRUCTOR
      Straighten your back. Now 
      pirouette.

Buzz throws up his arms in frustration.

             BUZZ
      Why are we doing this?

             KUBRICK
      The moon’s gravity is 83.3% less 
      than Earth’s. Wires can only do so 
      much to create this effect. You 
      will have to realistically move. 
      Ballet helps you to float on the 
      surface.

             NEIL
      Stanley, we’ve been at this all 
      morning. How much longer will this 
      take?

             KUBRICK
      It takes as long as it takes.

             BUZZ
      This is ridiculous. We’ll never 
      finish. We learn our lines and 
      immediately writes new ones. It 
      never stops. Hell, Neil’s so tired 
      from these rehearsals, he crashed 
      the simulation yesterday.

             NEIL
      I’m fine.

             BUZZ
      You sure? What’s going to happen 
      when we’re really up there?

             NEIL
      I won’t crash.



             BUZZ
      Neil, you have to know when to 
      abort the mission. Our lives will 
      depend on you making the right call 
      at the right time. I’ve been in 
      space before. I know you’ve got to 
      follow your gut and make tough 
      choices fast, and I need to know 
      you’re going to make the right 
      choice. I’m serious. I want to come 
      home. 

             NEIL
      Stanley, maybe we should give the 
      rehearsals a rest for awhile?

             KUBRICK
      What’s your line, Neil?

             NEIL
        (recites)
      One small step for man --

             KUBRICK
      Wrong! It’s “a” man...say the line 
      again.

             NEIL
      I’m sorry. I’m awful tired --

             BUZZ
      That’s it! We’re finished. 

             KUBRICK
      What’s your line, Neil?

             BUZZ
      Do you have any idea what you’re 
      doing?! Because from where I’m 
      standing, you’re nothing but a 
      crackpot that made a bad science 
      fiction movie. I hated 2001.

Kubrick stares at Buzz a moment. The entire crew holds their 
breath for his reaction.

             KUBRICK
      How about we try the scene again?

Kubrick smiles as if there never was an outburst.



             KUBRICK 
      Tony! I want them on wire. Kara! 
      Get them in helmets. Neil, get your 
      line right.

Barbara walks in as Kara rushes in with two space helmets, 
placing them over Neil and Buzz’s head. 

             BARBARA
      Kara’s back? What did she have?

             KUBRICK
      A child.

Tony attaches piano wires to the back of Buzz and Neil’s 
suits. 

             BARBARA
      The CIA is demanding we show them 
      what you shot today.

             BUZZ
        (calls over)
      He hasn’t shot anything.

             BARBARA
      Is that true?

             KUBRICK
      We will keep rehearsing until Neil 
      Armstrong can remember his line. 

Kubrick goes to his mission control area with his wall of TV 
monitors. Barbara follows. 

Kubrick points to the TV monitors. Neil and Buzz in position 
on set.  Kubrick leans into the microphone:

             KUBRICK 
      Tony, let’s get Neil on the ladder 
      of the Eagle.

Tony Masters signals two of the CIA AGENTS/CREW. They grab 
onto the end of the piano wires attached to a spool and pull.

Neil yanked of the ladder into the air by the wire.

             TONY
      Gently! Put him down.

They let go of the wire. 

Neil plummets. His head and shoulder smacking against the 
metal ladder of the Eagle.

             TONY 
      For fuck’s sake!

IN KUBRICK’S MISSION CONTROL: Barbara watches the TV screen 
in horror. Neil isn’t moving. 

ON SET: Buzz removes his helmet. He tries to go to Neil’s 
side, but he’s held in place by his own wire.

             BUZZ
      Get this off me!

Tony cuts Buzz’s wire. Instantly he’s by Neil -- Buzz’s face 
reflected in his visor. His commander is in bad shape.

             BUZZ 
        (covering)
      It’s going to be okay, buddy.

Barbara runs over. Buzz carefully removes Neil’s helmet. Neil 
is conscious, but -

             NEIL
      I can’t move.

             BARBARA
      Call a doctor!

Kara gets on the phone and dials.

             KARA
      Paramedics are on the way.

Kubrick runs over.

             KUBRICK
      Buzz, do you think you will you be 
      ready for another take?

Buzz clenches his fist. Barbara steps between him and Kubrick 
to prevent a fight.

             BARBARA
      Stanley, don’t be insane. Neil’s 
      hurt. We’re done --

             KUBRICK
      We aren’t done. What do you expect 
      me to do?! This wouldn’t happen if 
      people learned their lines and knew 
      what their job is supposed to be! 

             BARBARA
      Their job is to land on the moon. 

Julian runs in with two PARAMEDICS pushing a gurney. The 
paramedics go to Neil. They lift him onto the gurney and 
wheel him out with Buzz following. He’s not leaving his 
friend and commander.


             JULIAN
      Babs --

             BARBARA
      I know. This is bad.

             JULIAN
      It’s worse. I had to tell Deke.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Barbara and Kubrick stand outside the window of Neil’s room. 
Buzz stands at his bedside. Concerned. Even with their 
disagreements, it’s clear these guys care about each other.

Deke runs up. His intensity turned to panic.

             DEKE
      Where the hell are my astronauts?! 

             BARBARA
      Buzz is in there with Neil.

Deke looks in the window.

             DEKE
      How could this happen?

             KUBRICK
      Our luck was put under too great a 
      strain.

             DEKE
      Fuck off, Kubrick. Do you think I 
      can train another commanding 
      astronaut in time for launch? Not 
      to mention, you may have killed one 
      of the greatest men I know.

Getting in Kubrick’s face.

             DEKE 
      When the Soviets beat us up there, 
      I’ll make sure the whole world 
      knows it’s your fault.

Deke goes into Neil’s room. For the first time, we see the 
cracks showing in Kubrick’s calm facade. 

                                      

             BARBARA
      Accidents happen.

             KUBRICK
      They shouldn’t.

Kubrick walks out, leaving Barbara alone in the hall.

INT. NASA PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - LATER

Barbara attempts to organize the trailer. There’s “moon dust” 
everywhere. Julian enters.

             BARBARA
      How’s Neil?

             JULIAN
      The doctors say he’ll recover 
      quickly. He only has a mild 
      concussion and sprained shoulder. 
      He can return to work tomorrow. 

             BARBARA
      Good. Will Kubrick and I return to 
      work tomorrow?

             JULIAN
      I don’t know. Deke is pushing to 
      have our operation cancelled.

             BARBARA
      Can he do that?

             JULIAN
      His opinion holds a lot of weight 
      in high places.

Director Helms storms in.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Did Stanley Kubrick kill Neil 
      Armstrong?

             JULIAN
      Neil is fine.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Given the constant production 
      delays and today’s accident -- are 
      we sure Stanley Kubrick isn’t 
      working for the enemy?

             BARBARA
      Kubrick works for Kubrick. I’ll 
      handle it.

                                      

INT. DEKE’S OFFICE - DAY

Deke stands behind his desk. Too nervous to sit. Smoking a 
cigar as he talks on the phone:

             DEKE
      I got a right rocket engine that 
      isn’t firing and a launch in less 
      than a week.

Barbara walks in and takes a seat across. She eyes the 
picture on his desk: Deke posing in a space suit for a flight 
he’ll never take.

             DEKE 
      The head of U.S. Aeronautics is on 
      his way...what’s the cost? 

Deke writes down the number. SLAMS down the phone. His anger 
now focused on Barbara.

             DEKE 
      You’re done. I’m officially 
      shutting down your fake moon 
      landing.

             BARBARA
      You have no authority to shut us 
      down. Director Slayton, I can 
      assure you we pose no danger to the 
      launch.

             DEKE
      Danger? Hell, if I stopped things 
      around here because they were 
      dangerous, the whole Space Center 
      would be empty. 
        (leans forward)
      I can no longer afford you. I had 
      to cut the entire “public affairs” 
      budget. Whatever you filmed already 
      is going to have to do -- Look, I 
      gotta keep my eye on the ball here, 
      and it’s more important we pay for 
      a working rocket engine.

Barbara considers this.

                                      

             BARBARA
      How much is my husband charging you 
      for a new engine and modifications?

             DEKE
      Excuse me?

             BARBARA
      My husband owns U.S. Aeronautics. 
      What is he charging you?

Deke shows the number he’d written on a paper.

             BARBARA 
      NASA can pay him forty percent less 
      and he’ll still make a profit. Move 
      the forty percent into the public 
      affairs budget so we can finish the 
      moon landing.

Deke considers this.

             BARBARA 
      I promise Kubrick will finish 
      tomorrow.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Barbara steps out of Deke’s office. Julian waits for her 
against the wall.

             JULIAN
      Why have you never mentioned your 
      husband?

             BARBARA
      I want to keep things professional. 

             JULIAN
      This has all gone way beyond 
      professional -- especially with 
      Kubrick. What the hell is he 
      holding over you?

Barbara can’t answer. Julian walks away.

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - NIGHT

Barbara walks in and finds Kara on her hands and knees 
bagging up the moon dust.

                                      

             BARBARA
      Why are you here?

             KARA
      Stan wanted the sand washed again 
      to make it more real.

             BARBARA
      Do you know where he is?

             KARA
      If he’s not here, he’d be at the 
      movies. That’s his life. Making 
      movies and watching them. He’s not 
      very good at much else, but he is 
      pretty amazing at those two things.

             BARBARA
      How’s your baby?

             KARA
      Beautiful. Her Dad’s taking care of 
      her right now. He understands that 
      I have an important job.

             BARBARA
      So does my husband. I miss him and 
      my kids.

Kara stands, balancing the bag of sand on her back.

             BARBARA 
      Is this important?

             KARA
      This is the closest people like you 
      and me will ever get to greatness. 
      This is the little magic I get in 
      my life.

Kara walks out with the bag of sand.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Kubrick sits in the back smoking cigarettes. A group of 
HIPPIES gathered up front as 2001 plays on the screen.

Barbara takes a seat beside Kubrick.

             BARBARA
      It’s awful late.

                                      

             KUBRICK
      Men like us don’t sleep.

Barbara smiles at this. A DRUNK HIPPIE sitting up front yells 
at the screen:

             HIPPIE
      Man, I don’t get it. Does anybody 
      talk in this?

Kubrick bristles. Someone shushes the Hippie.

             BARBARA
      You were very wrong today. Deke 
      almost cancelled the project.
      I had to tell him how to out 
      negotiate my own husband, and I’m 
      still not sure he’s going to let us 
      continue.

             HIPPIE
        (at the movie)
      Boring.

             KUBRICK
      I’ll smooth things over with Deke.

             HIPPIE
        (at the movie)
      It doesn’t make any sense --

Kubrick stands.

             KUBRICK
      It’s people like you that drive my 
      hope there is more intelligent life 
      in the universe.

Barbara sinks in her chair. 

INT. DEKE SLAYTON’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Rocket plans cover the desk. Deke looks at his astronaut 
portrait with regret. He removes the Apollo 1 pin from his 
lapel and sets it by the photo.

             DEKE
      God dammit.

There’s a SOFT KNOCK at the door. Deke quickly regains 
composure.

             DEKE 
      Come in.

Kubrick walks in. He sits across. 

                                      

             KUBRICK
      I came to discuss what happened on 
      my set today.

             DEKE
      No disrespect, Mr. Kubrick, but 
      you’re the least of my problems.

             KUBRICK
      None taken. But you have my word we 
      will wrap production tomorrow and 
      stay out of your way, however, I 
      would like to ask one favor?

             DEKE
      What?

             KUBRICK
      I find it odd that I haven’t seen 
      this satellite lens you have for 
      me. I would like to test it --

             DEKE
      -- what lens?

             KUBRICK
      The one that can shoot at extremely 
      low light levels. I believe it is 
      the Zeiss f.07?

             DEKE
      No. The Zeiss is still in 
      development. Won’t be ready for a 
      couple years.

Kubrick stands. 

             KUBRICK
      It’s always the same. Isn’t it? 
      It’s human nature that evil and 
      vice will always win. Hope and 
      virtue -- they are never possible.

Kubrick walks out. SLAMMING the door behind.

             DEKE
        (shaking his head)
      God damn artists.

                                      

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barbara lies across the bed. Still in her clothes.

There’s a KNOCK. Barbara sits up. You have got to be kidding 
me. She goes to the door and opens it to Stanley Kubrick 
waiting outside. His chess board tucked under his arm.

             BARBARA
      I don’t want to play. Not tonight.

He doesn’t even ask. He steps in and turns on the light, 
taking his seat at the small table by the window. 

             BARBARA 
      I don’t even like chess.

             KUBRICK
      What do you like?

             BARBARA
      Checkers.

             KUBRICK
      Checkers is a game for idiots.

             BARBARA
      Then I’m an idiot, Mr. Kubrick. Do 
      you think I want to be here? 
      Constantly baby sitting you? I 
      should be taking care of my own 
      children.

             KUBRICK
      Work also pulls me away from the 
      family I love.

             BARBARA
      It’s not the same. You get to leave 
      home and know everything will be 
      fine when you get back. You have 
      Christiane to take care of 
      everything. You are allowed to 
      leave and do whatever you want. I’m 
      not. I go to work, and no one sees 
      me as an ambitious hero like you, 
      or my husband, or Julian -- I’m a 
      horrible woman that has abandoned 
      her family.

             KUBRICK
      I’m afraid I never really 
      understood women.

Kubrick turns the chess board and presents the black pieces 
to Barbara. Barbara intrigued by the change. 

She takes a seat across and makes the first move with the 
black pawn. They continue to play as they discuss:

                                      

             KUBRICK 
      Ms. Penn, where did you go to 
      school?

             BARBARA
      Harvard. Why?

             KUBRICK
      Do you believe it made you smarter?

             BARBARA
      It makes other people think I’m 
      smarter.

Barbara makes a dramatic move.

             BARBARA 
        (getting excited)
      Check.

             KUBRICK
      I barely graduated high school. 
      What do people think of me?

Barbara makes her final move. She’s stares at the board a 
moment. In shock.

             BARBARA
      Checkmate...I don’t believe it -- I 
      won. 

Kubrick coldly stares at Barbara. Clinical.

             KUBRICK
      You only won because I let you. I 
      have no respect for you, your game 
      or your intellect.

He shoves the chess board off the table. The pieces scatter 
across the floor. Kubrick leans across the table. Menacing.

             KUBRICK 
      The lens you promised me does not 
      exist. 

Kubrick stands.

                                      

             KUBRICK 
      I hate dishonesty, Ms. Penn. 

             BARBARA
      Where are you going? Are you 
      quitting?

             KUBRICK
      I am walking away from a liar.

             BARBARA
      Don’t blame me for you quitting. 
      Fine, go! You think I want to work 
      with a man that can only express 
      himself in childish, typed notes? 
      It’s all about you -- your film, 
      your landing, your set, your rocket 
      --

Kubrick stands.

             KUBRICK
      -- one man writes a novel. One man 
      makes a symphony. And it is 
      essential for one man to make a 
      film.

             BARBARA
      No. It’s not essential. We’re all 
      making this. Me, Neil, Buzz, 
      Julian, Deke, Director Helms, Kara -
      - hell, you don’t even know if Kara 
      had a boy or a girl...what kind of 
      man are you? You treat people like 
      they are pawns on your chess board. 
      But you know what I think? I think 
      you over estimate your talent and 
      importance, Mr. Kubrick. 

             KUBRICK
      She had a girl.

Kubrick walks out the door --

EXT. HOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Kubrick walks right into Barbara’s husband, Walter Penn.

             WALTER
        (not believing)
      Stanley Kubrick?

                                      

             KUBRICK
      Mr. Penn?

Walter nods.

             WALTER
      That really was you on the phone. I 
      thought Barb was pulling my 
      leg...did you just come out of her 
      room?

             KUBRICK
      We are not having an affair. I’m an 
      insanely happily married man. You 
      on the other hand, you should ask 
      your wife why NASA is now paying 
      you forty percent less for your 
      rockets.

Kubrick walks off, leaving Walter to process what he just 
learned.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The door to the room opens. Barbara sits on the bed. Her eyes 
swollen. She’s been crying. Walter walks inside, softly 
closing the door behind. 

He sits beside Barbara. She puts her hand over his.

             BARBARA
      I’m so glad you’re here.

             WALTER
      I ran into Stanley Kubrick 
      outside... You’re faking the moon 
      landing, aren’t you? Why else would 
      he be here?

             BARBARA
      I can’t say.

Walter pulls his hand away from Barbara.

             WALTER
      How many times did you assure me 
      everything was fine? You were lying 
      to me. You knew the space program 
      was in trouble.

             BARBARA
      What could I tell you? Everything 
      I’m doing here is classified. 
             

                                      

             BARBARA 
      You need to have faith I’m properly 
      handling this.

             WALTER
      Faith? I’ve always had faith in 
      you. I stood by you when you wanted 
      to go to university, I stood up to 
      my parents when you went to work 
      for Singer instead of staying home 
      to take care of the kids. I even 
      pulled strings to get you in 
      Nixon’s government program for 
      women. I’ve always had faith in 
      you, but do you have the same 
      belief in me?

             BARBARA
      You’re a good man.

             WALTER
      Then why did you tell Deke Slayton 
      he could pay us less? Why sabotage 
      your own family’s profits like 
      that?

             BARBARA
      Walt, please understand that I’m 
      doing my job. Just like you. 

             WALTER
      No. Not like me. You’ve gotten so 
      comfortable creating lies for a 
      living that you are starting to 
      believe them. Do you even know 
      what’s important any more? 

Walter heads for the door.

             BARBARA
      Walt, don’t go. Let’s talk.

             WALTER
      About what? You’re not allowed to 
      talk. It’s all classified.

Walter walks out. 

EXT. SUBURBAN HOME - NIGHT

Barbara frantically KNOCKS on the white door of this cookie-
cutter house. Julian’s Camaro parked in the drive. 

A WOMAN opens the door. A LITTLE BOY and TWO GIRLS chase each 
other in the room behind. Barbara taken aback.

             BARBARA
      Does Julian Scheer live here? 

                                      

             WOMEN
      Yes. You are?

             BARBARA
      We work together.

             WOMAN
        (calls out)
      Julian.

Julian steps up. The woman kisses Julian on the cheek. 

             JULIAN
      This will take just a minute.

The woman nods. Julian joins Barbara on the front porch, 
closing the door behind.

             BARBARA
      Why did you never mention your wife 
      and kids?

Julian runs his hand through his hair. Nervous. Like a 
teenager on a first date.

             BARBARA 
      I shouldn’t have come here.

             JULIAN
      Why are you here, Babs?

             BARBARA
      Kubrick quit. 

             JULIAN
      He was more trouble than he was 
      worth.

             BARBARA
      Was he? God Julian, I wish you’d 
      seen it. I’ve never seen anything 
      like what he filmed...but we have 
      no shots of the astronauts actually 
      walking on the moon. 

             JULIAN
      That bastard did that on purpose.

                                      

             BARBARA
      I don’t know. I can’t find him 
      anywhere. He checked out of the 
      hotel. I searched the base, the 
      movie theater -- you have to help 
      me find him. I don’t want the CIA 
      to know he’s gone missing. Helms 
      already thinks he’s a spy --

             JULIAN
      Babs, I’m not going on some wild 
      goose chase to find Stanley Kubrick 
      tonight.

             BARBARA
      We don’t have a choice.

             JULIAN
      Sure we do. If I’m going to make 
      stuff up for a living, it should be 
      fun. Lying to the public like this, 
      it’s not fun. It’s wrong. All of 
      this has been wrong.

             BARBARA
      And what about stopping a nuclear 
      threat and bringing home our 
      captured spies? Is that wrong?

             JULIAN
      Go back to DC, Barbara. Go home.

Julian goes inside and closes the door --

INT. MOON SET - NIGHT

An ARMED GUARD opens the door for Barbara and turns on the 
overhead lights. 

Barbara walks onto the set. None of it looks real. She picks 
up a Polaroid camera from a table and takes a photo. 

The camera shoots out the print. Barbara shakes it and the 
image that comes into focus looks awful. No one can film this 
but Kubrick.

             BARBARA
      Son of a bitch.

She sets down the camera. Takes one last look at the set and 
shuts off the lights.

                                      

INT. SMALL ROOM - DAY

It’s dark. Our spy, Howard Marcus curled in the fetal 
position on the concrete floor. His writs in shackles. 
Bruised, dirty and unshaven. 

TITLE: Somewhere in the USSR

The door opens. Suslov’s two guards enter and pull Howard to 
his feet. They sit him at a small wooden table.

Vasili walks in. The guards exit and lock the door behind. 

Vasili sits across from Howard, setting a full bottle of 
vodka between them.

             VASILI
      I am sorry for the treatment you 
      have received. 

             HOWARD
      Where is my wife?

             VASILI
      Please, have a drink.

Howard coldly stares at Vasili.

             HOWARD
      What did you do to Cindy?

             VASILI
      She’s alive. Brezhnev had her 
      released. He wanted to stick it to 
      Suslov. Show him who is in charge. 

             HOWARD
      Why am I still here?

             VASILI
      Suslov moved fast. Had you brought 
      here before Brezhnev could track 
      you down. No one gets found here.

Vasili takes a swig of vodka from the bottle. He holds it out 
to Howard. Howard takes a swig and coughs. Vasili takes the 
bottle back and laughs.

             VASILI 
      You and I have a lot in common. It 
      was the Nazis that first forced me 
      to work on rockets, and when the 
      war ended it was the Soviets doing 
      the same. 

             

                                      

             VASILI 
      Two very different ideologies, but 
      they are all the same. If there is 
      one thing I have learned, it’s that 
      owning your life is far more 
      important than protecting an idea.

Howard considers this.

             VASILI 
      You know I can’t get our lunar 
      module to work. And we can’t land 
      on the moon without one...I know 
      you can help me -- I can convince 
      them to release you, if you help me 
      build.

             HOWARD
      If you don’t believe in the Soviet 
      cause, then why the hell do you 
      care?

             VASILI
      I care because I don’t want to stop 
      owning my life -- you should care 
      too. 

Vasili unrolls a set of rocket plans on the table. Howard 
takes one look and is intrigued.

             HOWARD
      I see what you’re doing.

             VASILI
      As one scientist to another -- I 
      need your help.

INT. WEST WING SITUATION ROOM  - DAY 

Barbara, Public Affairs Director Herbert Klein, Deke Slayton, 
CIA Director Helms, Secretary of State Rogers and Cindy 
Marcus sit around the table.

TITLE: Situation Room, White House - Washington DC

             CINDY
      Howard and I put our lives on the 
      line in Moscow to stop Suslov. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      I’m very sorry.

                                      

             CINDY
      Stop being sorry and do something. 
      Howard is still there and I don’t 
      know how much longer he can hold 
      out. The Soviets are close to 
      developing a working lunar module 
      and their rocket is twice the size 
      of ours. I saw it. We need to get 
      Howard out of there.

             ROGERS
      I’m afraid we can’t do that. I 
      don’t believe Mikhail Suslov or the 
      Soviet moon program is a viable 
      threat. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Suslov has publicly threatened to 
      launch a nuclear strike against us, 
      and he will gain power if he wins 
      the moon for the Soviets.

             ROGERS
      What makes you think you can land 
      on the moon? You can’t even fake a 
      moon landing. We need to focus on 
      something we can win - Vietnam. I 
      am advising the President to cancel 
      the space program.

Rogers walks out. Barbara looks to Deke. Do something.

             DEKE
      It’s in the President’s hands now.

             BARBARA
      What if I get Kubrick here --

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      That commie lover moved to the UK. 
      It’s over, Barbara. 

Everyone rises from the table. There’s nothing left to 
discuss. Director Helms and Deke file out. Cindy pulls 
Barbara aside.

             CINDY
      Your plan would have worked. I 
      don’t understand. Why didn’t you 
      finish?

             BARBARA
      I don’t know what to say. I feel 
      horrible about what happened.

                                      

It’s not enough. Cindy walks away.

INT. BARBARA’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Barbara walks in. Shoulders bent in exhaustion. David and 
Kimberly run up. CHELSEA, their middle-aged nanny, close 
behind.

             CHELSEA
      You’re home early. Everything all 
      right?

             BARBARA
      Yes, thank you. 

             CHELSEA
      Is Mr. Penn expected back?

             BARBARA
      He’s still in Florida. 

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The Brady Brunch plays on the TV. Barbara sits on the couch. 
David on one side. Kimberly on the other. 

             KIMBERLY
      Is Dad still working on the broken 
      rockets?

             BARBARA
      Yes, your Dad is very stubborn. He 
      doesn’t give up. 

             DAVID
      Are we really landing on the moon?

             KIMBERLY
      Nobody at school thinks we can do 
      it.

Barbara looks at the TV and considers it for a moment.

EXT. KUBRICK’S ENGLISH ESTATE - DAY

Christiane opens the door. This time Barbara is prepared. She 
bends down to greet the rush of dogs and cats.

             CHRISTIANE
      I’m so sorry you came all this way. 
      You know he --

                                      

             BARBARA
      -- doesn’t take meetings. Could you 
      give this to him?

Barbara hands Christiane a typed memo.

INT. DRAWING ROOM - DAY

Christiane walks in. Kubrick sits in a chair reading A 
Clockwork Orange.

             CHRISTIANE
      The least you could do is see her.

             KUBRICK
      I don’t work with liars and 
      thieves.

Christiane hands Kubrick the memo and walks out. Kubrick 
reads the one typed word on the page: CHECK. 

Kubrick sets down his book. He goes to the window: Barbara 
stands at the front door -- Deke stands at her side. Kubrick 
is intrigued.

             KUBRICK 
      Invite them in.

Kubrick takes a seat in his chair. Deke and Barbara enter.

             KUBRICK 
      Would you sit there?

Kubrick gestures to the couch across. They take a seat.

             KUBRICK 
      What is this about?

             DEKE
      The Secretary of State felt like 
      NASA and the CIA went behind his 
      back with you filming a fake moon 
      landing. Now the big wigs are 
      threatening to shut down the entire 
      space program. 

             KUBRICK
      Are you holding me responsible for 
      NASA’s failure?

             DEKE
      Maybe a little.

                                      

             KUBRICK 
      That’s the most honest thing I’ve 
      heard yet.

             DEKE
      Mr. Kubrick, the space program is 
      everything good about our country. 
      Hell, it’s the only good thing we 
      got right now. Me and countless 
      others put our lives on the line. 
      I’ve lost brave men, and my closest 
      friends to this mission -- we’ve 
      sacrificed everything for this moon 
      landing, and I don’t want it be for 
      nothing. I owe it to Grissom, White 
      and Chaffe to see this through. 
      Now, I’m going to get Apollo 11 
      safely landed up there, but as much 
      as I hate to say it -- I need your 
      help, Mr. Kubrick. Barbara is 
      right, we need to guarantee people 
      can see this damn thing happen. If 
      the public sees a moon landing, 
      whether it’s real or not, they’ll 
      realize that us little humans down 
      here can do pretty much anything. 
      The universe is out there to 
      explore, and gettin’ people to 
      believe in something like that is 
      worth a little deception.

Kubrick stands.

             KUBRICK
      I appreciate your candid optimism, 
      but hope is a belief in dumb luck -- 
      I wish you nothing but the best.

             CINDY 
      Mr. Kubrick?

Cindy Marcus walks in. Kubrick eyes her up and down like a 
specimen.

             KUBRICK
      What is this?

             CINDY
      I’m Cindy Marcus. My husband and I 
      were working for the CIA in Moscow. 
      We were captured by Mikhail Suslov. 
      He still has my husband in custody. 
             

                                      

             CINDY 
      Mr. Kubrick, if Suslov believes the 
      Americans have won the space race, 
      he’ll no longer need my husband and 
      there’s a good chance Howard will 
      be released. I know it’s a long 
      shot, but I don’t know what else to 
      do. I have to believe this will 
      work. Please. I need you to show 
      the world we’ve won the moon. I 
      can’t lose him. 

Kubrick to Christiane in the hall behind, the wife he adores, 
and his look says it all. Cindy got to him. 

Barbara hands him another typed note. Kubrick opens it to: 
CHECKMATE.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Kubrick nervously watches the pilot take his seat in the 
cockpit. He raises an orange pill bottle of quaaludes to his 
lips. Empties its contents into his mouth.

Barbara and Cindy sit beside him. Deke in the seat in front.

             CINDY
      Is he okay?

Barbara nods. She turns to the BUSINESS MAN seated across the 
aisle. He’s in worse shape than Kubrick. A nervous wreck.

             BARBARA
      Excuse me, if you don’t hear a loud 
      click from under the wing when we 
      leave the ground -- it means the 
      pilot forgot to turn on the flap, 
      and we are going to die. 

The business man starts to breath heavily. His panic rising.

Kubrick gives Barbara a devilish smile and relaxes into his 
seat. He closes his eyes.

             KUBRICK
      Thank you, Barbara.

             BARBARA
      You’re welcome, Stan.

OFF THE ROARING SOUND OF THE JET ENGINES CUT TO:

                                      

EXT. CAPE CANAVERAL AIR FORCE BASE - DAY

Crowds everywhere. 

TITLE: Cape Canaveral Air Force Base, Florida

A black Cadillac slowly moves down the congested road. 

INT. BLACK CADILLAC - DAY

Deke sits passenger and takes it all in.

             DEKE
      No way Nixon can cancel us now. 

Kubrick, Barbara and Cindy in back. The impact of the event 
sinking in:

             KUBRICK
      This will be my most popular film.
        (beat)
      And no one will know I made it.

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - DAY

The heavy metal door slides open to Barbara, Cindy and 
Kubrick standing in the doorway. 

Kubrick turns on the overhead lights. Cindy taking her first 
tentative step onto the set.

             CINDY
      This is it?

             BARBARA
      It looks much better on screen.

             KUBRICK
      It does. I’m a genius.

             BARBARA
      And modest.

             KUBRICK
      Modesty wastes time. 

Kubrick turns on a 10K light illuminating the fake star-
filled sky that TRANSITIONS into the real night sky -- 

ANGLE DOWN TO:

                                      

EXT. SOYUZ LAUNCH PAD - NIGHT

Vasili stands with flask in hand. A little drunk.

TITLE: Soyuz Launch Pad - USSR

He calls out to Howard:

             VASILI
      Do you see the part?

Howard’s head is inside a panel on one of the rocket’s 
thrusters, working away.

             HOWARD
        (muffled)
      Not yet.

APPROACHING FOOTSTEPS. Vasili quickly hides his flask in his 
coat. He turns -- Suslov’s guards walk up. What are they 
doing here? Vasili tenses. 

They walk past Vasili to Howard. They grab him from behind.

             VASILI
        (in Russian)
      What are you doing? He is 
      cooperating!

Howard flails and SCREAMS to break loose. 

Vasili watches the guards violently pull Howard into a small 
concrete building. He can still hear the SCREAMS.

INT. JULIAN’S OFFICE - DAY

Julian at his desk. His head down. The wall calendar behind. 
All days marked off. It’s down to the wire and Julian is 
hiding in his office.

Kubrick and Barbara walk in letting the intense sound from 
the crowd outside in -- 

             JULIAN
      NASA Public Affairs is closed.

Julian looks up. Surprised to see Barbara and Kubrick.

             BARBARA
      Julian, I need you to stand up for 
      me? Can you do that?

                                      

             JULIAN
      Always. Babs, I didn’t mean --

             BARBARA
      I meant, can you stand up? Now.

Julian stiffly stands. Barbara looks him up and down. 

             BARBARA 
      He’ll fit. 

             KUBRICK
      He lacks character, but he will do.

             BARBARA
      You ready to have some fun, Julian?

Julian not so sure.

             KUBRIC 
      Action!

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - DAY

Kubrick sits in his mission control, intently watching the 
screens and covering all angles --

TWO ACTORS in full NASA space suits stand at the edge of the 
set. 

Neil, Michael and Buzz watch this nearby. All of it a little 
too surreal for the astronauts. The impact of what they are 
about to do hitting hard --

Kara walks up to the ACTORS in the suits. She hands one an 
American flag. 

The astronauts step forward onto --

THE LUNAR SURFACE ON KUBRICK’S MONITOR

And if we didn’t know better, we’d think we were watching the 
real thing --

Kubrick watches the scene on the monitors. A wide-eyed grin 
on his face.

             KUBRICK
      I’m happy now.

Kubrick grabs a 16mm handheld camera from his table. 

                                      
             KUBRICK 
      Cut!

Kubrick runs over to where the astronauts stand. Neil and 
Buzz tense, expecting the worse. He grins at them like an 
excited child.

             KUBRICK 
      Any of you know how to work a 
      camera?

             BUZZ
      You retiring?

             KUBRICK
	Never.
 
            NEIL
       I can.

Kubrick hands Neil the 16mm.

             KUBRICK
      I’m curious to see if my camera 
      will work on the moon. Give it a 
      try, would you?

             NEIL
      Thank you.

             KUBRICK
      Don’t get killed. I’d like my 
      camera back.

             BUZZ
      Jesus, Stan.

But Kubrick has already moved on to something else. His focus 
on Cindy at the door. She’s speaking to CIA Director Helms. 
Her shoulders shaking with sobs.

             KUBRICK
      What’s that about?

             KARA
      Her husband has gone missing from 
      the prison labor camp. They think 
      Suslov got the designs he needed.

             BUZZ
      Kubrick, don’t you screw up either.

What’s at stake beginning to dawn on Stanley Kubrick. A half-
hearted command to the set:

             KUBRICK
      Tony, let’s reset and go again.

TRANSITION TO ARCHIVE FOOTAGE: Walter Cronkite's live July 
20, 1969 CBS News broadcast from Kennedy Space Center:

                                      

             WALTER CRONKITE
      Good morning, man is about to 
      launch himself to the moon with the 
      expectation of landing there from 
      this Florida launch complex aboard 
      that Saturn Rocket --

INT. MISSION ROOM - DAY

Deke stands at a podium. His audience is the entire FLIGHT 
CREW TEAM. Buzz, Neil and Michael seated in front. 

Deke clears his throat. The shadow of the past tragedy 
darkens his face.

             DEKE
      First and foremost, we must 
      remember our mission objectives...

INT. SMALL ROOM - SAME

It’s dark. The outline of Howard barely visible. Face down on 
the concrete.

             DEKE 
      Perform a manned lunar landing and 
      return. 

The door opens casting light on Howard in a pool of his own 
blood. He’s taken quite the beating.

             DEKE  
      Perform selenological inspection 
      and sampling. 

TWO FIGURES approach.

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - SAME

Kubrick watches his six monitors: the actors pantomime the 
moon landing. Kubrick eyes darting from side-to-side, taking 
in every angle, not missing a thing. This has to be perfect.

                                      

             DEKE 
      But other than the mission 
      objectives -- you are risking your 
      lives for a chance at greatness --

INT. SMALL ROOM - SAME

Howard painfully lifts his head. His expression hard to read 
under his bruises.

             DEKE 
      You’re fulfilling a promise that 
      President Kennedy made to the world 
      almost a decade ago -- 

Howard lifted to his feet by two unseen MEN.

INT. MISSION ROOM - SAME

             DEKE
      A promise that we will go to the 
      moon.

Deke getting emotional as he looks to his astronauts seated 
in front.

             DEKE 
      Go with God, and go with your 
      country. You’re dismissed.

TRANSITION TO ARCHIVE FOOTAGE: Walter Cronkite's live July 
20, 1969 CBS News broadcast from Kennedy Space Center:

             WALTER CRONKITE
      The astronauts are going through 
      all the checkpoints to make sure 
      they are good to go. At 9:32 AM 
      that six story rocket is scheduled 
      to thunder to life --

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - SAME

TITLE: Kennedy Space Center

Deke sits at the control panel. Gene seated behind. Headset 
on. This is it.

             DEKE
      Apollo 11, standby for final status 
      check.

                                      

             NEIL 
      Roger. 

             GENE
      Status check complete.

             DEKE
      We’re go for flight.

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - SAME

Kubrick intently watches the monitors as his “astronauts” 
plant the American flag on the moon --

CUT TO:

ARCHIVE CBS NEWS FOOTAGE: A shot of the Apollo 11 rocket with 
a rudimentary digital clock on the bottom of the screen 
counting down: 3, 2 -- 

INT. COLUMBIA COMMAND MODULE - SAME  

Buzz, Neil and Michael strapped in their chairs. Ready. The 
thrusters shake the cabin. Harder and harder --

Neil shifts in his seat. Buzz grabs his hand. Jesus that was 
too close. Neil’s arm inches away from hitting the abort 
button. 

Buzz and Neil exchange a look of relief. They got each 
other’s backs. The shaking quickly becoming too intense to 
see any detail --

CUT TO:

ARCHIVE FOOTAGE of the APOLLO 11 launch. Smoke billows from 
its massive thrusters. It’s leaving Earth --

INT. VASILI MISHIN’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Vasili looks out his window to the N-1 rocket. Smoke billows 
at its base just like the American rocket. Shit. The Soviets 
are launching too.

             VASILI
        (mumbles)
      Luna 15. First to the moon.

Vasili holds a half-empty bottle of vodka in one hand. 

                                      

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - DAY

The desks, panels, walls and floor shake with take off. All 
eyes on the screens ahead: ARCHIVE FOOTAGE of Apollo 11 
arching into the sky --

             KRANZ
      Ascending 195 feet per second.

A tense moment of waiting, and then --

             DEKE
      We are all clear. 

Deke removes his headset and stands. A collective sigh of 
relief. 

             DEKE 
      I’ve handed comm over to Houston.

The room erupts in applause. 

             DEKE 
      Good job, everyone. We had a 
      successful launch today, but this 
      is just the first of many hurdles. 
      We still have to land on the moon. 
      But don’t let that stop you from 
      celebrating this small victory.

Bottles of champagne are opened. Walter (Barbara’s husband) 
stands at the side. He is handed a glass of champagne by one 
of his engineers. 

He looks to CIA Director Helms watching and standing at the 
back of the room. Not celebrating. Walter joins him.

             WALTER
      I know who you are.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      I know who everyone is.

             WALTER
      Is Barbara here?

Director Helms doesn’t answer.

             WALTER 
      I just want to know if she’s all 
      right.

Director Helms gestures for Deke to follow him and walks out. 

                                      

Walter sets down his champagne and nervously looks to the 
launch map ahead. Too worried to celebrate.

INT. DEKE DEKE’S OFFICE - DAY

Deke sits behind his desk. Director Helms sits across.

             DEKE
      What’s this about?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      We got word the Soviets have also 
      launched a rocket.

             DEKE
      Do I have to worry my astronauts 
      will be under Soviet attack up 
      there?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      It’s a possibility. Given that 
      Stanley Kubrick has been classified 
      as dangerously subversive and his 
      communist leanings --

             DEKE
      What the hell does Kubrick have to 
      do with shit? 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      I believe he informed the Soviets 
      we were launching today.

             DEKE
      You got proof? Maybe it was just 
      dumb coincidence. 

Director Helms rises.

             DEKE 
      Where you going? 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      To take Stanley Kubrick in for 
      questioning.

             DEKE
      This is bullshit. Even if he is a 
      commie, what good will 
      interrogating him do? We got 600 
      million viewers waiting to see us 
      land. We need Kubrick --

                                     

Director Helms walks out. Deke picks up his phone --

             KUBRICK 
      Cut!

INT. WAREHOUSE/MOON SET - SAME

A phone RINGS in the background --

The astronauts remove their helmets. The illusion of the moon 
landing shattered as Julian and Barbara are revealed 
underneath. 

They look to Kubrick seated in his director’s chair.

             KUBRICK
      Someone shut up that phone! 

Kara picks up the phone from the table, hangs up and leaves 
it off its receiver. 

Julian unscrews his glove. Checks his watch.

             JULIAN
      Done with time to spare. Apollo 11 
      won’t land on the moon for another 
      48 hours.

             KUBRICK
      I can’t edit in 48 hours. This 
      makes the filming of Spartacus seem 
      like a quaint vacation --

Director Helms walks in behind with TWO AGENTS.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Spartacus is my favorite film.

             KUBRICK
      Of course it is. 

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Mr. Kubrick, have you been in 
      contact with the Soviets?

Helms’ agents step behind Kubrick. He’s trapped. Barbara 
steps up.

             BARBARA
      What is this?

                                     

             KUBRICK
      He’s asking about the Soviets. Who 
      are honestly far more advanced than 
      us when comes to treatment of our 
      fellow creatures. The Soviets don’t 
      strap bombs to helpless dolphins 
      and use them as weapons of war.

             JULIAN
      We do that?

Kubrick nods. The agents place handcuffs on his wrists.

             BARBARA
      Mr. Kubrick is not a spy.

Kubrick pulled away. Barbara about to run after. Julian puts 
a hand on Barbara’s shoulder - don’t interfere. Kubrick is 
gone.

Barbara pushes off Julian and runs to Kubrick’s mission 
control wall of monitors.

             BARBARA 
      We can’t finish this.

INT. KREMLIN - DAY

Communist Party Leader Leonid Brezhnev sits at a cheap wooden 
desk in a room fit for a Czar. Ornate chandeliers from the 
ceiling. Gold etching along the walls. Communist aesthetic 
meets old world opulence.

TITLE: The Kremlin, Moscow

Mikhail Suslov stands across from Brezhnev. The contrast 
between the leaders evident. Suslov brash and confident. 
Brezhnev small and soft spoken. The following in Russian:

             BREZHNEV
      I don’t recall giving you 
      authorization to launch.

Suslov leans across the desk. He means business.

             SUSLOV
      You should not have released Cindy 
      Marcus. It showed weakness. It’s 
      time we took a stand. Show the 
      Americans our power. We will 
      execute Howard Marcus and claim the 
      moon for the USSR.

                                     

             BREZHNEV
      Are you insane? There has been no 
      execution of spies on either side 
      since 1953. Do you know what an 
      execution will start?

             SUSLOV
      Nuclear war.

Suslov storms out. The full extent of his madness dawning on 
Brezhnev.

INT. DEKE DEKE’S OFFICE - DAY

Deke sits with the phone to his ear. Cigar in his mouth. 
Julian and Barbara walk in. Deke slams down the phone.

             DEKE
      Why the hell weren’t you answering? 
      Helms is on his way to arrest 
      Kubrick. 

             JULIAN 
      He got him.

             DEKE
      Please tell me Stan is not a commie 
      spy.

             BARBARA
      He is not a spy. We need him 
      released. We can’t finish the moon 
      landing without him.

Walter walks in.

             DEKE
      What now?

             WALTER
      I wanted to talk to you about the 
      thrusters --

             DEKE
      Are they working?

             WALTER
      Yes, but --

             DEKE
      Then I don’t give a shit.

Walter starts to walk out. Barbara grabs him by the arm.

                                     

             BARBARA
      Wait. Are you still in contact with 
      Kissinger?

             WALTER
        (disappointed)
      That’s what you want?

             BARBARA
      I need you to contact him and tell 
      him Kubrick has been taken into 
      custody by the CIA without cause.  
      You’ll have to let Kissinger know 
      that releasing Kubrick would be bad 
      for the CIA and the current 
      Secretary of State. Kissinger is 
      angling for the Secretary’s job?

             WALTER
      I’ll see what I can do.

             BARBARA
      Thank you.

Walter hesitates, hoping for something more. She doesn’t know 
what to say. He walks out.

Deke and Julian shoot Barbara a look.

             BARBARA 
        (covers)
      We’re fine.

INT. SMALL ROOM - DAY

Kubrick is handcuffed to a wooden chair. A GUARD seated at a 
table nearby.

             KUBRICK
      What’s it like to guard prisoners?

             GUARD
      It’s a job. 

             KUBRICK
      You ever kill anyone?

The guard looks over to Kubrick. He’s liking the attention.

             GUARD
      No. But I’ve had to knockout a few.

                                     

             KUBRICK
      I’m fascinated by violence. How 
      hard did you hit them? What did it 
      feel like? How did it make you 
      feel?

             GUARD
      Good, I guess. You want me to hit 
      you?

The guard walks over to Kubrick and makes a fist. Kubrick is 
sweating it --

The door behind opens. Director Helms walks in. The guard 
sits down.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Barbara sits on the bed nervously staring at the old magnetic 
tape editing machine set up at the center of the room. She 
doesn’t have clue what to do with it.

The door opens. Kubrick enters with Director Helms. Barbara 
can’t hide her relief. She gives Kubrick a hug.

             BARBARA
      You’re okay!

Kubrick uncomfortable with the out pouring of emotion. He 
looks to Director Helms --

             KUBRICK
      Will you tell her I’m fine. She can 
      let go.

             BARBARA
      I heard him.

She releases Kubrick.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      Be glad your coconspirator has 
      friends in high places. 

Kubrick eyes Barbara with appreciation.

             KUBRICK
      Is she “dangerously subversive” 
      too?

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      I don’t care what Kissinger says 
      about you, Stanley. 
             

             DIRECTOR HELMS 
      You’re not playing for our side. 
      And when you screw up, I will be 
      there to take you down.

Director Helms leaves. Barbara and Kubrick look at each 
other. They bust up laughing.

                                     

             KUBRICK
        (imitates)
      I will take you down.

             BARBARA
      It’s good to have you back.

Kubrick takes a seat at the editing machine and starts 
playing the tape. Getting to business.

             KUBRICK
      How much time do we have?

             BARBARA
      A few hours.

This is killing Kubrick.

             KUBRICK
      It’s not enough. It won’t be 
      perfect.

             BARBARA
      Reality is not perfect.

             KUBRICK
      Reality is boring.

             BARBARA
      Please, just finish.

Kubrick gets to work. Barbara turns on the television --

ARCHIVE CBS NEW FOOTAGE.

             WALTER CRONKITE
      We are getting word from Mission 
      Control in Houston that Apollo 11 
      is clear for landing...

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - DAY

Deke walks in. His team back at their monitors. Headsets on.

             DEKE
      Houston’s got this under control --

                                     

             NEIL 
      Houston, we have a problem. We seem 
      to have lost a piece of the Eagle.

Deke throws on his headset.

             DEKE
      Neil? What the hell just happened? 
      Over. Are you under attack?

Everyone looks up from the monitors in shock. Under attack?

INT. EAGLE LUNAR MODULE - SAME

Neil and Buzz look out the small window -- the lunar surface 
approaching. Beautiful and serene...a good-sized piece of 
metal floating by --

An emergency ALARM sounds. 

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - SAME

ALARMS sound. Deke addresses his crew.

             DEKE
      The Soviets launched the same time 
      we did. There is a chance they 
      could have launched a missile at 
      Apollo 11.

Gene listens on his headset:

             GENE
      Houston is reporting the Eagle’s 
      fourth thruster is failing.

Walter looks up from his screen.

             WALTER
      Our sensors are saying it’s going 
      down.

INT. EAGLE - SAME

All ALARMS sound. Buzz and Neil look out the window -- the 
moon’s surface rapidly getting closer.

INT. AMERICAN HOME - SAME

A FAMILY watches Walter Cronkite’s live broadcast:

                                     

             WALTER CRONKITE 
      We’re still waiting on final word 
      from Mission Control...

TRANSITION TO the broadcast on the TV in:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Kubrick and Barbara collect up the tapes into a duffel bag.

             BARBARA
      Is that all of them?

Kubrick nods. Barbara and Kubrick run out the door.

EXT. LANDING STRIP - DAY

A cargo truck pulls up and stops.

TITLE: Somewhere in the USSR

TWO MEN get out of the front. They unlock the back. Howard in 
the fetal position inside. His eyes blink open. The men pull 
him out.

His eyes adjusting to the light. He looks up to the blue sky. 
HOWARD’S POV:

THE MOON AND THE SUN OUT AT THE SAME TIME

He’s dragged forward...

INT. HOTEL ROOM - SAME

Cindy sits alone the edge of a twin bed. Nervously wringing 
her hands as she watches NEWS REPORTS OF THE LANDING. Waiting 
for final word. Are they going to make it?

EXT. CAPE CANAVERAL AIR FORCE BASE - SAME

Kubrick and Barbara maneuver through the massive crowd of 
onlookers in the yellow VW bug.

Barbara stops the car. A gate blocks the way forward.  A 
PRIVATE knocks on Barbara’s window. She rolls it down.

             PRIVATE
      Do you have press credentials? 

                                     

             KUBRICK
      I’m Stanley Kubrick.

             PRIVATE
      Your credentials?

Kubrick grabs the bag of magnetic video tapes from the back 
seat.

             KUBRICK
      Barbara?

             BARBARA
      Yes, Stanley.

             KUBRICK
      Run!

He slings the bag over his shoulder, pushes open the door and 
runs --

             PRIVATE
      Sir! Stop!

Kubrick keeps running.

             BARBARA
      Sorry.

She climbs out the passenger side and runs after Kubrick. 
Both of them sprinting as fast as they can through the 
throngs of PRESS.

INT. BARBARA’S HOME - SAME

Kimberly and David (Barbara’s kids) watch the CBS NEWS 
FOOTAGE OF THE MOON LANDING. WALTER CRONKITE LIVE AT THE 
KENNEDY SPACE CENTER. The biggest moment in history about to 
happen --

             KIMBERLY
      Mom?

Barbara and Kubrick barely visible in the background as 
Cronkite reports --

EXT. LANDING STRIP - SAME

Howard led inside a rusted airplane hangar. This is where 
it’s going to end for him --

                                     

INT. EAGLE - SAME

The ALARM SOUNDING. Apollo 11 crashing --

INT. MISSION CONTROL - SAME

Kubrick and Barbara run in. 

Kubrick pitches forward from the exertion. Barbara catches 
him. Kubrick nods. His breath returning to normal. 

Barbara looks across the control room. All eyes on her and 
Kubrick. Walter standing beside Deke --

Kubrick and Barbara run through to get the footage on the 
air. 

INT. EAGLE - SAME

The ALARMS suddenly stop. The landing suddenly peaceful. Neil 
and Buzz not able to contain their relief.

             NEIL
      Houston, it was a sensor 
      malfunction. We are clear for 
      landing. 

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - SAME

The room erupts in applause. Deke raises his hands to silence 
the clapping.

             DEKE
      Settle down, folks, we’re not out 
      of the woods yet.

All focus on the TV screens up front. Nothing showing yet.

INT. BROADCAST ROOM - SAME

Barbara and Kubrick run in with the bag of tapes.

             BARBARA
      We need to get this onto the live 
      feed to the networks --

They look up to the wall of TV screens ahead. And Kubrick’s 
expression says it all -- oh, shit.

                                     110.

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - SAME

ON THE SCREENS UP FRONT: The moon landing we all know.

ARCHIVE BLACK AND WHITE FOOTAGE OF THE MOON LANDING.

ARCHIVE FOOTAGE OF PEOPLE WATCHING ACROSS THE GLOBE.

CLOSE ON KUBRICK

INT. BROADCAST ROOM - WIDER 

             BARBARA
      It’s amazing.

             KUBRICK
      This looks awful. This is not my 
      work. 

ON THE SCREEN: Neil takes the first step on the moon --

             KUBRICK 
        (under his breath)
      Say it right.

             NEIL
      This is one small step for man, and 
      one giant leap for mankind.

             KUBRICK
      Unbelievable. It’s one step for “a” 
      man...

Kubrick pulls a tape out of the bag and waves it at a 
TECHNICIAN.

             KUBRICK 
      Hurry. Play this. It’s a much more 
      accurate portrayal --

Barbara takes the tape from him.

             BARBARA
      Stan, this is real. Look. We’re on 
      the moon.

And he can’t help but smile.

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - SAME

The room ERUPTS in applause.

                                     

ARCHIVE FOOTAGE OF PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD CHEERING AND 
CELEBRATING THE LANDING. Man has landed on the moon.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Cindy can’t stop herself. She cries. Happy and terrified at 
once.

INT. AIRPLANE HANGAR - DAY

Howard is led forward by his two captors. He’s made peace 
with what is going to happen. He looks up to his executioner -
- it’s wet-behind-the-ears Agent Harris.

             AGENT HARRIS
      We’re taking you home.

Howard’s face flooded with relief.

INT. VASILI MISHIN’S OFFICE - DAY

He watches the Apollo 11 landing on his television. No vodka. 
Very sober. 

Vasili applauds as he watches Neil take his first steps. And 
we clearly see the rocket designs on his desk marked as -- 
UNMANNED SOVIET PROBE, LUNA 15 --

INT. KREMLIN - DAY

Brezhnev shuts off the broadcast of the Apollo 11 landing. 
Suslov storms in. Brezhnev addressing him in Russian:

             BREZHNEV
      Howard Marcus has been released.

             SUSLOV
      Did you know Howard was conspiring 
      with Vasili? There were never 
      cosmonauts on my rocket. Luna 15 
      was nothing but an unmanned probe. 
      It was a hoax.

Brezhnev doesn’t answer.

             SUSLOV 
      It was stupid to sacrifice our 
      space program to get rid of me. Do 
      you have any idea what you cost us?  



Brezhnev looks over to his aide and nods. TWO GUARDS enter 
and escort Suslov out.

INT. LAUNCH CONTROL - DAY

Deke passes out cigars like a proud father. Julian pops a 
bottle of champagne and pours glasses for Walter and Gene.

Barbara and Kubrick stand at the back. Unsure how they feel 
about all this.

EXT. LANDING STRIP - DAY

Cindy watches as a small propeller plane lands.

Howard steps out of the plane with shaky legs. 

Cindy runs to his side and helps him down. Holding each other 
in their arms. They kiss like it’s the first and last time. 
Not letting go.

INT. MISSION CONTROL - DAY

Deke joins Barbara and Kubrick. Not good with sentiment. He 
hands Kubrick a cigar and one to Barbara. He nods and walks 
away. 

Barbara looks to Walter. His back his to her. He’s headed for 
the door --

             KUBRICK
      Are you going to let him leave?

             BARBARA
      I don’t know what to say.

             KUBRICK
      My best piece of direction is to 
      always speak the truth.

Barbara walks up to Walter. He stops looks down to her. 
Barbara searching for the perfect words --

             BARBARA
      I’m so sorry.

Walter and Barbara hug. It’s a start.

Kubrick watches their exchange with a little smile. Julian 
hands him a glass of champagne and follows his gaze --

             KUBRICK
      I would have made her do another 
      take.

                                     113.

INT. MOON SET - DAY

Kubrick watches the CIA pack his moon set into crates marked 
CLASSIFIED. 

             KUBRICK
      What are you going to do with my 
      film?

No answer.

             KUBRICK 
      I have a very precise filing system 
      for all my work. If you won’t let 
      me have it, I’ll...

Kubrick searches his pockets. Takes out his cigarette 
lighter.

             KUBRICK 
      I’ll burn it. I’ll burn it all!

The men ignore Kubrick and wheel out the crates. Barbara 
walks up behind.

             BARBARA
      You should try to focus on your 
      next film.

             KUBRICK

      I can’t. 

Kubrick puts away his lighter and faces Barbara.

             KUBRICK 
      It’s looking like my epic 
      representation of Napoleon’s life 
      will never be made...I am not good 
      at letting go.

             BARBARA
      I know, Stan. I’ll still send you 
      the lens I promised when it’s 
      ready.

             KUBRICK
      I trust you will. Do you like 
      working for the government? 

                                     114.

             BARBARA
      I don’t do it for enjoyment. I 
      guess I took this job to see if I 
      could do it.

Kubrick smiles. He understands.

             KUBRICK
      There’s infinite possibilities for 
      you, Ms. Penn. Choose one that wins 
      the game.

Barbara watches him walk out the door.

INT. WEST WING - DAY

Barbara walks by the Situation Room in a pair of wedge heels. 
The door suddenly opens. 

Secretary Rogers hands her a box filled with audio tapes. CIA 
Director Helms a few steps behind. President Nixon seated at 
the table inside.

She glances at a few of the labels: Ted Kennedy, Leonid 
Brezhnev...

             BARBARA
      Has the President been recording 
      these people’s conversations?

Rogers squints at Barbara.

             ROGERS
      You’re not my secretary?

He quickly snatches the box back.

             DIRECTOR HELMS
      We’ll be needing your publicity 
      skills to handle this. I’ll be in 
      touch.

Barbara nods and continues down the hallway. Unsettled.

INT. PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE - DAY

Barbara walks in. Public Affairs Director Herbert Klein and 
the other assistants all there. They left an open seat for 
her at the table. Barbara takes the seat.

INT. BARBARA’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Barbara walks in the front door. She sets down her briefcase. 
Walter walks up in jeans and T-shirt.

                                    

             WALTER
      You’re home early.

             BARBARA
      So are you.

             WALTER
      It’s been a rough couple of months. 

             BARBARA
      I quit, Walt. I don’t want to keep 
      cleaning up other people’s messes.

             WALTER
      What do you have in mind? 

             BARBARA
      I think I want to go into business 
      for myself.

Walter considers this.

             WALTER
      I think we can make it work.

EXT. BACKYARD - NIGHT

Barbara, Walter, David and Kimberly lay on their backs. 
Relaxed and staring up at the night sky. 

A FULL MOON ABOVE

             DAVID
      Mom, how did we land on the moon?

Barbara thinks about it a moment.

             BARBARA
      Let me tell you a story...

THE END.

