            Legendary Pictures

                 '42'

               written by
             Brian Helgeland

                          White - March 14, 2012


                      Blue Revised - April 7, 2012
                     Pink Revised - April 19, 2012
                    Yellow Revised - April 24, 2012
                     Green Revised - April 27, 2012
                    Goldenrod Revised - May 9, 2012
                       Buff Revised - May 29, 2012
                     Salmon Revised - June 4, 2012
                     Cherry Revised - June 11, 2012
                       Tan Revised - June 25, 2012
                Double White Revised - June 28, 2012
                  Double Blue Revised - July 9, 2012


   1.

Fills the screen.  Falling from the top of frame to the 
bottom.  Pluming off into dust.  White, white, white.  We 
move toward it even as it recedes, always out of reach.  
Finally we pop out wide and high to reveal... 


 The white is chalk.  An old BLACK GROUNDSKEEPER lays down the  *
right field line on a baseball diamond.

42




INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - MONTAGUE ST, BROOKLYN - DAY


Blinds closed.  Dust motes in the air.  A large GOLDFISH TANK 
bubbles.  BRANCH RICKEY at his desk.  Two photos on the wall: 
Abe Lincoln & Leo Durocher.  CHALKBOARDS covered with 100's 
OF NAMES, every player in the Dodger organization.

CLYDE SUKEFORTH and HAROLD PARROTT sit across from Rickey  
who stares at them.  Sukeforth stares back.  Parrott nervous.


               RICKEY
      Gentlemen, I have a plan...  As of 
      now, only the Board of Directors 
      and my family know.  

Sukeforth and Parrott exchange a look.

               SUKEFORTH
      A plans always good, Mr. Rickey.  
      And you always got one.

               RICKEY
      My wife says Im too old, That my 
      health isnt up to it.  My son says 
      that every one in baseball will be 
      against me. But I'm going to do it.

Parrott looks to Sukeforth who keeps his eyes on Rickey.

               SUKEFORTH
      Do what, Mr. Rickey?

               RICKEY
      I'm going to bring a Negro 
      ballplayer to the Brooklyn Dodgers. 

               PARROTT
      With all due respect, sir, have you 
      lost your mind?  Imagine the abuse 
      youll take from the newspapers 
      alone.  Never mind how itll play 
      on Flatbush.  Please, Mr. Rickey. 

Rickey looks dismissively at Parrott, over to Sukeforth.


   1.

               RICKEY
      Theres no law against it, Clyde.

               SUKEFORTH
      Theres a code.  Break a law and 
      get away with it, some people think 
      youre smart.  Break an unwritten 
      law though, youll be an outcast.

   2.

               RICKEY
      So be it.  New York is full of 
      Negro baseball fans; every dollar 
      is green.  I don't know who he is, 
      or where he is, but hes coming.  

EXT. RICKWOOD FIELD - BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:

The big Birmingham Black Barons CATCHER behind the plate as 
Kansas City Monarchs JOHN SCOTT stands at bat. The catchers 
attention on the RUNNER DANCING off first.  Stomping a foot, 
feinting, hard to see clearly in the glare of the lights.

               CATCHER
      Whered you learn to move like 
      that, runner?!  At dime a dance 
      night?!  Stay quiet!

INSERT: Birmingham, Alabama.  April 8, 1945.


On the first pitch the runner takes off. The catcher fires to 
second.  See it from his POV as the runner slides in SAFE!  

A foot on the bag, the runner dusts off, heckles the catcher:

               RUNNER
      Is that the best you got?!  Huh?!  
      Im going to steal nine, ten bases 
      today!  You better start counting!

The catcher frowns.  Standing, we see he is a big, big man.

               CATCHER
          (Alabaman)
      Wheres your shortstop from?

               JOHN SCOTT
          (Louisianan)
      California.

               CATCHER
      Hes got a mouth on him.

Shaking his head, the catcher gets back in his crouch, 
signals the PITCHER.  On the wind-up, the Runner is off 
again.  The catcher fires to THIRD: Safe!

               RUNNER
      You got a rag arm, catcher!

               CATCHER
      Steal home!  Youll find out what 
      kind of arm I got!


    
 3.

               RUNNER
      Okay, Im coming!

The Catcher looks over at Scott who chuckles.

               CATCHER
      California, huh?  
          (Scott nods)
      Well California here he goes, if he 
      comes down here.

The Catcher gets back down in his squat.  Signals the 
pitcher: fastball.  Scott digs in, ready.  The runner dancing 
off third.  Here comes the wind-up...

The Runner takes off even as the pitcher fires it in.  The 
Birmingham Catcher receives it.  As the Runner slides -- 

The Catcher intentionally drives his glove, the ball and both 
hands into the runners face --  WHALLOP!  Sound drops as 
were knocked flat senseless along with the runner.

ON HIM now as he tries to push himself up from the dirt.  A 
close look at JACK ROOSEVELT ROBINSON.  A born battler, he 
shakes out the cobwebs, finally lurches to his feet, looks to 
the UMPIRE.  He never heard the call.

      		JACK
    What was I?


The umpire passes one hand over the other: Safe.  Jack looks 
over at the catcher, gives him a pointed look as he goes -- 

The catcher shoves him in the back. Jack turns, shoves back. 
As the two men wrestles each other to the ground --

                                            CUT TO:

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - MONTAGUE ST, BROOKLYN - DAY

Rickey and Sukeforth going through stacks of FILES on the 
desk.  A black ballplayers picture is clipped to each. As 
Rickey reviews one, Sukeforth tries to hand him another.

               SUKEFORTH
      Josh Gibson.  Oh boy can he hit.

		RICKEY
      No.

      		SUKEFORTH
      No?
      Rickey wont take the file; the answer is no.

    

 4.

               SUKEFORTH
      Alright.  Roy Campanella.  

Sukeforth holds it out; Rickey wont take it.

               RICKEY
      A heck of a player.  But too sweet, 
      theyll eat him alive.

               SUKEFORTH
          (holds up file)
      Satchel Paige then.

Parrott enters carrying an armful of files.

               RICKEY
      Too old.  We need a man with a 
      future not a past.
          (holds up his own
          file)
      Here. Jack Roosevelt Robinson.

As Parrott sets them on the desk, they start to slide off, 
spilling to the floor.  Helpless to stem the tide, Parrott 
looks down, surrounded by black faces...

               RICKEY
          (flips through file)
      A four sport college man, out of 
      UCL.  That means hes played with 
      white boys. 
          (scans file)
      Twenty-six years old, now with the 
      Kansas City Monarchs.  Batting over 
      350 even as we speak.  350! And he 
      was a commissioned army officer!  

               SUKEFORTH
      He was court-martialed.  A trouble 
      maker.  He argues with umpires.  A 
      quick temper is his reputation.

Rickey is obviously keen on him.

               PARROT
      What was he court-martialed for?

               RICKEY
      For refusing to sit in the back of 
      a military bus.
          (checks the file)
      Ft. Hood, Texas. The driver asked 
      him to move back. The MPs had to 
      take him off.


    

 5.
 
     		SUKEFORTH
      Do you see?

               RICKEY  
      I see he resents segregation. If
      he were white, wed call it spirit! 

               PARROT
      If he were white, sir, we wouldnt
      be looking for him.

Rickey ends the debate...

               RICKEY
      Robinsons a Methodist. Im a
      Methodist. Gods a Methodist. We 
      cant go wrong. Find him. Bring him 
      here.


EXT. FILLING STATION - INTERSTATE 24 - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:


A BLOODHOUND watches as a BUS pulls into a SERVICE STATION, 
the tires RING the bell hose.  A million miles easy on this 
road rumbler.  The BANNER reads: KC Monarchs.

Insert: Interstate 24, Missouri - August 24, 1945.

The DRIVER steps off. The fellas follow, getting off to 
stretch their legs.  Hot and tired.  A WHITE ATTENDANT 
saunters out.  The driver steps over to meet him.

               ATTENDANT
      Fill her up?

		DRIVER
      Yes, sir.

The attendant starts unscrewing caps on two 50-GALLON TANKS.

               ATTENDANT
      Where you all headed?  

		DRIVER
      Chicago.


As the attendant shoves down a pump, starts filling, Jack 
steps off.  He spots and heads for a restroom.  White Men 
Only lettered on the door.  The attendant roused as he sees.

               ATTENDANT
      Hey!  Where you going, boy!?  


 6.
Everyone looking over as Jack stops.

               JACK
      I'm going to the toilet.  

               ATTENDANT
      Shit, boy, cmon.  You know you 
      can't go in there.  

Jack does a slow burn, then suddenly strides toward the 
attendant.  The air rife with tension.

               JACK
      Take that hose out of the tank.  

		ATTENDANT
      Huh? 

             DRIVER   
      Robinson --

               JACK
      Take it out.  We'll get our ninety-
      nine gallons of gas someplace else. 

The attendant blinks.  He takes a look from Jack to up and 
down the deserted highway.  No business in sight.

               ATTENDANT
      Okay, use it.  But don't stay in 
      there too long.

Jack heads back.  The Driver, the players, a bit stunned. 

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. WHITE MEN ONLY REST ROOM - FILLING STATION - DAY

Jack splashes water on his face, rips a paper towels from the 
dispenser, pats his face dry.  He balls the wad up, squeezes 
it in his fist before firing it into the trash.  He considers 
his reflection in the mirror.  As he regards himself, we hear  *
the SERVICE BELL ring outside.


EXT. FILLING STATION - HIGHWAY 24 - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:


A car has pulled up.  The driver talks to several players.  
They look over as Jack exits.  The driver is Clyde Sukeforth.

               SUKEFORTH
      Are you Jackie Robinson?

                                                      CUT TO:

    

 7.



INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - MONTAGUE ST, BROOKLYN - DAY


Blinds closed.  Jack sits across the desk from Rickey.  
Sukeforth sits a little further back.  Rickey is staring at 
Jack.  Bushy eyebrows flared, light gleams off his glasses.  

INSERT: August 28, 1945.  Brooklyn.  

Jack doesnt know what to do, looks to Sukeforth.  Finally...

		RICKEY
      Do you have a girl?  

		JACK
      Excuse me? 

               

               RICKEY
      A man needs a family relying on 
      him.  It insures he'll behave 
      responsibly.  Do you have a girl?  

		JACK
      I think so.

               

               RICKEY
      You think so?

Jack looks to Sukeforth who smiles placidly.  Back to Rickey.


  8.


               JACK
      I don't make much money.  Between 
      the army and now baseball I've been 
      away a lot.  And Rae, Rachel, she 
      wants to finish school. Considering 
      all that, I say I think so.

               RICKEY 
      Do you love her?  Rachel?
          (Jack confused)
      Dont you know?

               JACK 
      Yes, sir, very much.

               RICKEY 
      Marry her.  
      What?

Rickey stands, walks to a window. Jack looks at 
Sukeforth who raises a hand as if to say: Give it a chance.  

               RICKEY
	(CONTD)
      Baseball's a hard life; a man needs 
      a good woman by his side.  You 
      dont want the only person waiting 
      for you at home to be a catcher.

Sukeforth chuckles at that.  Rickey fingers open a slat on 
the blind and peers out.  Jack looks hard at him.

               JACK
      Coach Sukeforth here said you were 
      starting a new Negro League.  That 
      doesnt make sense to me.

               MR. RICKEY
      It doesnt, huh?  Are you calling 
      us liars, Jack?

               JACK
      What's this about, Mr. Rickey?

               RICKEY
      This is about baseball.

Rickey opens the shade.  Sunlight floods in.  Rickey follows 
it to the chalkboard, to the list of players under Montreal.

               RICKEY
	(CONTD)
      I see you starting in the spring 
      with our affiliate in Montreal.  If 
      you make it there, we'll try you 
      down here with the Dodgers.  The 
      white Brooklyn Dodgers.  

Jack looks to Sukeforth who nods: Yes, you heard right.


               RICKEY 
	CONTD)
      Ill pay you $600 a month and a 
      $3,500 bonus when you sign the 
      contract.  Is that agreeable?

Believe it or not thats a lot of money to Jack on this day 
in time.  This is all becoming a bit overwhelming.

               JACK
      Yes, sir.  Thats fine.

               RICKEY
      There is one condition.  I have a 
      pile of scouting reports.  I know 
      you can hit behind the runner, that 
      you can read a pitch.  The question 
      is can you control your temper?  

		JACK
      My temper?

               RICKEY
      Yes your temper!  Are you deaf?!

Rickey furious, the avuncular old man gone.  Jack sits there,  
fists now balled.  Rickey to Sukeforth like hes not there:


               RICKEY
	(CONTD)
      He looks proud.  Willful.  

               SUKEFORTH
      He'll need to be.  

Rickey looks back to Jack who is as angry as he is confused.

               RICKEY
      I want to win!  I want ballplayers 
      who can win!  Are you one of them?!  

		JACK
      Yes.

              

               RICKEY
      A black man in white baseball.  
      Imagine the reaction.  The vitriol.  

Rickey strides forward, gets in his face.

               RICKEY
	(CONTD)
      The Dodgers check into a hotel.  A 
      decent good hotel.  Youre worn out 
      from the road and some clerk won't 
      give you the pen to sign in. 
          (Southern drawl)
      We got no room, boy, not even down 
      in the coal bin where you belong.  


Jack looks like he wants to tear Rickey apart.


               RICKEY
	(CONTD)
      The team stops at a restaurant.  
      The waiter won't take your order.
          (adopts a new voice)
      Didn't you see the sign on the 
      door?  No animals allowed.   
          (looming)
      What are you going to do then?  
      Fight him?  Ruin all my plans?  
      Answer me, you black sonofabitch!

               JACK
          (masters himself)
      Do you want a ballplayer who 
      doesnt have the guts to fight 
      back? Is that what you want?

               RICKEY
      I want one who has the guts not to 
      fight back!  There are people who 
      will not like this.  They will do 
      anything to get you to react.  If 
      you echo a curse with a curse, they 
      will only hear yours.  Follow a 
      blow with a blow and they will say 
      a Negro lost his temper; that the 
      Negro does not belong.  Your enemy 
      will be out in force, but you can 
      not meet him on his own low ground.  
      We win with hitting, running and 
      fielding, nothing else.  We win if 
      the world is convinced of two 
      things: that you are a fine 
      gentlemen and a great ballplayer.  
      Like our Savior, you must have the 
      guts to turn the other cheek.  

Jack considers Rickey.  Rickey looks worn out.

               RICKEY
	(CONTD)
      Can you do it?  

Jack poised at what will be his Rubicon.  He crosses.

               JACK
      Mr. Rickey, you give me a uniform, 
      you give me a number on my back, 
      and Ill give you the guts.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. HALLWAY - ISUM HOUSE - LOS ANGELES - DAY

A phone RINGS on a table.  RACHEL ISUM steps in, 23, 
possessed of style that you can only be graced with.

		RACHEL
      Hello?

              

   11.


                                                      CUT TO:

INT. LOBBY PAYPHONE - 215 MONTAGUE STREET - BROOKLYN - DAY

Jack in a PHONE BOOTH, the lobby busy beyond. 

               JACK
      Rae, Im in Brooklyn.

INTERCUT THE FOLLOWING:

               RACHEL
      Brooklyn?  For what?

               JACK
      I dont want to say on the phone.  
      In fact, Im not supposed to tell 
      anyone.

She can hear the tingle in his voice.

		RACHEL
      Jack?

              

               JACK
      Im here, Rae

               RACHEL
      Whats going on?  Youre supposed 
      to be playing in Chicago?

               JACK
      Weve been tested you and me.  Our 
      loyalty, our faith.  Weve done 
      everything the right way.  Me 
      trying to make money.  You 
      finishing school.  Separated by the 
      war, now by baseball.  We dont owe 
      the world a thing. Only each other.

Shes actually getting a little scared now.

               RACHEL
      Jack, what are you talking about?  
      What happened?


 12.

               JACK
      The Brooklyn Dodgers just signed me 
      to play ball up in Montreal.  It 
      might lead to bigger things.  To 
      something wonderful.

               RACHEL
      What does it mean?  For you and me? 

               JACK
      Rae.  Will you marry me?

               RACHEL
      Absolutely.  When?

		JACK
      Now.

              

               RACHEL
          (laughing)
      Jack, I dont think we can get 
      married in a phone booth.



INT. HALLWAY - THE CLARK HOTEL - LOS ANGELES - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack rounds a corner in a TUXEDO, the bow tie undone.  Rachel 
follows in her WEDDING GOWN.  They look beautiful.

               RACHEL
      Did my mom look happy?

		JACK
      Yes.

They reach the door.  Jack gets out a key to unlock it.  
Rachel looks nervous, steps back across the hall.

               RACHEL
      Did my gram look happy?

Swinging the door open, he looks at her. The air charged.

               JACK
      Everyone looked happy. Ive never 
      seen so many people looking happy.

 12.

               RACHEL
      Did Jack Robinson look happy?
          (soft)
      What if I cant make you happy?

He steps over, aware of her shyness.

               JACK
      Too late.  You already do.  Its 
      you and me, Rae. 

               RACHEL
      Until the wheels fall off.
          (uncertain)
      The world is waiting for us. 

               JACK
      It can wait one more night
          (kisses her)
      Are you coming, Mrs. Robinson?

               RACHEL
          (kisses him back)
      Id follow you anywhere, Mr. 
      Robinson.

He picks her up, carries her over the threshold.  As the door 
clicks shut behind them...

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

The shades closed; were scheming again.  WENDELL SMITH sits 
across from Rickey who stares back intently.  Bespectacled, 
32, Smith covers baseball for the Pittsburgh Courier.  

               RICKEY
      Whos the best shortstop you ever 
      saw?

               SMITH
      Rabbit Tavener.

               RICKEY
      Rabbit Tavener?  And you call 
      yourself a sports writer?


 13.
               SMITH
      Yes, a sentimental one.  Im from 
      Detroit.  He was the Tiger 
      shortstop when I was a boy.  How 
      about you?  Whos your best?

               RICKEY
      Pop Lloyd.  

               SMITH
      Not Honus Wagner?

               RICKEY
      Wagner is number two.  And Rabbit 
      Tavener would not break my top 25.  
      Where do you suppose Jackie 
      Robinson will end up on that list?

               SMITH
      He wont break it.  He doesnt have 
      a shortstops arm.  Robinson 
      belongs on second base.  

               RICKEY
      Alright then, where would he rate 
      at second?

               SMITH
      If he was playing now hed be the 
      best second baseman in the majors.

               RICKEY
      High praise.  Hell have to be the 
      best in the minor leagues first.  

               SMITH
      What are you saying, Mr. Rickey?

               RICKEY
      Im saying its going to be a very 
      interesting spring training.  A lot 
      of players are coming back from the 
      war and with gas rationing over, we 
      can train down in Florida again.

               SMITH
      Daytona Beach?
          (Rickey nods)
      Youre aware in the past six months 
      a black boy was lynched in Madison, 
      Florida and a black man down in 
      Live Oaks?

               RICKEY
      Those towns may as well be a 
      million miles from Daytona.

  14.

               SMITH
      Live Oaks is 150 actually.  

               RICKEY
      I spoke to the Daytona mayor.  He 
      assures me therell be no trouble.

But Rickey doesnt sound so sure.  They consider each other.

               RICKEY (CONTD)
      Mr. Smith, are you a Communist? 

               SMITH
      Im a Democrat.  Why do you ask?  

               RICKEY
      I have a business proposition.  
      Whats your salary at the Courier?

               SMITH
      Fifty dollars a week.

               RICKEY
      I will pay you an additional fifty 
      dollars a week plus expenses if you 
      will attend spring training with 
      Jackie Robinson.  You will watch 
      over him, help him to avoid the 
      harm that could come if he were to 
      do or say anything out of turn.  
      You will act as his chauffeur, you 
      will secure accommodations for him 
      wherever the team may be, help him 
      find restaurants, etc...  

               SMITH
      Whats in it for me?  Besides the 
      fifty dollars and a whole lot of 
      aggravation?

               RICKEY
      Unprecedented access for any 
      reportage you feel appropriate.  
      What do you say, Mr. Smith?

               SMITH
      I say yes, sir.  If a Negro is good 
      enough to stop a Nazi bullet in 
      France; he's good enough to stop a 
      line drive at Yankee Stadium.

               RICKEY
      Ebbets Field actually, but yes, I 
      agree.  The world is ready.

                                                      CUT TO:


 15.


INT. BALLROOM - THE WALDORF ASTORIA HOTEL - NIGHT

Over 500 guests: journalists, players and politicians all 
listen politely as a SPEECH drones to an end. 

INSERT: New York City.  23rd Annual Baseball Writers 
Association Dinner February 3, 1946.

               SPEAKER
      As our former President Herbert 
      Hoover remarked in his tribute to 
      our national pastime: The rigid 
      voluntary rules of right and wrong, 
      as applied in baseball, are second 
      only to religion in strengthening 
      the morals of the American people.

Polite applause as the speaker steps off.  The clapping more 
enthusiastic as the lights dim on all but an impromptu set: 
plantation house columns.  Hoots as a BUTLER appears wearing 
satin knee breeches and a MONTREAL ROYALS jersey.  He holds a 
ring like a lawn jockey, a WHITE MAN in BLACK FACE.  The 
laughs get louder as he peers out with exaggerated wide eyes.

               BUTLER
      Lordy, lordy, its looking like da 
      massa will be late dis ebning.

As the LAUGHS from the audience subside, a sportswriter 
dressed as a COLONEL enters from stage right.

               COLONEL
      Robbie!  Robbie!

               BUTLER
      Yassuh, Massa Kunl.  Here Ah is.

Huge LAUGHS as he struts and dances his way over.


  16.
               COLONEL
      Jackie, you woolly headed rascal.  
      How long yo been in the family?

               BUTLER
      Ebber since Massa Rickey done bots 
      me from da Kansas City Monarchs.

               COLONEL
          (aside to audience)
      Rickey that no good carpetbagger!  
      What could he be thinking!

Huge LAUGHS from that one.   Two people enjoying it well 
recognize later as HERB PENNOCK and BOB COOKE.  

               BUTLER
      Ah came near bein killed last 
      night, Kunl.

               COLONEL
      Hows that, Jackie boy?

               BUTLER
      Ah was comin up a dark street and 
      three men was behind me.  And they 
      tried to do me with a baseball bat.

               COLONEL
      You dont say?

               BUTLER
      Yes, suh.  Ah recognized one of 
      dem.  Ahm gonna hab him arrested.

               COLONEL
      But I thought you said it was dark?

               BUTLER
      It was.  But I know he played for 
      the Philadelphia Baseball Club.  On 
      account of he struck at me three 
      times and never hit me once.

That brings the house down.  Check out their laughing faces.

EXT. LOCKHEED TERMINAL - BURBANK - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

A gleaming American Airlines DC-3 angled up on the tarmac.  
PASSENGERS climb the portable stairs and disappear inside.

INSERT: February 28, 1946. Burbank, California

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. TERMINAL - BURBANK - DAY


 17.

Jack and Rachel are being seen off by FRIENDS from the 
wedding and his mother MALLIE.  Jack is in a natty suit with 
Rachel in a beautiful coat.

               MALLIE
      You knock the cover off that ball.

               JACK
      I will, Mama.

Mallie hugs Jack and then kisses Rachel.

               MALLIE
      Look after each other.

		RACHEL
      We will.
              
She reaches in her bag, brings out a cardboard SHOEBOX; its 
ever so slightly greasy at the bottom.

               MALLIE
      Take this.  Its chicken.

               JACK
      They have food on the plane, Mama.

               MALLIE
      You never know what might happen.  
      I don't want you getting there 
      starving and too weak to hit.

Rachel gives Jack a subtle but emphatic look: No.  

EXT. LOCKHEED TARMAC - BURBANK - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack escorts Rachel to the plane, the shoebox in hand.

               JACK
      I couldnt tell her no.

               RACHEL
      I know she means well; I just dont 
      want to be seen eating chicken out 
      of a box like some country bumpkin.

Jack runs his hand over her coat.

               JACK
      No ones going to mistake you for a 
      bumpkin in this.


  18.

               RACHEL
      Well, theyll know I belong on that 
      plane or wherever I happen to be.

EXT. DC-3 - DAY (STOCK FOOTAGE)

                                                      CUT TO:

Descending toward a runway.  Landing gear coming down.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. TERMINAL - NEW ORLEANS LAKEFRONT AIRPORT - DAY

A WOMAN exits the ladys room, passing a SIGN: White Only.  
REVERSE to show Rachel looking at it like shes been slapped.  
Jack joins Rae from the TICKET COUNTER, with the chicken box.  

INSERT: New Orleans Lakefront Airport.

               JACK
      The flight to Pensacola leaves in 
      an hour... You okay?

               RACHEL
      Ive just never seen one before.

               JACK
          (follows her look)
      Were not in Pasadena anymore.

A sudden momentum carries her forward.

               JACK
      Honey...  Rae --

He takes a step after her, stops as she disappears inside.  
Jack unsure what to do.  He looks around.  Looks back.  He 
doesnt need this right now.






INT. AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP - DAY



   19.

A black BUSBOY reacts as a bickering Jack and Rachel enter. 

               JACK
      I promised Mr. Rickey wed stay out 
      of trouble.

               RACHEL
      Did you promise him we wouldnt go 
      to the bathroom?  Youve done it.

               JACK
      Before I promised.

               RACHEL
      It was just a toilet.  Youd think 
      the commodes were made of gold.

The busboy watches as Jack and Rachel slide into a booth.  As 
Jack reaches for a MENU, here comes the COOK.

               COOK
      You folks cant sit here.

		JACK
      Excuse me?

               COOK
      Its white only.

Jack looking to Rachel; its equanimity time.  Not easy.

               COOK
      Ill sell you some sandwiches.  But 
      you gotta take em to go.

Jack looks to the busboy, back to the cook.

               JACK 
      No.  You hang onto those.

Mastering himself, Jack slides out.  Drilling the cook with a 
look, he offers his hand to Rachel as she slides out as well.




                                                      CUT TO:


   20.

INT. TERMINAL - NEW ORLEANS LAKEFRONT AIRPORT - DAY

Seen from on high.  Jack and Rachel, sitting on a bench, two 
little figures as passengers move along the concourse.  They 
sit a bit apart from each other, the world a wedge.

EXT. RUNWAY - PENSACOLA AIRPORT - NIGHT 

                                                      CUT TO:

SMOKE PINWHEELS as the wheels of a BOEING 247 touch down.

INSERT: Pensacola, Florida.  Later that day.

INT. BOEING 247 - TARMAC - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack and Rachel worn out among eight other passengers.  As 
the door is opened, FOUR of the eight get up and disembark.  
After a beat, FOUR NEW PASSENGERS board and take their seat.

               JACK
      Just a hop to Daytona now.

As Rachel nods, an AIRLINE EMPLOYEE boards, MISS BISHOP.  She 
makes her way over.  She spots who shes looking for.

               MISS BISHOP
      Jack Robinson?  Come with me.

She starts away without explaining, looks back at them a bit 
impatiently.

               MISS BISHOP
      Come on now.  Both of you.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. TICKET COUNTER - PENSACOLA AIRPORT - NIGHT

The shoe box sitting on the counter, Jack in mid discussion 
with Miss Bishop.  Rachel just behind Jack.  

  21.

               MISS BISHOP
      We have to lighten the plane.  
      Theres some bad weather east of 
      here.  A heavy planes dangerous.

               RACHEL

          (low)
      Tell her youre with the Dodgers.

Jack would rather not play that card.

               JACK 
      Whens the next flight?

               MISS BISHOP
      Tomorrow morning.  But its booked.  
      So someonell have to cancel.

Jack and Rachel unaware as a WHITE COUPLE are ushered out a 
door and onto the tarmac behind them.

               JACK
      Look, Im with the Brooklyn Dodger 
      organization.  Ive got to get down 
      to Daytona.  Im supposed to report 
      to spring training in the morning.

               MISS BISHOP
      Well do our best to get you down 
      there by tomorrow afternoon, but it 
      might be the day after.

		RACHEL
      Jack --


He follows her gaze to where the white couple get on the 
plane they got off.  Jack wheels on Miss Bishop, furious.

               JACK
      You gave away our seats!  Get us 
      back on that plane!

Miss Bishop picks up a PHONE, holds it in Jacks face.

               MISS BISHOP
      Do you want to call the Sheriff?  
      Or should I?

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT. BUS STATION - PENSACOLA - NIGHT



   22.

Closed.  A line of EMPTY BUSES; the BANNER on one: Daytona 
Beach.  Across from it Rachel sits at one end of a BENCH, her 
fur pulled around her.  Jack at the other, staring off into 
the night.  Finally, he reaches down, picks up the shoebox.  
He pulls out a DRUMSTICK, considers it, then takes a bite.

               JACK
      Mama knew...

He holds it out to Rachel.  She slides over, takes it, takes 
a bite as well, smiles at him.  He smiles back.

		RACHEL
      Its good.

EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - DAYTONA BEACH, FLORIDA - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

LEO DUROCHER hitting fungoes.  One after the next.  PEE WEE 
REESE and EDDIE STANKY both settle under the same ball.

       		REESE
     I got it!  I got it!

		STANKY
     I got it! I got it!

They both back off at the last second and it drops to the 
ground between them.  Durocher chuckles.

               DUROCHER
      Thats what spring trainings for, 
      boys!  Sort out our differences!

He hits another.  This time to the outfield where veteran 
DIXIE WALKER gives chase, finally gives up on it.

               DUROCHER
      Cmon, Dixie, get after it!  

               WALKER
          (laughing)
      Im old!

               DUROCHER
      Im gonna squeeze one more year out 
      of that worn out body of yours!

               WALKER
      If you could, skipper, my wife 
      would sure appreciate it!

               DUROCHER
      Keeping the women happy!  Thats 
      what its all about!

                         BLUE REV 4-07-12  23.

EXT./INT. CONVERTIBLE - DAY

Rickey drives a dirt road through the training field singing 
Two Sleepy People along with the radio:  Passing BROOKLYN 
DODGERS, MONTREAL ROYALS & ST. PAUL SAINTS on either side. 

Durocher hits another as Rickey pulls up. 

               RICKEY
      How are they looking, Leo?

               DUROCHER
      Rusty, Mr. Rickey.  But well get 
      em oiled up and ready in no time.  
      You find your lost sheep yet?

Troubled, Rickey shakes his head no.  As he does, Harold 
Parrot hurries over.  Hes the Dodgers travelling secretary.  

               PARROTT
      Jackie Robinsons on a bus leaving 
      Pensacola.  

               RICKEY
      A bus?  Harold, how in blazes did 
      he end up on a bus?!

BOB BRAGAN, in his catching gear, passing by with pitchers 
RALPH BRANCA and KIRBY HIGBE.  Higbe asides to Bragan:

               HIGBE
      Why dont they just put him on a 
      watermelon truck?

               BRANCA
      Whats the matter with you guys?

               BRAGAN
      Not a thing, Branca, but we aint 
      just two pretty faces either.


EXT. GREYHOUND STATION - DAYTONA BEACH - SUNSET

Wendell Smith stands waiting as a BUS pulls in.  

The big air brakes hiss.  The doors open and the PASSENGERS 
disembark.  First a DOZEN WHITE FACES, then a DOZEN BLACK.  
Last but not least, Rachel and Jack.  They look exhausted.

                                                      CUT TO:

               SMITH
      Jackie Robinson... Mr. Rickey sent 
      me to meet you.  Wendell Smith.  
      Pittsburgh Courier.  Im going to 
      be your Boswell.


  24.
		JACK
      My who?

               SMITH
      Your chronicler, your advance man.  
      Hell, even your chauffeur.
          (tips his hat)
      Mrs. Robinson.

               RACHEL
      Its Rachel.

               SMITH
      Man, you two look wiped out.

               JACK
          (sharp)
      You got a car?  Get us out of here.


EXT. SMITHS BUICK (PARKED) - DAY

CUT AHEAD TO:

Jack and Smith carry the luggage.  Smiths excited being 
around Jack even if he is grumpy.  As Smith unlocks the 
Buick, Rachel considers a segregated pair of water fountains.

               SMITH
      You ever been down South before, 
      Rachel?

               RACHEL
      First time.  We have our problems 
      in Pasadena, but not like this.

               SMITH
      Mr. Rickey says we follow the law.  
      If Jim Crow and the state of 
      Florida say Negroes do this and 
      that, then we do this and that.  

               RACHEL
          (softly)
      My lifes changing right in front 
      of me.  Who I am, who I think I am.  

EXT. THE HARRIS HOUSE - DAYTONA BEACH - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Black neighborhood.  The Buick stops at a nice looking house.

               SMITH
      Joe and Duff Harris live here.  He 
      gets out the black vote, does a lot 
      of good for colored folks.  
               (MORE)

               SMITH
	(CONT'D)
      Mr. Rickey set it up himself.
          (imitates Rickey)
      If we can't put the Robinsons in 
      the hotels, they should stay some-
      place that represents something.  

   25.

Jack and Rachel exchange a look, the place seems nice.

               SMITH
      Brooklyn plays downtown; Montreal a 
      few blocks from here.  Youll stay 
      with the Harrises except for a few 
      days at the end of the week.  The 
      whole Dodger organization is going 
      to Sanford, about 45 minute away.  
      Youll stay here though, Rachel.

               RACHEL
      Where are the other wives staying?

               SMITH
      There are no other wives.  Youre 
      the only one Mr. Rickey allowed to 
      spring training.

As the HARRISES step out on the porch, wave hello...

INT. STAIRWAY - THE HARRIS HOUSE - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

MRS. HARRIS leads Jack and Rachel up the stairs to a door at 
the top.  Mrs. Harris opens it.

               MRS. HARRIS
      I call this the love nest.  I hope 
      you like it.

               RACHEL
      Im sure.  Thank you.

As Jack enters, Mrs. Harris starts back down.

               MRS. HARRIS
      Dinners at five.

Rachel enters, closes the door behind her --

LOVE NEST

-- And accidentally knocks Jack onto the bed.  She lands on 
top of him.  The room is impossibly small.  It barely holds 
their luggage and the BED theyre on.  As they look around:

               JACK
      Its a joke, right?


 26.

               RACHEL
      I like it.  The love nest.

She kisses him.  Hes starting to like it, too.

               RACHEL
      Remind me dinners at five.

               JACK
      Ill try to remember...

As the kisses become more urgent...

INT. SMITHS BUICK - DAYTONA TRAINING FACILITY - DAY

Smith pulls up alongside the team buses, looks across at Jack  *
who is just a little nervous.

                                                      CUT TO:

               SMITH
      The first day of Spring Training.  
      My Pittsburgh Courier readers need 
      to know how it feels.

               JACK
      Its okay.

               SMITH
      Thats not exactly a headline.  

               JACK
          (brusque)
      Thats all I got.

               SMITH
      Look, Jack, right now its just me 
      asking you.  But you get on that 
      field and its going to be the New 
      York Times and the Sporting News.  
      You should think about it.

               JACK
      If they ask something, Ill answer.

               SMITH
      Alright, but you know when youre 
      at the plate, you want to feel like 
      you see the pitch come in slow?  
      Well, you want to see the questions 
      come in slow, too.

Jack just looks at him.  Gets out.  Smith sighs.


 26.

EXT. PLAYING FIELD - DODGERS DAYTONA FACILITY - DAY

As PLAYERS (Brooklyn, St. Paul & Montreal) warm up, practice, 
Rickey sits on the bench, angry as he reads a NEWSPAPER.  

Harold Parrott hurries over, something urgent on his mind.  
Rickey on a rant; Parrott cant get a word in.

               RICKEY
      Listen to this, Harold. Whenever I 
      hear a white man - yours truly - 
      broadcasting what a Moses he is to 
      the Negro race, then I know the 
      latter needs a bodyguard.  
          (Parrott tries to 
           interject)
      It is those of the carpetbagger 
      stripe of the white race - me again 
      - who under the guise of helping, 
      in truth are using the Negro for 
      their own selfish interest, thereby 
      retarding the race!  

Parrott tries to interrupt again, but Rickey is furious.

               RICKEY
      The minor league commissioner of 
      baseball said that!  I pay part of 
      his salary!  You wouldnt stab me 
      in the back like this, would you?

               PARROTT
          (finally)
      Hes here, Mr. Rickey.

 27.

               RICKEY
      Why didnt you say so?!

PLAYING FIELD 

Jack crossing toward them in his Montreal Monarchs uniform 
carrying a glove and a bat.  200 white players clocking him.

Hes surrounded by REPORTERS and PHOTOGRAPHERS.  Its the cue 
for most of the batting and fielding and chatter among the 
Dodgers, Royals and Saints to come to a stop.

Higbe forgets Bragan is throwing him a ball.  It clocks him 
in the chest.

Reese and Stanky passing a medicine ball.

               REESE
      Thats him, huh?

               STANKY
      Take a wild guess.

Flash bulbs go off in Jacks face.  Questions like punches. 
Shouts of Jackie and then...

               REPORTER ONE
      Jackie, do you think you can make 
      it with these white boys?                   

Jack looks off to where Smith watches, back to the reporter. 
See the questions slow.  He answers with measure.

               JACK
      Sure, I had no problem with white 
      men in the service or at UCL. 

               REPORTER TWO
      What'll you do if one of these 
      pitchers throws at your head?

               JACK
          (thinks a beat)
      Ill duck.

That gets some laughs.

               REPORTER THREE
      Jack, what's your natural position?

               ROBINSON
      I've been playing shortstop.

               REPORTER THREE
      Are you after Pee Wee Reese's job?



 27.

Jack looks over to where Reese watches with Stanky.

               JACK
      Reese plays for Brooklyn.  I'm 
      worried about making Montreal.

               REPORTER ONE
      Is this about politics?

               JACK
      Its about getting paid.

Jack doing beautifully.  

Smith breathes a sigh of relief...


   28.

MANAGER CLAY HOPPER

In a Montreal uniform, Hoppers too old to be a ballplayer.  
He stands with Dixie Walker the Dodger right fielder.

               HOPPER
          (Mississippi twang)
      Well, when Mr. Rickey picks one, he 
      sure picks a black one.

               WALKER
      Hes fine with me, so long as you 
      keep him up in Montreal.

               HOPPER
      Here comes the old man to save him.

They watch as Rickey pulls Jack from the press.  He leads 
Jack directly toward Hopper.  As Walker excuses himself...

               WALKER
      Good luck, Hop...

               RICKEY
      Clay, Id like you to meet Jackie 
      Robinson.  Jackie, Clay Hopper, 
      manager of the Montreal Royals.

Hopper shakes his hand as they exchange greetings.

               HOPPER
      We aint doing much today.  Just 
      throwing the ball around and 
      hitting a few.  Why dont you toss 
      a few with those fellas over there?
          (calls over)
      Hey, Jorgensen!

A kid in a Montreal uniform looks over.  SPIDER JORGENSEN.  

               HOPPER
      Meet Jackie Robinson.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DODGER DAYTONA FACILITY - DAY

The end of the day.  Buses leave by team, the Dodgers and the 
farm clubs.  White faces look down as they pass a tired Jack, 
who walks through the lot toward Wendell Smith and his Buick.

Higbe and Bragan call out from the door of the Dodger bus.

                                                      CUT TO:

               HIGBE
      Hey, Rook!  Did you hear about the 
      redneck shortstop?



 29.

               BRAGAN
      He thought the last two words of 
      the National Anthem were Play Ball!

Jack forces a smile, but the joke comes off a bit harsh.  And 
they seem like theyre laughing at him as...

               HIGBE
      How about the shortstop making all 
      the errors, tried to kill himself 
      by jumping out on the highway?

               BRAGAN
      A bus just missed him.  Drove right 
      between his legs!

As the bus passes by, Jack sees the impassive faces of Dixie 
Walker, Reiser, Stanky, Pee Wee Reese and finally 20-year-old 
Branca.  Branca smiles, offers an awkward little wave.  

               SMITH
      Between his legs, good one.  He 
      mustve read a joke book.  If he 
      can read.

Jack just gets in the car.  Smith sighs, drum rolls the hood 
of the Buick.

               SMITH
      Hi, Wendell, how are you...?  Well, 
      looks like I got a long drive to 
      Sanford.

EXT. PORCH - THE BROCK HOUSE - SANFORD - LATE AFTERNOON

MR. BROCK comes out the screen door carrying a tray of tall 
drinks.  He sets them on a table, watches and waits as Smith 
and Jack get out of the Buick, start up the steps.

                                                      CUT TO:

               MR. BROCK
      Jackie, Im Ray Brock.  Welcome to 
      Sanford Florida!  The day belongs 
      to decent minded people.  

They shake hands.  Brock looks to Smith, obviously knows him.

               MR. BROCK
      Wendell, good to see you.
          (to Jack)
      My wifes inside cooking.  You know 
      what she asked me this morning?  
      She asked me, what do you serve 
      when a heros coming for dinner?

Jacks humble, embarrassed, doesnt know what to say.  
  30.

               JACK
      Im just a ballplayer, Mr. Brock.

               MR. BROCK
      Tell that to all the little colored 
      boys playing baseball in Florida 
      today.  Youre a hero to them.

The look on Jacks face says thats a heavy burden.

               MR. BROCK
	(CONTD)
      Sit down, have something to drink.  
      My special rum and coke.

               JACK
      No thank you, sir, I dont drink.

               MR. BROCK
      A ballplayer who doesnt drink?  
      Thats a new one on me.

               SMITH
      Ill have one.  Im a stereotypical 
      reporter through and through.

               JACK
      Mr. Brock, do you have a desk?  Id 
      like to get a letter to my wife.

               MR. BROCK
      Of course, this way.

As Mr. Brock leads Jack ahead, Smith sips his drink.


EXT. PRACTICE DIAMOND - SANFORD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Rickey and Montreal manager Hopper stand by the dugout 
watching a spring game versus St Paul.  Jacks playing 
second.  They watch him closely as they talk.

               HOPPER
      Hes getting by on a quick release, 
      but his arms too weak for short.  
      Second base is his spot.  

               RICKEY
      I agree.  And Ill state another 
      obvious, Clay, I need the players 
      to act like gentlemen around him. 

		HOPPER
      Uh huh.


   31.

The MAN on first takes a lead.

               RICKEY
      To treat him as they would any 
      other teammate.  

		HOPPER
      Uh huh.  

               RICKEY
      To be natural, to impose no 
      restrictions on themselves.  To all 
      work together in harmony.  

WHACK!  The hit & run is on.  The man on first runs on the 
pitch as a LOW LINE DRIVE shoots for the gap between 1st and 
2nd.  Robinson turns himself inside out to dive on his belly 
and catch it before it hits the ground. 

He spins himself around, pivots on a knee to throw the runner 
out before he can get back to first.  Rickey is astounded. 

               RICKEY
      That was superhuman.

               HOPPER 
          (chuckling)
      Superhuman?  Dont get carried 
      away, Mr. Rickey, thats still a 
      Nigger out there.

Rickey takes a moment to process.  Its Hoppers light 
admonishing tone that really halts him.  Finally...

               RICKEY
      Clay, I realize that attitude is 
      part of your heritage; that you 
      practically nursed race prejudice 
      at your mother's breast, so I will 
      let it pass.  But I will add this: 
      you can manage Robinson fairly and 
      correctly or you can be unemployed.  

They both look over as Jack comes off the field toward them.

               HOPPER
      Attaboy, Jackie!  Way to turn two!

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT. FRONT PORCH - THE BROCK HOUSE - SANFORD - NIGHT

Smith and Mr. Brock are sitting on the porch sipping rum and 
cokes.  A quiet evening.



 32.

               MR. BROCK
      I hope Jackie sleeps alright.  
      Chasing baseballs in the sun all 
      day, Id be in my grave.  How are 
      they treating him out there?

They watch as a CAR slows, parks across the street.

               SMITH
      Okay as far as I can see.

A MIDDLE-AGED WHITE MAN, LUTHER exits the car and starts 
toward them.  

               MR. BROCK
          (frowns)
      You find good people every place 
      you go.  Even here in Florida...

               LUTHER
          (stopping below)
      Is he in there?

               SMITH
      Who is it youre looking for?

               LUTHER
      Nigra ball player.

The air suddenly alive with danger.

               SMITH
      Hes asleep.  Maybe you better come 
      back in the morning.

               LUTHER
      I aint comin back.  Other fellas 
      is comin.  They aint too happy 
      about him stayin here in Sanford.  
      Playin ball with white boys.
          (a long beat)
      Skedaddle, thats what Id do.  
      Ifn they get here, and hes still 
      here, theres gonna be trouble.

He turns and walks away.  As they watch, a phone rings...

               RICKEYS VOICE
      Yes, Wendell, what is it?

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAYTONA BEACH - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:

Rickey in his pajamas in his hotel room.  On the phone.



   33.

               RICKEY
      I see... Yes, I understand.  Wake 
      him up and get him out of there.  
      Put him in the car and start 
      driving for Daytona Beach.  Now.  
      And, Wendell, under no circumstance 
      tell him what this is about.  I do 
      not want him to get it in his head 
      to stay there and fight.

INT. BEDROOM - MR. BROCKS HOUSE - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:

Half dressed, Jack sits on the edge of his bed, feeling bad.  
Through his open door, across a hall, we can see Smith in his 
room.  Passing in and out of view packing his own things.

               JACK
      I was just getting loose.

Smith sticks his head in the door.  

               SMITH
      Don't just sit there.  Pack your 
      duds.  We're blowin'.

A phone RINGS somewhere.  They hear Brock answer, then:

		MR. BROCKS VOICE
      Wendell?!


Smith leaves the room.  Hold on Jack, despair as he listens.

               SMITHS VOICE
      Yes, Mr. Rickey, I'm with him 
      now...  We're pulling out for 
      Daytona in five minutes, soon as he 
      gets his bag packed...  Yes, yes, 
      it's just one of those things.

One of those things.  As Jacks head hangs a little lower.

INT./EXT. BUICK - MAIN STREET - SANFORD - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:


The street deserted, sidewalks rolled up.  Jack angry and 
silent in the passenger seat.  Smith jumpy behind the wheel.  
They stop as a PICK-UP stops ahead outside a BAR where:

A DOZEN WHITE MEN in shirtsleeves exchange words with the 
boys in the truck.  To Jack it looks like a typical small 
town bull session.  To Smith it looks like something else.


 34.

The white men look over at the two black men.  One steps 
over, motions: roll down the window.  

               JACK
      I wonder what he wants?

               SMITH
      To run us out of town.

               JACK
      What are you talking about?

The man close now.  As Jack cranks down the window, Smith 
floors it.  The Buick SCREECHES away, SWERVING around a CAR 
coming the other way. 

               JACK
      What the hell, Wendell?!

               SMITH
      Man came by while you were asleep.
          (checks mirror)
      Told us more men were coming. Maybe 
      those boys.  Mr. Rickey said to get 
      you to Daytona Beach a-s-a-p.

               JACK
      Why didnt you say so?

               SMITH
      Mr. Rickey was afraid you wouldnt 
      leave, that you would fight.


As it becomes clear, Jack starts to LAUGH.  

               SMITH
      What the hell are you laughing at?

               JACK
      I thought you woke me because I was 
      cut from the team.

Jack LAUGHS harder.  Wendell LAUGHS as well.  As it fades, 
Jack looks back over his shoulder.  Jesus...

EXT. CITY ISLAND BALLPARK - DAYTONA BEACH - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

A stadium SIGN boasts Brooklyn Dodgers vs. Montreal Royals.  


   35.

Daytona Beachs black community is turning out to see Jackie 
Robinson.  Hundreds of people line up, mass at the: Colored 
Entrance.  In their Sunday best.  Families.  Couples.  The 
old.  The frail.  Young boys chase after each other.  One 
MOTHER stands on her toes to spot her son.

               MOTHER
      Ed!  You stay where I can see you!

13-year old ED CHARLES turns, waves his baseball glove over 
his head so she can see him.  Then to no one in particular:

               ED
      Im thirteen years old.

WHITE PEOPLE enter at several gates around them.

CLOSE ON BRANCH RICKEY - THE DODGER DUGOUT

                                                      CUT TO:

He sits watching as the segregated bleachers in right fill 
with BLACK FANS.  All else is white.  Rickey pops a PEANUT in 
his mouth, confides to someone alongside him we dont see.

               RICKEY
      Ive spoken to the mayor.  Ive 
      explained how much money well 
      spend in Daytona.  But still, when 
      this fine young Negro man steps on 
      that field today, he and the 
      Dodgers will technically be 
      breaking the law.  A law which says 
      white and black players cannot 
      enjoy the same field at the same 
      time.  Does that make sense to you?  
      Does Jim Crow make any sense when 
      placed against the words of the 
      United States Constitution?  When 
      placed against the word of God?  

POP OUT to reveal he sits beside the DODGER BATBOY, so short 
his feet dont touch the ground.  Rickey offers his peanut 
bag.  As the batboy takes one...

               RICKEY
      Ill tell you, it does not make 
      sense to me.



                                                      CUT TO:


   36.


EXT. ON DECK CIRCLE - CITY ISLAND BALLPARK - DAY

Jack swinging two bats to get loose.  Watches as the Montreal 
BATTER hits a LINE DRIVE which -- Pee Wee Reese nearly leaps 
out of his socks to bring down.  Wow...

As the CROWD claps in appreciation, Jack takes a deep breath.

               PA ANNOUNCER
      Now batting the second baseman -- 
      Jackie Robinson!

Jack wincing as he steps forward to both cheers and boos from 
the white sections.  As a go home, coon drifts over -- A 
BIG OVATION from the black section in right drowns it out.  

COLORED SECTION - RIGHT FIELD

Rachel sits with Smith.  They react to some of the INVECTIVE 
coming from the white section. 

               RACHEL
      Jacks got a thick skin.  Hell be 
      okay.

               SMITH
      How about you?

               RACHEL
          (shrugs)
      I better get one in a hurry.

INFIELD

Higbe watching from the mound as Jack steps into the batters 
box.  Two well wishing voices from the infield stands.

               SPECTATOR ONE
      Come on, black boy, you can make 
      the grade!

               SPECTATOR TWO
      Theyre giving you a chance!  Do 
      something about it!

Jack heartened at the words.  Concentrates as Higbes first 
pitch is fired.  High and tight, Jack jerks out of the way.



   37.

Bragan, behind the plate, chucks the ball back, grins up at 
Jack who does not look down at him as he settles back in.  

ED CHARLES

The 13-year-old holding his hands together in prayer.

               ED
      Please, God, let Jackie show them 
      what we can do.

HOME PLATE

Here comes the next pitch.  Even tighter.  Jack nearly hit.

		UMPIRE
      Ball two!

Jack glaring, crowds the plate more.  Bragan shows 1, taps 
his right thigh signalling outside.  Jack watches it sail, 
doesnt bite.  The umpire: Ball Three!  Higbes fun 
slipping away as he cant find the strike zone.

               HIGBE
      Come on, Rook!  Aint you gonna 
      swing at something?!

Jack takes a practice swing, waits as Bragan sets up right 
over the plate.  Here comes the pitch.  Low.  Ball four!

RACHEL & SMITH

A big, over-reacting CHEER from the Colored section.

               SMITH
      Its just a walk.

               RACHEL
      Who can blame them?

HIGBE 

Looks ill-tempered over to first where Jack gives the same 
look back as he sidesteps an enormous, defiant lead off the 
bag.  Higbe incredulous.  Did he just do that?

               DUROCHER
          (from dugout)
      Well throw over there for crying 
      out loud!

Higbe fires to LAVAGETTO at first.  Jack dives back in time.



   38.

Higbe gets the ball back, settles.  Jack takes a lead, but a 
modest one this time.  Here come the pitch -- And Jack goes.

You knew he was fast; but not this fast.  Bragans throw to 
Pee Wee is late and high.  Pee Wee throws back to Higbe.

Higbe sets.  Bragan gives him a sign.  Jack takes a lead.  On 
the wind-up, Jack goes.  Bragan stands -- its a PITCH OUT.

Bragan fires to third and Jack is caught in a RUN DOWN.  It 
seems like half the team gets involved with Higbe finally 
getting the ball by third and Jack ducking under the tag. 

Safe!  A BUZZ goes through the stadium now as people start to
realize they are not watching something or someone ordinary.

RICKEY
Watching from a seat behind third.

               RICKEY
      Thataway, Jackie!  Thataway!

HIGBE & JACK

Higbe looks home for the sign, Jack dancing off third, 
pounding his right foot toward home. He feints hard home.

Higbe steps off the rubber.  Jack stays where he is.

               HIGBE
      Hell!  Youre supposed to go back 
      to third when I step off!  Dont 
      you know nothing?!

He throws over. Jack back to the bag.  Higbe gets the ball 
back, looks in.  Jack bouncing, pounding off third.  His 
movements carry violence within them.  Like a piston 
exploding in an engine.

Higbe into his motion, stops his delivery, accidentally drops
the ball to the ground.  The umpire signals BALK, points Jack 
home.  Higbe is furious.

ED CHARLES - IN THE COLORED SECTION

CHEERING, joyous.  His mother joins in, happy despite...

               MOTHER
      I dont understand.  What happened?

               ED
      Its a balk, Mama.  The pitcher 
      cant start toward home and then 
      stop.  Jackie scores.


   39.

               MOTHER
      But he didnt do anything.

               ED
      Oh, mama, yes he did, he 
      discombobulated the man.

DUGOUT

Durocher looks to Branca, impressed.

               DUROCHER
      He didnt come to play; he came to 
      kill.

Durocher starts out to the mound to talk to Higbe.

DIXIE WALKER

Watching from right field, the black crowd still cheering.  
He walks over toward the open bullpen where Casey stands.

               WALKER
      This really how its gonna be some 
      day?  Baseball?

EXT. SCOREBOARD - BALLFIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Montreal vs. Indianapolis.  THE STANDS are half filled.  The 
COLORED SECTION is packed solid, accentuated by the many 
empty seats in the sections on either side of it.  

INSERT: De Land, Florida. 

No score, top of the first as -- Jack drops a BUNT down the 
line.  The FIRST BASEMAN fields, throw to the SECOND BASEMAN 
covering.  Too late.  Only Jack doesnt stop.

Realizing the SHORTSTOP isnt covering the bag, Jack bolts 
for second.  The second baseman has to wait on the throw and 
when he makes it -- The UMPIRE signals safe.  A bunt double!

Spider Jorgensen settles in the batters box.  The pitch.  
Crack, Jorgensen laces a single to left.

Jack motors to third where Sukeforth is WAVING him home.  
Were with him at hip level as he tears down the basepath.  
The CATCHER bracing for the throw - they COLLIDE - hes SAFE!

As Jack gets to his feet, however, a Jim Crow POLICEMAN steps 
up to meet him, grabs him by the shoulder.

               POLICEMAN
      Git offa this field now!



  40.

               JACK
      What!?  Why?

               POLICEMAN
      Its against the law is why.  No 
      niggers don't play with no white 
      boys.  Git off or go to jail.  

Jack shrugs the policemans hand off his shoulder.  That 
sends him reaching for his nightstick and --

Sukeforth is there to get between them. 

               JACK
      You swing that thing you better hit 
      me between the eyes with it.

		POLICEMAN
      Is that so?

              
The CROWD BOOING.  The black section especially.

               HOPPER
          (arrives from dugout)
      Hey, hold on, whatd he do wrong?

               POLICEMAN
      We ain't havin' Nigras mix with 
      white boys in this town.  Ya'll 
      ain't up-states now; they gotta 
      stay separate.  Brooklyn Dodgers 
      ain't changing our way of living.  
      Where are you all from anyhow?

               HOPPER
      Greenwood, Mississippi.

               POLICEMAN
      Hell, man, you oughta know better.
          (a dangerous beat)
      Now tell your Nigra I said to git. 
      You think I'm foolin'?  

Hopper looks desperately to Jack who just stands there. 

               RACHELS VOICE
      What did you do?

EXT. STREET - DAYTONA BEACH - HARRIS NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Jack and Rachel out walking.  Hes been telling the story.

                                                      CUT TO:


   41.

               JACK
      I said okay, Skipper, tell him... 
      Ah'm a-gittin'.  Shonuff, ah is.

               RACHEL
      You didnt?

               JACK
      I did.  Then I took a long shower.  
      We lost 2 to 1.

She takes a few exaggerated steps to amuse him.

               RACHEL
      Ahm a-gittin, ahm a gittin.

He laughs, takes her hand.  Hes going to kiss her.

               JACK
      Youre not getting away from me.

               RACHEL
          (looking past)
      Jack...

A white man bee-lines them from across the street, looks like 
a real CRACKER.  Jack on guard, gets in front of Rachel.

               JACK
      Get back, Rae.  Go back.

Cracker stops square across from him.  Jacks fists balled.

               CRACKER
      I want you to know something. 

               JACK
      Yeah, what's that?

               CRACKER
      I want you to know I'm pulling for 
      you to make good.  And a lot of 
      folks here feel the same way.  If a 
      man's got the goods, he deserves a 
      fair chance.  That's all.
          (tips his hat)
      Ma'am.

As Cracker walks away... Rachel takes Jacks hand.




                                                      CUT TO:

   41.

EXT. PLAYING FIELD - DODGER DAYTONA FACILITY - DAY

Rickey leans against his car watching a GROUNDSKEEPER push 
mow the infield grass.  Jack, in street clothes, joins him.

               JACK
      You wanted to see me, Mr. Rickey?

Rickey nods, consider the field a moment.

               RICKEY
      Bermuda grass grows so well here.  
      I wish we could get it to grow like 
      this in Brooklyn.

               JACK
      I like the way it smells when they 
      mow it.


		RICKEY
      Me, too.

Rickey consider the field a moment, then Jack.

               RICKEY
      Jackie, its my pleasure to tell 
      you that youve earned a spot on 
      the Montreal Royals.  When they 
      head north Tuesday for opening day 
      against Jersey City, youll be on 
      the train.

Jack trying to hold down his excitement.

               JACK
      I wont let you down.

               RICKEY
      I know that.

               JACK
      If you dont mind, Ive got to go 
      tell my wife.

               RICKEY
      Give her my regards.  

Jack about to head off when he looks back..

               JACK
      Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?

               RICKEY
      Im an opportunist.  With you and 
      the Negro players I hope to bring 
      up next year Ill put together a 
      team that can win the World Series.  
      And the World Series means money.

Jack studies him a beat, not quite buying it.

               RICKEY
      Dont you believe that?

               JACK
      I dont think what I believe is 
      important.  Only what I do.  

               RICKEY
      Agreed.  Therefore, run the bases 
      like the Devil himself.  
               (MORE)


               RICKEY
	(CONT'D)
      Worry those pitchers so they come 
      apart.  Sometimes they'll catch 
      you, but don't worry about that.  
      Ty Cobb got caught plenty.  Just 
      run as you see fit.  Put the 
      natural fear of God into them.

EXT. DAYTONA BEACH TRAIN STATION - DAY

   43.

                                                      CUT TO:

Ed Charles and his TWO FRIENDS follow Jack and the Montreal 
PLAYERS as they walk toward the TRAIN waiting on the tracks.  
Jack is one of the last to board.  Hes almost through the 
door when something stops him.  He looks back at Ed.

A beat.  Ed slowly raises his hand and waves.  Jack smiles, 
does the same, then disappears inside.  The WHISTLE blows and 
the train starts out of the station.  On impulse Ed starts to 
trot out after it.  Staying close.  His friends follow. 

TRAIN TRACKS

The train picks up speed.  The boys start to run.  Arms 
pumping, feet flying.  One boy drops off.  Then the other.

But Ed still runs.  Chasing after that train carrying Jackie 
Robinson.  Finally, he stops, heaving for breath, watching 
the train disappear around the bend.  A lonely beat.  Then --

Ed gets down on his hands and knees.  He sets his ear on the 
rail, closes his eyes.  A thrum comes off the rail.  A huge 
smile spreads.  He straightens, shouts back to his friends:

               ED
      I CAN STILL HEAR HIM!

From somewhere, as the National Anthem ends...

EXT. ROOSEVELT STADIUM - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

INSERT: April 18, 1946 - Roosevelt Stadium, Jersey City. 
Opening day of the International League Season.

A COLOR GUARD march away to REVEAL:

		HOME PLATE UMPIRE
      PLAY BALL!


30,000 FANS pack a stadium built for 24,500.  Bunting and 
flags everywhere.  1000s of black fans are here (segregated 
only financially in New Jersey).  

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT. HOME PLATE - ROOSEVELT STADIUM - DAY

Jack steps up to some BOOING, but much more APPLAUSE.  He 
looks ready to beat the world.


  44.

INSERT: First inning.

               CROWD VOICE
      Come on, Jackie, this fella can't 
      pitch!

Speaking of the pitch, here it comes.  Jack tops a WEAK 
GROUNDER to short.  As hes thrown out by a mile...

WENDELL SMITH & RACHEL

Sitting up off third.  His knees knocked together to hold his 
TYPEWRITER on his lap.  Nothing to write about there.  He 
looks over at Rachel who puts her hand over her mouth.

		SMITH
      You okay?


               RACHEL
      I think I might be sick.
          (standing)
      Excuse me, Wendell.

He watches as she starts out, looks to the field.

               SMITH
      Id be sick at a swing like that, 
      too.

INT. REST ROOM STALL - ROOSEVELT STADIUM - DAY

                                    CUT TO:

Rachel exits looking stricken.  She steps over, splashes a 
little water from the sink up into her face.  An OLDER BLACK 
WOMAN watches sympathetically.

               OLDER WOMAN
      Are you alright, honey?

               RACHEL
      Im sick.  I dont know why.

The older woman rolls off a piece of paper towel for her.

               RACHEL
	(CONTD)
      Thank you.



               OLDER WOMAN
      When did you have your monthly 
      last?


  45.

Rachel looks over, taken aback.  But then...

		RACHEL
      Im late.


               OLDER WOMAN
      It may be that youre pregnant.

The older woman offers a little smile, leaves her there.

INSERT: Third Inning.  

               P.. ANNOUNCER
          (echoing)
      Now batting.  Jackie Robinson.

HOME PLATE

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack steps up to bat.  The JERSEY CITY GIANT PITCHER looks to 
the Montreal RUNNER at first, glances over his shoulder at 
the Montreal RUNNER at second, then focuses on home. 

SMITH

His hands resting on the top of his typewriter.

               SMITH
      Come on, Jackie.  Come on, batter.

RACHEL

Emerging up the runway.  The field opening up before her.  
Theres Jack standing down there.  The sight of him settles 
her.  As she puts a hand gently over her belly...

THE PITCHER

Grimaces for something extra as he fires a high fastball --

Jack UNLOADS.  All heads turn to watch it sail -- high into 
the left field bleachers, banging hard off the scoreboard.  

SMITH

Nearly drops his typewriter, pushes his hat back as he 
watches Jack start his home run trot.  Smith laughs.  Joy.

DUGOUT

Hopper cant believe his eyes.  Softly to himself:

               HOPPER
      Ill be damned...

WERE WITH JACK

  46.

As he runs the base paths.  Over it, a TYPEWRITER CLATTERS.

               SMITH
	(O.S.)
      Robinson jogged around the bases, 
      his heart singing...  

The crowd loves it as he continues toward third where 
Sukeforth is clapping for all hes worth.

               SMITH
	(O.S.) (CONTD)
      And our own hearts beat just a bit 
      faster, and the thrill ran through 
      us like champagne bubbles...


CLOSE ON RACHEL

Watching him head for home, shaking hands with the two men he 
batted in.  Pride & joy in her eyes.

               RACHEL
      Oh, Jack...  Oh Jack...

CLOSE ON RACHEL

Suddenly in pain, face beaded in sweat.

               RACHEL
      Jack!  Jack!

                                                      CUT TO:

INSERT: November 18, 1946.  Pasadena, California.

She is in labor and we are in Huntington Memorial Hospital.  
A CRY.  The DOCTOR holds up a slick, wailing NEWBORN.

		DOCTOR
      Its a boy.


As Rachel holds out her arms for him...

INT. HALLWAY - MATERNITY WARD - PASADENA - NIGHT

Jack at the glass looking at JACKIE JR. Jacks eyes shine as 
he regards his infant son.  Its quiet.  Jacks voice soft.

                                                      CUT TO:

               JACK
      My daddy left.  He left us flat in 
      Cairo, Georgia.  I was only six 
      months older than you are now.  I 
      dont remember him.  Nothing good, 
      nothing bad.  Nothing.
               (MORE)

              
		JACK
	(CONT'D)
          (a beat)
      But youre going to remember me.  
      And I am going to be with you until 
      the day I die.

   47.

The stakes just got raised...

INT. YMCA GYMNASIUM - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

THIRTY prominent BROOKLYN NEGRO leaders, representing a cross 
section of civic responsibility, sit on folding chairs before 
a dais where HERBERT MILLER making an introduction.  

               MILLER
      As all of us know a young Negro 
      second baseman played north of the 
      border last season...

INSERT: Brooklyn YMC.  February 5, 1947.

In back: TWO DEACONS in the back whisper over a SPORTS PAGE.

               DEACON ONE
      Look here what he did.
          (reads)
      Led the International League in 
      batting: .349, in stolen bases: 40, 
      runs scored: 113.  Plus batted .400 
      in the Minor League World Series.

               DEACON TWO
      Last season doesnt matter.  The 
      International League, it doesnt 
      matter.  What matters is this year.  
      What matters is Brooklyn.

               DEACON ONE
      Shhh... Here he comes.

As Herbert Miller introduces...

               MILLER
      I present the general manager of 
      the Brooklyn Dodger baseball club, 
      Mr. Branch Rickey!

Warm APPLAUSE as Rickey steps up.  As it settles...

               RICKEY
      Good evening.  I have something 
      very important to talk with you 
      about tonight.  Something that will 
      require courage from all of us.  
          (a beat)
               (MORE)

               
		RICKEY
	(CONT'D)
      I have a ballplayer on my Montreal 
      team named Jackie Robinson.

   47.

The start of applause.  Rickey motions for it to stop.


   48.

               RICKEY
      He may stay there or he may be 
      brought to Brooklyn.  But if Jackie 
      does come up to the Dodgers, the 
      biggest threat to his success, the 
      one enemy most likely to ruin that 
      success, is the Negro people 
      themselves!

There is shocked silence in the room.  Rickey notices a group

of KIDS watching from a raised running track, soldiers on:

               RICKEY
      I say it as cruelly as I can to 
      make you all realize the weight of 
      responsibility that is not only on 
      myself and the Dodgers, but on 
      Negroes everywhere.  For on the day 
      Jackie enters the National League, 
      if he does, I have no doubt every 
      one of you will form parades and 
      welcoming committees.  You'll 
      strut.  You'll wear badges.  You'll 
      hold Jackie Robinson days and 
      Jackie Robinson nights.  You'll get 
      drunk, fight and be arrested.  

This is too much.  People are slackjawed.  Rickey powers on.

               RICKEY
      You'll wine and dine him until he 
      is fat and futile.  You'll 
      symbolize his importance into a 
      national comedy and yes, a tragedy!  
      So let me tell you this!
          (pounds his fist)
      If any group or segment of Negro 
      society uses the advancement of 
      Jackie Robinson in baseball as a 
      triumph of race over race, I will 
      regret the day I ever signed him to 
      a contract, and I will personally 
      see that baseball is never so 
      abused and misrepresented again!

Is he done?  An embarrassed smattering of applause.  Mostly 
shock and stares.  As Rickey stands there uncomfortably...

INT. HALLWAY - YMCA - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Rickey stands waiting; giving that speech has worn him out.  
The door opens and Miller looks in on him.

  49.

               MILLER
      I question your bedside manner, Mr. 
      Rickey, but theyve agreed to set 
      up a committee of self-policing.  
      Well call it the 'Don't Spoil 
      Jackie's Chances' campaign. 

               RICKEY
      Thank you, Mr. Miller.  Im sorry; 
      the spotlight will be on us all.

INT. BEDROOM - BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

The silhouette of stately palms through the window.  A PHONE 
RINGS.  A figure fumbles through silk sheets for the 
receiver.  Its LEO DUROCHER, a WOMEN in bed alongside him.  

INSERT: Beverly Hills.  February 16, 1947.

                                                      CUT TO:

		DUROCHER
      Yeah?


               RICKEYS VOICE
      Hello, Leo, what are you doing?

               DUROCHER
      I'm bowling.  Wait, I'm snowshoeing 
      in the Alps.  I'm trying to sleep, 
      Mr. Rickey.  It's still dark out.  

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - EARLY MORNING

Its very early in New York.  Rickey on the phone.

               RICKEY
      Another spring training is upon us.  
      In Panama.  I need to know your 
      attitude toward Jackie Robinson.

                                                      CUT TO:


INTERCUT THE FOLLOWING:


               DUROCHER
      I dont got an attitude toward him.

The girl rolls over to look at him.  She is the actress 
LORRAINE DAY and she is stunning.  As Durocher regards her...

               RICKEY
      Eight times in the Bible were told 
      to love our neighbor.  Its one of 
      God's most repeated commands.


   50.

She puts her hands on him. (Durocher addressing Rickey.)

		LORRAINE
	(softly)
	Hi...

               DUROCHER
	I dont know much about the Bible.

		LORRAINE
	Me neither...

		DUROCHER
      But I didn't go to school just to 
      eat my lunch either.  I'll play an 
      elephant if he can help us win.  To 
      make room for him, I'll send my own 
      brother home if he's not as good.  

   		LORRAINE
	(in his ear)
       What are you going to do with me?

		DUROCHER
      We're playing for money, Mr. 
      Rickey.  Winning's the only thing 
      that matters.  Is he a nice guy?

               RICKEY
      If by nice you mean soft, no, not 
      particularly.

               DUROCHER
      Good.  He can't afford to be.  Nice 
      guys finish last.

		LORRAINE
      What about nice girls?

She starts to kiss him.  Its hard to concentrate.

               RICKEY
      So you have no objections to him?

               DUROCHER
      None whatsoever.  Can I go back to 
      sleep now?

               RICKEY
      Yes.  Oh -- and Leo?

		DUROCHER
      What?



   50.

               RICKEY
      The Bible says a thing or two about 
      adultery as well.

               DUROCHER
      Im sure its got a lot to say 
      about a lot.  Good night.

Durocher hangs up the phone, looks to her.

               DUROCHER
      What am I gonna do with you?

               LORRAINE
      Leo, I thought you knew...

As she kisses him...

EXT. PEPPER STREET - PASADENA - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack stands out front kissing Jackie Jr. good-bye as a CABBIE 
muscles his LUGGAGE down the walkway to a waiting TAXI.  Jack 
kisses Mallie and hands off the baby.  Mallie carries the boy 
inside leaving Jack and Rachel alone to say goodbye.

  51.

               RACHEL
      Promise me youll write. 

               JACK
      When did I ever not write?  

               RACHEL
      I want you to know Im there for 
      you.  Even if its words on paper.  

Hes sees shes raw, takes her in his arms with the baby.

               JACK
      Rae, youre in my heart.

She sighs, rests her head on his shoulder.

               RACHEL
      Youre getting close now.  The 
      closer you get, the worse theyll 
      be.  Dont let them get to you.

               JACK
      I will not.  God built me to last.

He kisses her.  She kisses him back.

               RACHEL
      See you in Brooklyn in eight weeks.

               JACK
      It might be Montreal.

A certainty grips her.  She passes it on to him.

               RACHEL
      Its going to be Brooklyn.  I know 
      it is.

Power in her words.  He nods, looks off toward the taxi.

               JACK
      Ive got to go, Rae.

She nods.  They kiss, embrace a last time.  He starts away 
down the walk.  She watches.  Something not quite right.

A tug as Jack stops, looks back at her.  Fighting back her 
emotion and then impelled forward, she runs to him.  They 

come together.  She practically disappears in his arms.  They  *
do not want to be apart.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. DINING ROOM - THE TIVOLI HOTEL - DAY

Durocher eats heartily.  Rickeys food is untouched.

  52.

               DUROCHER
      Its a pipe dream, Mr. Rickey.

               RICKEY
      Pipe dream?  What do you mean by 
      pipe dream?

INSERT: Panama City, Panama.  March 18, 1947.

               DUROCHER
      I mean it aint gonna happen.  The 
      Dodgers are never gonna demand 
      Robinson be brought up from 
      Montreal.  Ball players are 
      conservative.  

               RICKEY
      A team full of tough war veterans? 
      Immigrants' sons?  Boys from 
      impoverished parts of the country?  

               DUROCHER
      It - aint - gonna - happen.

               RICKEY
      You really believe they wont 
      accept him?  Once they see how he 
      plays, how he can help them win.

               DUROCHER
      Im not saying they wont accept 
      him: Im saying they wont ask for 
      him.  Im saying Robinsons good 
      medicine, but theyre not gonna 
      like the taste. Im saying bend 
      over, boys, and get ready, this one 
      might hurt a little.
          (another forkful)
      Boy, this is good fish.

KIRBY HIGBE - IN HIS TIVOLI HOTEL ROOM

                                                      CUT TO:

As Higbe (South Carolina) finishes WRITING something on a 
piece of hotel STATIONARY, Bragan (Alabama) looks to Dixie 
Walker (Alabama) and Dodger pitcher HUGH CASEY (Georgia).

               BRAGAN
      Why do you think Rickeys got us 
      playing spring games in Panama?  
               (MORE)

  53.
       
	        BRAGAN
	(CONT'D)
      He wants to get us used to Negro 
      crowds.  He wants more of them than 
      us.  Hes hoping itll get us more 
      comfortable being around Robinson.

Higbe clears his throat, reads what hes written:

               HIGBE
      We, the undersigned Brooklyn 
      Dodgers will not play ball on the 
      same field as Jackie Robinson.  

Higbe signs it.  He hands the pen to Bragan who adds his own 
name.  Casey signs with a flourish.  Casey holds out the pen 
to Walker who doesnt take it right away.  An odd beat. 

               CASEY 
      If you wanna make your mark, Dixie, 
      we can witness it.

Everyone laughs; it loosens Walker up enough to sign.

HOTEL ROOM DOOR

                                                      CUT TO:

Higbe KNOCKS as Casey, Bragan and Walker crowd behind him.

               STANKYS VOICE
      Cmon in!

STANKYS ROOM

The boys enter.  Eddie Stanky sits in a chair stripped to the 
waist, soaking his right elbow in a BUCKET OF ICE.   

               STANKY
      Whats goin on?

               HIGBE
      Got a petition goin on, Stank.

               BRAGAN
      To keep Robinson up in Montreal 
      where he belongs.

               STANKY
      Oh... Did Pee Wee sign it?

               HIGBE
      Aint asked him yet.  What 
      difference does it make?

               STANKY
      None, just wonderin.

  54.

Stanky looks to Walker who looks away.

               STANKY 
	(CONTD)
          (re: his right arm)
      Cant sign now.  Im indisposed.  
      Could I catch up with you later?

PEE WEE REESE

                                                      CUT TO:

Standing in the door to his room.  Looking out at the glum 
faces of Higbe, Bragan, Casey and Walker.

               REESE
      Look, its like this.  I got a 
      wife, a baby, and I got no money.  
      I dont want to step in anything.  
          (to Walker)
      Skip me, Dix, Im not interested.

               WALKER
      What if they put him at shortstop?

               REESE
          (shrugs)
      If he's man enough to take my job, 
      I suppose he deserves it. 

               HIGBE
          (laughs out loud)
      The hell he does!

               WALKER
      He does not have the ice water in 
      his veins for big league baseball.

               REESE
      So let him show what hes got.  
      Robinson can play or he cant.  
      Itll all take care of itself.

CARL FURILLO

                                                      CUT TO:

The very son of immigrants Rickey was talking about.  From 
Pennsylvania no less.

               FURILLO
      Give me the pen.

Higbe grins, hands it over.  As Furillo signs...

                                                      CUT TO:    


 55.

INT. LEO DUROCHERS ROOM - THE TIVOLI HOTEL - NIGHT

Durocher lays staring up at the palm shadows on the ceiling.  
Finally, the phone rings.  He answers.

               DUROCHER
      Yes, Mr. Rickey.

               RICKEYS VOICE
      Have our friends in the press gone 
      to sleep yet?

               DUROCHER
      We are the only people awake on 
      this entire isthmus, Mr. Rickey.

               RICKEYS VOICE
      A deliberate violation of the law, 
      needs a little show of force.  I 
      leave it to you.  Good night, Leo.

               DUROCHER
      Yes, Mr. Rickey.

INT. HOTEL KITCHEN - NIGHT

                                                      CUT TO:

Deserted.  Durocher stands in a hotel bathrobe, arms crossed 
as his PLAYERS and COACHES file in.  Bleary-eyed, half-
dressed, theyre all here, all wondering what this is about.  

Suddenly, Durocher grabs the handle of an industrial-sized 
SOUP POT and heaves it across the room.  BRWANG-RANG-RANG!

               DUROCHER
      Wake up, ladies!  Wake the Hell up!  
          (a stunned beat)
      Its come to my attention that some 
      of you fellas don't want to play 
      with Robinson.  That you even got a 
      petition drawn up that you're all 
      gonna sign.  Well boys, you know 
      what you can do with your petition?  
      YOU CAN WIPE YOUR ASSES WITH IT!

               WALKER
      Cmon, Leo...

               DUROCHER
      Come on what?!
    

 55.

               WALKER
      Ball players gotta live together, 
      shower together,  it's not right to 
      force him on us.  Besides, I own a 
      hardware store back home and I --



   56.

               DUROCHER
      Screw your hardware store, Dix!  
      And if you don't like it, screw 
      you!  Mr. Rickey'll be happy to 
      make other arrangements for you.  

Durocher suddenly marches to Higbe, looks like hes going to 
belt him.  As Higbe gulps, Durocher turns to the team.

               DUROCHER
      I don't care if hes yellow or 
      black or has stripes like a zebra, 
      if Robinson can help us win, and 
      everything I've seen says he can, 
      then he's gonna play on this ball 
      club.  Like it, lump it, make your 
      mind up to it because he's coming!  
      And think about this when your 
      heads hit the pillow, he's only the 
      first, boys, only the first.  More 
      are coming right behind him.  They 
      have talent and they wanna play!  

He lets that sink a moment.

               DUROCHER
      Yes, sir, they're gonna come diving 
      and scratching.  So I'd forget your 
      petition and worry about the field.  
      Because unless you fellas pay a 
      little more attention to your work, 
      they are going to run you right out 
      of the ball park!  A petition?  
          (looks them over)
      Are you ballplayers or lawyers?

As he marches past them and through the doors...


                                                      CUT TO:


   57.


EXT./INT. DUGOUT - PANAMA PRACTICE FIELD - DAY 

Jack in his Montreal uniform headed off the field for the 
dugout.  Sukeforth headed over wearing Dodger blue.

               SUKEFORTH
      Robinson!


As Jack turns, Sukeforth tosses him a FIRST BASEMANS GLOVE.

               JACK
      What do you want me to do with 
      this?

               SUKEFORTH
      Play first base.

               JACK
      Ive never played first base in my 
      life, Coach.

               SUKEFORTH
      Well, its like this.  Brooklyns 
      got a solid second baseman.  And 
      they got Pee Wee Reese at short.  
      But first base is up for grabs.  
      Are you catching my drift?

               JACK
          (nods)
      Yeah.  I dont need a glove to do 
      that.

                                                      CUT TO:


   58.



JACK - PRACTICE FIELD

Coach Sukeforth, getting balls from a bucket, hitting 
grounders down to Jack at first.  The short hops are wicked.  

Jack rolls his catches over to a little PANAMANIAN KID who 
chucks them down to his brother who tosses them back to 
Sukeforth.  As Jack struggles...

PANAMANIAN KID
El es muy malo.

               SUKEFORTH
      Mr. Rickey said he wants you 
      playing conspicuous baseball!  
          (whack)
      To be so good the Dodgersll demand 
      you on the team!  
          (whack)
      So I thought about it awhile and 
      then I looked up conspicuous in the 
      dictionary.  
          (whack)
      It means to attract notice or 
      attention.

Jack dives, spears a liner.  Sukeforth tilts back his cap.

               SUKEFORTH
      Conspicuous.



                                                      CUT TO:


   59.



INT. RICKEYS OFFICE - THE TIVOLI HOTEL - DAY

Bobby Bragan sits across from Rickey looking defiant.


               RICKEY
      Bragan, most of your teammates have 
      recanted on this petition nonsense.  
      Are you really here to tell me you 
      don't want to play with Robinson?

               BRAGAN
      Yes, Sir.  My friends back in 
      Birmingham would never forgive me.

               RICKEY
      And your friends here in Brooklyn?
          (Bragan just shrugs)
      Then I will accommodate you.  If 
      you give me your word that you will 
      try your very best for this team 
      until I can work out a trade.

That gets Bragans goat.  He jumps up, really mad.

               BRAGAN
      Do you think I would quit on 
      anyone?!  I dont quit.

               RICKEY
      Only on yourself apparently.  You 
      can go, Bragan.

SECOND BASE - PANAMA - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Time slowed way down as Jack takes a throw at second from the  *
                                           *
Montreal shortstop.  He pivots to turn the double-play even 
as Dixie Walker barrels in low.

All Jackies focus on the task at hand as he throws while 
Walker submarines him.  He lands in a heap tangled up 
together.  They both look back to see the result of the play.

As Robinson smiles and Walker scowls, we know... 

               RICKEYS VOICE
      Send Dixie in.

                                                      CUT TO:

DIXIE WALKER

Sitting down across from Rickey.

  60.

               RICKEY
      I received your letter, Dixie.
          (reads)
      Recently, the thought has occurred 
      to me that a change of ball clubs 
      would benefit both the Brooklyn 
      Baseball Club and myself.  
          (to Walker)
      This is about Robinson?

               WALKER
      Im keeping my reasons private.  
      Hope you can respect that, sir.

               RICKEY
      I realize, Dixie, that you have a 
      Southern upbringing, that you would 
      have to subordinate your feelings 
      for the welfare of this venture.  I 
      for one would deeply appreciate it.  
      I think we can all learn something.

               WALKER
      What I have, Mr. Rickey, is a 
      hardware store back home.  Its 
      called Dixie Walkers.  Folks dont 
      come because I have the lowest 
      prices, they come because its 
      called Dixie Walkers.  Understand?  
      And I make as much money owning 
      that store as I do playing for you.

               RICKEY
      Is that what youre you afraid of?
          (he doesnt answer)
      Bragans a third-stringer, but you 
      bat clean-up.  Youre popular in 
      Brooklyn.  Children look up to you!

               WALKER
      You got my letter; can I go?

               RICKEY
      Ill start looking for a trade or a 
      sale.  But it wont happen until I 
      get value in return.  Until then I 
      expect you to drive in runs.

               WALKER
      I always have.  Thats my job.

                                                      CUT TO:


EXT. PENN STATION - NIGHT

INSERT: Manhattan.  April 8, 1947. 

 61.

Jack exits with his luggage.  Looking for a cab, he sees 
Smith waiting.  Smith offers a salute.  Jack looks grumpy as 
he steps over.  The Buick waiting beyond.

               JACK
      You again.


Smith leans back, blinks.

               SMITH
      Thats right.  Me again.  Something 
      wrong with that, Jack?

               JACK
      Come on.


Jack continues past.  As Smith follows...

INT. SMITHS BUICK - 34TH STREET - NIGHT

Traffic heavy.  A glum silence in the car until...

                                                      CUT TO:

               SMITH
      They cant keep you on Montreal for 
      long.  After these exhibition 
      games, theyve got to bring you up.
          (no reply)
      You dont have two words to rub 
      together, do you?

               JACK
      Do I have to entertain you?

More silence, then...

               SMITH
      You ever wonder why I sit out in 
      right field with my typewriter on 
      my knees?  Does that ever cross 
      your mind?

Jack stares out the passenger window, not in the mood.  As he 
looks up at some of the taller buildings they pass...

               SMITH
      Its because Negro reporters arent 
      allowed in the press box.  

Jack doesnt answer, doesnt look over.  Finally Smith starts  *
talking to himself.  Pretending to be Jack.


 62.

               SMITH AS JACK
      You know, Wendell, I never asked 
      you where you were from?

               SMITH
      Why I'm from Detroit, Jack.  

               SMITH AS JACK
      You dont say?  Tell me more.

               SMITH
      My daddy used to work at Fair Lane.  
      That was Mr. Ford's estate.  My 
      daddy was Mr. Henry Ford's cook.  

               SMITH AS JACK
      I did not know that.

               SMITH
      Cooked for him for years, but never 
      once broke bread with him.  Id go 
      to work with daddy sometimes.  Play 
      baseball out on the lawn with Mr. 
      Ford's grandchildren.  We all had a 
      real good time.  But it was 
      understood, if they got tired of 
      playing ball and moved inside to 
      the bowling alley or swimming pool, 
      I was not invited or allowed.  The 
      grass was as far as I got.  So 
      guess what?  Youre not the only 
      one with something at stake here.

               JACK
          (after a beat)
      If I start talking, will you stop?

               SMITH
      Id be happy to.

Smith stops at a red light.

               JACK
      I apologize.  Youve been there for 
      me through this more than anyone 
      besides Rae and Mr. Rickey.  But I 
      guess thats what bothers me. 

               SMITH
      How do you mean?

               JACK
      I dont like needing someone to be 
      there for me.  I dont like needing 
      anyone but myself.  I never have.


 63.

                                                      CUT TO:

               SMITH
      You are a hard case, Jack Robinson.  
      Is it okay if I keep driving you or 
      should I let you out so you can 
      walk?

Jack bursts out laughing.  So does Smith.  

		JACK
      You remember the last time we were 
      at a red light? Down in Florida?

		SMITH
      New York City now, baby.  Weve 
      come a long way.

		JACK
      And we got a long way to go.

The light turns green.  Off they go.

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

Rickey reads to Parrott from the New York Sun.

               RICKEY
      Branch Rickey cannot afford to 
      upset team chemistry and so the 
      only thing keeping Robinson off the 
      Dodgers now, plainly, is the 
      attitude of the players.  

INSERT:  Brooklyn.  April 9, 1947.

               RICKEY
      If it softens at the sight of 
      Jackie's skills, he'll join the 
      club some time between April 10 and 
      April 15.  Otherwise, Robinson will 
      spend the year back in Montreal.
          (throws paper down)
      For the love of Pete, he batted 
      .625 in the exhibition games 
      against them, us, them --  Against 
      us!  Judas Priest!

Rickey flummoxed as the phone RINGS from the outer office.  

               PARROTT
      Maybe you could have Durocher hold 
      a press conference.  Demand that he 
      get Robinson on his team.


 63.

               RICKEY
      Durocher.  Of course, hes my ace 
      in the hole.  Very good, Harold.

The phone still rings.  Rickey looks to his open door.

               RICKEY
      Jane Ann!  Are you out there?

Grumbling, brambly eyebrows twitching, he makes the mistake 
of answering his own phone.

  64.

               RICKEY (CONTD)
      Branch Rickey...  Youre speaking 
      to him...  The Commissioner of 
      what..?  Oh, yes put him on.
          (looks to Parrott)
      The commissioner of baseball.

INT. COMMISSIONERS OFFICE - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

HAPPY CHANDLER gets a manicure.  Always jovial, a head like 
an anvil with hair parted in the middle, he picks up a phone.

               HAPPY
      Branch, how are you?

INTERCUT THE FOLLOWING:

               RICKEY
      Fine. What can I do for you, Happy?

               HAPPY
      Branch, how would you feel about 
      losing Durocher for a year?

Rickey switches the phone from one ear to the other.

               RICKEY
      Im sorry, Happy, I thought you 
      said lose Durocher for a year.

               HAPPY
      Yes. He was seen in Havana with 
      known gamblers.

               RICKEY
      Anyone who sets foot in Havana is 
      seen with known gamblers.

               HAPPY
      Its not just one thing, its an 
      accumulation.  I received notice 
      today from the Catholic Youth 
      Organization.  Vowing a ban on 
      baseball unless Durocher is 
      punished for his moral looseness.  

               RICKEY
      Youre joking.

               HAPPY
      Its this business with the actress 
      in California.  Shes recently 
      divorced and Durocher is the cause.  
      They may even be illegally married.  


   65.

               RICKEY
      Now Im sure youre joking.

Happy checks his nails, returns his hand to the MANICURIST.

               HAPPY
      I wish I were.  The CYO buy a lot 
      of tickets, Branch.  They draw a 
      lot of water and I cant afford to 
      ruffle their feathers.  Am I mixing 
      metaphors there?

               RICKEY
      You know very well my organization 
      is about to enter a tempest.  I 
      need Durocher at the rudder.  Hes 
      the only man who can handle this 
      much trouble, who loves it in fact.  
      Youre chopping off my right hand!

               HAPPY
      I have no choice.  I'm going to 
      have to sit your manager, Branch.  
      Leo Durocher is suspended from 
      baseball for a year.

               RICKEY
      You cant do that!  Happy, you son 
      of a bitch!

DIAL TONE.  Rickey steadies himself, looks to Parrott.

               RICKEY
      Trouble ahead, Harold.  Trouble.

INT. DODGER LOCKER ROOM - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Durocher, in a suit, cleans out his locker.  Carefully sets 
each item in a cardboard box.  Finished, he closes the locker 
door. CLICK.  And then -- WHAM! -- Drives his fist in, taking 
it off its hinges.  He picks up his box, quietly walks out.



                                                      CUT TO:

   66.

INT. MCALPIN HOTEL ROOM - EARLY MORNING

RING... Jack asleep in bed, fumbles for the receiver.

INSERT: April 10, 1947.


		JACK
      Hello?


               JANE ANNS VOICE
      Mr. Robinson, this is Jane Ann in 
      Mr. Rickeys office.  He needs to 
      see you right away.  He has a 
      contract for you to sign.

That wakes him up.

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack sits at the desk.  Alone.  He looks back over his 
shoulder at the GOLDFISH.  As one of them stares back, Rickey 
enters with the CONTRACT in question.  He sets it down before  
Jack, hands him a pen.


               RICKEY
      Im so sorry about the rush.  
      Events are unfolding too fast to 
      keep up with.  The burden has 
      finally fallen to me and so be it.

               JACK
          (points)
      Sign here?

		RICKEY
      Yes, yes.

As Jack poises the pen -- Rickey suddenly aghast.

                RICKEY
     Stop!


The pen a millimeter over the page.

               RICKEY
      History.  And Im blabbing, 
      blabbing through history... Rushing 
      it along.  What am I thinking?  

RICKEYS OUTER OFFICE

 66.

Rickey sticks his head out the door.

               RICKEY
      Jane Ann, come in here.
          (hollering down hall)
      Harold!

Parrott sticks his head out from an office down the hall.  

               RICKEY
      Get some employees up here!

RICKEYS DESK

                                                      CUT TO:

Where Jack Robinson signs his contract.  As he sets the pen 
down -- Rickey starts APPLAUDING.  Hes joined by Parrott, 
JANE ANN and a JANITOR.  Rickey claps Jack on the shoulder.

               RICKEY
      Harold, telegram the press.  Say 
      this: The Brooklyn Dodgers today 
      purchased the contract of Jackie 
      Robinson from the Montreal Royals.  
      He will report immediately.

As Jack takes it in, hes the only one not smiling.

INT. HALLWAY - ISUM HOUSE - PASADENA - DAWN

The phone rings.  Rachel answers in her nightgown.

               RACHEL
      Hello?

               JACKS VOICE
      Rae, Im in Brooklyn.

Brooklyn... Rachel lets out a triumphant WHOOP!

               RACHEL
      What did I tell you?

                                                      CUT TO:

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT. NIGHTSCAPE - NEW YORK MIDTOWN SKYLINE - NIGHT

A few lights twinkle, but this city does occasionally sleep.

 67.

JACK

This man does not.  He stands bare chested in his boxers 
staring out the window of a MCALPIN HOTEL ROOM.  Considering 
the world before him.  Wondering where his place is in it.

INSERT: April 15, 1947.  3 AM.

Its a lonely moment.  Until Rachel appears behind him in her 
nightgown.  She wraps her arms around him, looks over his 
shoulder at the world out there.  Finally, softly...

               RACHEL
      I love you...

As he closes his eyes, absorbs it...

INT. AISLE - SINGERS DRUG STORE - BROOKLYN - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack cruises down, stops in front of the PEPTO BISMOL.  

INSERT: April 15, 1947.  11 AM.

As he grabs a bottle -- a man on the other side pulls one out 
as well.  Jack finds himself looking at Pee Wee Reese.

                               JUMP AHEAD TO:

EXT. SINGERS DRUG STORE - BROOKLYN - DAY

Jack and Reese exit together, each with a bottle of Pepto 
Bismol in hand.  Reese hefts his bottle.

               REESE
      Opening day nerves.  Doing my 
      stomach something awful.

Jack nods in commiseration.  Its awkward between them.  A 
RUMBLE as a GARBAGE TRUCK goes by.

               REESE
      There goes another one.
          (smiles)
      Every time I see a garbage truck go 
      by I still cant figure why the guy 
      driving isnt me.

               JACK
          (smiles back)
      Wed both better get on base.

Reese nods.  They start walking toward the stadium.

 68.

               REESE
      Know when I first heard of you?  

               JACK
      No I dont.


               REESE
      On a troop transport, coming back 
      from Guam.  A sailor heard it on 
      the radio, told me the Dodgers had 
      signed a Negro player.  I said that 
      was fine by me.  Then he said the 
      guy was a shortstop.  Least you 
      were then.  That got me thinking.  
      Thinking gets me scared.

Jack smiles, hefts his bottle of Pepto.

               JACK
      Black, white, were both pink 
      today, huh?  
          (Reese nods)
      You still scared, Pee Wee?

               REESE
          (looks down street)
      Of garbage trucks?  Terrified.

EXT. EBBETS STADIUM - DAY

The Taj Mahal of baseball.  Opening day.

INSERT: Ebbets Field.  Brooklyn.

INT. DODGER LOCKER ROOM - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

                                                      CUT TO:

Some guys quiet, some guys joking around.  Everyone in some 
version of getting out of their street clothes or into their 
uniforms.  The entire operation comes to a halt as --

Jack enters.  As he walks past -- some players nod hello.  
Others look like Sphinxes.  Walker turns and faces his 
locker.  Gene Hermanski and Branca step over to SHAKE HANDS.  

               HERMANSKI
      Im Hermanski. Welcome to Brooklyn.

               BRANCA
      Hey, man.  Ralph Branca.

Last, but not least, Spider Jorgensen, his Montreal teammate.

 68.

               JORGENSEN
      We made it, Jack, huh?  Good luck.

Thats it.  Everyone else is too busy to come over.  As Jack 
scans for a locker with his name on it, BABE HAMBURGER, the 
clubhouse manager, steps over.

  69.

               BABE
      Youre looking for your locker, 
      huh, kid?  Follow me.

They walk over to a hook on the wall.  A uniform hangs from 
it.  A FOLDING CHAIR below.

               BABE
	(CONTD)
      I just got the word.  Best I could 
      do.  Ill get you straightened out 
      tomorrow though, huh?

Jack nods, unbuttoning his shirt... Stanky is suddenly there.  
All pugnacity as he gives up 4 inches and 40 pounds to Jack.

               STANKY
      You're putting on that uniform, it 
      means you're on my team. But before 
      I play with you I want you to know 
      how I feel about it.  I want you to 
      know I don't like it.  I want you 
      to know I don't like you.

Jack regards him.  Stanky doesnt flinch.  Maybe he should.

               JACK
      That's fine.  Thats how I prefer 
      it.  Right out in the open.

HOT DOG VENDER - EBBETS FIELD

Standing before his steaming HOT DOG STAND.

               VENDOR
      Cmon, Brooklyn!  Get your Harry M. 
      Stevens special here!

                                                      CUT TO:

As he hands one over, gets his .20 cents in return.  Then:

               VENDOR
	(CONTD)
      Hey, Lady!


Rachel looks over, baby Jackie in her arms.  The vendor takes 
a baby bottle out of the hot water in his STEAMER.

               VENDOR
	(CONTD)
      I think its ready.

JACK ROOSEVELT ROBINSON - DODGER CLUBHOUSE

                                                      CUT TO:

Looking at himself in a MIRROR.  Standing in his uniform, the 
clean white wool, the flowing script: Dodgers.  It fits.  

   70.

We FOLLOW HIM past Stanky as he goes.  Follow the BLUE 42 on 
his back as he steps through the clubhouse.  

MAKES HIS WAY UP THE TUNNEL.                                           

Always on that magic number as he comes up through the Dodger 
DUGOUT and steps onto...

EBBETS FIELD

PHOTOGRAPHERS snap photos, the crowd spot him and CHEER.

RACHEL

Watches from the stands.  Pleased at the cheering.  She holds 
the baby up to see, whispers to him....

               RACHEL
      Okay, okay, thats good.

As Jackies eyes find hers...

THE PLAYERS LINED UP FOR THE NATIONAL ANTHEM

                                                      CUT TO:

The Dodgers down one baseline, the BOSTON BRAVES down the 
other.  Forty-nine white players and one black.  Jack at the 
end alongside Ralph Branca.  Jack trying not to choke up.

               EVERETT MCCOOEY
      Oer the land of the free!  And the 
      home of the brave!

EXT. DODGER DUGOUT - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

The players not starting return to the dugout.  Bragan 
catches up with Branca.

               BRAGAN
      Youre crazy standing that close to 
      him.

               BRANCA
      What do you mean?

               BRAGAN
          (laughing)
      What if the sharpshooter misses and 
      hits you instead?

               BRANCA
      You got a serious problem, Bragan, 
      you know that?


               BRAGAN      Really?  I dont see it.

BRANCH RICKEY

Surveying the scene.  Parrott alongside.

                                                      CUT TO:

               RICKEY
      Opening day, Harold.  The world is 
      all future and no past.

               PARROT
      A blank page, sir.

INT. BROADCAST BOOTH - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

RED BARBER looks down onto the field.

               BARBER
      One out in the bottom of the first. 
      Headed toward the plate for his 
      first big league at bat is Dodger 
      rookie Jackie Robinson.  Jackie is 
      very definitely brunette.  

JACK

Walks toward the plate.  More cheers.  Mostly.

               FAN
      Were with you, Jackie!

               FAN #2
      Hey, boy, how about a shine?!

Jack struggles not to look back at the source of the jeer.  
He settles in at the plate.  JOHNNY SAIN on the mound waiting 
for the sign.  The crowd BUZZING.

               BARBERS VOICE
      Sain looking in.  When hes got 
      that fastball working, he can toss 
      a lamb chop past a hungry wolf.

The BRAVES CATCHER signals 1.  Here come the pitch.  CRACK!  
Its down the third base line.

The THIRD BASEMAN is going to need every ounce of his arm as  
he fields it at the line, throw across his body to --

FIRST.  Where Jacks foot hits the bag an instant before the 
ball smacks into the first basemans mitt.

 72.

               UMPIRE
      Youre out!


Jack cant believe it.  As he trots toward the dugout he 
looks at the umpire who looks back: I dare you to complain.

STANDS

As the Brooklyn faithful BOO the call, Rachel and Smith watch 
Jack head decisively toward the dugout.  He was safe.  

Rickey sits down closer to the dugout.

               RICKEY
      Its a game of inches, Jackie! 

               PARROTT
      Get some glasses, ump!

INT. HALLWAY - DODGER OFFICES - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

BURT SHOTTON, 62, walks down the hallway with Parrott.

INSERT: April 18, 1947.

               PARROTT
      Hows Florida, Burt?  

               SHOTTON
      Roses need pruning, but fine when I 
      left it last night.  Branch said it 
      was important and I heard about 
      Leo.  Any idea what this is about?

               PARROTT
      Youd better just talk to him.

A beat as they reach the door.  Parrott knocks.

               RICKEYS VOICE
      Come in!

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

Rickey smiles from his desk as they enter.


 73.

               RICKEY
      Baseball has returned to Brooklyn, 
      Burt.  Another season is underway.

               SHOTTON
      Yeah, its a shame about Leo.

               RICKEY 
      Inevitable I suppose.  I asked him 
      if she was worth it and he said 
      yes.  Hows the retirement?

               SHOTTON
      Its fine.  The roses --

               RICKEY
      It's a helluva thing when a man has 
      good health and enough money and 
      absolutely nothing to do.  

               SHOTTON
      Im perfectly happy.

               RICKEY
      Is that so? 

               SHOTTON
      When I took off that Cleveland 
      uniform two years ago, I promised 
      the Mrs. Id never put on another 
      uniform again.  Roses look great 
      and I sleep a whole lot better.

               RICKEY
      Roses and sleep are two wonderful 
      things, Burt.  But sleep you can 
      get inside your casket and flowers 
      look good on top of it.  You dont 
      look like a dead man to me.

               SHOTTON
      Whats this about, Branch?  

 73.

               RICKEY
      I need you to manage the Dodgers.  
      Were a ship without a captain; 
      theres a typhoon ahead.  

               SHOTTON
      No, Im sorry, but no.

               RICKEY
      Do you miss the game, Burt?  Look 
      me in the eye and tell me you 
      dont.

Shotton considers Rickey a beat and then looks away.

               SHOTTON
      Baseballs the only life for an old 
      pepper pot like me, but I promised 
      my wife, Branch.

               RICKEY
      You promised her you wouldnt put 
      on another uniform.  You didnt 
      promise her you wouldnt manage.  
      Wear a suit and tie; Connie Mack 
      still does.
          (a beat)
      You remember how to get to the Polo 
      Grounds, Burt?

               SHOTTON
      Branch, I --

               RICKEY
      You remember what the peanuts smell 
      like roasting, how the crack of the 
      bat sounds, the roar of the crowd?

               SHOTTON
      Sure...


Rickey tosses him a set of car keys.

               RICKEY
      My cars parked right out front. 
      Harold will show you where.  Now 
      what do you say?

               SHOTTEN
      Okay.


                                                      CUT TO:

   74.

INT. VISITORS LOCKER ROOM - POLO GROUNDS - HARLEM - DAY

Shotton addresses the half-dressed Dodgers, Jack included.

               SHOTTON
      Men, I dont have much to say.  
      Just, don't be afraid of old Burt 
      Shotton as a manager.  You can win 
      the pennant in spite of me.  I can 
      not possibly hurt you.  

The Dodgers trade looks.  Not exactly inspirational.  As 
Shotton heads out he pauses by Jack. 

               SHOTTON
      Are you Robinson?
          (Jack nods)
      I thought so.

Shotton pats Jack on the shoulder, continues on his way.

INT. PRESS BOX - THE POLO GROUNDS - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

A huge CROWD beyond.  Bob Cooke of the Herald Tribune (seen 
at the Waldorf Astoria) holds court as Jack is ANNOUNCED.

               COOKE
      Mark my words and circle this date.  
      Negroes are going to run the white 
      man straight out of baseball.  Im 
      not prejudiced; its physiological. 
      They have a longer heel bone.  
      Gives em an unfair speed advantage.

JACK - POLO GROUNDS

Standing dead still at the plate, bat cocked and ready.  

               BARBERS VOICE
      Heres Robinson.  Jackie holds that 
      club down by the end.  Rear foot on 
      the back line of the box.  Slight 
      open stance, bent at the knees...


Giants pitcher DAVE KOSLO goes into his wind-up and throws.  

Jack swings.  CRACK.  The ball screams out to left.  Home 
run!  The crowd goes crazy.  This is what they came to see.

PRESS BOX

Typewriters pounding away as Jack finishes his home run trot.  
Bob Cooke watching thoughtfully as...

   74.

               ANOTHER REPORTER
      Was that because his heels are 
      longer, Bob?!

As everyone cracks up, everyone but Bob...

                                                      CUT TO:

  75.

INT. LAWSON BOWMAN'S CAF - HARLEM - NIGHT

Jack and Rachel out for dinner.  Jack nodding as BLACK 
PATRONS pass by, saying encouraging things.  He almost gets a 
forkful of food to his mouth before a MENU and a PEN are 
offered for an autograph.  As he signs, a FLASH BULB goes 
off.  In a lull, Jack cuts his steak, low to Rachel.

               JACK
      Im not complaining, I just, I 
      dont know what they want.

               RACHEL
          (beaming)
      They want to see if Jackie Robinson 
      is real.  They want to see your 
      pride, your dignity.  Because then 
      they'll see it in themselves.  

Hes stopped short.  She blinks with mock coquettish modesty.

               RACHEL (CONTD)
      And me?  Im just young and scared 
      and amazed at how brave you are.

He grins at her, almost gets a forkful in when LAWSON BOWMAN, 
the Black owner, pulls up a chair, shakes Jacks hand.

               OWNER
      Im Lawson Bowman, Jack, the owner 
      of this joint.  Hows the steak?

               JACK
      Im not sure yet.  It looks good.

                                                      CUT TO:


INT. 526 MACDONOUGH STREET - BROOKLYN - DAY (MONTAGE)

BATHROOM MIRROR - Steamed.  A finger traces 42 in the steam 
on the glass, then wipes it clean to reveal Rachel.  Hair 
wrapped in a towel, she looks at herself, frowns.

INSERT: Brooklyn, April 22, 1947.

DRYING DIAPERS - Hang like pennants on a line stretched 
across the BEDROOM.  Rachel ducks under them to retrieve her 
shoes.  She looks at them, frowns.

RACHEL - Brushing her teeth.  Pauses to hold the toothbrush 
in a batting stance.  Swings...

RACHEL - Strains to reach to zip her dress up.  She pulls at 
the edges of the dress, straightens herself out.  She looks 
over at Jack Jr. who watches from his crib.
    

 75.

               RACHEL
      Youre lucky youre a boy.

DOORWAY - Dressed to go, Rachel holding the baby, looking 
anxiously out on the street. Suddenly, ALICE the baby-sitter 
is there.  Here she comes up the steps, opens the door.

               ALICE
      Sorry Im late.  Class ran long.  

               RACHEL
      Its okay.


Rachel gently hands the baby over.

               RACHEL
      Its so cold and raw out, I dont 
      want him getting sick at the game.

               ALICE
      Hell be nice and warm here.

               RACHEL
          (checks her watch)
      Im going to be late.

She kisses him goodbye, frowns as she heads outside --

EXT. MACDONOUGH STREET - DAY

A forboding sky above as Rachel hurries along.  Pulling her 
jacket on as she goes.  Its going to be a cold day.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      The skys are leaden.  Threatening.  
      Eddie Stanky safe at first as 
      Robinson steps to the plate.

EXT. ON DECK CIRCLE - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

Brooklyn vs. Philadelphia.  The bottom of the first.  The 
crowd CHEERS.  Stanky safe on first.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      The skys are leaden.  Threatening.  
      Eddie Stanky safe at first as 
      Robinson steps to the plate.

Jack walk to the plate, digs a cleat into the batters box...

               CHAPMANS VOICE
      Hey!  Hey you black Nigger!

Jack looks to the visitors dugout where the Phillies Alabama-
born manager BEN CHAPMAN stands at the top of the steps.


 75A.

               CHAPMAN 
      Why dont you go back to the cotton 
      fields where you belong!

   76.

The bear baiting has begun. Jack is in a kind of temporary 
shock.  Thats the Phillies manager!  In uniform.

               CHAPMAN
      Or did you swing your way out of 
      the jungle?!  Bring me a banana!

RED BARBER - IN THE BOOTH

               BARBER
      Chapman the Phillies manager up on 
      the top step, seems to be chirping 
      something out to Robinson.  Chapman 
      a hothead during his playing days 
      with the Yankees.

RICKEY - IN THE STANDS

Sitting next to Parrott.  He leans forward, unsure.

               RICKEY
      Whats he saying?

VISITOR DUGOUT

Chapman joined by two of his PHILLIE BENCH PLAYERS.

     		PHILLIE ONE
      Go home, Nigger!

		PHILLIE TWO
      Go back to Africa!

Phillie pitcher DUTCH LEONARD looks in.  Jack has to try to 
concentrate on the pitch.  Here it comes.  A fastball well 
inside.  Jack hits the deck to keep from getting beaned.

               CHAPMAN
      Bojangles!  You sure can dance, 
      snowflake!  

STANKY

On first, mouth hanging open.  Almost forgets to take a lead.  
It's an instant Rorschach test.  

DODGER DUGOUT

Shotton and the players look stricken.  Even Walker doesnt 
quite know what to make of it.  No one enjoys it, but Higbe.

STANDS

CONCESSION MEN walk closer to listen.  The fans range from 
horrified to some mildly pleased.  Rachel looks stricken.


   76.

JACK

A fastball inside.  He leaps back again.  This one was even 
closer to hitting him.  As Jack glares at Dutch...

               UMPIRE
      Ball two!


               CHAPMANS VOICE
      Hey, black boy!  Hey, shoe shine!


Jack doesnt want to look over, but he is compelled.  The bench players flanking Chapman look furious, but Chapman is 
doing this with a sick sort of glee.

  77.

               CHAPMAN
      You like white girls?!  Huh?!  
      Which one of them Dodger boys' 
      wives are you climbing on tonight?!

Chapman looks toward...

DODGER DUGOUT

They dont like that one.

               CHAPMAN
	(CONTD)
      Oh, I think I got it.  Dixie, I 
      believe I know!

JACK

Grips the bat.  Watches for the next pitch with bloody 
mindedness.  He hacks at it, lofts a routine fly into left.  
Hes about halfway down to first when the left fielder 
catches it and Jack can mercifully return to the dugout.


RICKEY

Rickey watches as he disappears inside.  Finally exhales.

BENCH

Jack sits down.  No one says anything to him.  No one comes 
near him as he stares ahead, trapped in a kind of void.  The 
closest player to him is Bobby Bragan.  Bragan finally 
manages to glance over at him, then looks quickly away.

RACHEL

                                                      CUT TO:

As the Dodgers take the field, Jack heads to first.  Almost 
wincing, wondering if its going to start again.

               RACHEL
          (under her breath)
      Look at me, baby.  Look at me.

Finally, Jack glances up to her.  She offers her eyes: Im 
with you.  He looks away.  Her witnessing makes it worse.  

BEN CHAPMAN

Settles back in the shadows of the dugout.  Finished for now.

                                                      CUT TO:


DODGER SCOREBOARD

  78.

No score.  Bottom of the 3rd.

INFIELD

Spider Jorgensen takes a lead off first.  At the plate, 
Stanky lines a single to right.  Jorgensen holds at second.

JACK

Steps to the batters box, starts digging in that back foot.

VISITORS DUGOUT

As Chapman emerges with his two bench players.

 	    	PHILLIE ONE
         Hey, Nigger lips!

		PHILLIE TWO
         Partys over, jungle bunny!

               CHAPMAN
      Hey, Pee Wee!  Dixie!  Whats this 
      Nigger doing for you all to let him 
      drink from the same water fountain 
      as you?!  I hope its worth it!

JACK

Waiting for the pitch.  Takes a mighty swing -- CRACKS a 
towering POP-UP between home plate and the mound.  Dutch 
watches his catcher Seminick settle under it.  Waiting.

               DUTCH
      Hey, is that a home run!?

               SEMINICK
      Yeah!  If you're playing in an 
      elevator shaft!

Jack veers off the first baseline.  Heads for the dugout.

               CHAPMAN
      You dont belong! Look in a mirror!  
      This is a white mans game.  Get it 
      through your thick monkey skull!

Jack stops short looks at him.  Chapman stands his ground.

RICKEY

Stands, watches.  Praying this doesnt go south.  As Jack 
finally continues on, Rickey closes his eyes in relief.

RACHEL

Sick for her husband.

  79.

THE DUGOUT

Jack stalks down past the team.  No one looks at him.  Bragan 
is ashamed.  Dixie tries to look disinterested.  Stanky and 
Reese exchange a helpless glance as Jack continues into:

THE TUNNEL

Like a bull on his way to slaughter, he revolts.  WHAM-WHAM!  
He proceeds to turn his bat into SPLINTERS.  Concrete chips, 
wood flies.  Jack drops the handle of the bat, pounds his 
fists.  Heaving for breath, framed by the empty tunnel.  Raw, 
electric, ungovernable.  All the anger on display, the fury.

FEET SCRAPE.  Jack looks up to see Rickey standing there, 
watching, afraid to get too much closer.

               JACK
      To hell with this.  The next white 
      son of a bitch who opens his mouth, 
      I'll smash his goddamn teeth in.

Rickey stands there until finally, opening his mouth...

               RICKEY
      You can't, Jackie.  You know it.

               JACK
      I'm supposed to let this go on?

               RICKEY
      These men have to live with 
      themselves --

               JACK
      I have to live with myself, too!  
      And right now I'm living a sermon 
      out there.  Im through with it!

Jack is at the end of his rope.  All Rickey has are words.

               RICKEY
      You dont matter right now, Jack.  
      Youre in this thing.  You dont 
      have the right to pull out from the 
      backing of people who believe in 
      you, respect you and who need you.  

               JACK
      Is that so?


               RICKEY
      If you fight, they wont say 
      Chapman forced you to; theyll just 
      say that youre over your head.  
      That you belong where you are.  
               (MORE)


               RICKEY	(CONT'D)
      That every downtrodden man who 
      wants more from life is over his 
      head.

  80.

Jacks either going to explode or break into tears.

               JACK
      Do you know what it's like, having 
      someone do this to you?!

               RICKEY
      No.  You do.  Youre the one living 
      the sermon.  In the wilderness.  
      Forty days.  All of it.  Only you.

               JACK
      And not a damn thing I can do about 
      it.

               RICKEY
      Of course there is!  You can stand 
      up and hit!  You can get on base 
      and you can score!  You can win 
      this game for us!  We need you as 
      well!  Everyone needs you.
          (a beat; exhausted)
      Youre medicine, Jack.  

Rickey reaches out, touches the wall to stay standing.  Jack 
just breathes as familiar sounds reverb down the tunnel.

               JACK
      Theyre taking the field.

               RICKEY
      Whos playing first?

Jack considers him.  Everything hangs in the balance.  Then:

               JACK
      Im gonna need a new bat.

As Jack heads back down the tunnel for the field.

EXT. SCOREBOARD - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Eight zeros hang for the Phillies.  Seven for the Dodgers.  
No score, the bottom of the 8th coming up.  

JACK


Steps into the batters box.  Chapman and his sidekicks step 
from the Stygian abyss of the visitors dugout.  

   81.

               CHAPMAN
      Hey, black Nigger!  I know you can 
      hear me!  If you were a white boy, 
      you know where youd be right now?! 
      On a bus headed down to Newport 
      News cuz you cant play for shit!

Here comes the pitch.  Jack nonchalantly sticks his bat out, 
pokes a soft hit past second.  A nothing hit, but hes 
standing on first.  And he looks, well, ferocious in fact.

As Pete Reiser steps up into the batters box...

Jack stares at Dutch Leonard.  Assassins eyes as he takes an 
insolent, in-your-face lead off first.

Dutch fires to first.  Jack dives back safe!  

Back on his feet, he spits out a piece of grit he picked up 
sliding back on his belly.  Not bothering to dust himself 
off, hes turning into something elemental before our eyes.


RED BARBER 

Up in the booth.

               BARBER
      Two strikes now to Reiser as 
      Leonard looks in.  Robinson with 
      another big lead off first. He's as 
      restless as a cat with a hot foot.

               RACHEL
      Steal it, sweetheart.  Take it.

RACHEL 

Witnessing.

FIELD 

Dutch throws.  Jack on the run as Reiser swings and misses - 
STRIKE THREE! - and Seminick comes up throwing.

Jack slides into second, the throw high, ends up in center.

Half a dozen Dodgers impulsively on their feet and waving him 
on as Jack gets to his feet and motors into THIRD.  The throw 
well late.  Phillies third baseman HANDLEY throws the ball 
back to Dutch.  Handley then looks to Jack.

               HANDLEY
      Im sorry. I want you to know what 
      goes on here, it don't go for me.  

Jack barely nods, but he heard.  

  82.

               BARBERS VOICE
      Hermanski steps up.

PLATE

Dutch looking to third, nodding distracted at a sign, looking 
back to third before... Hermanski cracks a single to left.  

As Jack crosses the plate, he stares down Chapman on his way 
to the dugout.  As Chapman turns his head, spits --

INT. VISITORS LOCKER ROOM - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Several REPORTERS around Chapman as well.  He drinks a BEER.

               CHAPMAN
      You fellas are making too big a 
      deal out of this.  He scored  We 
      lost.  One to nothing.  

               REPORTER THREE
      Do you think you were a little hard 
      on Robinson?

               CHAPMAN
      We treat him the same way we do 
      Hank Greenburg except we call Hank 
      a kike instead of a coon.  When we 
      play exhibitions against the 
      Yankees, we call DiMaggio the Wop.  
      They laugh at it.  No harm, its 
      forgotten after the game ends.

Chapman tosses away his beer can.

               REPORTER THREE
      Dont you think this was maybe one 
      foot over the line?

               CHAPMAN
      Hey.  Let's get the chips off our 
      shoulders and play ball.  It's a 
      game, right?

INT. SHOWER - DODGER LOCKER ROOM - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack alone in the shower.  Water beating down.  Steam rising.  
A warrior who survived another day of battle.  Maybe.  They 
say the Lord doesnt ask us to bear any more than were able, 
but God is cutting it pretty damn close here.  He is in pain.

                                                      CUT TO:

   83.


INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - LATE AFTERNOON

Rickey sits brooding, thinking.  Parrott enters, upset.

               PARROTT
      Im going in that Phillie dugout 
      tomorrow and wring Chapmans neck!  

Rickey considers Parrott, starts laughing.  Parrott is hurt.

               PARROTT
      Did I say something funny? 

               RICKEY 
      When I first told you about Jackie, 
      you were against it.  Now all of a 
      sudden youre worrying about him.  
      How do you suppose that happened?

               PARROTT
      Well, any decent minded person --

               RICKEY
      Sympathy, Harold, is a Greek word.  
      It means to suffer.  I sympathize 
      with you means I suffer with you.  
      This Philadelphia manager has done 
      me a service.  

               PARROTT
      A service?!


               RICKEY
      Is there an echo in here?  Yes, 
      he's creating sympathy on Jackie's 
      behalf.  Philadelphia by the way is 
      Greek for brotherly love.

The intercom BUZZES.

               JANE ANNS VOICE
      Bob Bragan to see you, Mr. Rickey.

               RICKEY
          (flashes angry)
      What in Satans fire does he want?
          (presses button)
      Send him in.

Rickey pretends to review papers as Bragan enters, his hat 
literally in his hand.  Rickey lets him stand there a moment.

               RICKEY
      What do you want, Bragan?

  84.

               BRAGAN
      Id like not to be traded, sir, if 
      it isn't too late. 

               RICKEY
      What about Robinson?

Bragans been staring at the floor.  He looks up now.  The 
low afternoon sun hits his face.

               BRAGAN
      Id like to be his teammate.  

               RICKEY
      Why?

               BRAGAN
      The worlds changing; I guess I can 
      live with the change.

               RICKEY
          (sarcastic)
      Red Sox just offered Ted Williams, 
      but Ill see what I can do.

               BRAGAN
      Thank you, Mr. Rickey.

Bragan leaves.  Rickey looks at Parrott: What do you know?

                                                      CUT TO:

EXT. UNDER THE STANDS - EBBETS FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON

Rachel waiting.  Jack exits, sees her, hadnt expected her.

               JACK
      You shouldnt have waited.

               RACHEL
      They havent made a day long enough 
      that I wouldnt wait for you.

               JACK
      Give these boys time.  Its a three 
      game series.

A beat between them, framed by the steel girders around them.

               JACK (CONTD)
      I dont care if they like me; I 
      didnt come here to make friends.  
      I dont even care if they respect 
      me.  I know who I am; I got enough 
      respect for myself.  But I do not 
      want them to beat me.

   85.

               RACHEL
      They are never going to beat you.

               JACK
      Theyre taking their best shot.  I 
      dont want you coming tomorrow.  I 
      dont want you to watch that, them 
      beating me.

               RACHEL
      Wherever you are, I am, too.  Look 
      at me.  Jack...

He looks over.  Its not easy for this most proud of men.

               RACHEL
      I have to watch.  So our hearts 
      dont break...  Plus I already 
      bought a scorecard.

She holds it up.  His name the only one filled in.

               RACHEL
      And I put your name on it.  See?  
      Jack Robinson.

He puts his hand out, takes hers.

               JACK
      I did good the day I met you.

               RACHEL
      Baby, you hit a home run.

EXT. EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

The SCOREBOARD shows 1 run scored by the Phillies in the top 
of the first.  Jack steps up to the plate.  Here we go again.

INSERT: April 23, 1947. The next day.

               CHAPMAN
      Hey, porch monkey!  Hey Robinson!  
      Hey boy!  You know why youre here?  

EDDIE STANKY

On the bench.  Without warning, he blasts off it.  MOVE WITH 
him as he marches toward Chapman who doesnt see him coming.

               CHAPMAN
      Youre here to draw those Nigger 
      dollars at the gate for Rickey!  


   86.

Chapman clocks the apoplectic Stanky.  Spit flying as:

               STANKY
      Sit down.  Sit down or Ill sit you 
      down.

               CHAPMAN
      Whats the problem, Stank?

               STANKY
      Youre the problem, you goddamn 
      disgrace!  What kind of man are 
      you?!  You know he can't fight!  
      Pick on someone who can fight!  

               BARBERS VOICE
          (over it)
      Eddie Stanky having a chin wag with 
      his ex-teammate Chapman.  Both men 
      masters of distraction.  Eddie, of 
      course, from second.  Chapman from 
      the dugout.

Stanky so mad he cant see straight.  Chapman surrenders.

               CHAPMAN
      Okay, okay.  Jesus.

As Chapman disappears into his dugout, Jack whacks a single.

EXT. DODGER DUGOUT - DAY

Stanky sits here stewing.  His head down.

                                                      CUT TO:

               BARBERS VOICE
      Robinson on first, Pete Reiser at 
      bat.  Reiser belts it.  A long one.  
      Deep into left center.  Back goes 
      Ennis who is not tall enough.  This 
      ones off the wall.  Robinson is 
      going to score from first.


Over Barber: a CRACK of the bat, the ROAR of the crowd.  As 
players around him react, Stanky finally looks up as Robinson 
crosses the plate, heads in, sits a few feet from Stanky. 

               JACK
      Thanks.


               STANKY
      For what?  Youre on my team.  What 
      the hell am I supposed to do? 
          (softly)
      I gotta look in the mirror, too.

   86.

Stanky stands, walks away.  Todays gonna be okay.

INT. BLACK CHURCH - BROOKLYN - DAY

A BLACK PREACHER leads his congregation in prayer.  

                                                      CUT TO:

               PREACHER
      Lord, make me an instrument of your 
      peace.  Where there is hatred, let 
      me sow love. Where there is injury, 
      let me sow pardon.  Where there is 
      darkness, let me sow light.

Amens.  We see Rickey sits in the back row, the day heavy 
on him.  A YOUNG GIRL turns, looks at him.  Whys a white man 
here?  Rickey smiles, puts a finger to his lips... Shhhh.

                                                      CUT TO:

    87.

    87.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

Players put on their uniforms as Higbe, in street clothes, 
fires the contents of his locker into a cardboard box.

 87B.

               HIGBE
      I speak my mind and they trade me!  
      This ain't the America I know!  

He glares down to Jacks locker.  Jack regards him back.  
Its Higbe who looks away first.  He continues packing.

               WALKER
      Where are they sending you, Hig?

               HIGBE
      Pittsburgh!  For cash and some I-
      talian outfielder named Gionfriddo!
          (consider his 
           jockstrap)
      Pittsburgh...

EXT. EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Dixie Walker takes batting practice, drives the ball all over
the field.  A natural.  

Rickey and Shotton watch from behind the backstop. 

               RICKEY
      Do you remember the story, Burt, of 
      the 99 sheep?  How one was missing?  

               SHOTTON
      If you're talking about Dixie, I'd 
      leave the word sheep out of it.

               RICKEY
      I find myself at odds.  I want 
      integration and the pennant.  I 
      want to punish Dixie and at the 
      same time I want his salvation.

               SHOTTON
      Can't he just be a good ballplayer?  
      He has to be a good person, too?

               RICKEY 
      It would be so much simpler if he 
      wasn't batting .385.

As Walker finishes, he passes Jack whose turn it is.

               WALKER
      Shes all yours, Robinson.

As THUNDER rumbles in the distance...

                                                      CUT TO:

 88.

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

Rain beats on the windows.  Rickey looks over as Parrott 
rushes in; hes out of breath and dripping wet.  Parrott 
holds up the Herald Tribune sports section.  

               PARROTT
      The news isnt good, sir.

               RICKEY
      Nevertheless it must be accepted 
      calmly, Harold.  What is it?

A headline: PLAYERS STRIKE.  Parrott reads...

               PARROTT
      A National League players' strike 
      instigated by some of the St. Louis 
      Cardinals against the presence of 
      Negro first baseman Jackie Robinson 
      has been averted temporarily and 
      perhaps permanently quashed.  

               RICKEY
      Madness!  What are they thinking?! 

EXT. MANHATTAN HOTEL - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Wendell Smith waits under an umbrella as the CARDINALS get 
off the team bus.  Smith buttonholes manager EDDIE DYER.

               SMITH
      Eddie, whats all this talk about 
      your Cardinals refusing to play?

               DYER
      Were here, arent we?  We didnt 
      come to New York to go to Macys.

Dyer continues past him.  Here comes big JOE GARAGIOL.

               SMITH
      Hey, Garagiola --

               GARAGIOLA
      Get lost.


Here comes STAN MUSIAL, a class act if there ever was one.

               SMITH
      Hey, Stan, whats the story?

 88.

               MUSIAL
      This is big league baseball, not 
      English tea.  Couple a guys 
      mightve popped off; its hot air.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MCALPIN HOTEL - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Smith types out his report.  As rain lashes the window, the 
Empire State building looms a few block away.

               SMITH
	(V.O.)
      St. Louis didnt win the world 
      championship last year without 
      using their heads. They have the 
      same heads this year and should 
      know that they cant pick the 
      players of another club. 

                                                      CUT TO:

 89.

INT. EBBETS FIELD TRAINING TABLE - DAY 

Jack sits here alone, tending to a bat.  Cleaning it with 
rubbing alcohol, handling it like the friend it is.  Rickey 
joins him.  He has a newspaper in hand.  He holds it up.

               RICKEY
      National League President Frick 
      says this is America and baseball 
      is America's game. He says one 
      citizen has as much right to play 
      as another.
          (looks up)
      Baseball will go on as planned once 
      the rain stops.

Jack eyes his bat.

               JACK
      Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?

               RICKEY
      Because my job is to win.  I have 
      an obligation to Brooklyn to put 
      the best team on the field I can.  
      Your presence on the roster 
      increases our chances of winning.

Not buying it, Jack looks over at him.

               JACK
      If this is winning, Id hate to see 
      us on a losing streak.

INT. DODGER LOCKER ROOM - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Guys change into their street clothes.  Branca reads to Reese
from the New York Post.  Walker listens in from his locker.

               BRANCA
      Listen to this: Right now Robinson 
      is the loneliest man I have ever 
      seen in sports.
          (upset)
      Whos this guy to say Jackies 
      lonely?  He doesnt wear it on his 
      sleeve.  Mans got one helluva game 
      face.  Take no prisoners.  How does 
      some reporter know how he feels.  

They stop talking as Robinson walks past, the last one into 
the shower, a couple of towels around him.  

 89.

               BRANCA
      Lonely?  I say its the best game 
      face in the world.

               WALKER
      So long as he showers lonely, he 
      can have whatever face he wants.

EXT. EBBETS FIELD STANDS (BETWEEN FIRST AND HOME) - DAY

Rachel sitting here.  This section about two-thirds full.

INSERT: May 6, 1947.  Brooklyn.

Then, about five rows behind her, two RACIST FANS find their 
seats.  They spot Jack down at first.

                                                      CUT TO:

               RACIST FAN #1
      Look there he is!  Black as the ace 
      of spades!

 90.

               RACIST FAN #1
      Damn!  You believe that?  A genuine 
      nigger in a Dodger uniform.

As Rachel winces at his words --

               BROOKLYN FAN #1
      Shut up and go back to St. Louis!

               RACIST FAN #1
      Hey, you got a nigger on your team!

               BROOKLYN FAN #2
      So what?!  Hes better than anyone 
      you got!

               RACIST FAN #1
      Waitll his cousin wants your job!  
      Dont you know nothing?

               BROOKLYN FAN #1
      Dont you?!

               RACIST FAN #1
      Hes a nigger!  Hey, black boy!

Rachel stares ahead, tries to maintain.  She shows them her 
back, sits up as straight as she can.  Her movements heroic.

EXT. EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack steps up against the Cardinals.  Garagiola, the catcher, 
shouts down to third.

               GARAGIOLA
      Watch this guy!  He cant hit!  
      Especially the curve!  He can only 
      get on base bunting!

As Jack digs into the box.

               GARAGIOLA
      Take your time, Robinson, youre 
      digging your own grave.

Big RED MUNGER looks in for the sign.

Garagiola flashes a sign: 1.  Wants it inside.

Heres the pitch.  Inside.  Jack just scoots back.

RED BARBER - BOOTH

 90.

               BARBER
      Takes a fastball in on the hands. 
      Robinson, who is pitched to a great 
      deal that way, uses a thicker 
      handle bat than most hitters, just 
      because he hits a lot of balls out 
      on his hands.

BATTERS BOX

Jack edges up closer to the plate.

               JACK
      Whats your average, Joe?

               GARAGIOLA
      Itd be a lot higher than yours, if 
      I could run as fast as you can.

               JACK
      No matter how fast you run, youll 
      never hit as much as you weigh.

Garagiola signals for another fastball.

               GARAGIOLA
      Cmon, Munger!  Boys got a hole in 
      his bat!

Munger throws inside.  

Jack falls back, strokes a double into the gap.

               BARBERS VOICE
      That one wasnt quite in enough.  
      Robinson punishing the Redbirds 
      with a smart piece of hitting.

EXT. EBBETS FIELD STANDS (BETWEEN FIRST AND HOME) - DAY

The Brooklyn fans cheer; the Racist fan sulks.  The double is  *
little comfort to Rachel who stares ahead, sitting as 
straight up as she can.  Willing herself not to cry.

                                  RETURN TO:

                                                      CUT TO:

 91.

INT. BROOKLYN CITY BUS - DAY

Jack and Rachel ride home.  Forlorn, she stares out.

               RACHEL
      Oh Jack...

               JACK
      What is it, Rae?

               RACHEL
      Nothing.  Its just, sometimes when 
      I sit up there with those bastards, 
      those loudmouths in the stands, I 
      know you can hear them.

               JACK
      Dont worry.  Its okay.

               RACHEL
      No, its not okay. And I can hear 
      them, too.

Jack looks at her, takes her hand in his.

               JACK
      I know. Im sorry for that.

Rachel squeezes his hand back.

               RACHEL
      Were in it together.  When they 
      start in on you, you know what I 
      do?  I try to sit up as straight.

               JACK
      Yeah?

               RACHEL
      Straight as I can.  
               (MORE)

               RACHEL
	(CONT'D)
      I got it in my head that I can 
      block it from you, some of it, if I 
      sit up straight.
          (a sad smile)
      Isnt that dumb?

 92.

Closing the space between them, he takes her hand.

               JACK
      It worked.  I didnt hear a thing.

She tries to smiles.  As the tears streak her cheeks, he 
leans in kisses her forehead.

               JACK
      Theyre just ignorant.

               RACHEL
      If they knew you, theyd be 
      ashamed.

She puts her arm around him, draws that strength.

               JACK
      Hold on.

               RACHEL
      I am holding on.

               JACK
      Long as we hold on, itll be okay.


EXT. STANDS - EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

WHACK!  Rachel and Rickey watch Jack taking batting practice.

               RICKEY
      You look lovely, Mrs. Robinson.

               RACHEL
      Thank you.

               RICKEY
      I dont know how you do it.  Every 
      day, from the 1st to the 9th.  
      Myself?  I could pay $100 for a 
      suit and in twenty minutes I'd look 
      like I fell out of bed.  Even my 
      shoes look rumpled.  

They watch Jack crack one high off the Schaefer Beer sign.

               RACHEL
      I used to think Jack was conceited.

 93.

               RICKEY
      Is that so?


               RACHEL
      It was the very first thing I 
      noticed about him.

               RICKEY
      How did you two meet?

               RACHEL
      I saw him at a UCLA football game.  
      Even in uniform with a helmet on, 
      his vanity was awful.  It was the 
      way he held his hands on his hips.  
      I hated him!
          (Rickey laughs)
      And on campus he always wore crisp 
      white shirts and Id think his skin 
      is so dark, why would he do that?  
      Then I got to know him, his pride 
      and confidence, and I realized he 
      was showing off his color.  I was 
      wrong.  He wasnt conceited; he was 
      proud.  Always, of who and what he 
      is.  Id never met another man like 
      that.  What about you?  How did you 
      meet your wife?

               RICKEY
      Trying to catch her in a race.  She 
      was the fastest girl in town.  
      Beautiful legs.  I finally caught 
      up; we've been together ever since.

They sit a moment.  Below: Jack nails another one.

               RICKEY
      I wanted to apologize to you.

               RACHEL
      For what?

               RICKEY
      Everything.  I cant apologize to 
      him.  He and I both knew what we 
      were getting into.  But you.  A 
      newlywed, trying to blossom a 
      marriage under all this pressure.

               RACHEL
      Dont worry about me.  Or us.  We 
      know who we are.

Crack.  Jack hits another.

  94.

               RICKEY
      Your husband has humbled me.  When 
      this all began I thought I was 
      changing the world and that Jackie 
      was my instrument.  Can you 
      imagine?  I wish I could help him, 
      but Im just a spectator. 

               RACHEL
      You help him plenty.  Believe me.

They watch him rip into another pitch.

               RICKEY
      Is he able to get things off his 
      chest?  So he doesnt burn up?

               RACHEL
      Yes.  I have to let him have that 
      silence at first, let him come to 
      me.  But he opens up eventually.

               RICKEY
      Good.  Its too much to carry 
      inside.  Does he have any friends 
      on the team?
          (she gives him a look)
      Theyre spectators, too.  They do 
      admire him though.

Rachel looks out to where Reese and Stanky play catch.

               RACHEL
      Do you think so?

               RICKEY
      Even the worst of us recognizes 
      courage.  Moral courage especially.  
      I have to think they see it.  
      Jackies a man on trial.  Hes 
      responding with glory and grace.  
      No one can take their eyes off him.

               RACHEL
      Hes had himself on trial since the 
      day I met him.  No man is harder on 
      himself or gets to himself worse 
      than Jack.  But I hope his team-
      mates know, theyre on trial too.

               RICKEY
      I suppose we all are.  You're an 
      astute woman, Mrs. Robinson. 

 95.

               RACHEL
          (laughs)
      I have to be, Mr. Rickey, I'm 
      married to a man of destiny.  I 
      can't let him down.

               RICKEY
      If Id met you first, I wouldnt 
      have looked so long for Jackie.

               RACHEL
      How do you mean?

               RICKEY
      I mean if he was good enough for 
      you, hes certainly good enough for 
      the rest of us.

INT. PENNOCKS OFFICE - SHIBE PARK - DAY

Phillie GM HERB PENNOCK at his desk, on the phone.

               PENNOCK
      Branch, its Herb.

                                                      CUT TO:

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

               RICKEY
      What can I do for you, Herb?

INTERCUT THE FOLLOWING:

               PENNOCK
      How long have we known each other?

               RICKEY
      Twenty years.  Maybe more.

               PENNOCK
      Then trust me when I say, 
      Brooklyns due here tomorrow, but 
      you can not bring that Nigger down 
      here with the rest of your team.  

Rickey grits his teeth, stays civil.

               RICKEY
      And whys that, Herb?  His names 
      Jackie Robinson by the way.

               PENNOCK
      We're just not ready for this sort 
      of thing in Philadelphia.  
               (MORE)


  95a.
               PENNOCK
	(CONT'D)
      Im not sure well be able to take 
      the field against your team if that 
      boy is in uniform.

               RICKEY
      Herbert, what your team does is 
      your decision.  But my team is 
      coming to Philadelphia.  With 
      Robinson.  If we have to claim the 
      game as a forfeit, we will.  Thats 
      9-0 in case you forgot.

   95.

               PENNOCK
      Branch, youve got one helluva hair 
      across your ass on this thing and 
      I, for one, would like to know what 
      youre trying to prove?

               RICKEY
      Do you think God likes baseball?  I 
      do.  

               PENNOCK
      What the hell does that mean?

               RICKEY
      It means youre going to meet God 
      one day, Herb, and when he inquires 
      why Robinson wasnt on the field in 
      Philadelphia and you answer because 
      he was a Negro, it may not be a 
      sufficient reply.

As Rickey hangs up the phone...

                                                      CUT TO:

  96.

EXT. THE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HOTEL - DAY

The Dodger TEAM BUS pulls up.  The doors whoosh open; Parrott 
steps off looking official.  As the players start to follow:

INSERT: May 9, 1947.  Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Philadelphia.

               PARROTT
      Come on, fellas!  We have twenty 
      minutes to check in and then get to 
      Shibe!  Chop chop.

No one is listening as the TEAM DRIVER opens the lower 
compartment and the players (including Jack) grab their bags.

               HOTEL MANAGER
      Out!  Get that bus out of here!

The HOTEL MANAGER stalks over, flanked by HOTEL SECURITY.

               PARROTT
      Were the Dodgers.  We have a 
      reservation.

               HOTEL MANAGER
      Your teams not welcome, not while 
      you have ballclub Negroes with you.

               PARROTT
      You mean Robinson cant stay here?

               HOTEL MANAGER
      I mean the entire team is refused!

               PARROTT
      Weve been staying here ten years.

               HOTEL MANAGER
      And you can stay away that long!   

               SHOTTEN
          (last off the bus)
      Hold on now, lets talk about this.

The Hotel Manager jerks his thumb like an umpire.

               HOTEL MANAGER
      Get out!  Now, grandpa!

               SHOTTEN
      Grandpa?  Hey hold on, you!

Security getting between as Shotten and the Manager go at it.


Jack is embarrassed, but what can he do?  Walker says to no one in particular, but loud enough for Jack to hear:

  96.

               WALKER
      Maybe 42s got enough friends in 
      town, we can bunk up.

               JACK
      Whats that supposed to mean?

               WALKER
      Nothing.  Its just, I know when 
      you cant get into a hotel, you got 
      peoples houses you can stay at.

               JACK
      What do you want from me, Walker?

               WALKER
      An apology.

               JACK
          (steps forward)
      For what?  Places like this?  

Parrott alarmed at this turn of events.

               WALKER
      For turning this season into a 
      sideshow!  Im a ballplayer; I want 
      to play ball!  

               JACK
      So am I!  Im here to win!

               WALKER
      How the hell are we gonna win 
      sleeping on the bus?!

               PARROTT
      Fellas --

               JACK
      It might do you some good the way 
      youre swinging the bat lately.

               DIXIE
      Watch your mouth!

   97.

Walker jabs his chest with a finger; Jack bats his hand away.   

               JACK
      Watch your damn hand!

And theyre lunging at each other.  Separated by Reese, 
Stanky, Branca and Bragan while other players hold off 
Shotton.  Two fights about to break out at the same time.

               SHOTTEN
      Grandpa?!  Ill show you grandpa!

Parrott summons something deep, lets loose a shrill WHISTLE.

               PARROTT
      Fellas!  Burt!  Please!  Take the 
      bus to the field!  Worry about the 
      game.  Ill find another hotel.

INT. PENNOCKS OFFICE - SHIBE PARK - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Ben Chapman sits across from Herb Pennock who flips through 
underlined newspaper reports.  Pennock reads one:

               PENNOCK
      There is a great lynch mob among 
      us; they go unhooded and work 
      without rope.  
          (looks at him)
      Thats you, not me.
          (reads some more)
      We must remember that all this 
      country's enemies are not beyond 
      the frontiers of our home land.

               CHAPMAN
      Some Jew mustve wrote that.

               PENNOCK
      This doesnt look good, Ben!  It 
      makes the Phillies, look racist!  
      Youve got to do something.

               CHAPMAN
      Me?!


                                                      CUT TO:


INT. VISITORS LOCKER ROOM - SHIBE PARK - NIGHT

 98.

ON PARROTT.  Hes trying to work up the nerve for something.
Finally, he comes around the corner where Jack sits at his 
locker talking to Smith.

               PARROTT
      Jackie, excuse me, um, a request 
      came in.  The Phillies manager Ben 
      Chapman, hed like his photo taken 
      with you.

Jack pretends to sniff the air around Parrott.

               JACK
      You been drinking, Harold?

               PARROTT
      Mr. Rickey thinks its a good idea.  
      He says itll be in every sports 
      page in the country.  An example 
      thatll show everyone even the most 
      hardened man can change.

               JACK
      Chapman hasn't changed.  Hes just 
      trying to take the heat off.

               PARROTT
      Mr. Rickey says it doesn't matter 
      if hes changed.  As long as it 
      looks like hes changed.  Chapman 
      said hed come down here.  Or meet 
      you in the runway.  

As Jack slow burns...

               SMITH
      See the ball come in slow.  See the 
      photo come in slower.

               JACK
          (to Parrott)
      Tell him on the field.  Where 
      everyone can see him.

As Parrott smiles; hes done it.

               PARROT
      Perfect.


                                                      CUT TO:

EXT. HOME PLATE - SHIBE PARK - NIGHT

 98.

Chapman and Jack stand side-by-side facing the PRESS.  
Chapman makes a little speech.  Hypocrisy at its best. 

               CHAPMAN
      Jackies been accepted in baseball 
      and the Philadelphia organization 
      wish him all the luck we can.  I 
      only hope in some small way our 
      trial of fire... helped him along.

Jack looks at him: Did he just say that?

   99.

               PHOTOGRAPHER 
      How about a picture?  Shake hands.  
      Bury the hatchet?  

               JACK
      You want a picture?  Sure.

Jack steps to the on-deck circle, grabs a BASEBALL BAT.  
Chapmans eyes widen as he starts toward him with it.

               JACK
          (low to Chapman)
      Well hold the bat.  That way we 
      dont have to touch skin.

Chapman nods, looks relieved.  A photographer hands over a 
bat.  Chapman has two hands on the handle.  Jack puts one 
hand on the barrel, the other stays on his hip.

               JACK
      Ben, I hope all your friends back 
      home like the picture.

Jack smiles as the flashbulbs go off.  Chapman looks dumb.

DIXIE WALKER

By the dugout with Stanky, watches in disbelief.

               WALKER
      Carl, I swear, I never thought I'd 
      see ol' Ben eat shit like that.

EXT. FORBES FIELD - PITTSBURGH - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

FRITZ OSTERMUELLER on the mound.  He takes a long look in at 
Jack, at his catcher KLUTTZ who flicks his thumb: Hit him.

INSERT: May 17, 1947.  Pittsburgh.

Here it comes.  All Jack has time to do is cover his face to 
lessen the blow.  Beaned in the head, he goes down in a heap.  

Branca leads the Dodger players out onto the field.  The 
UMPIRES move to head them off.  Pirates as well.  Kirby 
Higbe, now in a Pirate uniform, claps his hands pleased.

               BRANCA
          (in his face)
      Ostermeuller, you kraut!  You gotta 
      bat, too!  Dont you forget!

               OSTERMUELLER
      Im ready, you Wop bastard!

   99.

               BRANCA
      Its gonna come right between your 
      eyes!  Like a Kamikaze!

               OSTERMUELLER
          (re: Jack)
      For him!?  He doesnt belong here!

               BRANCA
      You dont belong here!  Go home to 
      Goering and Shmelling!

               OSTERMUELLER
      Make me, you goddamn dago!


As an UMPIRE gets between them, Jack sits up.  Hes okay.
  100.

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

Rickey looks up as Reese enters.  He holds a LETTER.

                                                      CUT TO:

               RICKEY
      What can I do for you, Pee Wee?

               REESE
      Well, Mr. Rickey, its like this, 
      the series in Cincinnati next week.

               RICKEY
      Its an important road trip, were 
      only three games out of first.

               REESE
      Yes, sir.  You know, Im from 
      Kentucky.  

               RICKEY
      Cincinnatis nearly a home game for 
      you.

               REESE
      I got this letter, sir.  I guess 
      some people arent too happy about 
      me playing with Robinson.

Rickey is not liking where this is going; he motions for the 
letter, scans it, reads the highlights...

               RICKEY
      Nigger lover.  Watch yourself.  We 
      will get you, carpetbagger.
          (holds it out)
      Typical stuff.  

Reese takes the letter back, a little hurt.

               REESE
      It's not typical to me. 

               RICKEY 
      How many of these letters have you 
      gotten, Pee Wee?

               REESE
      Just this.  Ain't that enough?

Rickey looks Reese over a moment.  Pushing back his chair he 
steps over to a filing cabinet.  


Motioning Reese to join him, he pulls open a drawer, pulls out a 4-inch stack of flattened letters, then another, then a 
third.  He looks to Reese.

  101.

               REESE
	(CONTD)
      What are those?

               RICKEY
      Ill tell you what they arent, 
      they arent letters from the Jackie 
      Robinson fan club.  Here --

He thrusts a sheaf of it into Reeses hands.  As Reese flips 
through the stack of hate, reads:

               REESE
      Get out of baseball, or your baby 
      boy will die.  
          (next one)
      Quit baseball or your Nigger wife 
      will be...  

Reese trails off, wont say it out loud.  Skips to another.

               REESE
	(CONTD)
      Get out of the game or be killed.

He looks at one more, reacts to the vitriol, but does not 
utter it.  Reese looks back at Rickey, shocked.

               REESE
	(CONTD)
      Does Jackie know?

               RICKEY 
      Of course he knows.  And the FBI. 
      Theyre taking a threat in 
      Cincinnati pretty seriously.  So 
      excuse me if Im not too shocked at 
      you being called a carpetbagger.  
      You should be proud of it!

               REESE
      Wed just like to play ball, Mr. 
      Rickey.  Thats all we want to do.

               RICKEY
      I understand.  I bet Jackie just 
      wants to play ball. I bet he wishes 
      he wasnt leading the league in hit 
      by pitch.  I bet he wishes people 
      didnt want to kill him.  But the 
      world isnt so simple anymore.  Im 
      not sure it ever was.  We just, 
      baseball ignored it.  Now we cant.

 102.

               REESE
          (quiet)
      Yes, Sir.  I gotta get to practice.

A 10-YEAR OLD BOY

                                                      CUT TO:

In the stands.  Freckled, cute.  Looking at the men around 
him, his own FATHER SHOUTING at Jack as the Dodgers take the 
field (the Reds coming off it).  

Jack headed for first.  Pee Wee out to short.

               FRECKLES
      Nigger!
          (then...)
      We dont want you here!

INSERT: Crosley Field, Cincinnati, June 21, 1947.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      Cincinnati fans expressing their 
      displeasure as the Dodgers take the 
      field.  Jackie Robinson at first.  
      The Brat Eddie Stanky at second.  
      Spider Jorgensen at third.  And the 
      captain Pee Wee Reese at shortstop.  
          (a beat)
      Ask any man and theyll tell you 
      that the Gillette Superspeed razor 
      is a honey.  Maybe the sweetest 
      shaving razor youll ever use.

  103.

EXT. INFIELD - CROSLEY FIELD - DAY

Jack reaches first, throws the ball around the infield.  Many
in the crowd beyond rise to jeer and heap abuse.  COON!  
SHINE!  Jack tries to let it wash over him.

At short, Reese receives the ball, moves to throw to first 
when he pauses.  Deciding, he suddenly moves to trot across 
the diamond until hes alongside Jack.

               JACK
      Whats up?


Now cries of CARPETBAGGER! cut through.  PEE WEE, HOW CAN YOU 
PLAY WITH THIS BLACK BASTARD!?  Reese stares up at the worst 
hecklers along the first base line.  He looks a little sad.

               REESE
      They can say what they want; we're 
      here to play baseball.  

               JACK
      Just a bunch of crackpots still 
      fighting the Civil War.

               REESE
      Hell, wed a won that son of a gun 
      if the cornstalks had held out.  We 
      just ran out of ammunition.

Jack laughs.  Reese has a funny way of saying it.

               JACK
      Better luck next time, Pee Wee.

Reese impulsively puts his arm around Jacks shoulder, stares 
into the Cincy dugout.

               REESE
      Aint gonna be a next time.  All we 
      got is right now.  This right here.  
      Know what I mean?

Walker reacting out in right.  The crowd shuts down, some in 
shock at the gesture.  Jack surprised also.  

               REESE
	(CONTD)
      Thank you, Jackie.

               JACK
      Whatre you thanking me for?

               REESE
      Ive got family here from 
      Louisville.  Up there somewhere.  I 
      need em to know who I am.

   104.

Jack moved by Pee Wees gesture, cant find the words.

		RED BARBERS VOICE
       Robinson and Reese conferring at 
       first.  Maybe discussing an infield 
       shift on Baumholtz.

               UMPIRE
      Hey!  Number one!  You playing ball 
      or socializing?

               REESE
      Playing ball, ump!  Playing ball! 
          (to Jack)
      Maybe tomorrow well all wear 42.  
      That way they wont be able to tell 
      us apart.

Reese heads for short.  Jack pounds his fist in his glove.


INT. TRAIN - ENROUTE TO NEW YORK - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:


Jack playing Gin Rummy with Branca, Reese and Wendell Smith.  

               BRANCA
          (to Smith; teasing)
      You ever write about white guys in 
      your paper?  I mean, if I threw a 
      no hitter and Jackie got a base 
      hit, what would the headline be?

               SMITH
      Jackie leads Dodgers to victory.  
      Again.  Under that: white Italian 
      guy does ok.

They all laugh.

               REESE
      Id call your folks for ya, Ralph.  
      Tell em how you did.

               BRANCA
      No problem.  Itll still make the 
      Post.

They play their hands as they talk.

   105.

               REESE
      We are on some kind of winning 
      streak, huh boys?  And I dont mean 
      cards.

               BRANCA
      Hey, maybe forty of our last fifty.

               SMITH
      Thirty-two and fifteen actually.  
      Since the 4th of July.

               BRANCA
      Math is why I throw a baseball for 
      a living.

               REESE
      This next series against the 
      Cardinals, its a big one.

They look over at Jack who hasnt said a word.  Its his 
play.  He lays his cards down.  Deadpan as he wins the hand.

               JACK
      Gin.


               RED BARBERS VOICE
      The top of the 11th inning, all 
      tied at 2.  For those of you just 
      tuning in, how did we get here?

                                                      CUT TO:

JACK AT BAT

Jack strokes a DOUBLE over Stankys head as Stanky breaks off
second for third.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      Its been double trouble as 
      Robinson knocked in Stanky with a 
      double in the third...

DIXIE WALKER AT BAT

Walker strokes a DOUBLE over Stankys head as Stanky breaks 
off second for third.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      ...And Dixie Walker did the same 
      with a double in the eighth.

EXT. EBBETS FIELD - DAY

 105.

ENOS SLAUGHTER steps in for St. Louis.  Hugh Casey on the 
mound for Brooklyn.  Slaughter looks fiercely determined.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      It wasnt enough as the Cardinals 
      tied it with two of their own in 
      the top of the ninth.  This game is 
      crucial to the Red Birds.  Theyre 
      five games out, the Dodgers having 
      not relinquished first place sine 
      June 30th.

Casey throws a pitch.  Inside, a ball.

INSERT: August 20, 1947.  Brooklyn.

               RED BARBERS VOICE
      Slaughter takes ball one low.  
      Casey in his second inning of 
      relief.  This game is tighter than 
      a new pair of shoes on a rainy day.  
      Slaughter hitless in four trips as 
      Casey goes into his wind-up.  

Slaughter swings, hits a hard ground ball right at Reese who 
fires over to Jack at first.  Slaughter is out by fifteen 
feet, but he never slows down.  And his foot comes down --

-- High on Jacks right calf.  Slaughters spiked him 
something wicked.  Jack goes down in a heap clutching his 
leg, blood already seeping through his high socks.

Slaughter, head down, on his way to the visitors dugout as 
Dodger players pour out of their own to protest.  As the UMP 
raises his hands, motions them all back... Jack pulls up his 
sock, a bloody mess.  Stanky looks to Casey. 

  106.

               STANKY
      Next batter, throw right at his 
      head.  Clean his clock --

               JACK
          (fierce)
      Just get him out.  Understand?  
      Games too important.

As Casey nods, Jack reaches up to Stanky and Reese.

They pull him to his feet.  Jack looks, finds Rachel in the 
stands.  As he gives her a little wave: Im okay.

WHITEY KUROWSKI

A big Cardinal slugger at bat.  Casey pitching.

               BARBER'S VOICE
      The top of the 12th and Kurowski at 
      the plate.  He hit his 20th home 
      run on Monday so Caseys going to 
      want to be careful with him.

The pitch grooves in and Kurowski nails it.  

               BARBER'S VOICE
	(CONTD)
      Oh dear.  There goes number 21.

SCOREBOARD - EBBETS FIELD

                                                      CUT TO:

                                                      CUT TO:

The Cardinals leading 3-2 going into the bottom of the 12th.

JACK

The stadium electric as Jack steps in, his left leg bloody.  
He takes an inside pitch at the knees.  Bastards!  

Here comes the next one.  WHACK - He singles hard up the 
middle, nearly takes the pitchers head off.

FIRST BASE

He rounds hard, returns to the bag.  Reiser stepping up to 
the plate as Musial holds Jack on at first.  Jack in a fury.

               JACK
      I don't care what happens, I don't 
      care what kind of play it is, when 
      I get to second I'm gonna knock 
      someone into centerfield.  


   107.

               MUSIAL
          (glances at blood)
      I don't blame you, man, you got 
      every right. 

Jack running on the pitch.  Reiser bunts.  The play is to 
first.  Reiser is out and Jack slides safe into second.  
SCHOENDIENST has the sense to vacate before he gets there.

JACK 

Bouncing up and down, wearing that badge of potential 
violence and action.  The crowd buzzing, the electricity 
practically hits you in the face.  Jacks going to score.  

RICKEY

Coming up out of his seat along with the fans around him.

JACK

Walker at bat.  Jack steps out, checks on MARION the 
shortstop.  He takes another step out, looks to Schoendienst.

               RED BARBER
          (over it all)
      Munger sets.  Robbie back and forth 
      off second.  The third bag clearly 
      in his sights.  Oh, and Munger 
      deals a pick off throw to Marion at 
      second and Robinson is out!

Marion breaks for the bag and Munger turns and fires a 
strike.  Marion brings down the tag -- Out!

He is and he knows it.  The crowd stunned into silence.  Jack 
frozen a moment, head down, furious with himself.  Low.

               BARBERS VOICE
      The Cardinals pick up a game.  It 
      was one of those plays where you do 
      or you dont and Jackie didnt.

INT. TRAINERS TABLE - DODGER CLUBHOUSE - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack on his stomach as STITCHES are sewn into his leg.  
REPORTERS in front of him.

               REPORTER ONE
      Did he spike you on purpose?

   107.

               JACK
      You saw the play.  I had my foot 
      inside the bag.  He was out by a 
      mile.  But he kept coming.

               REPORTER TWO
      Slaughter said it was an accident.

               JACK
      What are you asking me for then?

               REPORTER TWO
      Are you calling Slaughter a liar?    

 108.

This guys a real jerk.  Rickey arrives, a BASEBALL in hand.

               RICKEY
      Get out.  Let me talk to my first 
      baseman.  Go.  Hes getting 
      stitched up for Petes sake.

The reporters move off for other interviews.  Reporter Two 
hesitant to let it go, finally drifts off.  Rickey watches.

               RICKEY
      Sticking up for yourself is what 
      youd expect of any man.  Some find 
      it galling to see it in a Negro.

               JACK
      Im sorry, Mr. Rickey.

               RICKEY
      Sorry?  Sorry for what?

               JACK
      I lost my cool out there.  It 
      probably cost us the game.

               RICKEY
      I told you, Jackie, all the best 
      base runners get caught sometimes.

               JACK
      I wasnt thinking.

Rickey pulls up a chair sits across from him, leans in.

               RICKEY
      Do you know what I saw this 
      morning?  I was passing a sandlot 
      and a little white boy was up to 
      bat.  You know what he was doing?

               JACK
      Sitting on a fastball?

               RICKEY
      He was pretending he was you. 
      Wiping his hands on his pants, 
      swinging with his arms outstretched 
      like you do.  A little white boy 
      pretending he was a black man.


                                                      CUT TO:
    
 109.

INT. TRAINERS TABLE - DODGER CLUBHOUSE - DAY

The two men, who have done so much, looking each other over.

               JACK
      Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?

               RICKEY
      We had victory over fascism in 
      Germany; its time for victory over 
      racism at home.

               JACK
      Why are you doing this?  Come on 
      now.

A long moment between them.  Finally, Rickey looks away.

               RICKEY
      I love this game.  I love baseball.  
      Ive given my life to it.  Forty 
      odd years ago I was a player coach 
      at Ohio Wesleyan University.  We 
      had a Negro catcher, best hitter on 
      the team.  Charley Thomas.

Rickey starts slowly rubbing the baseball in his hands.

               RICKEY
      A fine young man.  I saw him laid 
      low.  Broken because of the color 
      of his skin and I didnt do enough 
      to help.  I told myself I did, but 
      I didnt.  The game I loved had 
      something unfair at the heart of 
      it.  I ignored it.  But a time came 
      when I could no longer do that.
          (looks up)
      You let me love baseball again. 
      Thank you.

Jacks eyes gentle on Rickeys.

               JACK
      Youre welcome.

 110.

Rickey fighting back tears now, retreats to his more 
confident self.

               RICKEY
      Youre a force of nature, Jackie, 
      youve complicated everything but 
      yourself.  Youre changing the 
      world, and refusing to let it 
      change you.  I for one am in awe.  

Jack reaches, takes the baseball from him.  A beat as they 
consider each other.  Finally, a promise...

               JACK
      I wont get picked off second base 
      again.  Not this year.

                                                      CUT TO:

 111.


INT. BEDROOM - 526 MACDONOUGH STREET - BROOKLYN - DAY

Its early.  Rachel watches from bed as Jack finishes 
packing.  She looks sad.

Jack looks into the cradle at Jackie Jr..


               JACK
      Its pops last long road trip of 
      the year, little man.

               RACHEL
      Careful you dont wake him.

               JACK
      I know.  I wont.
          (looks over)
      You okay?

               RACHEL
      I dont like seeing you leave, 
      thats all.

He looks at her a beat, resumes packing...

               JACK
      Ill be home in a week.

               RACHEL
      Eleven days.  Thats a long time 
      without you.

He doesnt answer, packs away.  Finally:

               RACHEL
      Try not to lunge at the plate.

               JACK
      Seriously?

               RACHEL
      That's why theyre throwing the 
      fastballs inside.  

He looks at her, a little shocked.    

 112.

               RACHEL
      Fight those inside fastballs off, 
      foul them back.  Sooner or later 
      they wont be able to help but 
      throw a curve.  

He steps to the bed, leans over her.

               JACK
      And what'll happen then?

She clucks a 'hit' sound, makes an 'ahhhhhh' crowd sound.

               JACK
      We win enough of these next games 
      and well bring home the pennant.

               RACHEL
      Pennant?  Where are we going to put 
      a pennant?  All these baby diapers 
      hanging everywhere.

Jack looks around the room, at the diapers hanging.

               JACK
      We got room right over there.  
      Between number one and number two.

She mock grimaces at his bad joke.

               RACHEL
      Win one if you have to, but bring 
      yourself home; thatll be plenty.

They kiss.

               JACK
      Rae, youre in my heart.

               RACHEL
      Promise me youll come home.  That 
      youll always come home.

As he looks at all he loves in the world...

               JACK
      I promise.


EXT. MACDONOUGH STREET - BROOKLYN - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:


Jack exits MacDonough Street apartment building and makes his
way down the street.


EXT. SPORTSMAN PARK - ST. LOUIS - DAY

A CARDINAL RUNNER on second.  Jackie holding another RUNNER 
on first as the St. Louis crowd ROARS.  

               BARBERS VOICE
      2 on 2 out for the Cardinals in the 
      eighth.  Anxious moments now as 
      theyve cut the Dodger lead to 2.  
      Nippy Jones up.  Musial taking his 
      place on deck.  Jones likes to 
      punch that ball when he swings.

Insert: September 13, 1947.

Casey on the mound receives the ball.  Pounds his glove.

               JACK
      Come on, Casey, get him out!  Pitch 
      that ball!

               BARBERS VOICE
      The outfield is deep, shaded toward 
      left.  Robinson holding the runner 
      on first.  Here comes Casey with 
      the pitch -- 

Jones swings, pops it up.

               BARBER
      Its popped up foul toward first.  
      Should be out of play.  But here 
      comes Robinson, hes coming hard --

 115.

EXT. SPORTSMAN PARK - ST. LOUIS - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack chasing down the foul, headed right for the open steps 
of his own dugout.  He never considers the peril as he 
CATCHES THE BALL and his left foot comes down onto nothing --

BRANCA LEAPS forward, tackles Jack back onto the infield.

               BARBER'S VOICE
      Hes got it!  And one of the 
      Dodgers has him! 

INT. VISITORS LOCKER ROOM - SPORTSMAN PARK - DAY

               BARBERS VOICE
      The Dodgers closing in on the 
      Pennant as theyll leave St. Louis 
      for Cincinnati and a three game 
      series with the Reds.

                                                      CUT TO:

Jack sits in his grass stained pants after the game.  Most of 
the guys are in the shower.  Branca, a towel around his 
waist, is headed there himself.  The sight of Jack stops him.

               BRANCA
      Can I ask you something, Jackie?  
      How come you never shower until 
      everyone else is done?

Jack just stares at him.  Branca wont let it drop.

               BRANCA
      You shy or something?

               JACK
      I dont want to make anyone 
      uncomfortable.
    

 116.

               BRANCA
      Were a team.  On a hot streak.  
      Half the wins on account of you.  
      Youre the bravest guy I ever saw.  
      Youre leading us and youre afraid 
      to take a shower?

A beat as Jack considers him.  Stone-faced.

               BRANCA
      Cmon.  Take a shower with me.
          (a beat)
      Hey, I dont mean it like that.

SHOWERS

                                                      CUT TO:

The Dodgers showering, guys chattering.  Suddenly, theres 
Branca and Jack at the shower entrance.  All eyes look over.  
Branca enters.  Then Jack.  A beat and everyone goes back to 
getting clean.  Its no big deal.  Except... 

Dixie Walker looks to the floor, shakes his head.  Finally, 
quietly, he leaves.  Whos the loneliest man on the team now?

INT. BRANCH RICKEYS OFFICE - BROOKLYN - DAY

As the phone rings, Rickey grabs it.  On edge.

INSERT: September 16, 1947

               RICKEY
      Rickey here.

                                                      CUT TO:


INTERCUT WITH PARROTT 


On a payphone in the CROSLEY FIELD CONCOURSE.

               PARROTT
      We did it, Boss!  We did it!  We 
      swept Cincinnati! That puts us 
      seven games up.

Joyous, Rickey grabs a sheet showing the NL standings.

               RICKEY
      And eliminates the Giants and 
      Boston.  

He puts an X through Boston and the Giants.  The rest of 
the NL are already crossed out.  Only the Cardinals remain.

At the same time, Parrott Xs the same out on his notebook.

 117.

               RICKEY
      Wed have to lose nearly every game 
      for the Cardinals to catch us now.  
      One more win may do it.  Whos 
      pitching tomorrow for the Pirates?

               PARROTT
      Ostermueller.

EXT. MACDONOUGH STREET - BROOKLYN - DAY 

                                                      CUT TO:

Rachel walks pushing Jackie Junior in his stroller.  As she 
moves, the RADIO BROADCAST of the Dodgers game can be heard 
from one house to the next.  In a gap, a passing car picks it
up and we hear it from the window.  Then another house.

               BARBERS VOICE
      A very big game today here in 
      Pittsburgh. A win and the Dodgers 
      will have clinched the National 
      League Pennant.

EXT. EBBETS FIELD - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Branch Rickey alone in the stadium.  The field empty as he 
listens to the call of the game over the P.

               BARBER'S VOICE
      Fritz Ostermueller on the mound. 
      Hes 12 and 8 on the season.

EXT. FORBES FIELD - PITTSBURGH - DAY

INSERT: September 17, 1947.  Pittsburgh.

Ostermueller on the rubber.  Staring in at Jack.  

               OSTERMUELLER
      You dont belong!  Youll never 
      belong!

Jack waits.  Ostermueller pitches. 

               BARBERS VOICE
      Here comes the pitch and Robinson 
      takes outside.  Ball one.

RACHEL - ON MACDONOUGH STREET

Listening as --

               BARBERS VOICE
      Ostermueller winds and throws, low 
      and away ball two.  Fritz seems to 
      be pitching around Jackie.  Or 
      trying to get him to chase.

               RACHEL
      Come on.  Throw him a strike.

EXT. FORBES FIELD - PITTSBURGH - DAY

                                                      CUT TO:

Shakes off one sign, then nods at the next.  Throws the ball 
well outside.  Another pitch outside. Ball Three!  

               BARBERS VOICE
      3 and 0 now.  Robinson waiting on 
      something he can swing on.

As catcher Kluttz throws it back...

               JACK
      Give me something I can hit! 
          (to himself)
      What are you afraid of?

               OSTERMUELLER
      You want it?!
          (to himself)
      Careful what you wish for boy...

Ostermueller nods at the sign.  Jack about to slay the dragon 
as the pitch comes in - WHACK!  The ball is going for a ride.

               BARBERS VOICE
      That is a deep fly ball to left.  
      Kiner on his horse, but I dont 
      think hell get there.  

EBBETS FIELD

Rickey standing, looking up like he can see it.  

               BARBERS VOICE
      Back, back, back and oh doctor! 
      Robinson got his pitch!

FORBES FIELD

                                                      CUT TO:

The ball sails out: HOME RUN!  Ostermueller hangs his head.

INT. MACDONOUGH STREET APARTMENT - BROOKLYN - DAY

Rachel listening, smiling as CHEERS sound from outside the 
apartment.  We hear the sound of car horns on the street.


JACK

He runs toward first and we run with him.  The smile starts 
somewhere in his body.  His heart most likely.  By the time 
it reaches his face, his joy has erupted.  The weight of the 
world starting to drop.

 118.

PIRATES DUGOUT

Kirby Higbe who watches Robinson round the bases in disgust.

               HIGBE
      Pittsburgh...

JACKIE ROBINSON

Nears second on his home run trot.  Even the Pittsburgh crowd 
starting to applaud him.

EBBETS FIELD

Rickey absorbing the moment.  Its almost too much.  

JACKIE ROBINSON

                                                      CUT TO:

Rounding second and headed for third.  The weight of the 
world somehow lifting.  They gave him one he could hit.

                                    CUT TO:


 119.

Were tight on Jacks back as he heads for home at Forbes 
Field.  90 feet away...  75...

WENDELL SMITH IN THE STANDS

Finally inspired to type: T-h-a-n-k y-o-u, J-a-c-k-i-e.

JACKIE ROBINSON

Nearing home.  About to step on the plate.  He closes his 
eyes as well and --


EXT. 526 MACDONOUGH STREET - BROOKLYN - DAY

                                  WE CUT TO:

Rachel all alone on the sidewalk looking up and down the 
street.  And suddenly there he is... Jack, scooting between 
two cars, hurrying to her.  And theyre in each others arms.

               JACK
      Im home.

               RACHEL
      Safe.
          (re: house)
      The babys sleeping so dont you 
      make a sound.

He makes to button his lips.

               RACHEL
      Stay just like that.

She kisses him.  And kisses him.  And he kisses her back.  As
they finally head inside, we let them go.  And as were left 
looking down the street, a crawl begins:
  120.

Branch Rickey was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1967.

Pee Wee Reese was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1984.

Bobby Bragan retired the following year and became a manager 
in the Dodger minor leagues.  He is credited with mentoring 
several African American minor league players.

Wendell Smith became the first African-American sportswriter 
to join the Baseball Writers Association in 1948.

Ben Chapman was fired in 1948 and never managed again.

Eddie Stanky went on to manage the St. Louis Cardinals, the 
Chicago White Sox and the Texas Rangers.

Ralph Branca lives and works in Rye, New York.

Dixie Walker was traded the following season to Pittsburgh.

Ed Charles grew up to become a professional baseball player.  
He won the World Series in 1969 with the Miracle Mets.

Rachel Robinson splits her time between Connecticut and 
Manhattan where she runs the Jackie Robinson Foundation.

Jackie Robinson was named Major League Rookie of the Year in 
1947.  He won the World Series in 1955 against the New York 
Yankees, stealing home in Game One.  He was elected to the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962.  

We end on a montage of Jackie Robinson Day in present time. 
Every year in April, all MLB players wear the number 42 as a 
reminder of Jackie's accomplishments on and off the field. 
The number 42 is the only number retired by all of baseball. 
We see 42s leaving their dugouts, 42s at bat, 42s in the 
field, 42s signing autographs, 42s stealing bases, 42s lined 
up for the National Anthem. 


FREEZE FRAME on a 42.

The End.


