A BEAUTIFUL DAY IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD 
                 by

             Alexis C. Jolly

Chris Ridenhour & Adam Perry
APA


Based on the true story of Fred Rogers' New York years. 
And on make-believe. 


Pittsburgh. 1956.  
EXT. WESTERN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY - DAY

Young men in jackets and ties tote Bibles across the quad. 
Preparing for the priesthood. Deep in conversation. Or at 
least pretending to be.    

INT. ADMISSIONS OFFICE, WESTERN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY - DAY

CLOSE ON: Clunky church shoes. We travel up a dark navy suit 
and striped tie. A camera around a thin neck. 

Meet twenty-eight-year-old FRED ROGERS. Thin, but handsome. 
Mostly because of those pond-still eyes. 

He leafs through the seminarys welcome packet. A smile. He 
sits on a lone wooden chair near the closed admissions office 
door. A cracked, pale-blue leather suitcase rests at his 
feet. The kind grandmas use.  

Seated before an oak desk a few feet away, Freds MOTHER 
(Nancy) and FATHER (James) murmur with REV. RJ KENDALL, the 
seminarys academic Dean.  

A TIGER strolls across the hardwood floor. Nobody seems to 
notice it except Fred, who doesnt seem appropriately worried 
considering the size and proximity of the carnivore.

Freds father nods, extending a calloused hand toward Rev. 
Kendall for a firm shake. Freds mother smiles, a little 
forlorn. They look toward Fred. 

Whos gone. 

             FREDS MOTHER
      Fred?

Rev. Kendall glances at the office door. Which is shut. Fred 
stands on the other side of the glass. 

             FREDS FATHER
      Fred, goddamit!
        (then)
      Sorry, Father. The boy has-- 

EXT. HALLWAY, WESTERN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY - CONTINUOUS

Fred stands in the faculty lounge doorway. Inside, PRIESTS 
and NUNS crowd around a black and white television. 


They watch Norman Dello Joios The Trial at Rouen, an opera broadcast as part of the NBC Opera Theater.

             PRIEST
        (sarcastic)
      Captivating. 

He turns the dial to a new channel. Its a slapstick program. 
People throw pies in each others faces. The priests and nuns 
laugh. Fred watches. 

As his parents bang on the glass, mutely mouthing Freds 
name, we notice the chair wedged beneath the doors knob. 

Fred lifts his grandma suitcase. And walks out the door.

EXT. PENN STATION, NEW YORK - DAY

Fred stands in the middle of it all, a pebble in a churning, 
indifferent river. 

INT. TROLLEY (MOVING) - DAY

A trolley chugs its way uptown through crowded streets. Men 
and women in conservative attire cross its path, only a few 
feet from its nose. 

A businessman reads the Times on the crowded trolley. He 
looks up to see Fred seated across from him, camera around 
his neck, smiling. The businessman looks back down.

Then, a few seconds later, looks back up. At Fred. Who is 
still smiling at him. Fred takes a picture. 

EXT. RKO BUILDING - DAY

A magnificent Art Deco building located at 1270 Avenue of the 
Americas (part of Rockefeller Center). A buzz of activity.

Fred marvels as a continuous stream of people pass through 
its revolving doors. He watches each persons face. Attempts 
to smile at them. But is mostly met with downcast eyes. 
Sunlight bounces off the spinning glass. 

INT. ELEVATOR, RKO BUILDING - DAY

Fred stands in the crowded elevator. BETTY ABERLIN dashes up, 
toting her violin case, a handful of loose sheet music tucked 
under her arm.


             BETTY ABERLIN      Shit! Hold it, Charlie, would you?

Betty is late 20s with pale blue eyes. A restless energy. 
Fred stares, smitten. But quickly looks down at the floor as 
she steps in. 

             LIFT OPERATOR
      Just in time, Miss Aberlin. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Youre a prince. 

             LIFT OPERATOR
      22?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Only if I have to.  

Fred laughs. 

             FRED
      Excuse me. 

The lift operator presses the button for the 22nd floor. 

             LIFT OPERATOR
      And for you, sir? 

Fred looks at the elevator buttons. 

             FRED
      May I? Ive never ridden in an 
      elevator.

This gets some looks. 

             LIFT OPERATOR
      Of course, sir.   

Fred presses 1. Then 4. Then 3. 

             FRED
      One, four, three. 

Other passengers glance at one another. Bettys intrigued as 
the elevator rises. Fred clears his throat. Wishing he could 
control that sort of thing. 

The elevator stops on the third floor. The door opens. The 
tiger rests in the hallway, purring as tigers do. 

Betty and the lift operator look at Fred, wondering if hes 
going to get out, not seeming to notice the tiger. 


He doesnt. The door shuts, and the elevator continues its ascent. 

             FRED
        (re: Bettys violin case)
      The violin is my third-favorite 
      instrument. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Oh.

The elevator travels another floor in silence. The door opens 
on 4. Fred still doesnt get out. Betty ventures:

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Its my second. Favorite that is. 
      But its easier than lugging around 
      a piano. 

Fred smiles. 

INT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - DAY

This is the realm of receptionist MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE, 
outspoken and a bit cranky. Fred stands before her. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Do you have an appointment, Mr...

             FRED
      Rogers. But please...
        (reading her nameplate)
      Miss Elaine Fairchilde, call me 
      Fred.

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Very well, Fred. Do you have an 
      appointment?

             FRED
      I dont have an appointment. Im 
      sorry. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      And this is in regard to...

             FRED
      Id like to host a television 
      program. 


             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE      Wonderful! Ill just draw up the 
      paperwork and well get you into 
      hair and makeup. 

Fred blinks. 

             FRED
      I think youre teasing me, Miss 
      Fairchilde.

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      No! Have you got a CV, Fred?

             FRED
      I do not. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Of course not. Why should you? 
      Well. Have a seat. 

             FRED
      Thank you very much, Miss 
      Fairchilde. And isnt that a 
      beautiful brooch.  

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      It was a my grandmothers.  

             FRED
      Did you have a very loving 
      grandmother, Miss Fairchilde?

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Why dont you just have a seat.

Fred sits on the waiting room chair. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Can I offer you anything? Before 
      you get swept up in the chaos of 
      life as a big TV star?

             FRED
      Id like a cheese sandwich. 

Miss Elaine Fairchilde stares at him. Fred notices the 
aquarium in the office.   

             FRED
      Oh my. 

He puts his face up to the tank. Smiles at the fish.  


             FRED
      Hello, fish.

REVEAL: Betty Aberlin has watched all this from around the 
corner, intrigued. RAYMOND FRIDAY, 40s, handsome, a regal 
composure, hurries by in an elegant suit, puffing a pipe. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Betty! 

Fred looks up as Friday hurries her along by the elbow, 
spotting Betty.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Jesus, theyre already ten minutes 
      into rehearsal.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I couldnt help stopping for a 
      croissant. Or three.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Come on, come on... 

As time passes in the waiting area: 

-Fred snaps a photo of Elaine Fairchilde with his camera. 

-He borrows a pair of scissors. Kneels on the floor and makes 
a collage on the floor of cut-out magazine images.

-He helps a CUSTODIAN empty the trash cans. The custodian is 
wary at first, looking at Elaine Fairchilde like I didnt 
ask him to do this.

EXT. ALLEYWAY BEHIND THE RKO BUILDING - DAY

Outside, the Custodian stands in front of a large dumpster. 
Suddenly a dirty CAT PUPPET appears over the ledge, talking 
on a discarded telephone. The Custodian laughs. Fred pops his 
head out, smiling.   

-The Custodian writes something on a slip of paper. Hands it 
to Fred. 

EXT. MIDTOWN MANHATTAN - DAY

Fred rides a bus through the city. In awe. 

EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE - DAY

Fred walks cautiously through Manhattans Lower East Side. 
Its grime in stark contrast to Rockefeller Centers corporate 
elegance. The Cadillacs replaced by decrepit junkers, the 
occasional gypsy cab, bikes, even horse-drawn carts.

He stares in terrified wonder at an Italian butcher shop, 
carcasses dangling in the window. A fish monger, the bodies 
of fish staring up from their ice tombs. 

A gaggle of children crowd around a bodega, pointing and 
shouting at the candy (wax lips, candy cigarettes). 

A big-eared FEMALE JUNKIE hobbles past, spooking Fred.

A FLAT-NOSED ALCOHOLIC sits on a decrepit ROCKING CHAIR by an 
alley. Rocking back and forth as he plays with himself, 
muttering with a Scottish accent. 

             FLAT-NOSED ALCOHOLIC
      Ya bas. Ya deid bas. Come on then! 

Fred hurries off, scared, as the man glares at him.  

EXT. THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - DAY

Fred finds himself before a dirty brownstone. He glances at 
the piece of paper the custodian gave him. Its address 
matches that of the three-story walk-up called The Oak Tree. 

INT. LOBBY, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - DAY

Its a shithole. Stairs that look like they could give at any 
minute. A sofa jammed in the stairwell, abandoned.

Fred ducks under the sofa, walking upstairs. 

INT. MENDEL & HENRIETTAS APARTMENT - DAY

A small apartment, filled with books, jazz LPS, and shelves 
and shelves of tchotchkes. We hear a tentative knock. Then a 
louder one. 

HENRIETTA (late 30s, anxious, a fast talker) opens the door 
as Charlie Parkers Ko Ko blasts on the record player.  

             HENRIETTA
      ...Knock knock knock knock knock I 
      heard ya the first time!

Fred stands there, nervous.  

             FRED
      Hello. 

             HENRIETTA
      If youre here to tell me about 
      Jehovah, it aint worth it. Last 
      time I saw God he was on the tail 
      end of one of my shits after a big 
      spaghetti dinner.

             MENDEL
      Blasphemy! 

Thats MENDEL (friendly; droopy eyed; slow and scholarly), 
Henriettas husband. He reads Heideggers Being and Time. 
Some cats mew over a sardine tin on the counter. 

Henrietta makes a fart sound in response to her husband. 

             MENDEL
      Forgive her. The Heathen knows not 
      of what she speaks. 

             FRED
        (still very nervous)
      Im not here to tell you about 
      Jehovah. Raoul sent me. 

             HENRIETTA
      Raoul? Who the hell is Raoul? Are 
      you on drugs? 

             MENDEL
      Specifically what kind of drugs? 

             FRED
      I dont take drugs. 

             MENDEL
      Oh! Oh. 

             HENRIETTA
      Huh?

             MENDEL
    Raoul!

             HENRIETTA
      What?

  
             MENDEL
      Raoul. You know, Tiffs boyfriend. 

             HENRIETTA
      Raoul!

             FRED
      Yes, Raoul.

             MENDEL
      Raoul.

             FRED
      He said you may have an apartment I 
      could rent. 

             HENRIETTA
      You got cash? 

             MENDEL
      Always so tactful. 

Henrietta makes a rude gesture toward her husband. 

             FRED
      I have $150. 

Henrietta looks Fred up and down. 

             HENRIETTA
      That oughta cover the first month. 

             MENDEL
      Henrietta! Shame on you. 

             HENRIETTA
      All right, all right, the first 
      two. Whats your name, young man? 

             FRED
      Fred.

             HENRIETTA
      Henrietta Golden. This piece of 
      shit is my husband, Mendel.  

Fred looks down at the floor. 

             HENRIETTA
      Arent we the social one? Come on.

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - DAY

Henrietta opens the door to Freds new apartment. Light 
shimmers off the dust. 

Theres a broken grandfather clock with no hands. A mattress 
on the floor. A burner and an icebox. No bathroom door. A 
hole punched into the wall.  

             HENRIETTA
      Yeah, the last tenant... Well, if 
      you need anything, ah, youll 
      figure it out. 

Fred looks into his slightly terrifying new place. Sets down 
his suitcase. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - NIGHT

Fred, in pajamas, hangs his three dress shirts in the narrow 
closet. Neatly folds some undershirts. He places a scale in 
his bathroom. He hangs a plaque. On it is carved a single 
word: xapis.

Outside, we hear screams of laughter, sirens, traffic. 
Nightmarish. He opens the window. His view is of a stoplight. 
The light blinks perpetual yellow. 

He BLINKS and suddenly his walls are TRANSFORMED into a warm 
blue. A bright sun shines through his multicolored curtains. 
Gentle jazz piano shimmers in the background. He smiles. 
Sucks in a deep, cleansing breath. 

And WAKES UP on his grimy mattress. He glances at his 
wristwatch: 4:44am. Seconds later, the watch timer BEEPS: 
4:45am.

He walks into his bathroom. Steps on the scale. 143 lbs.  

             FRED
      1-4-3. 

-He returns to his mattress, now dressed in his suit and tie. 
Glances at his watch: 4:59am. He kneels. Folds his hands, 
closes his eyes, and begins murmuring in prayer.

-He glances at his wristwatch. 7:00am. He smiles. 

INT. YMCA SWIMMING POOL - DAY

Its empty this early in the morning, except for the 
geriatrics swimming in lanes separated by gender. 

Fred approaches the pools lip with an ATTENDANT. Fred wears 
a white robe. 

             ATTENDANT
      We just ask that you shower before 
      swimming. 

             FRED
      Oh yes, Ive already showered. 

             ATTENDANT
      Then go right ahead.

             FRED
      Thank you very much, Stephen. 
      Youve been very helpful. Would you 
      like to come over for dinner? 

             ATTENDANT
      Um... tonight?

             FRED
      Tonight would be terrific. 

             ATTENDANT
      I cant tonight. 

             FRED
      Then maybe another time. 

             ATTENDANT
      Maybe.

Fred pulls down his swimming goggles. Then removes his robe. 
He is completely naked. This draws some GASPS from the 
elderly women and some laughs from the men as Fred jumps in 
the pool and begins his slow laps. 

The attendant watches in shock.  

INT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - DAY

The southern-accented receptionist, Miss Elaine Fairchilde, 
looks up at Fred, back in his suit.  

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      You again.

             FRED
      Good morning, Miss Elaine 
      Fairchilde. How is your 
      grandmother?

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Shes very much dead.

             FRED
      Would you like a hug?

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Thank you, Ill pass. May I ask 
      what brings you here this fine day?

             FRED
      Id like to--

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      --to host a television program. 
      Yes, I recall. But when I summoned 
      you yesterday to meet with Mr. 
      Friday -- a man not known for his 
      copiously open schedule -- you had 
      disappeared like grits down a fat 
      mans gizzard. 

             FRED
      Im sorry. Raoul was showing me the 
      dumpster. We found a cat puppet and 
      I got a bit carried away. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Im sure wonderful does not even 
      begin to describe your cat puppet. 
      But unfortunately, Im afraid Mr. 
      Friday--

             MR. FRIDAY 
      Afraid of Mr. Friday? Why, I hear 
      hes gentle as a kitten. 

Mr. Friday, the regal head of NBC television whom we saw 
whisk Betty to rehearsal, walks in, removing his hat.  

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Mr. Friday! Good morning!  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Good morning, Elaine. Dont you 
      look fetching. 
        (to Fred)
      Frank Rogers, I presume?

             FRED
      Fred.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Raymond Friday. You know, Fred, 
      its not often I get stood up. 

             FRED
      Maybe you spend too much time 
      sitting down. 

Miss Elaine Fairchilde is horrified. Friday chuckles. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Walk with me, my boy. 

EXT. NBC HALLWAYS - DAY

Friday leads a fascinated Fred through the NBC hallways. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Today is on your right. Kraft 
      Television Theater, of course. 

Friday approaches two large doors. A red light bulb indicates 
when a live broadcast is in progress. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      And here are our stages for the 
      Opera Theater. 

He pulls open a door. From Fridays POV we just see the 
lights, the cameras, the coffee-ringed production tables.  
From Freds perspective, were in another world.

                       FRED
 Figaro. 

             MR. FRIDAY
 Indeed.


We hear the ghostly soprano of the pieces Sullaria 
haunting the lavish sets of Spanish courtyard and palaces. 
Costumes of lace and silk. 

Friday shuts the door. Abruptly cutting off the aria. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Dont mention this to Rudolph, but 
      in my humble opinion we make The 
      Met look like a grammar school 
      auditorium.  

             FRED
      I wont mention it to Rudolph. 

They continue along the hallway. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Kirk and Peter work down here. 

They approach a corner office. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      And heres my little corner.  

A plaque hangs on the door: RAYMOND FRIDAY. HEAD OF 
TELEVISION.

COLLETTE, Mr. Fridays attractive personal secretary, greets 
them from her desk nearby as she clacks away at her 
typewriter.  

             COLLETTE
      Good morning, Mr. Friday!

             MR. FRIDAY
      Morning, Colette. See that were 
      not disturbed.

             COLLETTE
      Of course.

             FRED
      How do you do?

             COLLETTE
      Very well, thank you.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Come along, Fred.

INT. RAYMOND FRIDAYS OFFICE - DAY

The office is luxurious. The finest mahogany. Tiffany glass. 
Original Audubon drawings of wrens and mockingbirds on the 
walls. As well as taxidermic version of the same. 

             FRED
      Oh my. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Shes something, isnt she. 

             FRED
      This office is almost as my big as 
      my mother and fathers whole house. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Thank you. 

             FRED
      You must get lonely in here. 

Mr. Friday laughs. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      It is lonely at the top. 

Fred approaches a cello against the wall. 

             FRED
      Do you play cello? Its my second-
      favorite instrument. It sounds just 
      like a man humming to me.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Not in ages, Im afraid. Can I 
      offer you a drink, Fred? 

             FRED
      Oh yes, please.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Good man. Not a bad way to start 
      the day, yes?

Fred smiles. Mr. Friday pours him some scotch. 

             FRED
      Im sorry. I dont drink spirits.  

Friday looks at Fred. Then presses his buzzer. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Collette? 

After a moment, we hear her voice over the INTERCOM. 

             COLLETTE 
      Yes, Mr. Friday?

Fred smiles at the intercom.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Some water for Fred here. 

             COLLETTE 
      Yes sir. 

             FRED
      May I?


             MR. FRIDAY
      Ah--



             FRED
        (presses the button)
      Thank you, Collette. 

A moments pause. Then.

             COLLETTE 
      Youre welcome. Ill be in in just 
      a moment with your water. 

             FRED
        (presses the button)
      Thank you. 

Mr. Friday looks at Fred. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      So. I hear youre to be our next 
      big star.

             FRED
      Oh no. Not a star. Id just like to 
      host a program is all.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Is that all. And what sort of 
      program, may I ask?

             FRED
      Im not quite sure, Mr. Friday. A 
      good one. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Youre still sorting out the 
      details. 

             FRED
      Yes. I do like your opera program 
      very much. 

Collette brings in his water.

             FRED
      Thank you, Collette. Thats very 
      nice of you.

             COLLETTE
      Youre welcome. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Tell me, Fred, where are you from?


             FRED
      Latrobe, Pennsylvania. Near 
      Pittsburgh. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      You go to college?

             FRED
      I went to two colleges, Mr. Friday. 
      Dartmouth College and Rollins 
      College.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Ivy League. 

             FRED
      For a bit, before I left to study 
      music at Rollins. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      And what brought you here? 

             FRED
      A program where people threw pies 
      in each others faces. 

Friday chuckles. 

             FRED
      It seemed... it seemed to me that 
      we can do better. That people 
      deserve better.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      You know, were not in the habit of 
      handing out TV shows.

             FRED
      Of course. But I was hoping if I 
      worked here...

             MR. FRIDAY
      You could get your foot in the 
      door, as they say.

             FRED
      Yes. 

Friday leans back in his chair. 


             MR. FRIDAY
      Our artistic director, Peter Herman 
      Adler, hes gone through about five 
      personal assistants in the past 
      month. You think you could handle a 
      man like that? See to his every 
      need? It wouldnt be glamorous. 
      Fetching coffee. Make photocopies. 
      Womens work, really. 

Fred nods. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Are you married, Fred?

             FRED
      No, Im not. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      You mentioned your mother and 
      father. What do they think of your 
      being here?

Fred looks at the floor. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred, this is an industry that 
      chews up young men like you and 
      spits them out old and bitter. 
      There are so many other choices out 
      there. Good jobs. Honest jobs. Say 
      back in Latrobe, working in 
      insurance or a bank. Youll find a 
      girl. Start a family. Start a life. 
      You really want to risk all that to 
      fetch a man his coffee?  

             FRED
      I do. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      You are determined arent you. 

Fred smiles.

             MR. FRIDAY
      But Im afraid being determined 
      isnt enough. I receive dozens of 
      resumes a week. Tell me, whats 
      special about you? 

Fred thinks about this. 

             FRED
      Mr. Friday, Im no more special 
      than anyone else. 

Mr. Friday looks quietly at Fred. 

Then presses his intercom. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Collette. Have Miss Fairchilde draw 
      up some paperwork for Fred here, 
      would you?

             COLLETTE 
      Yes, sir. 

Fred smiles. Presses the intercom.

             FRED
      Thank you, Co--

But Friday pulls it away.

             MR. FRIDAY
      I think thats enough intercom for 
      one day. 

INT. HALLWAY, FREDS APARTMENT BUIDLING - NIGHT

Fred, pleased, strolls to his apartment. He hears SCREAMING 
from Henrietta and Mendels room. 

He approaches the door, which is cracked open, just in time 
to see a glass SMASH above Mendels head. 

             MENDEL
      She-devil! You could have taken my 
      cornea out!

Henrietta swigs from a bottle of whiskey. 

             HENRIETTA
      Ah, your unibrow wouldve protected 
      your cornea, ya cunt. 

Fred touches his eyebrows, then continues to his apartment. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - MORNING

Fred wakes up on his mattress. He glances at his wristwatch: 
4:44am. Seconds later, BEEP BEEP BEEP. 

-He walks into his bathroom. Steps on the scale. 143 lbs.  

             FRED
      1-4-3.  

-He kneels and prays. Moments later, he hears a KNOCKING. 

             MCFEELY 
      Speedy delivery!

Fred returns to praying. But the KNOCKING continues. Fred 
frowns slightly.  

             MCFEELY 
      Brian! Motherfucker! I said, speedy 
      delivery!  

More banging. Fred peeks out the door to see MCFEELY. 

As a man (she was born with male organs), McFeely would be a 
little rough around the edges. As a woman, shes a sight to 
behold. She wears a soiled, once-glamorous third-hand dress 
and Army boots. A USPS postal worker delivery bag slung over 
her shoulder. Heavy bags under her eyes. 

             FRED
        (door cracked)
      Im afraid I dont know Brian.

Almost as soon as they lock eyes, McFeely turns and BOLTS 
down the stairs. 

             MCFEELY
      Shit! 

Fred tilts his head, confused. McFeely trips over her 
bootlaces and CRASHES down the stairs out of frame. 

Fred walks down the stairs. He rounds the corner to find 
McFeely wedged against the sofa stuck in the stairwell. He 
stands back, a little afraid.

             MCFEELY
      Well. Go ahead, pig. Arrest me. 

             FRED
      I dont have any handcuffs. Or a 
      police car. Or a jail. 

             MCFEELY
      What kind of cop are you? 

             FRED
      Im not a policeman.  

             MCFEELY
      You sure dress like a cop. 

             FRED
      Thank you. Are you hurt?

             MCFEELY
      Terribly.  

Fred looks at McFeely. Wary. Then extends a hand. She looks 
at it. Takes it.  

As Fred helps McFeely back upstairs, Henrietta, the landlady, 
pokes her head out her door. She scowls and slams her door. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

McFeely lies on Freds mattress. Fred kneels by her legs, 
running a cool washcloth along her ankles. 

             MCFEELY
      That feels sublime. 

             FRED
        (sings)
      I'm taking care of you, taking good 
      care of you...

             MCFEELY
      What the fuck. 

             FRED
      Im sorry.

             MCFEELY
      Youre not some kind of deviant, 
      are you?

             FRED
      I dont think so. 

             MCFEELY
      So Brian high-tailed it? Figures. 
      The parsimonious bastard owed me a 
      hundred and seven bucks. 

             FRED
      Would you like to me hold onto 
      whatever is in your mail sack in 
      case Brian returns?

McFeely almost loses it with laughter. 


             MCFEELY
      I dont think Pandoras sack is 
      one in which youd want to dabble. 

             FRED
      Okay. 

             MCFEELY
      And your name, oh knight in shining 
      armor? 

             FRED
      My name is Fred. Whats your name?

             MCFEELY
        (almost a challenge)
      McFeely. 

             FRED
      Im happy to meet you. May I... may 
      I take your picture? 

             MCFEELY
      Come again?

             FRED
      Ive never seen a woman like you.  

             MCFEELY
      Fred, I hate to say it, but youre 
      starting to sound quite a bit like 
      the weirdo you swore you werent. 

             FRED
      Im sorry, Miss McFeely. 

             MCFEELY
      Miss McFeely. Now youre toying 
      with me. 

Fred looks at her blankly.

             MCFEELY
      Very well. But the second you ask 
      me to slip into something more 
      comfortable, Ill tear off your 
      ballsack and use it as a 
      handkerchief, you understand? 

             FRED
      Yes, youll use my scrotum to blow 
      your nose. 

             MCFEELY
      Correct.

Fred gets his camera from the dresser. 

             MCFEELY
      Shall I smile?

             FRED
      You already are.  

Fred snaps a confused McFeelys photo. 

             MCFEELY
      Do me a favor, Fred, and run some 
      more warm water over that cloth, 
      would you? 

Fred sets his camera down. 

             FRED
      Okay. 

INT. FREDS BATHROOM 

Fred runs steaming water over the washcloth. 

             FRED
        (calls)
      You know, Miss McFeely, youre my 
      first visitor. 

             MCFEELY 
      What an honor!

Fred wrings the cloth over the sink. Watches the water spiral 
down the drain. 

When he walks back to out to his apartment, McFeely is gone. 
As is Freds camera. 

Fred blinks. 

INT. NBC OPERA THEATER STUDIO - DAY

PETER HERMAN ADLER, an Austrian-born, mouselike man with a 
bow tie and round eyeglasses conducts the NBC orchestra. 

Beads of sweat drip down Adlers forehead. Hes 
simultaneously conducting and adjusting the Marriage of 
Figaro score, scribbling changes. 


Fred stands beside Adlers elbow. Very intentionally not 
looking at Betty Aberlin, who is concertmaster (i.e. leader 
of the first violin section). 

Raymond Friday watches from the front row of the empty studio-
audience chairs, arms crossed, puffing on his pipe. 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Dammit! Stop. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Everything all right, Peter?

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      No, Raymond, everything is not all 
      right. This bar is giving me 
      nightmares. Everythings off-
      balance. 

Fred looks at the score. He HEARS THE MUSIC in his head. This 
is his moment to shine.

             FRED
     Maybe--


             PETER HERMAN ADLER
       Boy! 

             FRED
      Yes, Mr. Adler. 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Fetch me a Coke, would you? 

             FRED
      Oh yes, Mr. Adler. Ice or no ice?

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Excuse me? 

Some chuckles from the orchestra. 

             FRED
      Mr. Friday told me I should look 
      after your every need. 

Fred looks to Friday for approval. Friday nods. 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Ice, of course.  

             FRED
      How many cubes, Mr. Adler? 

More Orchestra members laugh. Including Betty, who smiles at 
Fred. Fred blushes. Friday notices. 

Adler blinks. Then THROWS his score at Fred. 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Just get me a goddamn Coke! Run!

With that, the joyous overture to Mozarts opera plays. 

             FRED
      Right away, Mr. Adler! 

Betty watches Fred go. 

INT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - MOMENTS LATER

Fred dashes by Miss Elaine Fairchildes desk.

             FRED
      Good morning, Miss Elaine 
      Fairchilde! 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Where on earth--

             FRED
      Mr. Adler needs a Coke.

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Theres a refrigerator--

But its too late. Fred is already out the door. 

EXT. AVE OF THE AMERICAS - DAY

Fred bursts out of the revolving door. 

We LINGER for a moment on the door. Watching the various men 
and women spinning in and out, going about their day. 

Fred runs back in the door, a bottle of Coke in one hand and 
a Styrofoam cup of ice in the other. 

INT. ELEVATOR, RKO BUILDING - DAY

Fred hurries into the elevator. 

             LIFT OPERATOR
      That was quick. 

             FRED
      It was quick, Charlie. 

Fred catches his breath. Then presses:

             FRED
      One. Four. Three. 

The lift operator looks at Fred. 

INT. NBC OPERA THEATER STUDIO - MOMENTS LATER

Fred hurries back into the studio, where the orchestra is in 
the midst of rehearsing. 

He pauses, enraptured as he watches Betty play violin during 
the opening Duettino. Not just playing. Revealing something 
through the music. Shes a vision. Fred smiles.  

So enraptured, in fact, that Peter Herman Adlers Coke slips 
from his hands. SMASH. 

             FRED
      Oh dear. 

Peter Herman Adler throws his baton, nearly taking out one 
trumpeter and hitting another. 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Shit on my face!

Fred looks confused. Betty tries to keep it together. Fred 
looks at her, and she cant help it - she starts LAUGHING.  

FLASH FORWARD as Bettys laughter... turns to the SOPRANOS 
singing during the NBC Opera Theaters LIVE BROADCAST. 

Fred, in his suit, has grown more comfortable, standing 
beside the tuxedod Peter Herman Adler. Fred turns the page 
of the score.   

Mr. Friday watches from backstage. Beside him stands KATE 
SMITH, a large, cherubic woman in her late 30s, dressed 
lavishly in a mink stole. 

             KATE SMITH
      Its terrific. Its goddam 
      terrific.  

Fred notices a bead of sweat working its way down Peter 
Herman Adlers forehead as he conducts... Fred quickly dabs 
it with a handkerchief.  


Kate Smith gives Friday an impressed look. 

INT. ALGONQUIN HOTEL - NIGHT

The performance after-party. Cast and above-the-line crew 
swig celebratory drinks in the chic hotel. 

Fred steps into the bar. And as soon as he locks eyes on 
Betty, we hear the magical piano sprinkle of JOHNNY COSTAs 
My Funny Valentine. Its the same sound that will someday 
grace every single episode of Mr. Rogers Neighborhood.

Betty takes a bite of an hors d'oeuvre. Then makes a grossed-
out face and spits it into a napkin. 

             FRED
      That was a wonderful performance.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Mm. Thank you. Hungry?

She offers her spit-out food in the napkin. 

             FRED
      No, thank you. My name is Fred. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I know. My name is Betty.

             FRED
      I know, Miss Aberlin. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Lets get a drink, Fred. 

             FRED
      Okay.

They approach the bar. 

             BARTENDER
      Whatll it be? 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Schlitz, please. Bottles fine. 

The faintest blink from the bartender over a woman ordering a 
beer. But he rolls with it. 

             BARTENDER
      And for you, sir. 

             FRED
      Some water, thank you. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred! Really? 

             FRED
      Oh, what the heck. Ill have a 
      ginger ale, please.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Youre a wild man.  

             FRED
        (grins)
      I am.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You are. 

Mr. Friday, pipe in mouth, approaches with his wife, Sara. 
Friday tries to conceal his displeasure at Fred and Bettys 
flirtation. Saras got a lovely, dignified air about her. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Betty!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Hello, Raymond!

He gives her a peck on the cheek, which she returns. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Betty, you remember my wife Sara.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Of course. How nice to see you, 
      Sara.

             SARA FRIDAY
      You were wonderful.

Betty and Sara peck cheeks too. Though we may notice the 
slightest hesitation from Betty as she glances at Friday. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Im so glad you liked it. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred, what a pleasant surprise. I 
      didnt realize below-the-line crew 
      were invited. 


Friday extends a hand. But Fred smooches Mr. Friday on the 
cheek. Which weirds him out a little. 

             FRED
      Yes, Mr. Peter Herman Adler was 
      nice enough to invite me. 

Fred waves to an already drunk Peter Herman Adler, who shouts 
his name

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
     FRED!

             MR. FRIDAY
       Did he? 

             FRED
      I hope thats okay.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Of course. Well, congratulations on 
      surviving your first performance. 

             FRED
      Thank you, Mr. Friday.

             MR. FRIDAY
      This is my wife, Sara. 

             FRED
      Im happy to meet you, Sara. 

He kisses her on the cheek too. 

             SARA FRIDAY
      Likewise. 

The bartender brings them their respective bottles. Betty, 
eyes darting at Sara, takes a long plug. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Hey! Atta girl! 

A LITTLE LATER

Several mostly-empty beer bottles are in front of a tipsy and 
laughing Mr. Friday, Sara, and Betty. Fred is really enjoying 
their company, if a bit lost in the conversation.   

             MR. FRIDAY
      Ed Sullivan didnt even want the 
      boy on his show until Steve 
      trounced him in the ratings. Of 
      course its all so vulgar.


             SARA FRIDAY
      I dont know. I enjoyed it. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Sara! You didnt!

             SARA FRIDAY
      Is that bad?!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Did you think Elvis performance 
      was vulgar, Fred? The gyrations and 
      the thrusting?

             FRED
      Im not sure I know whom youre 
      talking about, Miss Aberlin. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Elvis. 

Fred has a blank look.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Elvis Presley? You dont know 
      Elvis? From his TV performance? 

             FRED
      I dont watch television. But he 
      sounds wonderful. 

They laugh. Fred smiles. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Unbelievable. 

             FRED
      May I show you something? 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I would absolutely love to see what 
      you have to show us, Fred.

Fred lines up the beer and ginger ale bottles. He pours a 
little bit of his ginger ale into them so theyre at various 
levels. Then begins blowing over their mouths. Its hard to 
hear anything.

             FRED
      Its much too loud in here.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Wait! Wait. 


INT. LADIES BATHROOM - BAR
Theyve arranged the five bottles atop the closed toilet 
seat. Fred blows on the bottles. He makes a little tune. 

             FRED
      Does Elviss music sound anything 
      like that? 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Precisely. 

             FRED
      Would you like to try, Sara?

             SARA FRIDAY
      Oh, Im no musician. 

             FRED
      We all have music inside of us. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Go on, Sara.

             SARA FRIDAY
      Fine.

She blows on the beer bottles. At first theres no 
discernible tune.

             SARA FRIDAY
      See! I told you. 

             FRED
      Its okay. 

Betty watches the way Fred interacts with her. His patience. 
His kindness. Sara sighs. Then proceeds. Her tune turns into 
something: simple, but lovely. 

             FRED
      Do it again, wont you? 

             SARA FRIDAY
      I think once is enough--

             FRED
      Id like to sing a song. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Dear Sara! Youll do it, wont you?

She sighs. As she blows into the bottles, Fred starts to 
compose a song, making up the words as he goes along.


             FRED
      There are many ways to say I love 
      you. There are many ways to say I 
      care about you. 

As they compose it, Sara of course hits a wrong note or two, 
but Fred just smiles the whole way. Betty watches. 

             FRED
      Many ways, 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Many ways...

             FRED
      Many ways to say I... 

             BETTY ABERLIN
     love... 

             FRED
     You.

 
 
Fred smiles at Betty. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You are a dummy arent you. 

Mr. Friday sees the look she gives Fred. And has a hard time 
concealing his displeasure. 

EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE - NIGHT

Fred strolls home, happily humming his new tune under his 
breath. 

             MCFEELY 
      Speedy delivery! 

Fred looks up to spot McFeely rapping on a tenement door 
across the street, postal bag slung over her shoulder.  

             FRED
      Ms. McFeely! Hello, its Fred! 

             MCFEELY
      Shit. 

             FRED
      I think you may have accidentally 
      walked off with my camera! Hows 
      your ankle?

McFeely sprints off. 

             FRED
      It must be better. 

Fred steps across the street, nearly getting RUN OVER by an 
ASIAN MAN tugging a cart behind him. 

             ASIAN MAN
      Watch it! 

Fred, startled and disoriented, hurries across the street. A 
young man and woman in dressed in black laugh from their 
stoop, faces illuminated by the ember of their cigarettes. 

He glances down the alley. But McFeely is gone. Instead hes 
face to face with the flat-nosed alcoholic Scottish 
masturbator. Whos doing his thing. Its terrifying.  

When, suddenly, the man turns into a large, DUCK-BILLED 
PLATYPUS PUPPET wearing eyeglasses. They stand in a BRIGHT 
FIELD, with the gentle jazz piano in the background. 

             DUCK-BILLED PLATYPUS PUPPET
      The feck you lookin at?

Fred blinks and the man turns back to a normal Scottish 
alcoholic diddling himself. 

             FRED
      Excuse me. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - NIGHT

Fred sits on his bed. He looks at the cat puppet from the 
dumpster.  

             FRED
      Hello. 

The cat puppet doesnt move. Fred puts the puppet on his 
hand. Tries out a number of voices for it.  

             CAT PUPPET
        (normal voice)
      Hello.
        (deep voice)
      Hello.
        (Southern voice)
      Hello. 

Fred looks at the puppet. 


INT. NBC OPERA THEATER STUDIO - DAY
Fred walks into work to find the stage being dismantled, the 
fake columns being toted out on crews shoulders. Musicians 
mill about, whispering to one another. Fred spots Betty.

             FRED
      Oh boy, whats the next opera?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Nothing. Raymond got word from 
      above. Were done.

             FRED
      Done?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      We just werent getting ratings. 
      Half the orchestras being let go.  

Fred watches in horror as teamsters dismantle his dream. A 
couple large men prepare to remove a baroque chaise longue 
from the stage.

             FRED
      No!

Fred runs up and throws himself on the couch. The large men 
look down at him. 

             FRED
      Im sorry. 

They glance at each other, then tip the couch, sending Fred 
to the floor. Betty approaches.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Can I sit next to you?

             FRED
      Yes. 

             FRED
      I like it here, Miss Aberlin.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I like it too. 

Raymond Friday approaches from behind them. Notices Bettys 
hand rubbing Freds back. 

             FRED
      Do you think Ill have to go?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I dont know. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Im afraid you do, Fred. Now be a 
      good man, would you, and get on up.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Raymond--

             MR. FRIDAY
      I wish it didnt have to be this 
      way. Ill be glad to write you a 
      letter of reference.    

             FRED
      Thank you, Mr. Friday. Youre a 
      nice man. 

Friday shakes Freds hand. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      There isnt anything--?

Friday takes Betty by the hand.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      You just be thankful for your 
      extraordinary gift. 

She pulls her hand away. Peter Herman Adler walks by in the 
opposite direction, headed out the door with dignity. 

             FRED
      Mr. Adler? Where are you going? 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
      Home. Im going home, Fred. Far 
      away from this Gomorrah.  

             FRED
      Im happy to have learned from you, 
      Mr. Adler. 

Peter Herman Adler nods.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Peter...

Peter Herman Adler spits at Fridays feet. Then barks in 
Austrian at a group of elderly women, who tote boxes of 
musical scores and Adlers personal items. 

             PETER HERMAN ADLER
        (in Austrian)
      Hurry it up. 

EXT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - DAY

Fred walks toward the exit, his heart broken. Miss Elaine 
Fairchilde looks up over her glasses. Unconsciously playing 
with the brooch her grandmother gave her. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Fred. Youre to report to room 
      1132.

             FRED
      1132?

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Kate Smiths dressing room. 

INT. KATE SMITHS DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Fred sits on Kate Smiths couch. Shes the large, cherubic 
woman who watched Fred from the wings. 

             KATE SMITH
      I saw the way you took care of that 
      weenie of a conductor. 

             FRED
      Mr. Adler. 

             KATE SMITH
      Thats right. Not enough people 
      take their responsibilities 
      seriously enough. 

She examines him closely.

             KATE SMITH
      Tell me, Fred. Are you now or have 
      you ever been a communist?

             FRED
      I dont remember being a communist.

             KATE SMITH
        (whispers)
      A homosexual?

             FRED
      Im sorry?


             KATE SMITH
      Do you have... unnatural thoughts 
      about men?

             FRED
      One time I thought a man was a 
      platypus. 

             KATE SMITH
        (smiles)
      You love this country and 
      everything she stands for? 

             FRED
      What does she stand for, Kate?  

             KATE SMITH
      Precisely. Its hard to say 
      anymore. The Redsll turn us into a 
      wasteland if they have their way.  

             FRED
      Red can be a very angry color. I 
      prefer blue.  

             KATE SMITH
      Thats right, Fred. Thats right. 
      Red on its own, without the blue, 
      without the white, well... then we 
      might as wellve let the Nazis won.

             FRED
      Im glad they didnt. Mendel is a 
      Jew, I think.  

             KATE SMITH
      Is he in corporate?

             FRED
      Im not sure. 

Kate smiles. Satisfied. 

             KATE SMITH
      You think ya could floor manage, 
      Fred?

INT. KATE SMITH SHOW STAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Kates set - lavishly decorated with painted backdrops -is 
bustling with activity. DOROTHY DANIEL, a no-nonsense but 
kind producer, approaches, shaking Freds hand.

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Fred. Dorothy Daniel. Kates 
      producer. 

             FRED
      Its nice to meet--

But shes already walking in the opposite direction. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Out on the floor, youre my eyes, 
      ears, and mouth, you understand? 

Fred hurries after her. Betty spots him from where the 
trimmed-down orchestra settles into place. She leaps to her 
feet, joining a none-too-pleased Raymond Friday.  

             FRED
      Mr. Friday! Miss Aberlin! Miss 
      Smith offered me a job!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Thats terrific, Fred!

She hugs him. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Delightful. 

CONTROL ROOM

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      You get an order from the director 
      in the control room.

Fred slides a a sound mixers knob. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Dont touch that. 

STUDIO FLOOR

             DOROTHY DANIEL 
      Out to the crew on the studio 
      floor.

Fred looks at the busy floor, mystified and nervous.  

             DOROTHY DANIEL 
      And vice versa. 

Fred dashes up to the director, handing him a script page. 


             DOROTHY DANIEL
      You spot anything funny on stage, 
      you tell someone. You see Kate 
      forgetting a line, you tell 
      someone. Got it? 

             FRED
      Ah... maybe I should just...

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Fred. Relax. Youre gonna be great. 

She slaps him on the back. Fred turns to the studio, which 
suddenly has an AUDIENCE. 

Bettys there in the orchestra with her violin. Mr. Fridays 
standing by the directors chair, smoking his pipe.   

Were in the midst of a LIVE PERFORMANCE of Kate Smith 
singing her show-stopper, God Bless America. A kinescope 
records the performance directly from the monitor. 

The Director whispers something to Fred, whos dressed, as 
always, in his suit and church shoes. Fred dashes around to 
pass the message along to a lighting guy, his shoes CLACKING 
the whole way.  

While hes back there, Fred notices that from Kates POV, 
smoke from Mr. Fridays pipe keeps wafting up toward her, 
causing her eyes to burn. 

Fred runs back to Mr. Friday. 

             FRED
        (whispers)
      Could you please put out your pipe, 
      Mr. Friday?

             MR. FRIDAY
      Youre joking.

             FRED
      Im sorry. But I think the smoke is 
      getting in Miss Smiths eyes. 

Not pleased, he places his thumb over the pipes chamber and 
inhales, extinguishing it. 

Relieved, Kate Smith continues her song. 

EXT. RAYMOND FRIDAYS HOUSE - NIGHT

Its a beautiful home in Connecticut. Crickets chirp. Stars 
twinkle. A train of taxis pull into the driveway. 

INT. LIVING ROOM, RAYMOND FRIDAYS HOUSE - NIGHT

The above-the-line crew and their guests raise their glasses 
to Kate Smith. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Kate, your voice is a beacon from 
      the heavens, full of angelic 
      timbre.   

             KATE SMITH
      Raymond, your voice is full of 
      shit. But it does make me so very 
      happy.  

The crew laughs. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      And so very rich, I might add. 

             KATE SMITH
      If I dont choke to death from that 
      goddam pipe of yours. 

Everybody clinks glasses. Betty touching hers to Freds.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You like dancing?

             FRED
      Yes, Miss Aberlin, I like dancing 
      very much. 

LATER THAT NIGHT

As a dance number plays on the record player, Mr. Friday 
dances elegantly with his wife, Sara. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Betty, Ill have to show you that 
      new painting.

             SARA FRIDAY
      The Philip Guston? Oh youll love 
      it, Betty. 


Next to them, Betty tries her best not to laugh as Fred dances. Hes not much of a dancer, but he is having a great 
time. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Later, if thats all right. Right 
      now I need to make sure Freds not 
      in the middle of a stroke. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      You may be too late. 

             FRED
      Id like to see your painting. 
      Youve got a beautiful home, Mr. 
      and Mrs. Friday.

             SARA FRIDAY
      Thank you, Fred! Youre welcome to 
      stop by any time. 

             FRED
      Thank you, I will.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Jesus, what have you gotten us 
      into, Sara?

             SARA FRIDAY
      Raymond!

             MR. FRIDAY
      Im kidding! Fred knows that. 

Fred smiles at Mr. Friday. A very drunk Kate Smith hobbles 
over to Fred, leaning on producer Dorothy Daniels shoulder.  

             KATE SMITH
      There he is. Theres the greatest 
      floor manager there is in the whole 
      entire world. 

Betty looks at Fred. Impressed hes already made such an 
impression.

             FRED
        (still dancing)
      Hello, Kate!

             KATE SMITH
      Fred Rogers.  

             FRED
      Thank you for sharing your voice 
      with us. 

             KATE SMITH
      You talk funny. You sure youre not 
      a homo, Fred?

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Okay, Kate, lets get you home. 

             KATE SMITH
      Ah, put a sock in it ya bull dyke. 

Dorothy shakes his her head, like you would to a child.  

             KATE SMITH
      Kidding. I love ya. 

Kate gives Dorothy a big kiss on the lips. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Okay. 

             KATE SMITH
      You loved that, devil woman.  

Dorothy leads her off. 

             KATE SMITH
      Wait. Wait. Jesus. Fred. Fred 
      Rogers. Wear a goddamn quieter pair 
      of shoes, would ya? I can hear ya 
      clunkin all over the set like a 
      runaway horse. 

Fred looks down at his dress shoes. 

             FRED
      But my mother bought me these 
      shoes.  

He looks up. Betty and Kate explode with laughter at him. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred. Ill get some shoes with you. 

             FRED
      Okay. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Excuse me. I think Ill lie down 
      for a minute.

             SARA FRIDAY
      Raymond? Dont you feel well? 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - NIGHT

Fred, in his pajamas, opens the grandfather clocks face and 
puts the cat puppet inside there, inside a little bed hes 
made of a dish towel.

             FRED
      Goodnight... Daniel. Daniel Cat. 
      Yes, thats a nice name.  

Fred lies in bed. Turns off the light. 

A quiet moment in the dark. 

             DANIEL CAT 
      Goodnight, Fred. 

EXT. BETTYS APARTMENT - DAY

Its a nice building in mid-town. Betty smiles as she steps 
outside and greets Fred. Shes dressed casually in black 
pants and a large sweater.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Howdy!

But Fred, wearing his suit, looks nervous for his date.  

             FRED
      Hello.  

Betty immediately senses it. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Well dont you look handsome. 

             FRED
      Thank you. 

EXT. FIRST AVENUE, MID-TOWN - DAY

Fred and Betty approach the large shoe store. Freds still 
nervous. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Do you know the city very well?

             FRED
    No. 


             BETTY ABERLIN
        Oh. 

Fred sees a SCARED BOY who looks terrified as his MOTHER 
tries to coax him into the store. 

             SCARED BOY
      Cant I just wear socks?! 

             BOYS MOTHER 
      No, Frederick, you cant just wear 
      socks. 

             SCARED BOY
      Theyre nice socks!

Fred relaxes a little. Addresses the boy:  

             FRED
      Its scary going new places, isnt 
      it? 

The boy ducks behind his mothers leg. 

             FRED
      Lots of us are afraid of things. 
      Even adults. Though we sometimes 
      try not to show it. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Shall we try going in together, all 
      four of us?

             SCARED BOY
      Okay. 

Betty smiles. The mother is slightly weirded out. 

INT. SHOE STORE - DAY

Fred looks at the rows and rows of shoes.  

             FRED
      Oh my. 

Fred walks along the aisles, admiring them. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      See? Its not so bad.

             FRED
      Have you ever seen anything so 
      wonderful, Miss Aberlin?!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Well, I dont know about wonderful. 

             FRED
      A man or a woman imagined each of 
      these. Then other men and women 
      worked together, making the leather 
      and canvas and rubber, threading 
      the laces through the eyelets just 
      so, making sure theyre all sturdy 
      and handsome and lined up in nice 
      rows. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Well, I suppose if you put it that 
      way...

             SCARED BOY
      Itd be neat to visit a shoe 
      factory. 

             FRED
      It would be neat! 

The boys mother smiles at Fred. Betty holds up a pair of 
navy-blue canvas Topsiders. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      These are smart! 

Fred palms a sneaker, admiring its lightness. 

             FRED
      Oh yes. Yes they are. 

EXT. FIRST AVENUE, MID-TOWN - DAY

Betty looks at Fred. Who struts along in his suit and his new 
canvas boat shoes. 

             FRED
      I feel like the belle of the ball. 

She smiles. Fred takes her hand. 

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Gray clouds creep along the sky as they approach the parks 
Alice In Wonderland sculpture. Alice sits on a toadstool, 
reaching toward the White Rabbits pocket watch. Children 
climb on the sculpture.  

             FRED
      Goodness.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Its brand new. 

They read the sculptures inscription (from Lewis Carrolls 
The Jaberwocky). 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      'Twas brillig, and the slithy 
      toves did gyre and gimble in the 
      wabe. Would you like to climb this 
      sculpture?

             FRED
      I dont know if were supposed to.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Of course were supposed to. 

She does. Fred follows, joining some children.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You know why I like this sculpture, 
      Fred?

             FRED
      Why, Miss Aberlin?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Because among the sculptures of 
      philanthropists and generals on 
      horseback and other quote-unquote 
      great men, theyve got the good 
      sense to pay homage to a young girl 
      who takes drugs and tells the 
      monarchy to fuck off with a 
      flamingo.

A breeze blows through the parks trees, rippling the pond in 
the melancholy New York autumn. 

             FRED
      Miss Aberlin, look!


Fred spots two coffee tins connected by a string. He hurries off the sculpture, over to them.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Where are you going?

             FRED
      Some children must have left this! 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      What is it?

             FRED
      Come here. Hold it up to your ear. 
        (she does)
      If the string is very straight and 
      tight, it will work best. 

He quickly runs as far as the string will allow. 

             FRED
      Hello, Miss Aberlin! Over.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Hello Fred! Over. 

             FRED
      Can you hear me? Over?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Yes I can! Over. 

             FRED
      It works! It really works!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Lets talk some more. Over.  

             FRED
      Im not sure I have anything to 
      say.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I know what you mean. 

             FRED
      But Im happy our walkie talkie 
      works. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Im happy you asked me to spend 
      time with you today. 

Fred looks at his shoes. Then at the sky. 

             FRED
      Hows the weather over there?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Well. It looks kind of cloudy. Very 
      cloudy. 

             FRED
      I think my head just got a drop of 
      rain on it. Over. 

A drizzle begins to fall. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Me too. Over. I can go under this 
      bridge here. Over. 

Betty hurries under a little footbridge, tugging Fred along 
with her via the string. But he keeps at a distance. 

             FRED
      I can stand under my umbrella here. 
      Over. 

Fred pulls an umbrella from his jacket. Pops it above his 
head. Betty smiles at him. 

             FRED
      Did you always want to play violin 
      for television, Miss Aberlin? Over. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Oh its been a dream of mine since 
      I first picked up the violin. You 
      know I majored in commercial 
      jingles at Juliard. 

The rain keeps coming down. 

             FRED
      Youre upset with me. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Not with you. I always imagined 
      myself playing with the Royal 
      Concertgebouw, The Berlin 
      Philharmonic. My God, the New York 
      Phils right at my doorstep. 
      Touring the world. Bringing them 
      this gift. 

             FRED
      You do have a gift. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Not my gift. Beethovens. 
      Shostakovichs. I thought we might 
      have something with the Opera 
      Theater, is all. 

             FRED
      You still could. Ive listened to 
      you play, Miss Aberlin. Really 
      listened.   

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred, will you please stop calling 
      me Miss Aberlin? 

             FRED
      Im sorry, Gertrude. 

She laughs. Fred smiles. 

             FRED
      I dont know why I said that. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Im very warm and dry. Over. But 
      not over. I want to be with you. 

             FRED
      Okay.

Betty dashes through the rain to stand under Freds umbrella. 

             FRED
      Hello.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Its really nice to be here alone 
      with you in the rain. 

             FRED
      Lets not be in a hurry to go 
      anywhere else. 

They stand under the umbrella. 

             FRED
      Ugga mugga, Betty.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Im sorry? 

             FRED
      Ugga mugga. It means... I dont 
      know what it means.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Ugga mugga, Fred. 

She rubs her nose against his in an Eskimo kiss. He glances 
up at the nearby Metropolitan Museum of Art, which is 
spinning like a merry-go-round. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - NIGHT

Intertwined on Freds mattress on the floor, Betty takes 
Freds virginity. 

             FRED
      Oh dear. 

The cat puppet lays slack against the glass window of the 
grandfather clock.... as night turns to DAY. 

BEEP BEEP BEEP 

Its A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood launches with a 
jazzy roll. Fred is up and at em, singing.

             FRED
      Its a beautiful day in this 
      neighborhood, a beautiful day for a 
      neighbor... 

He brushes his teeth, humming the tune in progress. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred! Jesus Christ! Its 4 in the 
      morning!

             FRED
      Isnt it wonderful? Theres a whole 
      day ahead of us! A whole life ahead 
      of us! 

Betty rolls over, covering her head with her pillow. Fred 
steps on his bathroom scale. 

             FRED
      1-4-3. Betty? 

But shes back asleep. 

She wakes up some time later to find Fred kneeling beside the 
bed, eyes closed, murmuring in prayer.


INT. YMCA SWIMMING POOL - DAY
Fred stands on the cement lip before the mens lane. Betty by 
the womens. An ELDERLY MAN waves from the pool. 

             ELDERLY MAN
      Morning, Fred!

             FRED
      Good morning, Jerry! 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Is it cold?

             FRED
      Oh yes. 

Fred drops his robe. Betty covers her mouth as he dives into 
the pool. She looks at the attendant nearby.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You dont have a policy about that?

             ATTENDANT
      Were working on it. 

SMASH TO:

INT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - DAY

Fish, swimming through the aquarium. They pass Fred, whose 
face is pressed to the glass, beside a girl in a wheelchair.  

Freds in his suit and boat shoes. Dorothy Daniel, Kate 
Smiths producer, hurries around the corner to summon him.

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Fred--

But she stops to watch the interaction. The girl is wearing 
the same visitors badge as a tour group down the hall. 

             FRED
      What do you think they think about 
      all day long, Sophie? 

             GIRL IN WHEELCHAIR
      That theyre stuck in there?

             FRED
      Maybe. Or maybe they think how 
      lucky they are that they never have 
      to swim very far to find a friend.  


             GIRL IN WHEELCHAIR
      Maybe....

The girls MOTHER calls her.

             WHEELCHAIR GIRLS MOTHER
      Sophie! Come on!

             GIRL IN WHEELCHAIR
        (wheeling off)
      Goodbye, Fred. 

             FRED
      Look at you go. Your mom and dad 
      must be really proud of you. 

The girl looks up at Fred and smiles. Dorothy watches. 

INT. KATE SMITH SHOW STAGE - DAY

Fred stands on stage, testing a mic. Behind him, a set: 
nighttime-themed. Kate Smith stands backstage, warming up her 
voice as Dorothy Daniel walks her through some notes.   

             FRED
      Test test test test test. I like 
      you. I like you. 

He smiles at Betty in the orchestra. Who gives him a quick, 
slightly awkward wave. 

Fred catches something out of the corner of his eye. Its his 
OWN IMAGE, up on the monitor. He looks at it more closely. 
Tilts his head. Watches himself tilt his head. He smiles. 
Hes on TV. Sort of. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Lets give this a shot, shall we?

             FRED
      Mr. Friday! My show. I know what 
      Id like it to be. 

Dorothy looks up.

             FRED
      A childrens show.

             MR. FRIDAY
        (doesnt care)
      Terrific. 

             DIRECTOR
      Places! 

Fred hurries off stage. As he dashes by Kate, he points at 
his shoes like see how quiet these are? She gives him a 
thumbs up.  

The director nods to the orchestras conductor, who launches 
his musicians into If It Were Up To Me. Kate emerges from 
stage left, walking out toward the audiences empty seats. 

             KATE SMITH
      If it were up to me, Id bring the 
      moon and stars to you...

With that, a group of men and women in glittery costumes 
DANGLE DOWN from the ceiling, singing background.

             BACKING SINGERS
      To you....

Fred looks up at them, his face giving away his displeasure. 
Kate notices. 

INT. THE RAINBOW ROOM - NIGHT

Men and women in their evening finest (most of the men in 
dinner jackets, some in suits) dine in the exclusive Art Deco 
restaurant. 

Mr. Friday, Betty, Dorothy Daniel, and Kate Smith raise their 
cocktails. Fred raises his water. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      It is one of lifes greatest 
      pleasure to treat your friends to 
      the finest things. 

They clink glasses, cheersing. 

             FRED
      I do wish Sara could join us, Mr. 
      Friday. I feel bad that Betty and I 
      are the only lovers here. 

Betty chokes on her drink.

             KATE SMITH
      No shit! Atta boy!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred! Jesus. 


             FRED
      Yes, Betty? 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Im sorry, I didnt... 

Mr. Fridays smiles at Betty, trying and failing to conceal 
his anger.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      Unfortunately Saras not been 
      feeling well. 

             FRED
      Im sorry to hear that, Mr. Friday. 

             KATE SMITH
      Having you as a husbandd make 
      anyone sick, Ray.  

Dorothy Daniels laughs. Fred is confused. 

             FRED
      Are you sick, Mr. Friday?

A WAITER approaches. 

             KATE SMITH
      Oh very!

             WAITER
      Gentlemen. Ladies. Are we ready to 
      order?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I think Ill stick to cocktails. 

Mr. Friday places a hand on Bettys thigh. She shifts. 

             KATE SMITH
      Excellent decision. 

             WAITER
      Very good. Maam?

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      The Dover sole for me. 

             WAITER
      Excellent. Miss Smith?

             KATE SMITH
      Jumbo shrimp cocktail. Roast veal 
      chop. 

             KATE SMITH
      And lets go ahead and get two of 
      those, to be on the safe side. 

             WAITER
      Wonderful choice, and may I say, I 
      watched your performance on televi--

             KATE SMITH
      Yeah yeah yeah, swell. 

Fred frowns. 

             WAITER
      A thousand apologies. I was out of 
      line. Sir?

             MR. FRIDAY
      I shall have the terrine of pt de 
      foie gras with gala apples, 
      followed by the baby rock lobster 
      armoricaine.

             WAITER
      Impeccable. And you, sir?

             FRED
      Oh my. How can I choose? Everything 
      looks so tasty. 

             WAITER
      Indeed. 

             FRED
      Would it be okay if I ordered 
      something thats not on the menu.

             WAITER
      Of course. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Ah. A gourmand. Fred, the Oysters 
      Rockefeller are to die for.  

             FRED
      Oh my. May I have a sandwich on 
      wheat toast with lettuce, cheese, 
      tomatoes, and mayonnaise? 

CUT TO:


LATER IN THEIR MEAL
Fred chews on his sandwich. Betty still looks like shed like 
to disappear. 


             KATE SMITH
      Fred. Tell me. Whaddya think of the 
      new number?

             FRED
      Oh the song is just wonderful. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      See?

             KATE SMITH
      What about the performance? 

             FRED
      I dont like it one bit. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred! Dammit, Kate this is what I 
      was saying-- 

             KATE SMITH
      Its okay. Go on. 

             FRED
      I dont think you need all those 
      people on wires, Miss Smith, or all 
      those fancy camera tricks. Its 
      confusing. Your voice is all that 
      matters. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      You see, Raymond? 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Of course. Of course! Its always 
      been entirely about your voice. You 
      know that. 

             KATE SMITH
      Mmm-hmm. Goddamit Fred, that 
      sandwich looks just delicious. 

             FRED
      Would you like a bite?

             KATE SMITH
      Yes I would. 


Fred holds out his sandwich. Kate takes a bite while its still in his hand. 


             FRED
      I like sharing with you, Kate.

             KATE SMITH
      Me too, Fred.

Mr. Fridays pressing down so hard with his fork that his 
plate SHATTERS. 

             WAITER
      Sir, Im terribly sorry. Ill 
      replace your plate right away.

             MR. FRIDAY
      I would hope so!

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Everything okay, Ray?

             MR. FRIDAY
      Im fine. Im fine.

             KATE SMITH
        (re: the sandwich)
      And waiter, lets get a few more of 
      these. 

EXT. SIDEWALK OUTSIDE OF THE RAINBOW ROOM - NIGHT

Mr. Friday shuts the door to Kates town car. She and Dorothy 
sit inside.  

             KATE SMITH
      You sure you dont want a lift?

             MR. FRIDAY
      I could use some fresh air. 

             KATE SMITH
      Fred, Betty? Need a ride to your 
      lovers den?

             FRED
      No, thank you. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Theres no lovers den. 


             FRED
      Its more of a mattress on the 
      floor, really. 

Mr. Friday tips his hat to them. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Goodnight. 

He walks off into the night, leaving Fred and Betty. 

             FRED
      Would you like to look at the stars 
      and name one thing were thankful 
      for on every star we see?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      No, Fred. Id like to be alone. 

             FRED
      Alone? But, Betty... were going to 
      spend the rest of our lives 
      together. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Excuse me? 

             FRED
      Thats what people who love each 
      other do. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Love?


             FRED
      Betty, we fornicated. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Oh my God. Please dont use that 
      word. 

             FRED
      I thought you liked me. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I did. I mean I do. But its not 
      that simple. I wish it were. Now I 
      think Ill say goodnight.  

She walks off. Fred watches her go.

             FRED
      Goodnight. 

INT. KATE SMITH SHOW STAGE - NIGHT

Its dark in there for the night. Until we hear the CLUNK 
CLUNK CLUNK of the stage lights flipping on, one by one. 

Fred turns on a camera. And the kinescope that records each 
performance. This is it. This is what he wanted. His own 
show. 

He stands on the stage, before the cameras, looking at 
himself on a monitor. 

He waves, tentatively. Watches himself wave back. 

He feigns the enthusiasm of the hosted programs of the day.

             FRED
      Howdy, Jim!  

He does a little tap dance up on stage. 

He pretends to shoot a gun like a cowboy. 

Nothing.

He walks over and turns off the camera. 

INT. NBC HALLWAYS - NIGHT

Fred walks along the studio halls, admiring the photographs: 
FDR firsts broadcast, the 1947 World Series,  Gian Carlo 
Menottis first opera ever written for television, Amahl and 
the Night Visitor. An early pantheon of television. 

Fred hears an odd gasp from down the hallway. 

INT. RAYMOND FRIDAYS OFFICE - NIGHT

Raymond Friday is wedged on a couch in his office between a 
rather large prostitute and Collette, his secretary. 

Fridays dressed in a babys bonnet and silk bathrobe 
fashioned into a makeshift diaper, sucking his thumb. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Babys hungwy, Mommy. 

             LARGE PROSTITUTE 
      Have you been a good boy or a bad 
      boy, Raymond? 

             MR. FRIDAY
   Baaaad...

             COLLETTE
      Very bad. 
   

             FRED 
      Its fun to pretend, isnt it?

Then look up to see Fred standing above them. The prostitute 
covers herself up. 

             PROSTITUTE
      Shit!

             COLLETTE
      Hello, Fred. 

             FRED
      Good evening, Collette. You look 
      pretty.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Well, go on then. 

             FRED
      Im sorry?

             MR. FRIDAY
      Tell me what a bastard I am. What a 
      disappointment I am to the innocent 
      Fred Rogers. Judge me. 

             FRED
      Why would I judge you?

Mr. Friday leaps to his feet, charging Fred.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      You son of a bitch! 

Hes got Fred on the ground, punching him in the face.

             COLLETTE
      Raymond!

The prostitute slips out the door. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Dont pull this holier than thou 
      bullshit with me, Fred! Tell me 
      what you really think! 


             MR. FRIDAY
      That youre some pure man of 
      integrity while Im living, walking 
      fecal matter. Say it! Say it!

Fred, bloodied, speaks. 

             FRED
      I dont think youre fecal matter, 
      Mr. Friday. 

This infuriates Mr. Friday. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Get out! 

Fred looks up at Mr. Friday. Whos turned into the PUPPET of 
KING FRIDAY - the somewhat ridiculous and asinine monarch. 
Fred, bloodied, starts laughing. 

             KING FRIDAY PUPPET
      Out!

             FRED
      Im sorry. 

He waves goodbye to Collette. Who is now a somewhat sultry 
COLLETTE THE TIGER puppet. 

INT. TROLLEY (MOVING) - NIGHT

Fred smiles, not quite realizing how much hes bleeding. Men 
and women avoid him. In the background, we hear a plaintive, 
jazzy version of Its you I like. 

             FRED
      Good evening. 

INT. LOWER EAST SIDE - NIGHT

Fred, stumbles along the lower east side streets. Hes 
following the jazz tune, which is growing louder. People keep 
their distance. 

             FRED
      This song. Its wonderful! 

A CHILD hurries out to him. 

             CHILD
      What song?!

             FRED
      I dont know what its called. 

But the childs mother pulls her back.  

INT. FIVE SPOT CAFE - NIGHT

This is where the jazz is coming from. Among the mostly black 
crowd, a disheveled young Jewish man in thick eyeglasses, 
corduroy shirt and wool sweater struggles for words as he 
writes neatly in his notebook: 

             ALLEN GINSBERG
      I saw... I saw... 

In walks Fred. Looking like hell. 

             ALLEN GINSBERG
      ...the best minds of my generation 
      destroyed by madness, starving 
      hysterical naked...

Fred walks past him and approaches the stage. Where Johnny 
Costa - the same man Fred saw play uptown at the Algonquian - 
plays what will become a seminal Mr. Rogers tune, Its You I 
Like. 

             FRED
      I like your music very much. 

Johnny nods at Fred. 

Fred falls over. Nobody really seems to notice. The rest of 
the club continues in fast motion as Fred lies there. 

Until a pair of hairy-knuckled hands drags him off. 

             MCFEELY 
      I'm taking care of you, Taking good 
      care of you... Hows the rest of it 
      go? 

Fred finds himself beneath a rather beautiful McFeely, 
surrounded by light. She holds a compress to his head. 

             FRED
      Hm? 

             MCFEELY
      Your song. The one you sang to me. 
        (sings)
      I'm taking care of you... 

             FRED
      Taking good care of you. For once I 
      was very little too...

             MCFEELY
      Now I take care of you. 

Fred drifts off. 

INT. MCFEELYS APARTMENT - DAY

Fred wakes up the next morning as he sees a large, tattooed 
sailor leaving McFeelys apartment, buttoning up his pants.  

His eyes drift around McFeelys apartment. Its small. But 
lovely. A couple wigs draped atop empty wine bottles. Scuffed 
womens shoes. Coins from around the world. A framed photo of 
an actress. Fred reaches for it. Looks closely.

             MCFEELY
      Youre up. 

McFeely walks in with a bottle of gin, wearing a kimono.  

             FRED
        (re: the photo)
      Shes beautiful. 

             MCFEELY
      Ingrid Bergman. A woman. An artist. 
      Not like that dwarf slut, Veronica 
      Lake. 

             FRED
      Miss McFeely! Thats not a very 
      friendly thing to say.

             MCFEELY
      Youre right. 

             FRED
      Thank you for taking care of me.  

             MCFEELY
      Lets not make a habit of it. 

McFeely takes a swig. Fred sits up. Winces. 

             FRED
      Have you got any aspirin, Miss 
      McFeely?


             MCFEELY
      No. No I dont, Fred. But Ive got 
      something much better. 

MUSIC CUE: Location by Freelance Whales.  

EXT. ROOFTOP OF MCFEELYS BUILDING - DAY

A hatch on the rooftop lifts. Out pops McFeely in a dress, 
scarf, and large sunglasses. Fred, nervous, follows closely 
behind, the mail sack slung over his shoulder. 

             MCFEELY
      Dont you ever change out of that 
      suit, Fred?

Fred looks down at himself. McFeely reaches in the sack. She 
lights a joint. Takes a puff. Hands it to Fred. 

             FRED
      I dont smoke cigarettes. 

             MCFEELY
      Its not a cigarette. 

Fred hesitates. 

             MCFEELY
      Trust me.

Fred holds it. Takes a tentative puff. Coughs. 

             MCFEELY
      Breathe deep.  

Fred does. McFeely smiles. 

They look out over the city. Watching the life below. 

A brother and sister dressed as pirates stick their head out 
the window on the floor below them. 

             FRED
      Hello. 

The girl waves her curved sword at Fred, piratically. Fred 
giggles. The boy pulls her back inside. 

McFeely reaches in her mail sack. Holds out Freds camera. 

             MCFEELY
      I think you misplaced this. 


             FRED
      I must have. Thank you.  

Fred holds the camera to his eye. We see the city through its 
lens. He snaps a photo. Fred turns slowly to McFeely, still 
looking through the camera. 

             FRED
      I feel very good. 

             MCFEELY
      Its called being high. 

Fred SNAPS a photo. And suddenly theyre in an ALLEYWAY.

Fred takes a marker and scribbles on a paper grocery bag:                                        HI. 

             FRED
      Hi. 

McFeely giggles. So does Fred. McFeely guides Fred into the 
scruffy beauty of the Lower East Side. The parts that 
terrified him previously. And still do, though less so. 

-They dance with prostitutes. Fred takes a picture.  

-They play with a bunch of Chinese children out in the 
street. Fred picks up a discarded vacuum tube. Fred dangles 
it from his nose, then drapes a towel over his head and 
stomps around like hes an elephant. 

-They sing and play guitar with men camped out beneath a 
bridge. 

-They admire the rainbow inside a fire hydrants blasting 
water.

-They eat Ethiopian (vegetarian) food with their hands. 
Shoving the delicious beans and dough into each others 
mouths, trying not to spit as they laugh. 

-They pass a beautiful black woman, Ella Jenkins, on the 
street. She places both her thumbs against her lips and 
pretends like shes blowing up an imaginary balloon. 

             ELLA JENKINS
      Blow the balloon. 

She blows into her thumbs. 

             ELLA JENKINS
      Blow the balloon. 


She and Fred and McFeely blow into their thumbs. 

             ELLA JENKINS
      Blow and blow and blow and blow...

CLAP, as she smacks her hands together, startling Fred and 
McFeely as the imaginary balloon POPS.

             ELLA JENKINS
      Where did my balloon go? 

Fred sees the bright red latex scraps of a popped balloon on 
the street. 

INT. MCFEELYS APARTMENT - NIGHT

McFeely walks in with a glass of gin. Finds Fred looking out 
the window. 

             MCFEELY
      Whats the matter?

             FRED
      I think I did a bad thing, Miss 
      McFeely.

             MCFEELY
      What?

             FRED
      Smoking that.

McFeely smiles. Not cruelly. Genuinely.  

             MCFEELY
      Did you like it?

Fred looks up at McFeely. A little afraid of the answer. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - NIGHT

Fred retrieves the cat puppet from the grandfather clock. 
Puts it on his hand. And speaks through him. 

             FRED
      Hello, Daniel Cat.

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      Mmmm. Hello. 


             FRED
      Wait a second. Youre not a cat at 
      all, are you?

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      No. Im not a cat. 

             FRED
      What are you, then?

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      A tiger. 

             FRED
      You seem awfully shy for a tiger. 

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      Yeah. Sometimes I get angry, 
      though. And I worry I might do bad 
      things.  

             FRED
      Well. We all get angry sometimes. 

Fred looks up to find his landlady Henrietta standing there. 
Eyes narrowed. 

             FRED
      Hello, Henrietta. 

             HENRIETTA
      Hello, Fred.

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      Hello, Henrietta.  

She looks at Daniel. 

INT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - DAY

Fred, still banged up from the incident in Mr. Fridays 
office, walks into NBC. Nervous. His camera is back around 
his neck. 

             FRED
      Miss Elaine Fairchilde. May I hug 
      you?

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      I dont think thats a good idea--

Fred hugs her. Shes stiff. Then relaxes. 

             FRED
      Your grandmother must have been a 
      terrific hugger.  

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      She was. 

INT. NBC HALLWAYS - NIGHT

Fred passes Betty in the hallway. 

             FRED
      Good morning, Betty. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred. 

He takes a photo of her. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      My God. What happened to your face?

Mr. Friday stands watching. Filled with jealousy as Betty 
holds a hand to Freds cheek. 

             FRED
      Would you like to go on a picnic? 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      What?

             FRED
      We could make sandwiches. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred...

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred? Join me in my office, would 
      you?

             FRED
      Okay. Excuse me, Betty. 

They pass Collettes desk. A NEW SECRETARY is in her place. 

INT. RAYMOND FRIDAYS OFFICE - NIGHT

Raymonds office has turned entirely into a castle. Stone 
walls. Flags. But with some artifacts from his real office 
still there -- the liquor cabinet, the desk, the cello. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred. Have a seat. 

Fred looks at the couch where Mr. Friday did his thing with 
Collette and the prostitute. Not really wanting to sit there.  

Mr. Friday clears his throat and proceeds with Fred standing.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Im taking you off Kates show, 
      Fred. 

             FRED
      I understand. 

Mr. Friday smiles, having come up with something he knows 
thats even worse than firing Fred. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      After all, I cant have one of my 
      producers wasting his time as a 
      floor manager. 

             FRED
      Producer? 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Were launching something new. Your 
      Hit Parade. A countdown show of the 
      weeks seven best sellers. Itll be 
      marvelous. Big numbers. Funny 
      costumes. Lots of set changes. 
      Weve already got Dorothy Collins, 
      Russell Arms, Snooky Lanson...

             FRED
      I dont think Im ready to be a 
      producer, Mr. Friday.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Id be concerned if you did. Dont 
      worry, youll have a great team 
      working with you.  

             FRED
      I think Id much rather stay with 
      Miss Smith, if thats all right. 

Mr. Friday hands Fred a check. 

             FRED
      Whats this?

             MR. FRIDAY
      You dont think producers get paid 
      the same as floor managers, do you? 

Fred looks at the check. 

             FRED
      I couldnt--

He looks up at Friday. Who is now a large King Friday puppet. 

             KING FRIDAY
      Fred. You want to work in 
      television, yes? Maybe have your 
      own show one day? 

             FRED
      Yes... 

             KING FRIDAY
      Lucky Strike really believes in 
      this one. Dont let me down. 

INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET - DAY

Fred finds himself in the control room of their new show, 
with the other show heads. On a darkened stage, we see the 
silhouette of a HOUSEWIFE. 

Fred watches Betty in the orchestra. 

             DIRECTOR
      Were live in 3, 2, 1.. 

A sweaty ANNOUNCER leans into a microphone, speaking a mile a 
minute. 

             ANNOUNCER
      Richard Hudnut, makers of Quick, 
      the new home permanent with a 10-
      minute waving lotion, in 
      cosponsorship with Lucky Strike, 
      the cigarette that tastes better, 
      cleaner, fresher, smoother 
      presents: Your Hit Parade!

Spotlights burst on the housewife, who dances with joy as we 
hear the jingle for Richard Hudnuts hair product. Betty 
leads the violin section in the tune.  

On stage, the housewife is joined by others. The audience 
laughs as a black milkman slips on the floor when he sees 
the main housewifes beautiful hair. Raymond Friday nods, 
happy to see its going well so far.  

Fred rubs his eyes.

But its not over yet. The Announcer comes back in.

             ANNOUNCER
      Tonight, Richard Hudnut presents 
      Your Hit Parade. The top tunes all 
      over America as determined by Your 
      Hit Parade survey, which checks the 
      best sellers on sheet music and 
      phonograph records, the songs most 
      heard on the air, and most played 
      on the automatic coin machines. An 
      accurate, authentic tabulation of 
      America's taste in popular music. 
      Your Hit Parade. 

The Richard Hudnut jingle/live commercial picks up yet again 
as the housewives do their choreographed dance... 

INT. 92ND STREET Y - NIGHT

...In stark contrast to the modern dance premiere of Alvin 
Aileys Blues Suite. The 13 dancers, all friends from the 
emerging modern-dance scene, working for free, moving in ways 
that are brand new. 

Fred and McFeely are in the small audience. Enraptured.  

EXT. STREETS OF NEW YORK - LATER THAT NIGHT

Fred and McFeely walks along the streets after the 
performance. 

             FRED
      They moved like bodies that didnt 
      have bodies. 

             MCFEELY
      Wasnt it marvelous? 

They pass a group of pre-teen girls teasing a friend for her 
frizzy hair in front of a display for Richard Hudnuts Quick.  

             GIRLS FRIENDS
      You need that! 

             FRIZZY HAIR GIRL
      Oh yeah?

             GIRLS FRIENDS
      Yeah! Cause ya look like ya got 
      pubes growing out of your head!... 
      EWWWW!

             FRIZZY HAIR GIRL
      Sluts! 

McFeely sees their interaction bothers Fred. She shouts:

             MCFEELY
      Ladies! Exercise some dignity, 
      would you? 

McFeely approaches them. 

             MCFEELY
      This is just what they want us to 
      do.

The girls take one look at McFeely and run off screaming. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - NIGHT

McFeely lights a joint in Freds mouth as

             ANNOUNCER 
        (pre-lap)
      Off we go to survey song number 
      3...

INT. HALLWAY, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - THE NEXT MORNING

Fred peeks out his door to find one of Mendel and Henriettas 
cats staring at him. He stares back at it, red-eyed. 

             ANNOUNCER 
        (pre-lap)
      The back woods

He looks up to find Henrietta looking at him. 

             HENRIETTA
      Its Wednesday.

             FRED
      Is that right?

             ANNOUNCER 
        (pre-lap)
      As Virginia Gibson and The Hit 
      Paraders try their hand at magic 
      with the number 3 song. 

INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET - DAY

An elaborate woods set. Frenetic brass. Lots of cuts. A 
woman dressed as a witch. 

             ANNOUNCER 
      Witch Doctor, brought to you by 
      Lucky Strike. Lucky Strike: its 
      toasted.

             VIRGINIA GIBSON
      I told the witch doctor I was in 
      love with you...

The audience goes nuts. 

INT. FREDS NEW OFFICE - NBC - LATER THAT DAY

Its a small, undecorated office. Fred rubs his eyes, looking 
at set design concepts for the next show. Sips a glass of 
water. Suddenly he hears a CRASH. 

He hurries to the hallway to find a lamp on its side. Kate 
Smith, in sunglasses and a scarf, storms down the hall. 
Dorothy Daniel, her producer, hurries behind her with her 
personal items.   

             FRED
      Dorothy-- 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Were canceled.

             FRED
    Oh no. 

             KATE SMITH
      Oh yes.

               FRED
      Where are you going?

             KATE SMITH
      The nearest drinking establishment.    

Mr. Friday hurries around the corner. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Very dignified, Kate!

             KATE SMITH
      Kiss my dignified anus, Ray. 

Kate topples the fish tank. CRASH. Fred gasps. The 
receptionist Miss Elaine Fairchilde covers her mouth. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
        (to Fred)
      Ill call you.

Fred scoops up the fish, dropping them into his water glass. 

EXT. STREETS OF NEW YORK - NIGHT

A group of 8-year-olds pass around Lucky Strike cigarettes. 
Fred, horrified, walks past. 

             8 YEAR OLD BOY
      You know, Frank Gifford smokes 
      Luckies. 

             BOYS FRIEND
      They just taste better.

             8 YEAR OLD BOY
      Theyre toasted. 

Fred turns around. 

             FRED
      May I?

             8 YEAR OLD BOY
      Itll cost a nickle. 

Fred digs in his pocket. Hands it over. 

             8 YEAR OLD BOY
      Just one. 

Fred grabs the box of cigarettes from the boy and runs off 
down the street. 

             8 YEAR OLD BOY
      Hey!

Fred tears up the cigarettes and throws them in the trash.

             8 YEAR OLD BOY
      Son of a bitch!


INT. BETTYS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Betty reads a gossip magazine, drinking a hefty glass of 
wine. She hears a frantic knocking at the door. Opens it. 

             FRED
      Hello. Youve got a neat apartment.

It is neat. A piano. A record player. Tons of records. Betty 
seems oddly cheery.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred! How are you? 

             FRED
      Im feeling very sad. And like 
      youve been avoiding me. And that 
      you hate my guts. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Okay, wow, thats a lot of 
      feelings. Come on in. Would you 
      like a Coke? 

             FRED
      No, thank you. Id like to play you 
      a song. 

Fred sits at the piano. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      All right-- 

He lays out a little piece of paper with hand-written lyrics. 

             FRED
      Its called Its you I like. 
        (plays)
      It's you I like--

Betty quickly drops the happy facade. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred.

             FRED
      Shush, please. 
        (sings)
      It's not the things you wear, it's 
      not the way you do your hair-- 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred, stop. Now.  


Fred looks up at her. 
             BETTY ABERLIN
      Lets get this straight. Its not 
      me you like. You think just because 
      I play violin and we had a nice 
      time at the park that Im some 
      angel. Well Im not. Im as fucked 
      up as the rest of the world. 

             FRED
      I dont think youre... screwed up.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Oh right. Playing commercial 
      jingles for a living. Having an... 
      why am I even arguing with you? 

             FRED
      What about your dream? Of playing 
      with a symphony? Its not too late. 
      You could keep trying. Boston. 
      Berlin. I could go with you.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Its called growing up, Fred. This 
      is who I am. 

             FRED
      Theres so much more to you, Betty. 
      I can see it. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You dont see the real me. 

Fred quietly offers: 

             FRED
      What if you dont see the real you?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You should leave. Please dont come 
      back. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - MORNING

Freds watch BEEPS. 4:45am. He turns it off. Rolls over. 

LATER THAT MORNING

Fred weighs himself. Looking awful.  

             FRED
      One-four...

But then his eyes widen. As he realizes he weighs 145. 

EXT. STREETS OF NEW YORK - DAY

Fred walks to work in a bit of a haze. He stops, hearing 
music hes never heard before coming from a corner. 

He approaches OTHA TURNER, an American fife blues player who 
looks like if an Egyptian mummy came to life and started 
playing the blues. 

Its Otha blowing his fife, a wild-haired woman banging on a 
snare drum, and a fat man keeping the beat on a bass drum, 
there on the sidewalk. 

Its some of the most raw and beautiful music youll hear.  

             OTHA AND HIS BAND
      Glory glory, hallelujah, when I lay 
      my burden down... Glory glory, 
      hallelujah, when I lay my burden 
      down.

             FRED
      Oh my goodness. 

INT. NBC HALLWAYS - DAY

The fife and drum blues band marches funereally through the 
NBC hallways. Heads pop out of offices. Ms. Elaine Fairchilde 
recoils at the wild-haired womans toothless smile. 

             OTHA AND HIS BAND
      Burden down, Lord, burden down, 
      Lord, when I lay my burden down...

Betty Aberlin shakes her head at Fred. Mr. Friday rounds the 
corner. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred. A word.

INT. RAYMOND FRIDAYS OFFICE - DAY

Raymond sits at his desk. 

             FRED
      Its... theres so much there. You 
      do hear it, dont you, Mr. Friday?

REVEAL: Otha and his band, who stand there. Not as awkward 
for them as it is for Mr. Friday, as Otha explores Fridays 
stuffed birds. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      There is a lot there, yes. But its 
      not our... brand, you understand?  

             FRED
      Im very sorry to have taken up 
      your time, Mr. Turner. 

             OTHA TURNER
        (almost incomprehensible)
      Saright.  

             FRED
      I think your music is very special. 

Otha shrugs. He tucks a stuffed mockingbird in his coat 
pocket. 

             OTHA TURNER
      Les be onowa way den. 

             MR. FRIDAY
        (re: his stuffed bird)
      Mr. Turner, if youd just...

FWACK, the wild-haired drummer bangs her snare, jolting 
Friday. They shuffle out, leaving Friday and Fred.  

             MR. FRIDAY
      What, precisely, do you think 
      youre doing?

             FRED
      I used to run home every day after 
      school to listen to Vic and Sade. 
      Do you remember Vic and Sade? That 
      old radio program? 

             MR. FRIDAY
      The, ah, accountant and his wife...

             FRED
      Thats right. And their adopted 
      son, going about their lives, 
      having some fun with one another. 
      And for fifteen minutes a day

We get just the briefest FLASHBACK to the opening scene... of 
Freds parents sitting with the reverend at the seminary...

             FRED 
      No matter what... 

...of Freds fathers thick, calloused HAND.

             FRED
      You could go to the small house

             MR. FRIDAY
        (finishing the tagline)
      ... halfway up in the next block.

             FRED
      When you hired me, I told you I 
      thought we could do better than 
      people being cruel to one another 
      for entertainment. Im beginning to 
      believe I was wrong. 

Friday smiles. Not angry. More like when a parent finally has 
to confirm it to a kid that Santa isnt real. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Do you know how much the cost of a 
      television has gone down over the 
      past two years? 22 percent. Five 
      years ago, our audience was 
      different. Affluent, cultured. 
      Today... well today the majority of 
      Americans own a television. 

             FRED
      You dont think they deserve good 
      television? All this confusing 
      cutting, all these ads about 
      needing to look prettier or more 
      sophisticated, all this 
      distraction... it makes a person 
      feel very alone, doesnt it? 

             MR. FRIDAY
      A content audience doesnt buy 
      cigarettes, Fred. Or vacuum 
      cleaners.  

             FRED
      I see. 

Friday sighs. About to admit something he doesnt share with 
most people. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Early on, I tried to do a 
      television adaptation of Ulysses.  
      James Joyce, not Homer.  

Fred nods. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      I spent my whole development budget 
      on that damn teleplay, trying to 
      crack one of the greatest works of 
      literature of our time. Trying to 
      put art on the air. And you know 
      what happened? I nearly put 200 
      people out of work. 200 carpenters, 
      cameramen, script girls, craft 
      services, musicians, actors... 
      regular people, good people. 
      Because of my vanity. 

Friday takes a sip of scotch.

             MR. FRIDAY
      My responsibility, our 
      responsibility, Fred, is not to 
      decide whats good or bad. Our job 
      is to keep our sponsors happy while 
      figuring out what the audience 
      wants and giving it to them. 
      Because once you start deciding 
      whats good for them and whats 
      not, then youre putting yourself 
      in somebodys shoes you ought not 
      to. 

Mr. Friday points up at the ceiling. Fred looks up.

EXT. UPTOWN - NIGHT

Fred and McFeely walk out of an art gallery. 

             MCFEELY
      Well youre no fun tonight. 

             FRED
      Im sorry, Miss McFeely. 

They pass a slightly drunk MAN IN A SUIT, whos out with a 
couple of his friends. 

             MAN IN SUIT
      Nice skirt, brownie. 


His friends chuckle as they continue along. Only McFeely doesnt let it go. 


             MCFEELY
      Excuse me?

             MAN IN SUIT
      You people make me sick. 

             FRED
      Thats an awfully mean thing to 
      say. I think if you got to know 
      her, you and Miss McFeely would get 
      along grandly. Just grandly. 

             MAN IN SUIT
      Right. You and your friend are 
      gonna bring down this country.

             MCFEELY
      And how, precisely, is that?

             MAN IN SUIT
      You lavenders in the government. 
      The commiesll blackmail you and 
      turn you against us. 

             MCFEELY
      Well, my dear, I hate to break it 
      to you, but I am neither a 
      government employee, a homosexual, 
      nor a man. 

             MAN IN SUIT
      Is that right? What do you say we 
      take a look then? 

             MCFEELY
      Pardon me?

He lifts up McFeelys dress. 

             FRED
      Hey! Thats not very--

McFeely PUNCHES the guy, breaking his nose. He crumbles to 
the ground as a crowd gathers. 

             MAN IN SUIT
      Faggot!


INT. FREDS APARTMENT - NIGHT

McFeely trembles. 

             MCFEELY
      I shouldnt have hit him. 

Fred nods. McFeely tears up. Fred hugs her. Holds her close.  

             FRED
      I wish I could show it to you, Miss 
      McFeely.

             MCFEELY
      Show me what?

             FRED
      Where I go sometimes. 

             MCFEELY
      Tell me what its like. 

             FRED
      Its very warm. And blue. 

Suddenly, a bright sun shines outside through his 
multicolored curtains. Gentle jazz piano shimmers in the 
background. 

             FRED
      And the people there. Well, theyre 
      not people exactly. But theyre 
      nice. 

We see the various PUPPETS Freds encountered so far (King 
Friday, X the Owl, Henrietta Pussycat, Daniel Tiger), talking 
and laughing and hugging in Freds apartment.  

             MCFEELY
      It sounds perfect. 

             FRED
      Its not perfect. But its a place 
      where people arent trying to be 
      perfect. Theyre just happy to be 
      with one another. 

In a blink, its gone.

             FRED
      I dont think Im explaining right.  

McFeely wipes her eyes.

             MCFEELY
      What is it called?

             FRED
      Its called... The Neighborhood.

             MCFEELY
      Id like to go there some time. 

             FRED
      Id like that too. 

LATER THAT NIGHT

As McFeely sleeps in Freds bed, Fred rummages through her 
mail bag, pocketing whatever pills he can. Whispers: 

             FRED
      Im sorry. 

INT. FREDS NEW OFFICE - NBC - DAY

Fred washes down some pills with ginger ale. He looks out his 
office window to see a puppet neighborhood below. 

INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET - DAY

Fred and the other producers, along with Mr. Friday, watch 
rehearsal from the audience seats. 

Fred gives some encouraging feedback to a singer. She nods. 
But then Mr. Friday nixes it. 

INT. FREDS NEW OFFICE - DAY

Fred sees Betty walk past, in her coat. A few seconds later, 
Raymond Friday passes in his. 

Fred sits there for a minute. Then gathers his things.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Fred, alone, wanders through Central Park. Slows as he 
approaches the Alice in Wonderland sculptures. 

Where he sees Mr Friday kissing Betty. 

Fred laughs as it turns into the King Friday puppet kissing 
Betty. They turn to him. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Oh my God. Fred! 

King Friday turns toward Fred, slowly. A nightmare.  

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Wait!

She tries to go to him, but Friday holds her arm. 

INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET

Fred stands alone on the stage, before the cameras and 
kinescope, watching himself on a monitor. 

He looks at the stage around him. Theres white picket fence 
surrounding a little house. 

             FRED
      Well well! Good evening, folks!

He tries a new approach. 

             FRED
      Have I got a show for you!

Finally, he just tries:

             FRED
      Hello, neighbor. 

He opens the fences gate. 

             FRED
      How are you feeling today? Is that 
      right? You know, friends sometime 
      promise Ill see after school or 
      Ill play with your tomorrow. But 
      then they sometimes forget. Thats 
      just something that happens every 
      once in a while. It doesnt make 
      you any less special. Anyway, come 
      on in. Ill show you around!

He opens the door to the set house. Steps inside. 

To find theres nothing on the other side but the cables and 
detritus of backstage.


INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET - DAY
They rehearse They Yellow Rose Of Texas. A confederate flag 
draped over the white picket fence. Men in Civil War 
uniforms, women on drums. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Perhaps we ought to have a few 
      negroes escape to freedom in the 
      background. What do you think, 
      Fred? 

Mr. Friday squints pasts the stage lights into darkness. 

             DIRECTOR
      I dont think Freds in today, Ray. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      I see. 

Betty looks up from the orchestra. Mr. Friday wont meet her 
eyes.  

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - DAY

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK.

Fred, eyes heavy and red, sits cross-legged on the floor in 
his underwear. He gnaws on a large sheet of peanut brittle. 
KNOCK KNOCK. 

Fred stares at the broken grandfather clock, at the Daniel 
Tiger puppet inside the glass. Not hearing the KNOCKS. 

The door opens to reveal Dorothy Daniel. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Fred. Jesus.

             FRED
      Dorothy! Hello! My goodness! Can I 
      offer you some peanut brittle? 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      No, thank you. 

             FRED
      Why I havent seen you since Kates 
      show. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Im in Pittsburgh now. 


Fred cocks his head. Definitely on drugs.  

             FRED
      Am I in Pittsburgh?

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Dorothy drinks coffee. Fred adds about a gallon of honey to 
his camomile tea, watching it swirls into the mug. 

             FRED
      Im from Pittsburgh, you know. 
      Outside of it. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      I do know that, yes. 

             FRED
      Are you going to divinity school?

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      What? No. Im building a station. 
      From the ground up. WQED. 

             FRED
      In Pittsburgh? 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      First of its kind. Community-
      sponsored. That means no ads, no 
      overly elaborate sets, nobody from 
      corporate telling us what we can 
      and cant do. 

             FRED
      What about Kate?

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Kates... getting into cooking, 
      believe it or not.

             FRED
      Well that all sounds wonderful. Im 
      very happy for you, Dorothy. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      I want you to help. 

Fred looks up at her. 

             FRED
      You need someone to get you coffee? 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      I need someone to be my program 
      director. 

             FRED
      Program director. 

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      Someone to help me decide what 
      should and shouldnt go on the air. 
      Maybe you could even create 
      something of your own. 

             FRED
      Me?

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      You. 

             FRED
      Why?





             DOROTHY DANIEL
      I like the way you see things. 

Fred sips his tea. Thinks about it. 

             FRED
      Dorothy, Im so touched that you 
      would ask me.

             DOROTHY DANIEL
      But youre saying no. 

EXT. HALLWAY, FREDS APARTMENT BUIDLING - DAY

Mendel and Henrietta stand outside Freds apartment, Mendel 
timidly knocks on Freds door. 

             HENRIETTA
      Afraid youll chip a nail?

             MENDEL
      Fred? You in there?

             HENRIETTA
      Youre two weeks late on rent! 

Nothing. They look at each other. Henrietta pulls out her key 
and opens the door. 


             HENRIETTA
      Your cock better not be anywhere 
      near that cat puppet. 

             MENDEL
      Henrietta!

             HENRIETTA
      What?! We dont know what he does 
      with that thing.

She turns the key. They open the door to find Fred passed out 
on the floor breathing very slowly, his skin a faint tint of 
blue. A bottle of McFeelys pills empty beside him.  

             HENRIETTA
      Call an ambulance. 

             MENDEL
      And narc him out? 

Henrietta nods as they launch into action mode.

INT. LOBBY, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - DAY

Henrietta is on the payphone.

             HENRIETTA
      Yeah, I need a delivery. Speedy as 
      possible. 

MOMENTS LATER

McFeely hurries in.

             MCFEELY
      Are you fine people running low?

As soon as McFeely sees Henrietta and Mendels faces:

             MCFEELY
      Whats wrong?

INT. THE NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Fred strolls on the grass of the heavenly Neighborhood of his 
dreams. He walks past a giant oak tree, where Henrietta 
Pussycat and X the Owl live.  

             HENRIETTA PUSSYCAT
      Meow meow to the Neighborhood, Meow 
      Rogers. 

             FRED
      Thank you, Henrietta Pussycat. 

             X THE OWL
      Oh boy, we do so like having 
      guests. 

             FRED
      Actually X, I think Ill be here 
      for good.

             X THE OWL
      Terrific! 

Fred approaches Kings Fridays CASTLE.  

             KING FRIDAY
      Fred Rogers, I presume?

             FRED
      Correct as always, Your Majesty. 

             QUEEN SARA
      It is so wonderful to have you 
      here.

             KING FRIDAY
      Indeed, it is the great pleasure of 
      a king to welcome a new subject. 

             FRED
      You mean youre not angry with me?

             KING FRIDAY
      Angry with you? Nonsense! 

             FRED
      Good. Im not angry with you 
      either. 

             QUEEN SARAH
      Do come by later.

             KING FRIDAY
      We shall throw a welcome feast the 
      likes of which the Neighborhood has 
      never imagined!

             FRED
      I cant wait. 

Fred walks up to a grandfather clock without hands. Yet its 
pendulum still sways. Perched inside the clock is Daniel 
Striped Tiger. 


             FRED
      Daniel?

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      Welcome home--

Suddenly Fred sees his own face inside the clock:

             DANIEL TIGER / FRED
      --Mr. Rogers. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Fred blinks into consciousness, thanks to the syringe full of 
naloxone McFeely just injected into his butt cheek. Henrietta 
and Mendel stand by, concerned but relieved hes okay.

             FRED
      I was there, Miss McFeely. I was in 
      the Neighborhood.

And now McFeely can allow herself to be furious. 

             MCFEELY
        (re: the pills)
      Where the fuck did you get these?

             FRED
      Speedy delivery... 

             MCFEELY
      You son of a bitch!

She slaps Fred, who slumps over. She storms out. Fred watches 
her go.

             HENRIETTA
      Youre late on rent. 

             MENDEL
      Reti!

             HENRIETTA
      Well he is! 

             MENDEL
      Not now!

             FRED
      Its okay. Im very sorry, 
      Henrietta. Ill forward you a check 
      right now.  


Fred reaches in a drawer, where theres a stack of his undeposited paychecks. He signs the back of one. Writes:

             FRED
      This ought to take care of the next 
      year. Pay to the order of 
      Henrietta Pussycat. 

             HENRIETTA
      Excuse me?

She looks at the amount of the check.

             HENRIETTA
      Oh my God. 

             MENDEL
      Fred. Whats going on with you? I 
      dont want to find you dead in 
      here.  

Fred lies back down on the floor.

             FRED
      You sure are a friendly Owl. 

Mendel looks at Henrietta, concerned. 

INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET - DAY

Fred, eyes red, watches from the control room during a live 
broadcast. On stage, a female singer leads a rendition of 
Tweedlee Dee from inside a giant cuckoo clock setpiece, men 
and women in lederhosen circling around her.   

Mr. Friday introduces Fred to TWO MEN in suits. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      Ah. Fred, Id like you to introduce 
      to Andy Foster and Jason Cotes from 
      Lucky Strike. Fred here is one of 
      our producers. 

Fred shakes their hands. 

             FRED
      How do you do?

             LUCKY STRIKE EXECUTIVE
      You guys are doing terrific work. 
      Just terrific. 

             FRED
      Oh dear. 

             MR. FRIDAY
      What is it?

             FRED
      The tiger. 

Fred stares at the stage (this time we wont actually see the 
tiger he sees). 

             LUCKY STRIKE EXECUTIVE
      Pardon me?

Fred hurries out of the control room. The Lucky Strike men 
look at Friday for an explanation.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Its a, ah, showbiz term. Excuse 
      me, wont you?

Fred hurries past security guards, who nod as he passes. 
Suddenly hes on dashing onto the stage.   

             FRED
      Look out! 

Betty Aberlin looks up from the orchestra. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred! Get down from there! 

The singer keeps going, looking into the spotlight for what 
the hell to do as Fred circles one of the guys in lederhosen.

INT. FREDS PARENTS HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Freds fathers eyes widen as he sees his son on television.

             FREDS FATHER
      Nancy... 

His wife calls from the kitchen. 

             FREDS MOTHER 
      Hold your horses! The cherries 
      jubilee are just--

             FREDS FATHER
      Freds on TV.


She walks in with a plate of cherries jubilee. Which CRASHES to the floor. 

INT. YOUR HIT PARADE SET - CONTINUOUS

             FEMALE SINGER
      Tweedlee tweedlee tweedlee dum / 
      You're as sweet as bubble gum.

             FRED
      Stay. Perfectly. Still. 

The audience isnt sure whether to laugh or be alarmed. 

             DIRECTOR
      What the fuck is he doing? Get him 
      down from there! 

Fred lunges. The man jumps out of the way and Fred CRASHES a 
hole in the giant cuckoo clock. 

             FEMALE SINGER
      Mercy mercy pudding pie /You've got 
      something that money can't buy / 
      Tweedlee tweedlee tweedlee dum.

Fred gets stuck in the clock set, flailing and screaming. 
Security yanks him out, trying to restrain him.  

             FRED
      Hes right behind you!

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Fred is retrained in his hospital bed. A television in the 
corner of the room plays another silly show.  

Fred looks up at the sound of footsteps. 

             FRED
      Betty!

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Fred. How are you feeling?

             FRED
      Im happy now that youre here. 

She smiles, sadly. 

             FRED
      If you could go anywhere in the 
      world, where would it be? 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      This really isnt the time.

             FRED
      Anywhere at all. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Its embarrassing. 

             FRED
      Its okay.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      The Eiffel Tower. 

             FRED
      Whats embarrassing about the 
      Eiffel Tower? Were you mean to 
      someone there?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      No, its... its just so cliche. 
      Its so corny. 

             FRED
        (confused)
      Corny.

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Yeah, corny, you know. Like a piece 
      of music is corny. Something thats 
      so good or nice, that its obvious.  

             FRED
      So corny is something you like, but 
      are embarrassed to say you like. 

Betty just looks at Fred. 

             FRED
      Am I in trouble?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I dont know.

Fred nods. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      You have to learn to control it, 
      Fred. 

             FRED
      Control it?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Please. 

She kisses him on the forehead, then leaves. 

INT. RAYMOND FRIDAYS OFFICE - DAY

Raymond sits in his darkened office. He watches Kinescopes of 
Your Hit Parade performances.... when suddenly he sees Fred 
playing around on the set, projected onto his wall.  

             FRED
        (on kinescope)
      Hello, neighbor. How are you 
      feeling today? You know, friends 
      sometime promise Ill see after 
      school or Ill play with your 
      tomorrow. But then they sometimes 
      forget. 

Raymond lights his pipe. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - DAY

-Fred wakes up. 

-Weights himself: 139.  

-Attempts to pray. But the words wont come. 

-Swims, nude, in the YMCA lanes. Watching puppets swim by in 
the opposite direction. 

-Walks home. The entire east village keeps shifting into a 
grotesque puppet land. The alcoholic man morphs into Dr. Bill 
Platypus. 

-Fred stands on the ledge outside of his apartment, looking 
over the puppet world below. He closes his eyes. Takes a 
breath. 

And STEPS off the ledge...

When a hand yanks him back inside. Fred finds Mr. Friday 
standing over him, panting.   

             FRED
      Mr. Friday! Can I offer you some 
      peanut brittle? 


             MR. FRIDAY
      Thank you, Ill pass.  

             FRED
      What brings you to my neighborhood? 

             MR. FRIDAY
      I wanted to give you something. 

He hands over a worn copy of James Joyces Ulysses. 

             FRED
      Is this--

             MR. FRIDAY
      The book. The one I tried to adapt. 
      I think youll like it. 

             FRED
      Am I fired?

             MR. FRIDAY

      Certainly.

             FRED
      Thank you.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Youre welcome. 

Friday walks to the door. He turns.

             MR. FRIDAY
      Fred?

             FRED
      Yes, Mr. Friday?

             MR. FRIDAY
      You think James Joyce would have 
      given a damn what people like me 
      told him he could or could not do?

Fred looks up at Friday.

INT. MCFEELYS APARTMENT - DAY

McFeely opens her door. Peeved. 

             MCFEELY
      Well look what the cat dragged in--

Freds in tears. McFeely immediately softens. 

             MCFEELY
      What happened?

             FRED
      I tried... I thought I could go 
      there. To the Neighborhood.  

She takes Fred in her arms.

             MCFEELY
      You dont have to go away, you 
      know. We could have it here. It 
      could be just as nice.

Fred nods. 

             MCFEELY
      I have something Id like to give 
      you.

McFeely reaches into her closet. Retrieves a CARDIGAN. 

             MCFEELY
      It belonged to... a friend of mine. 
      I think it will look good on you.  

             FRED
      Its beautiful. May I? 

             MCFEELY
      Please.

Fred takes off his suit jacket. And slips on the cardigan. He 
smiles. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - NIGHT

McFeely sleeps beside Fred. Not necessarily sexually. Snaps 
awake as she hears:

             FRED
      The tiger!

Fred is edged up against the headboard. Terror in his eyes.

             MCFEELY
      Theres no tiger!

             FRED
      Hes right there! His eyes! Theyre 
      glowing!

McFeely trudges out of bed over to the grandfather clock. 


             FRED
      Miss McFeely, look out! 

             MCFEELY
      Here! Heres your tiger!

He jams the Daniel Tiger puppet on Freds hand. And the 
real tiger is instantly gone. 

             MCFEELY
      See? Nothing to be scared off, ya 
      goddam weirdo. Now let me sleep! 

Fred looks at the Daniel Tiger puppet in awe. Then up at the 
room around him. Fred speaks to McFeely through Daniel Tiger.  

             DANIEL STRIPED TIGER
      Sorry, Miss McFeely. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Fred reads Ulysses. Absorbed.  

EXT. EAST VILLAGE - DAY

Fred goes out for a stroll during a blistery December day, 
wearing a heavy coat over his slacks and cardigan (which 
hell wear for the rest of the movie, except for when hes 
not wearing anything). 

He tentatively approaches the flat-nosed alcoholic from 
across the street. Whos turned into the Bill Platypus 
puppet.  

             FRED
      Hello, neighbor. 

             DR. BILL PLATYPUS
      Take another step, Ill bite your 
      fucking ear off. 

Fred pulls out a sketch book. Begins to sketch Dr. Platypus.  

             FRED
      Dr. Bill Platypus, shame on you! 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - DAY

Fred holds up a Dr. Bill Platypus puppet in progress hes 
constructing. Shows it to McFeely. He speaks through it: 

             DR. BILL PLATYPUS PUPPET
      Im sorry I cursed at you, Fred. 
      But sometimes I think nobody knows 
      what it feels like to be a 
      platypus. 

             MCFEELY
      I know the feeling, Dr. Bill.  

             FRED
      Me too.

Theres a knocking at the door. Fred looks up to see Mendel 
standing there.

INT. MENDEL & HENRIETTAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Fred and McFeely eat spaghetti dinner with Mendel and 
Henrietta. 

             MCFEELY
      This is marvelous.

Freds a little quiet. A little nervous. A cat stares at him. 

             FRED
      May I feed your cat a spaghetti?

             HENRIETTA
      You may. 

Henrietta smiles into her gin. 

             FRED
      Mendel, have you ever read a book 
      called Ulysses?

             MENDEL
      Have I read Ulysses? Come up, 
      Kinch! Come up, you fearful 
      Jesuit!

             HENRIETTA
      Jesus, here we go. 

             MENDEL
      What?

             MCFEELY
      Now now, lets not say anything 
      were going to--


             HENRIETTA
      You and your books! 

             MENDEL
      You and your gin!

             HENRIETTA
      What about my gin?!

She flips the table over.

             MENDEL
      Oh terrific. 

             MCFEELY
      I guess dinners over.

Fred, not sure what to do, feeds the cat another spaghetti 
from off the floor.

             MENDEL
      You know, Fred, its just if shed 
      just stop being so damn excitable 
      for a second and really listen to 
      me. 

             HENRIETTA
      Excitable. Ha.

             FRED
      You dont like how passionate 
      Henrietta is. 

             MENDEL
      Well, Im not saying I want a 
      dullard for a wife.

             HENRIETTA
      How could I not be excitable? All 
      day long hes with those goddam 
      books. 

             FRED
      He spends the whole day looking at 
      books and not spending any time 
      with you.

             HENRIETTA
      Not all day. 

             FRED
      But you two dont love each other 
      anymore. 

             MENDEL
      Of course we love each other.

             HENRIETTA
      Of course. 

             MCFEELY
      Shall we clean up?

They do.

             FRED
      Ive found sometimes its easier to 
      wish other people would be 
      different to make up the fact that 
      we really wish we were different. 

Mendel and Henrietta look at one another over the mess on the 
floor. 

             FRED
      Like for instance, when Im scared, 
      sometimes Mendel you turn into a 
      owl. 

             MENDEL
      Excuse me? 

             HENRIETTA
      Fred, I hope you wont take this 
      the wrong way. But sometimes I 
      cant tell if youre Jesus 
      incarnate or a mentally handicapped 
      person in a cardigan. 

             MCFEELY
      Who says he cant be both?

EXT. EAST VILLAGE - DAY

A Christmas tree lot is set up in an abandoned lot. Fred 
approaches the FEMALE JUNKIE nearby, who turns into DONKEY 
HODIE. 

             DONKEY HODIE
      Gimme a dollar, Ill suck your 
      cock. 

Fred raises his eyebrows. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - DAY

We see the junkie lady on her knees. 

             FRED
      Yes. Thats nice. 

REVEAL: Shes cutting out strips of fabric to finish the 
Donkey Hodie puppet. 

             FRED
      Wont she make a nice puppet? 

Fred erases a bit of a drawing with his pencil. 

             FRED
      Do you ever wonder where the erased 
      part goes? 

She looks at the eraser. Then points to the little smudges of 
graphite on the rubber.  

             JUNKIE LADY
      It goes right here. 

Fred nods. 

INT. MENDEL & HENRIETTAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Its decorated for the holidays. Mendel and Henrietta, and 
McFeely and Fred slow dance to jazz, several empty cocktails 
and stuffed ashtrays around them. 

             HENRIETTA
      So you mean to tell me this was all 
      over a girl?

             MENDEL
      Retti!

             FRED
      Its okay. It was a lot of things. 
      But yes, I did like Betty a lot. I 
      still do. 

             MCFEELY

      Fool.

             HENRIETTA
      Thats so romantic! Mendel would 
      never kill himself over me. 

             MENDEL
      Youll do it for me first. 

             HENRIETTA
      Thats right.

             MENDEL
      You want my advice, Fred? From what 
      youve told us, the best thing you 
      can do is just let her be.

             FRED
      Let her be?

             HENRIETTA
      Hes right.  

             MENDEL
      No! Did you just say what I thought 
      you said?

             HENRIETTA
      Dont let it go to your head. 
        (to Fred)
      Youve let this broad know how much 
      you care about her. If shes too 
      dumb to accept it, then fuck her. 

             FRED
      I wish you wouldnt say that about 
      Betty.

             HENRIETTA
      Well its the truth.

             MCFEELY
      Youve got plenty of people who 
      love you right here. 

Fred smiles. He leans his head on McFeelys shoulder as they 
dance.

INT. FREDS APARTMENT, THE OAK TREE APARTMENTS - DAY

MUSIC CUE: The Pogues Fairytale of New York. 

Snow falls on the city. 

McFeely, Fred, Henrietta, and Mendel unjam the SOFA from the 
apartment stairwell. 

They prop it up in Freds apartment, upside down. Then, begin 
constructing a curtain around it. Turning it into a makeshift 
puppet stage.

Under the Pogues song, we watch Fred put on a puppet show 
with many of the puppets that will soon be on his show: King 
Friday, Henrietta Pussycat, X the Owl, Miss Elaine 
Fairchilde, Donkey Hodie, Dr. Bill Platypus. 

As the puppet stages curtains close, Freds friends clap for 
him. Fred pops up from behind the stage, smiling. He takes 
a bow. 

INT. FREDS APARTMENT - MORNING

Fred wakes up on his mattress. He glances at his wristwatch: 
4:44am. Seconds later, the watch timer BEEPS as it becomes 
4:45. McFeely rolls over.  

Fred walks into his bathroom. Steps on the scale. 143 lbs. He 
smiles. Back where he belongs. 

Fred looks over. McFeely is in her kimono. But no wig. No 
makeup. Fred smiles at the man who stands before him.   

             FRED
      Good morning. 

             MCFEELY
      You must think I look ghastly. 

             FRED
      You know what 1-4-3 is in sign 
      language?

McFeely shakes her head.

             FRED
      One finger for I; four fingers 
      for love; three fingers for 
      you. Isnt that wonderful?

McFeely nods. 

             FRED
      1-4-3. I love you. Just the way you 
      are. 

McFeely is close to tears. 

             MCFEELY
      Other people need to hear that, 
      Fred. Before its too late for them 
      to believe it. 

Fred nods. He hugs McFeely.

INT. RECEPTION AREA, NBC OFFICES - DAY

Fred heads out of the NBC office, wearing his khakis, 
cardigan, and sneakers. He carries a small box of his stuff. 

             FRED
      Thank you for letting me get my 
      things.  

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      The puppet show. The children loved 
      it. 

             FRED
      Im glad. 

Miss Fairchilde removes her brooch. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Id like you to have this. 

             FRED
      I couldnt--

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Fred.

             FRED
      Goodbye, Miss Fairchilde.

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Goodbye, Fred. 

Fred nods. Then pauses at the door.

             FRED
      You know, If you dont mind, I 
      think Id prefer it if you called 
      me Mr. Rogers. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Okay, Mr. Rogers. 

He nods, walks off. She rolls her eyes. 

             MISS ELAINE FAIRCHILDE
      Well la-di-da.

INT. TROLLEY (MOVING) - DAY

Fred sits on the trolley. His suitcase at his feet. 

SMASH TO:

INT. MR. ROGERS NEIGHBORHOOD SET - DAY

A toy trolley making its journey through the very first set 
of Mr. Rogers Neighborhood.  

We start inside the living room. A stoplight blinking yellow. 
The Hi piece of paper, framed. The aquarium. 

Fred stands outside his set door. Takes a deep breath. 
Dorothy Daniel gives him the signal. 

We hear the famous theme, as the first episode begins. 

And in he goes:  

             FRED
        (sings)
      Its a beautiful day in the 
      neighborhood. 

A KNOCKING at the set door. 

             FRED
      I wonder who that could be. 

             MCFEELY 
      Speedy delivery! 

CUT TO:

Fred opens the door to reveal a mustached McFeely, dressed as 
a man in a postal workers uniform.  

             FRED
      Why its Mr. McFeely! How are you 
      today?

             MCFEELY
      Oh, tootin along, Fred! 

CUT TO:


We follow the trolley from the living room set through to the 
Neighborhood Of Make Believe, where we get a puppet show on a 
massive scale. And as it happens, we INTERCUT with the people 
whove impacted Freds life, watching the show on TV: 

-Mr. McFeely (he is one of the few characters in the shows 
history to pass between Mr. Rogers' "real" world and the 
Neighborhood of Make-Believe) delivers a package to X the Owl 
and Henrietta in the Great Oak tree.

-As Henrietta and Mendel watch Fred and McFeely, Henrietta 
overjoyed. Mendel turns and picks up a book. She flips out 
and starts attacking him with the remote control as he 
shields his face.

-King Friday's Castle, a Friday and Sara puppet interacting. 

-Raymond watches Freds show intently, his face close to the 
kinescope projection in his office. REVEAL: he is bent over 
his desk. Getting spanked by his new secretary and grinning.  

-The Museum-Go-Round, with Lady Elaine Fairchilde. 

-Elaine watches from her desk, rolling her eyes and smiling.

-Daniel Striped Tiger strolling along beside a lovely actress 
portraying Betty Aberlin, beside the Eiffel Tower. 

-The real Betty Aberlin watches the television as she zips up 
a suitcase. Her violin in its travel case. On the table: an 
invitation to audition for the Budapest Festival Orchestra. 

Mr. Rogers feeds his fish, signaling the end of the show. 

CUT TO:

             FRED
      You know, television neighbor, 
      everybody makes mistakes. You may 
      want to think about the people who 
      love you and take care of you, even 
      if you do make mistakes once in a 
      while. Even if they do too. 

Fred smiles. 

             FRED
      Its such a good feeling to know 
      that people can love us, even when 
      were not perfect. I like you just 
      the way you are. 

He launches into Its You I Like. And as we INTERCUT 
between Freds set and the following shots, we watch Fred 
getting OLDER using ACTUAL FOOTAGE. His hair graying. His set 
getting slightly more elaborate. Yet, in the most important 
way, he remains exactly the same.   

             FRED
      It's you I like. It's not the 
      things you wear. It's not the way 
      you do your hair --

INT. AMERICAN HOUSEHOLDS - DAY

The NBC custodian and his children watch TV, the man pointing 
enthusiastically at the guy who dug a raggedy puppet out of 
his dumpster. His children are enraptured. As are children in 
MANY HOUSEHOLDS over 30 YEARS: the Chinese kids from down the 
block. White kids. Black kids. Hispanic. Handicapped. 
Everybody. 

             FRED
      But it's you I like. The way you 
      are right now. The way down deep 
      inside you. Not the things that 
      hide you. Not your toys -- They're 
      just beside you. But it's you I 
      like, Every part of you. Your skin, 
      your eyes, your feelings, whether 
      old or new. I hope that you'll 
      remember, even when you're feeling 
      blue, that it's you I like, it's 
      you yourself, it's you. It's you I 
      like.

INT. MR. ROGERS NEIGHBORHOOD SET (FIRST BROADCAST) - DAY

Fred turns to the CAMERA, back on his first broadcast. 

             FRED
      I do like you. Im so lucky to have 
      you as my neighbor.

Fred nods at Johnny Costa, his on-set pianist, who launches 
into Its Such A Good Feeling, signaling the end of his 
show. 

             FRED
      It's such a good feeling to know 
      you're alive....


EXT. PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL (PITTSBURGH) - DAY

Fred approaches the lip of a public swimming pool. Pulls on 
his goggles. Prepares to drop his robe when he sees: 

             BETTY ABERLIN 
      Hello, Fred.

Betty, standing there in a robe. 

             FRED
      Betty?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Im supposed to be in Budapest. For 
      an audition.  

             FRED
      Budapest? Thats wonderful! But 
      what are you doing here?

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I asked the cab to stop so I could 
      pick up a croissant. And I didnt 
      get back in. 

             FRED
      You hurt my feelings very badly. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      I know. But Ive got to start 
      somewhere, dont I. So here I am. 

             FRED
      Betty I--

Betty drops her robe. The old folks in the pool gasp. 

             FRED
      Oh my. 

             BETTY ABERLIN
      Lets go swimming.

INT. MR. ROGERS NEIGHBORHOOD SET - DAY

We end in the neighborhood, Fred signing off: 

             FRED
      You always make each day such a 
      special day, by just your being 
      you. 

             FRED      Theres only one person in the 
      whole world like you. Ill be back 
      next time. Bye-bye. 


SMASH TO:

BLACK

         A Beautiful Day In the Neighborhood

OVER THE CREDITS

Mr. Rogers Neighborhood aired on PBS for three decades. 
During that time, Fred received a Presidential Medal of 
Freedom, a Peabody Award, forty honorary degrees from a 
variety of educational institutions, and five Emmy awards. 
His red cardigan is part of the permanent collection of the 
Smithsonian. 

When he was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame, Fred 
asked the stars in attendance to take ten seconds of silence 
to think about the people whod loved them throughout their 
lives, providing the support and encouragement they needed. 
He kept time.  

