              A MONSTER CALLS

                Written by

                Patrick Ness

    Based on "A Monster Calls" by Patrick Ness, 
       Inspired by an idea from Siobhan Dowd

             Draft - 6 July 2012

Michelle Kass Associates
85 Charing Cross Road
London  WC2H 0AA
020 7439 1624

FADE UP ON

An amateur video, filmed on a phone, fills the middle of the 
screen.  CONOR, 12, films himself and his MUM, 30s, healthy, 
vibrant, getting into a ROLLER COASTER car.  They giggle 
together, up to something.  The seat restraints close.  

              MUM
       Shh, here they come.

The image disappears as Conor hides his phone.  We hear their 
seats being checked by an attendant.  Conor raises the phone 
again.  They look around to make sure they won’t get caught, 
smiling like fiends.

              MUM 
       If you drop that, it’ll leave a 
       permanent mark across your face.

              CONOR
       Nah, it’ll probably hit you first.

Mum slaps his arm playfully. They both laugh in surprise as 
the car lurches forward.  They start up a steep incline.

              MUM
       You know what I’m thinking?

              CONOR
       What?

              MUM 
       We shouldn’t have had all that 
       Indian food for lunch.

Conor makes a fake vomiting sound.  His mum laughs and makes 
one, too, until it becomes a competition and dissolves into 
laughter.  Then they’re nearly at the top.

              MUM 
       Ready?  Here we go.

              CONOR
       Here we go.

They look into the camera.  At the last second, Mum grabs 
Conor’s arm lovingly, then they plunge over the top.  Just as 
their faces start screaming in delight, we cut to sudden:

BLACKNESS

...as the screams from the plunge of the roller coaster 
fade...

TITLE: A MONSTER CALLS

FADE IN:

EXT. CHURCHYARD HILLTOP - NIGHT

A YEW TREE, huge, ancient, ominous, looms over us, its needle-
like leaves sharp in the moonlight, red berries clustered 
throughout its branches.  It sits in a small churchyard on a 
hilltop, a graveyard stretching down the hill in front of it.

We hear a single, distant CRY.  Someone, somewhere, is 
terrified. 

Down the hill, across some TRAIN TRACKS, we see the back of a 
small HOUSE.  Did the scream come from there?  It comes 
again, still distant, this time accompanied by a faint, 
monstrous ROARING.

We move down the hill, through the tombstones, over the train 
tracks and into the house’s back garden.  The SCREAMING and 
ROARING continues, increasing in volume, with newer sounds of 
raging winds and branches crashing.  The sounds don’t match 
the quiet, still night we’re seeing. 

We rush across the small back garden, up the back wall of the 
house, through an open window, taking us into:

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

We find Conor sleeping fitfully in his bed.  The sounds grow 
louder, and we realise we’re HEARING HIS NIGHTMARE.  As we 
close on his struggling face, the sounds reach their apex and-

              CONOR
       No!

He wakes, sitting up in bed, breathing heavily.  He’s a bit 
older than the video, seconds away from suddenly growing two 
feet in a year, but crucially, still small.  He gets a look 
of resignation.  This nightmare isn’t unfamiliar.  

              CONOR 
          (to himself)
       You’re okay.  You’re okay.

He glances around his moonlit bedroom.  It’s messy but homey.  
Posters at the borders of manhood on the wall: rugby teams, 
rock bands, but also cartoons.  Old stuffed toys in corners, 
framed PHOTOS of Conor and his MUM; of Conor and schoolfriend
LILY in a school play together, smiling wide; a laptop; 
handheld games.  A boy’s room, couldn’t be more normal.

He takes a deep breath, gets up, goes to his door and out 
into:

INT. CONOR’S HALLWAY - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

He pads quietly down the hallway until he gets to his MUM’s 
bedroom door.  It’s open slightly and he pushes it farther to 
look in.

In the moonlight, his mother is deeply asleep, alone in her 
bed.  Her head is obscured by pillows, but we (can Conor) can 
see the blankets rise and fall gently as she breathes.

Conor pulls the door nearly closed again and returns to:

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor gets back into bed, glancing at his bedside CLOCK, 
which reads 12.06. He lays down, sighs, closes his eyes.  

After a beat, the clock ticks over to 12.07, and as if on 
cue:

              VOICE 
          (whispering)
       Conor.

A monstrous voice, deep, old as the earth itself.  Conor 
opens his eyes but doesn’t move.  Did he actually hear that?

He gets up again, as if to head back to his Mum’s bedroom, 
but the voice comes again:

              VOICE  
          (more insistent)
       Conor.

And clearly not from the direction of the hall.  Conor’s head 
snaps towards the window, where the open curtains are gently 
moving in a breeze.  He gets slowly out of bed and heads over 
to it.  He looks out.

CONOR’S POV - The massive yew tree on the hilltop, lit by 
moonlight.  Nothing unusual.

He makes to go back to bed, but a cloud passes in front of 
the moon.  The yew tree disappears in shadow.  A gust of wind 
blows down the hill and through the open window.  Conor 
blinks away in surprise, and when he turns back:

The yew tree is now standing in his back garden.

Conor stares in disbelief.  How is this possible?  He looks 
back at his empty bed.

              CONOR
          (to himself)
       Did I go back to sleep?

He hears a creaking of timber and looks back out the window.

The tree is beginning to change.

Conor watches as it shifts and splits, twisting slowly, 
incredibly, into the shape of a TOWERING MAN:  

--two muscular arms made from branches twining together

--a second leg placed down beside the trunk

---the uppermost branches gathering into a great and terrible 
face with huge, monstrous eyes.

A MONSTER, huge and impressive, now standing in his back 
garden, watching him, an evil glint in its eye.

It steps forward, placing two hands on either side of Conor’s 
window, lowering its head to peer inside.

Conor steps back, frightened, but not as frightened as we 
might expect.  This is definitely a dream, isn’t it?

              MONSTER
       Conor O’Malley.

The voice echoes and booms.  Conor doesn’t answer. The 
Monster pushes against the house.  We hear it creak under the 
monster’s weight. 

              MONSTER 
       I have come to get you, Conor 
       O’Malley.

The monster might be enjoying this.  But Conor doesn’t run.  

              CONOR
          (beat, quietly)
       So come and get me then.

A beat, as the monster, impossibly, looks surprised.

Then it ROARS terrifyingly (though different from the roars 
in Conor’s nightmare) and pounds on the walls of the house 
sending Conor’s electronics and toys tumbling to the floor.

But Conor is still not afraid.

              CONOR 
       Shout all you want.  I’ve seen 
       worse.

The monster roars even louder and PUNCHES an enormous fist 
through Conor’s window, taking out a large section of the 
wall.  Conor at last tries to run, but the monster is too 
fast, grabbing him up and pulling him out of his bedroom...

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...and lifting him high in the air, SILHOUETTING him against 
the moon.  The Monster roars again, still terrifying.

In the Monster’s grasp, Conor can barely breathe, but he 
looks surprisingly defiant.

The Monster stops roaring, perplexed.

              MONSTER
       You really aren’t afraid, are you?

              CONOR
       No.  Not of you, anyway.

The Monster gets an angry look.

              MONSTER
       You will be.  Before the end.

Its mouth ROARS impossibly wide, and Conor, at last, screams 
as we follow his POV into the gaping, knotty-toothed mouth of 
the Monster.

CUT TO:

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - MORNING

Conor sits up suddenly in his bed, MUCH more scared than when 
he woke from the earlier nightmare.  

The sun is up.  His alarm clock is buzzing 7.00.  He flicks 
it off, his breathing slows.  His window is intact.  He can 
see the yew tree, peaceful and normal on the hilltop.  

              CONOR
       Well, that was new.

He throws back his covers and sets his feet on the floor.  
Which is crunchy.

Every inch is covered in needle-like yew tree leaves.

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MORNING

CONOR pokes his head around the door into his kitchen.

              CONOR
       Mum?

It’s empty.  Good.  He drags a RUBBISH BAG to the BIN and 
shoves it deep inside.  It opens a little, and we see that 
it’s full of YEW TREE NEEDLES.  Conor covers it with other 
rubbish, so it can’t be seen.

He sighs.  Job done.  He glances out the KITCHEN WINDOW which 
has the same view of the hilltop.

The yew tree is still just a tree.

              CONOR 
       Right.

TITLES RESUME OVER MONTAGE

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor begins what is obviously a familiar routine.  He puts 
on his school uniform, trying for the untucked rebellious 
look that he’s still just slightly too young for.  

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor packs his school bag with the right books and papers.

INT. CONOR’S HOUSE FRONT HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Conor sets the bag by the front door, ready to go.

INT. CONOR’S UTILITY ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor puts a load of laundry into the washing machine.  Why 
is a boy so young taking so much responsibility?

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor makes his breakfast of sugary cereal, toast and a glass 
of juice.  We see that the cabinets also contain all kinds of 
MEDICINAL-LOOKING HEALTH FOOD.  

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor eats at the small table, watching a VIDEO on his phone.  
We can just make out faint sounds of laughter.  Is it the 
roller coaster video?

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Breakfast done, Conor rinses the dishes and puts them in the 
dishwasher.  He eyes the rubbish bin suspiciously.

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor shoves the entire kitchen bin liner into the huge green 
wheelie bin out back.

EXT. CONOR’S HOUSE DRIVEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Conor drags the wheelie bin to the curb to leave it for the 
dustmen, wipes his hands, looks back to house.

TITLES FINISH

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Everything’s clean, Conor’s ready for school, and still no 
sign of anyone else.  He glances at the clock; it’s nearly 
time to go.  He’s not quite sure what to do, when he hears a 
voice from upstairs.

              MUM 
       Conor?

He lets out a long breath, possibly of relief.

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MORNING - MOMENTS LATER

CONOR’S MUM leans against the kitchen counter, a loose scarf 
around her neck, waiting for a kettle to boil.  She’s changed 
since the video and is now clearly undergoing CHEMO-THERAPY:
thin, pale, bald.  Exhausted, but facing it well.  Conor 
holds his rucksack, ready to go.

              MUM
       You’ve had breakfast?

              CONOR
       Yes, mum.

She gives him a look.  She may be ill, but she’s still Mum.

              CONOR 
          (exasperated)
       Toast, cereal and juice.  I put the 
       dishes in the dishwasher.

              MUM
          (quietly, looking at the 
           clean kitchen)
       And took the rubbish out.

              CONOR
       There’s washing going, too.

              MUM
          (smiling, a bit sadly)
       Sorry I wasn’t up.

              CONOR

       It’s okay.

              MUM
       It’s just this new round of-

              CONOR
       It’s okay.

Mum is surprised at the strength of his interruption, but she 
lets it pass.  Perhaps for Conor’s sake, she oh-so-casually 
ties the scarf around her head as she makes herself a cuppa.

              MUM
          (too lightly)
       I forgot to tell you.  Your 
       grandma’s coming by tomorrow.

Conor’s shoulders sink in disappointment.

              CONOR
       Aw, mum.

              MUM
       Don’t moan.  You shouldn’t have to 
       make breakfast every morning.

              CONOR
       Every morning?  How long is she 
       going to be here?

              MUM
       Conor-


              CONOR
       We don’t need her here.

              MUM
       You know how I get at this point in 
       the treatments-

              CONOR
       We’ve been okay before-

              MUM
       CONOR.

Beat, as its Conor’s turn to be shocked at the interruption.  
Mum, exhausted, smiles again.

              MUM 
       Only a few days, I promise.
          (laughs)
       She’s going to bring me some of her 
       old wigs, if you can believe it.  
       I’ll look like a zombie Margaret 
       Thatcher.

Conor picks at the zipper on his rucksack.

              CONOR
       I’m going to be late.

Mum regards him for a moment, then reaches forward to ruffle 
his hair.  He ducks away, affectionately.

              MUM
       Go on, go.

As Conor puts his rucksack on his back, she takes up her tea 
and leans against the counter, looking out the window.

              MUM 
          (as if to herself)
       There’s that old yew tree.

Conor looks past her, up the hill, the sun pouring down on 
the tree, normal as anything.

EXT. PAVEMENT ON CONOR’S STREET - LATER

Conor is walking to school, rucksack on his back.  He’s deep 
in his own thoughts, but then he sees someone coming out of a 
house, down the street.

A girl, LILY, 13, ludicrous amounts of curly hair, the friend 
we saw smiling with him in the photograph in his bedroom.  

She’s on her way to school, too.  She’s harmless, goofy, 
charming, but Conor holds back so she won’t see him, a 
serious look on his face.

He waits until she walks on, not seeing him, before he 
continues his way to school.

EXT. SCHOOLYARD - LATER

Conor hesitates at the entrance to the schoolyard, waiting 
until he sees Lily disappear around a corner.  He steps 
inside and...

...immediately falls, as if pushed, hitting the ground on a 
concrete path.  Still down, he puts his hand to his lip.  It 
comes away bloody.

Behind him, we see HARRY, 13, blond wonder boy, calmly 
vicious bully, flanked by ANTON and SULLY, both 13.  Harry is 
straightening his leg, after clearly having tripped Conor.

              HARRY
       Careful there.  You might fall.

The minions laugh.  Conor is resigned.  This isn’t new.  He 
reaches for his bag and starts to get up, but a perfectly 
timed trip from Harry sends him falling again.

The minions keep laughing.  Conor starts to rise again.  
Harry notices the blood on Conor’s lip.

              HARRY 
       You’re bleeding, O’Malley.

              ANTON
       He’ll have to get his baldy mother 
       to kiss it for him!

Silence, as the group absorbs this crossing of the line.  
Conor’s face hardens, but before he can respond, Lily bounces 
back into the scene.

              LILY 
       You leave him alone!

Conor winces, and Harry’s minions are already laughing.  Not 
Harry, though, who never stops looking at Conor.

              SULLY
       Your poodle’s here to save you, 
       O’Malley!

Outraged, Lily - who is, in fact, a little poodle-y - pushes 
Sully hard.  Surprised, he falls backwards over a shrubbery.

              MISS KWAN 
       LILY EVANS!

Everyone freezes as Head of Year MISS KWAN (late 30s, British-
Chinese descent, stern but fair) storms over.

              LILY
       They started it, Miss!

              MISS KWAN
       I don’t want to hear it.
          (to Sully, now rising)
       Are you hurt, Sullivan?

Sully, seeing an opening, fakes injury.  Badly.

              SULLY
       I don’t know, Miss.  I might need 
       to go home.

              MISS KWAN
       Don’t milk it.
          (to Lily)
       To my office, Lily.

              LILY
       But, Miss, they were-

              MISS KWAN
       Now.

              LILY
       They were making fun of Conor’s 
       mother!

Everyone freezes.  A dangerous silence.

              MISS KWAN
       Is this true, Conor?

Conor looks from Anton to Sully, and on to Lily, her face 
burning with injustice, but then to Harry, who is as calm and 
firmly fixed on Conor as ever.  

              CONOR
          (eyes on Harry)
       No, Miss.  I just fell.  They were 
       helping me up.

Lily looks like she’s been slapped.  

              MISS KWAN
       Get to your forms.
          (to Lily)
       Not you.

Miss Kwan drags an aghast Lily away.  Conor watches them go.  
When he turns back, Harry is holding out Conor’s bag for him.

              HARRY
       Well done, O’Malley.

Beat.  Conor takes the bag and makes his way inside.

INT. PHYSICAL SOCIAL AND EDUCATION CLASS - LATER

A Powerpoint display at the front of the class reading: “THE 
MIRACLE OF BIRTH”.  MR CLARK, 40s, wry, kind, perhaps a bit 
soft, steps up next to it.

              MR CLARK
       Brace yourselves.

Conor sits at the back, an empty desk next to him.  He’s 
secretly watching his phone again, the sound barely audible. 

              MR CLARK 
       Now, we’ve been studying this all 
       week.  You’ve seen all the diagrams 
       and the drawings and you think 
       you’re ready to watch the real 
       thing.

He gives a little you-have-no-idea-what-you’re-in-for chuckle 
and clicks a button to start a CHILDBIRTH DOCUMENTARY on the 
Powerpoint.

The sounds from the documentary (a narration about the last 
stages of birth, complete with sounds of a mother in labour) 
fade as we focus on Conor, firmly watching his phone.  His 
face is unreadable.  

As the documentary plays, Mr Clark patrols the classroom and 
pauses beside Conor.

              MR CLARK 
          (softly)
       You all right there, Conor?

Conor quickly puts away his phone and waits to see if he’s in 
trouble.  But Mr Clark is looking overly sympathetic instead.


              MR CLARK 
          (whispers)
       We’ve missed you in language club.
          (beat, nothing from Conor)
       You know, if you ever wanted to 
       talk-

He’s interrupted by a labour-scream from the video and an 
accompanying SHOUT OF HORROR from the class who can’t believe 
what they’re seeing.  Mr Clark looks up with an amused smile, 
gives Conor a last look, and keeps patrolling the classroom.

As Mr Clark steps away, Conor sees Harry a few seats over.  
Harry’s watched the exchange and looks at Conor as if he’s 
sussing him out, somehow.

As the sounds of childbirth and the accompanying trauma of 
the class continue, Lily enters from the front, eyes swollen 
from crying.  She sits next to Conor in the empty desk.  He 
doesn’t acknowledge her, despite her furious gaze.

Wounded, she looks back up at the video, seeing it for the 
first time, and is comically horrified by what she sees.

Mr Clark reaches the front of the classroom as the sounds of 
childbirth reach their exhausted conclusion (“And mother’s 
happy ordeal is finally over...”).  Mr Clark clicks off the 
Powerpoint and turns to the class.

              MR CLARK 
       Any questions?

Apart from Conor, Lily and Harry, every single traumatised 
hand in the classroom shoots into the air.

EXT. PAVEMENT ON CONOR’S STREET - THAT AFTERNOON

Conor walks home by himself, lost in thought.  Lily appears 
behind him. 

              LILY
       Hey!  Wait!  Conor, wait!

Conor ignores her.  Lily catches up.

              LILY 
       Why did you do that today?  Why 
       didn’t you tell Miss Kwan what 
       really happened?

              CONOR
       Why did you butt in when it was 
       none of your business?


              LILY
       I was trying to help you.

              CONOR
       I didn’t need your help.

Lily’s visibly hurt by his curtness.  She still keeps up, 
though.

              LILY
       My mum keeps asking why you don’t 
       come over anymore.

Conor still says nothing.

              LILY 
          (now genuinely distressed)
       Why are you acting like this?  I’ve 
       got detention all week now.

              CONOR
       That’s not my problem.

              LILY
       But it’s your fault.

Conor turns on her in fury.  She jumps back, frightened.

              CONOR
       It’s your fault.  It’s all your 
       fault.

He takes off walking again, leaving her behind.

              LILY
          (calling after him)
       We used to be friends!

Conor carries on angrily down the street, fast at first then 
eventually slowing as he nears his house.  He stops and looks 
back to see if Lily is still there, half-hoping she will be.

She isn’t.  Conor turns to look at his house, past it, to the 
yew tree visible on the hilltop behind it.

It’s just a tree.

Then it’s very much not a tree as the Monster rears up into 
the sunlight, its giant terrible face saying-

              MONSTER
       Conor-

Conor steps back so fast he stumbles off the curb into a 
parked car.

When he looks back up, it’s once more just a tree.

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - THAT NIGHT

Conor lies sleeping in his darkened bedroom.  We hear the 
screaming and roaring from the earlier NIGHTMARE as we close 
on him, but this time we see FLASHES of it (it is very 
clearly not the same as the monster who came to his window):

--Two pairs of hands locked in a ferocious grip, as if one is 
trying to keep the other from falling.

--An undefinable violent motion, dark and burning.

--Conor’s face, struggling in terror, calling out-

Conor wakes.

              CONOR
       No!

He takes a moment to recover.  We see his bedroom.  His clock 
reads 11.34.  His bedroom window is firmly closed.

He hears a door open out in the hall, then hurried footsteps.  
He thinks it’s Mum coming to check on him, but she rushes 
past his room to the toilet.  We hear her being sick, a good 
deal more serious and brutal than the play-vomiting from the 
video.  Conor waits.  She vomits again.

              CONOR 
          (calling to her)
       Do you need any help?

              MUM 
          (beat, forced cheer)
       No, sweetheart!  I’m kind of used 
       to it by now.

Beat, then water running.  Footsteps again.  She opens his 
door.

              MUM 
       You should be asleep.

              CONOR
       I was.  I am.

She smiles a good night and closes the door behind her.  
Conor watches it for a moment.  What’s going on in his head?

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - LATER

Conor is still awake.  The clock now reads 12.06.  He watches 
it until it ticks over to 12.07.

He looks around the bedroom, expecting something.

...but there’s nothing.

...and still nothing

He exhales in relief and turns over to go back to sleep-

And the Monster’s face suddenly looms into his window.  Conor 
calls out and scoots back in his bed.

              CONOR
          (frightened, annoyed)
       I’m too old to be dreaming monsters 
       like you.

              MONSTER
       Is that what I am?  A dream.

              CONOR
       Just go away.  I don’t have time 
       for-

              MONSTER
       I want to talk to you, Conor 
       O’Malley.

              CONOR
       Yeah, sure, because that’s what 
       monsters always want.  To talk.

              MONSTER
       Come outside.

              CONOR
       Are you kidding?

The monster reaches back a fist.

              MONSTER
       Then I shall take you by force.

Conor flinches back in panic.

              CONOR
       No!  Leave me alone!  What do you 
       want from me?

The Monster pauses, perplexed again.

              MONSTER
       It is not what I want from you, 
       Conor O’Malley.  It is what you 
       want from me.

Conor looks back at the Monster, a wary curiosity rising.

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor has his arms crossed against a chill.  The Monster 
stands above him in all its tree-like glory, easily 10 meters 
tall, massive and powerful.

              CONOR
       Well?  I’m here.
          (to himself)
       Like an idiot.

The Monster says nothing, seems to be waiting for Conor.

              CONOR 
       What are you, anyway?

The Monster’s eyes widen, its voice raises.

              MONSTER
       What am I?  What am I?

Winds start to swirl around Conor.  The Monster seems to grow 
even bigger, rising up into the sky, mythically huge, its 
arms opening wider and wider, enough to reach the horizons.

              MONSTER 
       I have had as many names as there 
       are years to time itself!  I am 
       Herne the Hunter!  I am Cernunnos!  
       I am the eternal Green Man!

One of the Monster’s arms, terrifyingly fast, snatches Conor 
from the ground again, lifting him high into the air.  The 
raging winds continue.

              MONSTER 
       WHAT AM I?  I am the spine that the 
       mountains hang upon!  I am the 
       lungs that breathe the wind!  I am 
       the snake of the world devouring 
       its tail!  I am everything untamed 
       and untameable!

The Monster brings Conor up to its eye as the winds cease.

              MONSTER 
       I am this wild earth come for you, 
       Conor O’Malley.

              CONOR
       You look like a tree.

The Monster squeezes Conor as a warning.  Conor cries out.

              MONSTER
       I do not often come walking, boy. 
       And when I do, I expect to be 
       listened to.

              CONOR
          (squirming)
       Fine.  I’m listening.  Not like I 
       have much choice.

The Monster draws him even closer, getting scarier, possibly 
enjoying this, as he tells them what’s to come.

              MONSTER
       I will visit you again on further 
       nights, Conor O’Malley.  And I will 
       shake your walls until you wake.  
       And then-

Conor really starting to look terrified.

              MONSTER 
       I will tell you three stories.

Beat, at this sudden anti-climax.  

              CONOR
       You’re going to tell me stories?

              MONSTER
       I am.

Conor looks around in disbelief.

              CONOR
       Well...  How is that supposed to be 
       scary?  Are they, like, really 
       boring or something?

The Monster cocks his head, confused.

              MONSTER
       Stories are the wildest things of 
       all.  Stories chase and bite and 
       hunt.


              CONOR
       Yeah, that’s what teachers always 
       say.  No one believes them either.

              MONSTER
          (pressing on)
       And when I have finished my three 
       stories, you will tell me a fourth.

              CONOR
          (confused)
       I’m no good at stories.

              MONSTER
       You will tell me a fourth, and it 
       will be the truth.  Your truth.

              CONOR
          (wary)
       What are you talking about?

              MONSTER
       You know the truth I speak of.  The 
       truth that you hide.  The truth you 
       are most afraid of.
          (glowers)
       You dream it, Conor O’Malley.

Suddenly, Conor knows exactly what truth the Monster means.  

              CONOR
       No.  No way-

              MONSTER
       You will tell it.  For this is why 
       you called me.

              CONOR
       Called you?  I didn’t call you-

              MONSTER
       You will tell me the fourth tale.  
       You will tell me the truth.

              CONOR
       And if I don’t?

The monster gives an evil, evil grin and seems to grow again, 
shooting up higher and higher, loosening its grip on Conor...

Until, screaming, he falls down through the air...

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...and onto his bed, bouncing right off it and down to his 
bedroom floor, where every inch is covered in bright red yew 
tree berries, staining his pyjamas. 

              CONOR
          (annoyed)
       Oh, come on.

INT. CONOR’S SITTING ROOM - THE NEXT DAY

A hand slaps Conor’s cheek, almost affectionately.  Conor’s 
GRANDMA, mid-50s, crisp, professional, VERY ungrandmotherly.

              GRANDMA
       Are you being a good boy for your 
       mum?

Conor’s mum, red scarf tied around her head, is on the 
settee, looking horrified into a box full of wigs.

              MUM
       Very good, Ma, so there’s no need 
       to inflict quite so much pain.

Conor says nothing, as Grandma looks at him too intently.

              MUM 
          (of wigs)
       I thought you were bringing your 
       old ones.  Where did you get all 
       these?

              GRANDMA
       Clearance of an old people’s home.  
       They’re turning it into flats and 
       I’ll be the agent.  

Mum gives Conor a look of comical horror Grandma can’t see.  
Conor smiles.  Grandma looks to see if she’s being made fun 
of, but Mum’s face immediately goes serious again.

              GRANDMA 
       They’re clean.

              MUM
       Thanks, Ma. 

Conor shares one last conspiratorial look with his Mum.

              GRANDMA
          (to Conor)
       Why don’t you go and put a kettle 
       on?

Conor looks at his Mum, who nods.  As he leaves, Grandma 
turns to Mum.

              GRANDMA 
       Now then, my dear.  What are we 
       going to do with you?

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor waits for the kettle.  He looks out the window, where 
the yew tree sits innocently atop the hill.  Grandma enters.

              GRANDMA
          (all business)
       You and I need to have a talk.

Conor stiffens.  This isn’t the first time for this.

              CONOR
       I’m making tea.

              GRANDMA
       Conor-

              CONOR
       I’m making tea.

              GRANDMA
          (snapping)
       We have to-
          (beat, gathers herself)
       I’m not your enemy, Conor.  I’m 
       here to help your mother.

              CONOR
       I know why you’re here.

He grabs a cloth and starts furiously wiping the counter.  
Grandma snatches the cloth out of his hand. 

              GRANDMA
       I’m here because 13-year-old boys 
       shouldn’t be wiping down counters 
       without being asked to first.

              CONOR
       Were you going to do it?

              GRANDMA
       Less of your cheek-

              CONOR
       Just go.  She’s always sick after 
       the treatments.  She’ll be better 
       tomorrow. And then you can go home.

But he’s surprised.  Grandma’s hands are shaking.  She rubs 
her face, then her arms, keeping strong emotions in check.  
This is a woman whose daughter may be dying, after all.

Conor is so unsettled, he grabs another cloth and starts on 
the counter again.  He glances out the back window.

The Monster is standing in his back garden, watching him.  
Grandma doesn’t see it from her position.

              GRANDMA
          (barely controlled)
       She’ll seem better tomorrow, Conor.  
       But she won’t be.

Conor doesn’t like this at all, looks away from the Monster.

              CONOR
       Yes, she will.  “You go through the 
       rough stuff but it’s for a good 
       reason.”  That’s what she says.

Grandma clearly wants to say much more but can’t or won’t.

              GRANDMA
       You need to talk to her about this.
          (to herself)
       She needs to talk about this with 
       you.

              CONOR
       Talk to me about what?

              GRANDMA
          (beat)
       About you coming to live with me.

There, the die is cast.  Conor is furious.

              CONOR
       I’m never coming to live with you.

              GRANDMA
       Well, your father can’t take you 
       in, and when this is all over-

              CONOR
       When this is all over, you’ll leave 
       and we’ll be fine-

              GRANDMA
       Conor, you have got to grow up and 
       face the-

Their argument is interrupted by a call from the sitting 
room.

              MUM 
          (distressed)
       Ma?  Mum?

A look of heartbreaking terror crosses Grandma’s face, as she 
bolts, almost comically fast, out of the kitchen to her 
daughter.  Conor follows, glancing out the window-

Where the Monster is gone.

INT. CONOR’S SITTING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Conor enters the sitting room.  His Mum is coughing up into a 
small dustbin.  Grandma rubs her back.

              GRANDMA
       It’s okay, darling, it’s okay, shh, 
       shh, shh.

Grandma looks up at Conor, her face set and hard and totally 
unreadable.

INT. CONOR’S HALLWAY - THAT NIGHT

Conor stands outside his own bedroom as his grandma hands him 
his blankets.  Her bag is partially unpacked on his own bed.  
This is where she’ll be staying for the night.

              CONOR
       Just don’t touch anything.

              GRANDMA
       Trust me.  I’ll be doing my very 
       best not to.

She hands him a last pillow.

              GRANDMA 
       Our conversation isn’t over, young 
       man.

She gives him a “to be continued” look and shuts the door on 
him.

              CONOR
          (quietly, to the closed 
           door)
       Oh, yes, it is.

INT. CONOR’S SITTING ROOM - THAT NIGHT

The sitting room is dark.  Conor lies awake, restive, on the 
settee, where he’s been put for Grandma’s stay.  

He looks impatiently around the dim, untidy room.  We can see 
plenty of get well cards on the shelves, plus tumbles of 
smart chicklit and his mum’s CD collection (90s rave, Massive 
Attack, Blur).

Conor glances impatiently at the clock display on the DVD 
player.  It clicks over from 12.06 to 12.07.

Conor sits up, listening out for the Monster.

And listening.

And listening.

Nothing.  The DVD clock ticks over to 12.08.

Conor, annoyed, gets to his feet, blanket wrapped around him.  
He goes into...

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

...the kitchen, heads to the window.  He looks out.

The Monster is waiting for him.

              MONSTER
       What took you so long?

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER

Still annoyed, Conor sits in a plastic deck chair, wrapped up 
in the blanket.  The Monster towers over him again.

              MONSTER
       It is time for me to tell you the 
       first tale.

Conor isn’t listening.  He’s looking up to his bedroom.

              CONOR
       She always takes my room.  I mean, 
       I know she’s an old lady but-

              MONSTER
       Are you listening to me?

              CONOR
          (not listening)
       What?

The air swirls violently again in the Monster’s anger.

              MONSTER
       I will be listened to!  I have been 
       alive as long as this land and you 
       will-

Abruptly, Conor gets up and heads back to the kitchen door.

              MONSTER 
       Where do you think you’re going?

Conor whirls around, so angry the Monster stands up straight, 
its huge, leafy eyebrows raising in surprise.

              CONOR
       What do you know?  What do you know 
       about anything?

              MONSTER
       I know about you, Conor O’Malley.

              CONOR
       No, you don’t.  If you did, you’d 
       know I don’t have time to listen to 
       stupid, boring stories from some 
       stupid, boring tree that isn’t even 
       real-

              MONSTER
       Were the leaves on the floor of 
       your room real?  Were the berries?

              CONOR
       Who cares if they were?!  They were 
       berries.  Woo-hoo, so scary.  Oh, 
       please, please save me from the 
       berries!

The Monster puts its hands on its hips.


              MONSTER
       How strange.  The words you say 
       tell me you are scared of the 
       berries, but your tone suggests 
       otherwise.

              CONOR
       You’re as old as the land and 
       you’ve never heard of sarcasm?

The Monster shakes its head, but not in response.

              MONSTER
       It is most unusual.  Nothing I do 
       seems to make you frightened of me.

              CONOR
       You’re a tree.

              MONSTER
       And you have worse things to be 
       frightened of.

Beat, as this reminder sinks in for Conor.

              CONOR
       I thought...
          (swallows)
       I saw you watching me in the 
       kitchen when I was talking to my 
       grandma, and I thought...

              MONSTER
       You thought I came to topple your 
       enemies.  Slay your dragons.

Conor frowns.  This is obviously true.

              CONOR
          (bitterly disappointed)
       But all you want to do is tell me 
       stories.

              MONSTER
       Stories of how I toppled enemies.  
       Stories of how I slew dragons.

The Monster leans down until its face is close to Conor’s.

              MONSTER 
       Let me tell you a tale of when I 
       came walking.  Let me tell you of 
       the end of a wicked queen and how I 
       made sure she was never seen again.

Cautiously, Conor thinks this seems a bit more like it.

              CONOR
       Go on.

The Monster grins his evil grin.  He turns, opening his hands 
in a way that frames the (currently treeless) hilltop behind 
the house.  

But as Conor watches, the colors in the frame bleach out to 
black and white.  The hill remains in place, but the church 
and graveyard disappear.  A slightly younger yew tree appears 
alone on the hilltop, and the world around it turns into an 
abstract, shadow-puppet-like landscape. 

              CONOR 
       Whoa.

              MONSTER
       Whoa, indeed.

We zoom into the frame of the Monster’s hands and this 
becomes our new landscape until we’re on...

EXT. FIRST TALE HILLTOP - DAY

...the shadow-puppet hilltop itself, turning to look down at 
an empty valley below.  All the modern houses and roads are 
gone, but there’s a small VILLAGE and a looming CASTLE.  The 
shadow-puppet style remains for the entire tale.

              MONSTER 
       Long ago, before this was a town 
       with roads and trains and cars, it 
       was a kingdom.

              CONOR 
       Here?  We don’t even have a 
       MacDonald’s.

We race down the hill, over the village and towards the 
Castle, swooping over moats and turrets before finding a 
window and rushing through it and... 

INT. FIRST TALE CASTLE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

...down a hallway, passing maids and servants and the 
business of a castle before stopping in the...

INT. FIRST TALE CASTLE THRONE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

...throne room, where a shadow puppet KING sits on a throne.

              MONSTER 
       It was a happy kingdom, with a wise 
       king, who had won peace for his 
       people.  But peace had come at a 
       price.

CUT TO:

EXT. FIRST TALE BATTLEFIELD 1 - DAY - CONTINUOUS

A battlefield of armies fighting.

              MONSTER 
       The king had lost all four of his 
       sons in battle.  To giants.

A FIRST SON of the king is killed by a giant.

EXT. FIRST TALE BATTLEFIELD 2 - DAY - CONTINUOUS

A different battlefield in a different place.

              MONSTER 
       To dragons.

A SECOND SON of the king is killed by a dragon.

EXT. FIRST TALE BATTLEFIELD 3 - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

A rainy, darkened, third battlefield.

              MONSTER 
       To black wolves with red eyes.

A THIRD SON of the king is overrun by black wolves.

EXT. FIRST TALE BATTLEFIELD 4 - DAY - CONTINUOUS

A final battlefield, one army fighting another led by a 
terrible wizard.

              MONSTER 
       To armies of men led by great 
       wizards.

The battle commences, hard fought and chaotic.

              CONOR 
       This is all sounding pretty fairy 
       tale-ish.

              MONSTER 
       You wouldn’t say that if you heard 
       the screams of a man killed by a 
       spear.

A stylised FOURTH SON of the king is run through with a 
spear.  The screams are terrible.  We return to...

INT. FIRST TALE CASTLE THRONE ROOM - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The King sits forlorn on his throne again.

              MONSTER 
       The king’s sole remaining heir was 
       his orphaned grandson.

ANGLE ON: the toddler PRINCE, playing with a wooden toy 
dragon.  The King watches him affectionately.  But a 
different angle reveals a QUEEN, sitting to the King’s right.

              MONSTER  
       The King had taken a wife in 
       peacetime, his first having died of 
       heartbreak at the loss of all her 
       sons.

The KING leaps from his throne to play with the PRINCE.  The 
QUEEN watches, detached.

              MONSTER  
       And if the new Queen’s tongue was a 
       bit sharp, she was at least young 
       and fair and made the King happy.

We pull back out the hallway we came in and into:

EXT. FIRST TALE COUNTRYSIDE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The young prince runs playfully through the countryside, the 
King in pursuit.  These images continue as the Prince ages:  
the Prince with a dog, the Prince hunting his first stag, the 
Prince winning his first joust as a 17-year-old.

              MONSTER 
       The Prince grew until he was nearly 
       a man, winning the love of the 
       kingdom for his gallantry and good 
       heart.  But one day, the old king 
       fell ill.

In the audience for the joust, the king suddenly collapses.

INT. FIRST TALE CASTLE THRONE ROOM - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The King, now in a sickbed tended by the Queen.

              MONSTER 
       Rumour began to spread that he was 
       being poisoned by his new wife.  
       That she was an evil witch, bent on 
       taking the throne for herself.

The Queen gives the King medicine.  Or is it poison?

              MONSTER  
       But the King loved her and even 
       with his dying breath, he begged 
       his subjects not to blame her. 

The King has his dying breath.  We rush back out of the 
throne room to...

EXT. FIRST TALE COUNTRYSIDE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...the Kingdom, in mourning, shadowy rain coming down.  We 
find the Prince, looking up at the castle.

              MONSTER 
       The Prince was too young to take 
       his place yet as King.  The Queen 
       would rule as Regent for another 
       year.  The future was uncertain.

The FARMER’S DAUGHTER approaches the Prince.  He greets her 
with a flower.

              MONSTER 
       The Prince, meanwhile, had given 
       away his heart-

              CONOR 
          (groaning)
       I knew it.  There’s always some 
       stupid prince falling in stupid 
       love, ruining everything-

              MONSTER 
          (louder)
       The Prince, meanwhile, had given 
       away his heart-

The Prince sweeps the Farmer’s Daughter up in romance, 
running flirtatiously through orchards, exchanging love 
letters, parting with sweet sorrow...

              MONSTER  
       She was beautiful and smart and 
       though only a farmer’s daughter, 
       the kingdom smiled on the match.

We rush back up to the castle, through the hallway and into:

INT. FIRST TALE CASTLE THRONE ROOM - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The Queen, sitting on her throne, dispensing queenliness.

              MONSTER 
       The Queen, however, had other 
       ideas.  She was rather enjoying 
       being Queen.  And what better way 
       to remain so than to marry the 
       prince herself?

              CONOR 
       WHAT?!  That’s disgusting!  She was 
       his grandmother!

Queen on throne, offering this objectionable plan to Prince.

              MONSTER 
       Step-grandmother, no relation, and 
       still a young, beautiful woman 
       herself, don’t forget.  The Prince, 
       however, didn’t like this idea 
       either.

We rush out of the castle and into...

EXT. FIRST TALE COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...a stormy night.  The Prince saddles a horse and helps up 
the Farmer’s Daughter.  

              MONSTER 
       He took the farmer’s daughter and 
       they rode away in the night-

They ride through the storm, before taking shelter on...

EXT. FIRST TALE HILLTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...the hilltop where the yew tree stands.  The Prince and the 
Farmer’s Daughter shelter at the base, under blankets.

              MONSTER 
       Stopping only to shelter themselves 
       under the branches of a yew tree.  
       They slept.

Sleeping is pretty clearly what they aren’t doing; it’s more 
canoodling.

              CONOR
       Yeah, I don’t think they’re 
       sleeping.

              MONSTER 
       They slept.  Eventually.

The Prince and the Farmer’s Daughter sleep.  The image stills 
as time rapidly passes and...

EXT. FIRST TALE HILLTOP - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...the sun comes up.  The Prince wakes.

              MONSTER 
       The next morning, the Prince woke.  
       “Arise, my beloved,” he said.

The Prince mirrors the Monster’s words.

              MONSTER  
       But the farmer’s daughter did not 
       stir.

The Farmer’s Daughter slumps.  CLOSE ON:  The Prince’s 
bloodied hand.

              MONSTER 
       Which was when the Prince noticed 
       the blood.

              CONOR 
       Blood?

The Prince stands.  Blood everywhere.  The Farmer’s Daughter 
is very dead.


              MONSTER 
       Someone had killed his beloved in 
       the night and made him look like 
       the murderer.  “The Queen!” he
       cried.  “The Queen is responsible 
       for this treachery!”

The Prince mirrors the Monster’s words.  Men approach the 
Prince from the distance.

              MONSTER  
       He saw men approaching and knew 
       they’d been sent to arrest him.

              CONOR 
       And the queen would be able to rule 
       unchallenged!  I hope this story 
       ends with you ripping her head off.

The Prince looks around in panic.

              MONSTER 
       There was nowhere for the Prince to 
       run.  His horse had been chased 
       away.  He turned to the only place 
       he could look for help.

The Prince looks up at the yew tree.

              CONOR 
       You?

The Prince talks to the tree.  We don’t hear what he says.  
The tree remains a tree.

              CONOR 
       What did he say?

              MONSTER 
       He said enough to bring me walking.

We rush away from hilltop and down into...

EXT. FIRST TALE COUNTRYSIDE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...the Prince racing through the countryside, calling the 
people to arms.

              MONSTER 
       The Prince ran through the 
       villages.  “The Queen has murdered 
       my bride!  The Queen must be 
       stopped!”

Behind the Prince, the Monster himself comes, terrifying, 
huge.

              MONSTER  
       The people were quick to rally to 
       the Prince when they saw the great 
       Green Man behind him, high as the 
       hills, coming for vengeance.

The Prince leads the villagers to a storming of the castle, 
the Monster behind them.  With its great hands, it tears down 
the castle walls.  Flames rise, turrets tumble, until we 
ANGLE ON: the terrified Queen screaming in the Monster’s 
upraised hand.

Then we rush back, until we’re passing backwards through the 
frame of the Monster’s hands and into:

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor is watching where the Monster lowers his hands.

              MONSTER
       The Queen was never seen again.

              CONOR
       Good!  She deserved it!

Conor looks up at his bedroom where his Grandma sleeps.

              CONOR 
       I don’t suppose you can help me 
       with her?  I mean, I don’t want you 
       to tear down the house or anything-

              MONSTER
       The story is not yet finished.

Conor turns to the Monster, confused.

              CONOR
       But you said the Queen was never 
       seen again.

              MONSTER
       Indeed.

The Monster reframes his hands.  We rush back into...

EXT. FIRST TALE HILLTOP - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...the Castle burning in the background as the Monster, still 
holding the Queen, walks away from it.

              MONSTER 
       I carried her far enough away so 
       that her people would never find 
       her.

The Queen looks quite safe in the Monster’s hands.

              MONSTER  
       I took her to a village by the sea, 
       where she began a new life.

CUT TO:

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor is outraged.  The Monster’s hands still in the frame.

              CONOR
       But she killed the Farmer’s 
       Daughter!  How can you save a 
       murderer?

He takes a step back from the Monster in dawning fright.

              CONOR 
       You really are a monster.

              MONSTER
       I never said she killed the 
       farmer’s daughter.  I only said 
       that the Prince said it was so.

They turn back to the Monster’s still-framed hands, which now 
show a shadow-puppet version of the very hilltop that’s 
behind them.  We move through the frame into:

EXT. FIRST TALE HILLTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The Prince and the Farmer’s Daughter, sleeping, as before.

              MONSTER 
       The Prince never fell asleep that 
       night.

The Prince rises and looks down at the Farmer’s Daughter.  He 
goes to his tied-up horse and retrieves something, setting 
the horse free in the process.

CLOSE ON:  A KNIFE glinting in the Prince’s hand as he 
approaches the sleeping Farmer’s Daughter.

              CONOR 
       NO!

We rush back from the hilltop to...

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor watches in shock as the scene fades on the hilltop, the 
Monster lowering his hands again.

              CONOR
       You said he was surprised when he 
       woke up!  You said he asked you for 
       help and you gave it!

              MONSTER
       I only said he told me enough to 
       make me come walking.

              CONOR
       And what was that then?

              MONSTER
       He said he had done it for the good 
       of the kingdom. That the queen was, 
       in fact, a witch, too powerful to 
       topple on his own, so he killed the 
       Farmer’s Daughter to get the fury 
       of the people behind him.  Just as 
       the King’s sons had died in battle, 
       so had the Farmer’s Daughter given 
       her life to a greater good.

              CONOR
       That’s a load of crap!  The people 
       were behind him anyway!  He didn’t 
       need to kill her!

              MONSTER
       The justifications of men who kill 
       should always be heard with 
       scepticism.

              CONOR
       Did he ever get caught?

              MONSTER
       He became a much beloved king who 
       ruled happily until the end of his 
       long days.

Conor unhappily considers all this.

              CONOR
       So the good prince was a murderer 
       and the evil queen wasn’t a witch 
       after all?  Is that supposed to be 
       the lesson of all this?
          (on his bedroom window)
       That I’m supposed to be nice to 
       her?

The Monster begins to rumble, louder and louder, until we 
realise it’s laughing, a laugh that shakes the earth, 
spooking owls from their perches, causing leaves to fall.

              MONSTER
       You think I have come walking out 
       of time and earth to teach you a 
       lesson in niceness?

Carries on laughing. 

              CONOR
          (embarrassed)
       Yeah, all right.

              MONSTER
          (calming some)
       No, the Queen most certainly was a 
       witch and could very well have been 
       on her way to great evil.  Who’s to 
       say? 

              CONOR
       Why’d you save her then?

              MONSTER
       Because what she was not, was a 
       murderer.  She hadn’t poisoned the 
       king.  He had merely grown old.

              CONOR
       I don’t get it.  Who’s the good guy 
       here?

              MONSTER
       There is not always a good guy.  
       Nor is there always a bad one.  
       Most people are somewhere 
       inbetween.

              CONOR
       That’s a terrible story.  And a 
       cheat.


              MONSTER
       It’s a true story.  Many things 
       that are true feel like a cheat.  
       Kingdoms get the princes they 
       deserve, farmer’s daughters die for 
       no reason, and sometimes witches 
       merit saving.  Quite often, 
       actually.  You’d be surprised.

Conor glances unhappily up to his bedroom window again.

              CONOR
       So how is that supposed to save me 
       from her?

The Monster slowly stands to its full terrifying height.

              MONSTER
       It is not her you need saving from.

A mist rises suddenly and in an instant, the Monster is gone, 
leaving Conor alone in the back garden.  On the hilltop, the 
yew tree is back in place, as if nothing had happened.  Which 
is annoying.

EXT. A PAVEMENT - THE NEXT DAY

Conor walks to school, rucksack on his back, lost in thought.  
Lily catches up to him again.  She doesn’t say anything at 
first, just waits for his response.  Gets none.

              LILY
       I forgive you.

Conor says nothing, just walks on.

              LILY 
       I forgive you for getting me into 
       trouble, okay?

              CONOR
       You got yourself into trouble.

              LILY
          (ignoring this)
       And I forgive you for all the 
       things you said yesterday, too.

Conor remains silent.  Lily is defiant, but hopeful.

              LILY 
       Aren’t you going to say you’re 
       sorry back?

Conor stops, and his anger backs Lily into a nearby wall.

              CONOR
       I’m not sorry, and I don’t forgive 
       you.

Lily tries to be the bigger person.

              LILY
       My mum said we need to make 
       allowances for you.  Because of 
       what you’re going through-

              CONOR
       I don’t need allowances.  I was 
       doing just fine before you screwed 
       everything up.

              LILY
          (baffled)
       Me?!

              CONOR
       No one knew, Lily.  No one.  And 
       then your mum tells you and then 
       guess what?  Suddenly everybody 
       knows-

              LILY
       About your mum-?

              CONOR
          (over)
       -and now everyone treats me like 
       I’m the one who’s sick or that I’m 
       not really there or...

He stops, choked up, angry about it.  He takes off again, 
leaving Lily behind.

INT. PHYSICAL SOCIAL AND EDUCATION CLASS - DAY - LATER

“SELF-ESTEEM” is up on the powerpoint display.  Hands up, 
normal classroom discussion.  Conor sits at his desk, 
ignoring Lily, not participating. 

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY - LATER

Conor moving from one classroom to another.  Alone.  He gets 
a few confused looks from others, but no one speaks to him.

INT. SCHOOL CAFETERIA - DAY - LATER

A crowded school cafeteria.  Against a wall, there’s an old-
fashioned DIGITAL CLOCK with clacking tiles.  Conor, with a 
tray of food, looks for a place to sit.  Takes a seat near 
some other boys, but not exactly with them.  

EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY - LATER

Conor falls to the pavement again.  He gets to one knee, a 
tear in his trousers.  SULLY and ANTON are laughing.  HARRY, 
as usual, stares with odd focus at Conor.

              SULLY
       Seriously, O’Malley.  All this 
       falling!

              ANTON
       You drunk or something?

Conor rises, sees classmates filing back into the building, 
Lily among them.  She looks at him.  Then looks away.  Sully 
reaches for the rising Conor to cause more mischief.

              HARRY
       Don’t touch him.

Sully immediately steps back.

              HARRY 
       O’Malley and I have an 
       understanding.  I’m the only one 
       who touches him.  Isn’t that right?

Conor says nothing, but this does seem to be the agreement.  
Harry steps closer.  Conor doesn’t back away.

Harry raises a fist as if to strike Conor.  Again, Conor 
doesn’t flinch, just waits for the punch.

Beat.  Harry drops his fist.

              HARRY 
       Yeah.  That’s what I thought.

              MISS KWAN 
       You boys!

Miss Kwan strides towards them.

              MISS KWAN 
       Break’s over.  What do you think 
       you’re still doing out here?

A sudden change oozes over Harry.  He becomes smooth, 
politician-like.

              HARRY
       Sorry, Miss.  Just trying to buck 
       up O’Malley’s spirits.  What with 
       all that’s been going on for him.

              MISS KWAN
       Yes, that sounds entirely likely.  
       To class.  Now.

She waits while Harry, Sully and Anton slink off, Harry with 
a last long look at Conor.  Conor makes to follow them.

              MISS KWAN 
       Just a minute, Conor.

Conor hesitates, with dread.

              MISS KWAN 
       You’re sure everything’s all right?

              CONOR
       Yes, miss.

              MISS KWAN
       Because I’m not blind to how Harry 
       works, you know.  A bully with top 
       marks and charisma is still a 
       bully.  He’ll probably end up Prime 
       Minster one day, God help us all.

Conor stares at the ground, bracing himself for what he knows 
is coming.  And here it is.

              MISS KWAN 
          (more softly)
       I can’t imagine what you must be 
       going through, Conor, but if you 
       ever want to talk, my door is 
       always open.

Conor doesn’t look at her.  Can’t.  Miss Kwan seems willing 
to leave it at that, touches him lightly on the shoulder.

              MISS KWAN 
       Run along to class then.

She leaves him there.  Conor doesn’t move.  We pull back and 
see him standing, alone in the empty schoolyard.


INT. CONOR’S HOUSE FRONT HALLWAY - LATER

Conor enters, home from school, but stops when he hears 
raised voices upstairs:  Mum and Grandma, having a 
disagreement.  Then Grandma comes down the stairs, annoyed 
but determined.  She stops when she sees him, surprised.

              CONOR
       What’s wrong?

              GRANDMA
          (beat)
       Your mum has to go to back to 
       hospital.  You’re going to come and 
       stay with me for a few days.

              CONOR
       What’s wrong with her?

Grandma grapples again with what she’s obviously been 
forbidden to say by her daughter.  Half says it anyway:

              GRANDMA
       It’s not working, Conor.

              CONOR
       What’s not working?

Grandma finishes coming down the stairs.

              GRANDMA
       Your mum’s upstairs. She wants to 
       talk to you.

              CONOR
       But-

              GRANDMA
       Your father’s flying in on Sunday.

              CONOR
       Dad’s coming?  From America?

              GRANDMA
          (exiting to sitting room)
       I’ve got some calls to make.

              CONOR
       Why is my dad coming?

Grandma pulls the sitting room door shut.

              GRANDMA
       Your mum’s waiting.

Shuts door.  Conor stands for a moment, shellshocked.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE CONOR’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor approaches the door to his bedroom, makes to go in, but 
hesitates, worried about what might await him.  He has a 
FLASH MEMORY of his NIGHTMARE:

--a brief, terrifying glimpse of the roaring and the 
screaming, of the hands clasped tightly together.

Then he gathers himself and opens the door.

INT. CONOR’S BEDROOM - DAY - CONTINUOUS

His mum, in a TERRIBLE WIG, lies on his bed, looking out at 
the yew tree.

              MUM
          (w/o turning)
       They’re amazing trees, you know.  
       Live for thousands of years. And 
       they’re always planted in 
       churchyards because the-

Conor finishes the sentence.  He’s heard it a thousand times.

              CONOR
       -berries are poisonous so they have 
       to be kept away from sheep and 
       stuff.

Mum turns and smiles at him, exhausted.  Conor gives a 
horrified look at the wig on her head.  She laughs.

              MUM
       I know.  Tina Turner.  If she was 
       from Sheffield.

              CONOR
       I don’t really know who that is.

Mum tugs the wig off, laughing, tying a scarf around her head 
instead.

              CONOR 
       Why are you going back to hospital?

              MUM
          (sighs lovingly)
       We’ve been here before, sweetheart.  

              MUM
       I feel really bad and I go in and 
       they take care of it.

She pats the duvet next to her, inviting Conor to sit.  After 
a long moment, he does.  They both look out the window at the 
tree.  His mum starts stroking his hair.

              CONOR
       Why is dad coming?

Mum pauses in the hair stroking, but picks right back up.

              MUM
       It’s been awhile since you’ve seen 
       him.  Aren’t you excited?

              CONOR
       Grandma doesn’t seem too happy.

              MUM
          (snort)
       Well, you know how she feels about 
       your father.  Don’t listen to her.

Beat, silence.

              CONOR
       There’s something else, isn’t 
       there?

Mum’s face, making a decision.

              MUM
       Look at me, son.

He does.

              MUM 
       The latest treatment’s not doing 
       what it’s supposed to.  So they’re 
       going to adjust it, try something 
       else.  That’s all.

              CONOR
       That’s all?

              MUM
          (nodding)
       There’s lots more they can do.  
       It’s normal.  Don’t worry.

              CONOR
       You’re sure?


              MUM
       I’m sure.

              CONOR
       Because...  You could tell me, you 
       know.

And here’s the moment, where she could tell him everything.

But she can’t, not yet.  She leans up, puts an arm around 
him, her head on his shoulder.  They both look out at the 
tree.

              MUM
       Keep an eye on it for me while I’m 
       away, will you?  Make sure it’s 
       still here when I get back?

Conor tries to half-smile at this.  His mum grabs him and 
turns him to her, faux-serious.

              MUM 
       And for God’s sake, whatever you 
       do, don’t touch your grandmother’s 
       clock.

CUT TO:

INT. GRANDMA’S SITTING ROOM - DAYS LATER

The face of Grandma’s prize antique clock, including a 
smoothly running SECOND HAND.  Her fingers delicately adjust 
the time, ever so slightly.

Pull out to see it on her mantelpiece in the midst of a 
pristine sitting room, every surface clean and museum-like, 
including glass display cases with figurines, low bookcases, 
porcelain knickknacks.  The polar opposite of Conor’s warmly 
untidy house.  Conor leans in the doorway.

              GRANDMA
          (looking at clock)
       I’ve got a house to show.  I’m 
       trusting you here alone until your 
       dad shows up.

              CONOR
       I’m not five years old.

              GRANDMA
          (ignores this, admires the 
           clock)


              GRANDMA
       I almost got this on Antiques 
       Roadshow once.

Conor rolls his eyes.  A VERY old story.  She brushes past 
him to her:

INT. GRANDMA’S FRONT HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

She glides smoothly to a mirror, checking how she looks.  
Without glancing at the floor-

              GRANDMA
       Pick up your rucksack, please.  
       Don’t want your father to think I’m 
       keeping you in a pigsty.

              CONOR
          (muttering)
       Not much chance of that.

His Grandma continues getting ready, opening a front closet, 
putting on a coat.

              GRANDMA
       Now, Conor, when you go to the 
       hospital, your father may not 
       notice how tired your mum’s been 
       getting, okay? So we’re going to 
       have to make sure he doesn’t 
       outstay his welcome.

One last check in the mirror.

              GRANDMA 
          (to herself)
       Not that that’s historically been a 
       problem.

She gives one last appraising look at Conor.  Frowns, sighs.

              GRANDMA 
       Be good.

And lets herself out.

INT. GRANDMA’S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Quick montage as Conor looks around his Grandma’s house for 
something to do.  First in her spotless kitchen, cupboards 
full of nothing a boy might like to eat.

INT. GRANDMA’S TV ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor in a sterile TV room.  Every channel he wants to watch 
blocked by a PIN code.

INT. GRANDMA’S GUEST ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor in his temporary bedroom, half-heartedly playing a 
handheld video game.  His suitcase is open, clothes removed, 
but the room is bright white, with pictures of sailboats on 
the wall.  It could be a hotel room.  He tosses the game to 
the side in boredom.

EXT. GRANDMA’S BACK GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor steps out into his Grandma’s back garden which, again, 
couldn’t be more different than his own.  No green space at 
all, just stone paths, sheds and an office she’s had built in 
the back.

No hilltop on the horizon.  No tree to be seen anywhere.

INT. GRANDMA’S SITTING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Conor sits on the antique-ish settee, the clock ticking on 
the mantelpiece.  He sits back and takes out his phone.

CONOR’S POV on his phone’s screen.  It’s the VIDEO OF HIM AND 
HIS MUM ON THE ROLLER COASTER that we saw at the start. 

On the video, they laugh and the seat restraints close.  

              MUM  
       Shh, here they come.

Cut back to Conor’s face on the settee, unreadable.

              MUM  
       If you drop that, it’ll leave a 
       permanent mark across your face.

              CONOR 
       Nah, it’ll probably hit you first.

Conor still watches.  We hear the sounds we heard before.

              MUM 
       You know what I’m thinking?

              CONOR 
       What?


              MUM 
       We shouldn’t have had all that 
       Indian food for lunch.

Cut back to Conor’s face on the settee as the fake vomiting 
sounds rise, a faint smile appearing.  He watches intently.  
On the video, we see them reach the top.

              MUM  
       Ready?  Here we go.

Cut back to Conor as he mouths along with himself:

              CONOR  
       Here we go.

The screams of delight are cut off as Conor JUMPS at the 
sound of the DOORBELL.  He switches off the phone and hurries 
toward...

INT. GRANDMA’S FRONT HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

...the front door.  He opens it on: HIS DAD, late thirties, 
handsome, slightly too boyish for his own good.

Conor’s gives him a genuinely free smile.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - LATER THAT EVENING

Conor and his Dad are seated at a table, waiting for their 
food.  Dad has a glass of RED WINE, Conor a clear soft drink.  
Dad is awkward, not sure how to talk to this son he doesn’t 
see very often.  His accent is HALF-IRISH/HALF-AMERICAN.

              DAD
       How you hanging in there, champ?

              CONOR
       “Champ”?

              DAD
       Sorry.  America is almost a whole 
       different language.

Dad fidgets with his wine glass.  Conor drums lightly with 
his chopsticks.

              DAD 
       Your mom was looking pretty good 
       tonight.  A real fighter, that one.

Conor shrugs.

              DAD 
       So how are you holding up, Con?

              CONOR
          (slightly impatient)
       That’s like the eight hundredth 
       time you’ve asked me that.

              DAD
       Sorry.

              CONOR
       I’m fine.  Mum’s on this new 
       medicine.  It’ll make her better.  
       Why is everyone acting like-?

He stops.  Takes a drink.

              DAD
       You’re right, son.  You’re 
       absolutely right.  Still.  You’re 
       going to need to be brave for her.  
       You’re going to need to be real, 
       real brave.

              CONOR
       You talk like American television.

Dad takes this in good humour.

              DAD
       Your sister’s doing well.  Almost 
       walking.

              CONOR
       Half-sister.

              DAD
       I can’t wait for you to meet her.  
       I’ve been talking to your grandma 
       about getting you out to LA.

Conor looks up surprised and with nascent hope.

              CONOR
       You want me to come to LA?

              DAD
       Absolutely!  Would you like that?

              CONOR
          (hope growing)
       I’d love that.  


Dad smiles, pleased he’s connected.  Then he blows it.

              DAD
       I was thinking maybe even over 
       Christmas, so we can get you back 
       in time for school.

Beat as Conor realises, his face falling.

              CONOR
       ...so it’d just be a visit then?

              DAD
       What do you mean?  A visit as 
       opposed to...

Conor looks away, embarrassed at having his hopes revealed 
about moving in with his father.

              DAD 
          (pained, realiseing)
       You mean when...  if your mum-

But Conor suddenly doesn’t want to talk about it.

              CONOR
          (rushed, over his Dad)
       There’s a tree that’s been visiting 
       me at night.  Telling me stories.

              DAD

       ...What?

Conor ferociously drums with the chopsticks.

              CONOR
       I thought it was a dream at first, 
       but I kept finding leaves and stuff 
       when I woke up-

              DAD
       Conor-

              CONOR
       It hasn’t come to Grandma’s house 
       yet, even though I’ve been there 
       like five days-

              DAD
       Con-

              CONOR
       But why should it matter where I 
       am, though?  

              CONOR
       If it’s as old as the earth, why 
       can’t it just walk across town-

Dad slams his hand down on the drumming chopsticks.

              DAD
       Conor, stop this-

              CONOR
          (suddenly loud)
       I don’t want to live with Grandma!

Awkward silence, as Dad has no answers.

              CONOR 
       It’s an old lady’s house.  You 
       can’t touch anything or sit 
       anywhere and you can’t leave a mess 
       for even two seconds.

              DAD
       We can talk to her about those 
       things.  I’m sure there are plenty 
       of ways to make you comfortable-

              CONOR
       I don’t want to be comfortable 
       there!  I want my own room in my 
       own house.

              DAD
          (wincing)
       You wouldn’t have that in America.  
       We barely have room for the three 
       of us.  Your school is here, your 
       life is here.  It’d be unfair to 
       take you out of it.

              CONOR
       Unfair to who?

              DAD
          (sighing)
       This is what I meant.  When I said 
       you were going to have to be brave.

              CONOR
       As if that means anything.

Another awkward silence.  Conor goes back to quietly drumming 
the chopsticks.  Dad finishes his wine and sets his glass 
down with a gasp.  Tries to lighten the mood.

              DAD
       What was all that about a tree?

              CONOR
          (quietly)
       Nothing.  It wasn’t anything.

A WAITRESS sets their meals down in front of them.  Neither 
of them make a move to eat.

EXT. GRANDMA’S HOUSE - LATER THAT EVENING

Conor and his Dad pull up outside his Grandma’s house in his 
father’s rental car.

              DAD
       Doesn’t look like your Grandma’s 
       home yet.

              CONOR
       She sometimes goes back to the 
       hospital after I go to bed.  The 
       nurses let her sleep in a chair.

              DAD
       Your Grandma may not like me much, 
       but that doesn’t mean she’s a bad 
       lady.

              CONOR
       How long are you here for?

              DAD
       ‘Til Friday.

              CONOR
          (appalled)
       That’s all?

              DAD
       Americans don’t get much holiday.

              CONOR
       You’re not American.

              DAD
       But I live there now.  You’re the 
       one who made fun of my accent all 
       night.

              CONOR
       Why did you come then?

              DAD
       I came because your Mum asked me 
       to.

Beat, as the seriousness of this is absorbed.

              DAD 
       I’ll come back, though.  You know, 
       when I need to.  And you’ll visit 
       us at Christmas!

              CONOR
       In your cramped house, where 
       there’s no room for me.

              DAD
       Conor-

              CONOR
          (again)
       Why did you come?

Dad doesn’t answer.  Reaches out to put a hand on Conor’s 
shoulder, but Conor avoids it and gets out of the car.

              DAD
          (through open door)
       Conor, wait.  I’ll see you 
       tomorrow, yeah?  There’s still 
       plenty of time.

Conor doesn’t really believe this.  He shuts the car door.

INT. GRANDMA’S SITTING ROOM - EVENING - MOMENTS LATER

We hear Conor come in the front door.  He enters the sitting 
room, slumping down unhappily on the settee in his coat.  
He’s angry, but keeping it in check.

He takes out his phone briefly to look at the video again, 
but stops before it even starts.  He puts the phone back into 
his pocket, but ends up fighting with the sleeve of his coat.

He stands, getting frustrated as he takes it off, eventually 
throwing it to the floor.  He stands there, breathing, on the 
verge of letting all his bottled up anger go.  

Almost absentmindedly, he kicks the settee.  It scoots along 
the hardwood floor, making a loud sound.  This is 
surprisingly satisfying, so he kicks it again, harder. 


He jumps up on the settee and back down.  It scrapes along 
the floor, leaving ugly scratches in the hardwood.  Conor is 
unsure of this, but the expression of anger is feeling good.  

Suddenly, BONG! BONG! The precious CLOCK starts striking the 
9 o’clock hour.

Conor approaches it.  It chimes away, the pendulum swinging.  
Still edgy, Conor grabs it mid-swing.  The bongs continue, 
but the clock makes a groaning sound.

Holding the pendulum in place, Conor starts pushing the dials 
of the clock around.  They resist at first, but he pushes 
them harder and faster, until they’re spinning around the 
face.  The BONGs groan alarmingly as he passes each hour, but 
he keeps going, faster and faster, until-

SNAP!  The second hand breaks free and falls to the floor, 
bouncing into the ashes of the hearth and disappearing.

Oh, no.  Conor comes to his senses, realises what he’s done.  
The clock is broken, really broken, frozen in place.

He’s doomed, and so horrified he doesn’t register that the 
now non-moving hands have stopped at 12.07.

              MONSTER 
       As destruction goes, this is 
       remarkably pitiful.

Conor turns and sees that somehow, impossibly, the Monster is 
in his Grandma’s sitting room.  It fills up all available 
space, folding its massive form into every corner, its head 
bumping the ceiling as it kneels.

Conor looks back at the clock, frantic now.

              MONSTER 
       I have come to tell you the second 
       tale.

Conor makes an exasperated sound.  He’s got bigger things to 
worry about.

              CONOR
       Is it as bad as the last one?

              MONSTER
       It ends in proper destruction, if 
       that’s what you mean.

This has Conor’s attention, somewhat, but he shakes his head.


              CONOR
       No, I can’t, I-

              MONSTER
       It’s about a man who thought only 
       of himself.  A man who gets 
       punished very badly indeed.

Beat, as Conor realises he’s still angry at his father.

              MONSTER 
       Stories are wild creatures, Conor 
       O’Malley.  When you let them loose, 
       who knows what havoc they might 
       wreak?

Another beat, until:

              CONOR
       I’m listening.

We rush into the monster’s evilly smiling face, into his eye 
and suddenly we’re...

EXT. SECOND TALE LANDSCAPE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...flying over a shadow puppet landscape as before, but this 
time it’s GREEN and VERDANT and more realistic. 

              MONSTER 
       One hundred and fifty years ago.  
       This had become a valley of 
       industry.

The green ends as we plunge through a treeline into 
“industry” on the valley floor:  black factories belching 
smoke and fumes, scraggly silhouettes of crows and trodden-
down workers, fish jumping in polluted rivers. 

              MONSTER 
       But there was still green, if you 
       knew where to look.

We come out the other side to a surprisingly quiet, green 
hillside.  We turn and see that Conor and the Monster are 
standing in the landscape, their figures altered into the 
fuller shadow puppetry this time.  Conor looks at this new 
version of himself, amazed.

              CONOR
       I look like manga!

The Monster draws Conor’s attention to:

ANGLE ON:  The APOTHECARY, walking up the hillside.  A more 
realistic figure than the first tale, but still stylised.


              MONSTER 
       His name is not important.  The 
       villagers only ever called him The 
       Apothecary.

              CONOR 
       The what?

              MONSTER 
       The Apothecary.

              CONOR 
       The what?

              MONSTER 
       An old-fashioned named for chemist.

              CONOR 
       Oh.  Why didn’t you just say?

The Apothecary digs up roots and pick leaves and herbs.

              MONSTER 
       The Apothecary dealt in the old 
       ways of medicine.  Herbs and barks.  
       Concoctions brewed from berries and 
       leaves.

              CONOR 
       Dad’s new wife does that.  She owns 
       a shop that sells crystals.

              MONSTER 
       It is not remotely the same.

The Apothecary reaches the edge of a wood and sees it 
drastically cut back for the industry below.

              MONSTER 
       The Apothecary had dedicated his 
       life to healing.  But the world was 
       changing, and he grew resentful and 
       unforgiving.

EXT. SECOND TALE VILLAGE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The Apothecary peddles his wares to various villagers.  We 
get a sense of bad-tempers and bitterness.

              MONSTER 
       People in the valley stopped 
       seeking him out, preferring modern 
       medicine.  Which only made him more 
       bitter.

The Apothecary, doors slamming against him, slouches off 
alone.  We pull back across the valley to...

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP FRINGE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...the same hilltop as behind Conor’s house, but this time 
there is a parsonage beside the yew tree, and the beginnings 
of a church being built.  Conor and the Monster stand off to 
one side, in the landscape again.

              MONSTER
       In the Apothecary’s village, there 
       also lived a parson-

              CONOR
       This is the hill behind my house.

              MONSTER
          (pressing on)
       The parson had two daughters, who 
       were the light of his life.

In the distance, they see two small figures run out playfully 
from the parsonage doors, chasing each other.  

              CONOR
          (on the 2nd yew tree)
       That’s you.  You were shorter then.

              MONSTER
          (sighs)
       Fine.  On the parsonage grounds 
       there also grew a yew tree.

We move forward and CLOSE ON:

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The hilltop that’s grown so familiar.  The Apothecary hoves
into view, watching intently.

              MONSTER 
       Now, the Apothecary wanted the yew 
       tree very badly.


              CONOR 
       He did?  Why?

              MONSTER 
          (surprised)
       The yew tree is the most important 
       of all the healing trees.  Its 
       berries, its bark, they thrum and 
       burn and twist with life.  It can 
       cure almost any ailment, if mixed 
       by the right apothecary.

              CONOR 
          (quietly, thinking)
       Really?

The Apothecary looks enviously at the tree.  

              MONSTER 
       In order to use the tree, though, 
       the Apothecary would have to cut it 
       down, and this the Parson would not 
       allow.

The PARSON comes out warningly; the Apothecary leaves.

              MONSTER 
       The Parson was not an unkind man.  
       He wanted the best for his 
       congregation, wanted to take them 
       out of the dark ages of 
       superstition and witchery.

We zoom in on the Parson figure and he’s suddenly...

INT. SECOND TALE PULPIT - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...preaching to his congregation.

              MONSTER 
       He preached against the 
       Apothecary’s use of the old ways, 
       and the Apothecary’s foul temper 
       and greed made certain those 
       sermons fell on eager ears.

We pull out from the pulpit, through a celebratory 
congregation, out of the CHURCH to...

EXT. SECOND TALE COUNTRYSIDE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...The Apothecary slinking away.  We keep pulling back to:

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The parsonage is now a drab and grey place.

              MONSTER 
       But then the parson’s daughters 
       were struck by a terrible sickness.

Figures move in the windows of the parsonage.  Night passes.

              MONSTER 
       Nothing the parson did helped.  No 
       prayer, no cure from the more 
       modern doctors, nothing seemed to 
       make them better.  There was no 
       choice but to approach the 
       Apothecary.

The Parson stands sadly onto his doorstep.

EXT. SECOND TALE APOTHECARY’S HOVEL - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The Parson is on his knees before the Apothecary, in front of 
the Apothecary’s hovel.

CUT TO:

              MONSTER 
       “Will you not help my daughters?” 
       the Parson begged.  “Will you not 
       save two innocent girls?”

The Apothecary stands over the Parson haughtily.

              MONSTER 
       “Why should I?” said the 
       Apothecary.  “You have driven away 
       my business with your preachings, 
       and you have refused me the yew 
       tree, my best source of healing.”

The Apothecary walks away.  The Parson chases him.

              MONSTER 
       “You may have the yew tree,” said 
       the Parson.  “I will preach sermons 
       in your favour.  I will do anything 
       if you would only save my 
       daughters.”

The Apothecary stops, surprised.

              MONSTER 
       “You would give up everything you 
       believed in?” said the Apothecary.  
       “If it would save my daughters,” 
       said the Parson, “I would give up 
       everything.”

The Apothecary turns and enters his house.

              MONSTER 
       “Then there is nothing I can do to 
       help you,” said the Apothecary.

The Apothecary’s door closes on the Parson.

              CONOR 
          (shocked)
       What?

We pull back from the Apothecary’s hovel to...

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...the parsonage, where the Parson and his wife stand over 
two new graves.

              MONSTER 
       The very next day, both of the 
       parson’s daughters died.

              CONOR 
       WHAT?

Night falls.  The yew tree on the hilltop begins twisting 
itself into the shape of the Monster we know.

              MONSTER 
       And that night, I came walking.

The Second Yew Tree becomes fully, terrifyingly monstrous.

              CONOR 
       Good!  He deserves all the 
       punishment he gets!

The Second Yew Tree Monster turns to the Parson’s house.

              MONSTER 
       Indeed.  It was shortly after 
       midnight that I tore the Parson’s 
       home from its very foundations.

We pull back abruptly to:

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP FRINGE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The stylised Conor and Monster (distinct from the Monster by 
the Parson’s house) stand again at the edge of the hilltop, 
watching the second tale unfold.

              CONOR
          (shocked)
       The Parson?!

              MONSTER
       Yes, I knocked out every brick with 
       my own fists.

Conor looks in horror back to:

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

The second Monster lays destruction upon the parsonage, 
tearing off its roof and flinging it down the hill, sending 
the Parson and his wife fleeing in terror. 

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP FRINGE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor is outraged.

              CONOR
       What are you doing? The Apothecary 
       is the bad guy!

              MONSTER
       Is he?

              CONOR
       Yes!  He refused to help the 
       parson’s daughters!  They died.

They hear a crash, and turn to see the Second Monster 
knocking down a wall.

              MONSTER
       When times were easy, the Parson 
       nearly destroyed the Apothecary, 
       but when the going grew tough, he 
       was willing to throw aside every 
       belief to save his daughters.

              CONOR
       So?  So would everybody!  What the 
       hell did you expect him to do?

              MONSTER
       I expected him to give the 
       Apothecary the yew tree when he 
       first asked.

              CONOR
          (surprised)
       You’d have let yourself be killed?

We hear further crashes of the parsonage being destroyed.

              MONSTER
       I am far more than just one tree, 
       but yes, I would have let it be 
       chopped down. It would have saved 
       many lives, including the Parson’s 
       daughters.

              CONOR
       But the Apothecary was evil!

              MONSTER
       He was greedy and rude, but he was 
       still a healer.  But the Parson, 
       what was he?  He was nothing.

They see the Second Monster topple a chimney.

              MONSTER 
       Belief is half of all healing.  
       Belief in the cure, belief in the 
       future that awaits.  Here was a man 
       who lived on belief, but who 
       sacrificed it at the first 
       challenge.  He believed selfishly, 
       fearfully.  And it took the lives 
       of his daughters.

              CONOR
          (annoyed now)
       You said this was a story without 
       tricks.

              MONSTER
       I said this was the story of a man 
       punished for his selfishness.  And 
       so it is.

Beat, as the Monster gets a mischievous look.  It steps away 
from Conor, all the way into...

EXT. SECOND TALE HILLTOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...the scene on the hilltop.  It approaches the second 
version of itself, and the two COMBINE, becoming a bigger, 
scarier version of the one Monster.  It turns to Conor.

              MONSTER
       Tell me, Conor O’Malley.  What 
       shall I destroy next?

Conor, bewildered, also steps forward into the hilltop.

              CONOR
       What?

The Monster kicks down a wall.

              MONSTER
       It is most satisfying, I assure 
       you.

Conor hesitates, still unsure.

              MONSTER 
       What should I destroy?  I await 
       your command.

Conor hesitates again.

              CONOR
          (confused)
       Knock over the fireplace?

The Monster unhesitatingly knocks over what remains of the 
parsonage fireplace.  Conor steps a little closer.  That felt 
interesting.

              CONOR 
       Throw away their beds.

The Monster reaches into the house and flings the beds nearly 
to the horizon.  Conor is beginning to feel liberated.

              CONOR 
       Smash their furniture! 

The Monster stomps on top of the parsonage’s furniture.

              CONOR 
       Break the windows!

The Monster does.

              CONOR 
       TEAR THE WHOLE THING DOWN!

As the Monster goes for it, Conor picks up a large fallen 
branch and runs to the parsonage, joining in the destruction.

We remain VERY CLOSE on Conor as he smashes one window and 
then another, his face blazing with excitement and fury.

But the lights are slowly changing, darkening as he continues 
smashing, the landscape and Conor becoming less stylised.

Until he takes one last ferocious swing, flinging the branch 
away with a cry, spinning around and...

INT. GRANDMA’S SITTING ROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...he’s back in his Grandma’s sitting room.

Where he’s destroyed nearly everything.  The settee is in 
pieces, the side tables, the glass display cabinets 
shattered.

Worst is the CLOCK.  Flung from the mantelpiece and broken 
into pieces almost beyond recognition.  

There is so much destruction, Conor is ankle-deep in rubble.  
He’s shocked at first, and then a growing horror at what he’s 
done starts to dawn.

              CONOR
       Oh, no.  No, no, no.

And then, almost before he can compute it, there’s worse:  
his Grandma’s car pulls up outside.

He freezes.  The lights from her car shine behind the sitting 
room curtains, then turn off.  He hears her door open.

There’s nowhere for him to run, not a single thing he can do 
except follow the sound of her coming up the front steps, 
turning her key in the lock, coming in through the front 
door, down the hallway and-

She enters her sitting room.  Before she registers anything, 
her unguarded face is serious and worried.

But then she looks up.

              GRANDMA
       What the-

She looks slowly around the room, her face in ever-growing 
horror, her mouth open.  She leans down and picks up a piece 
of her beloved clock.

We wait for the apocalypse.  But then her face changes.  She 
puts a palm over her mouth as if to try and stop sound from 
coming out.  Then she slaps a second hand over it.

But she can’t help it.  A horrible, anguished keening erupts 
from her.  And again.

Conor is terrified.  This is much worse than her being angry.

              CONOR
       Grandma?

Grandma takes her hands away from her mouth and she screams.  
It’s wordless and furious.  She screams again, stepping into 
the sitting room.  Conor flinches back, as if she’s going to 
attack him but-

She heads for the one last remaining display cabinet, puts 
her hands behind it and takes one, two, three pushes to send 
it crashing to the ground, screaming all the while.

She leans forward, gasping, ragged, her face broken with 
anguish.  She leaves the sitting room without another word.

Conor stands there, beyond shocked.

INT. GRANDMA’S HALLWAY - NIGHT - LATER

Conor slowly approaches his Grandma’s bedroom.  The light is 
on underneath the door.  He can hear her in there, weeping.  
He stays outside, not knowing what to do.

INT. GRANDMA’S GUEST ROOM - THE NEXT MORNING

Conor lies awake in bed.  It’s the morning after.  It looks 
like he hasn’t slept.  He hears footsteps around the house, 
then the front door slamming.  He gets up.

INT. GRANDMA’S STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER

Conor comes slowly down the stairway, but the house seems to 
be empty.  He glances in the sitting room.  Someone has made 
a futile effort to clean it a bit.  He heads into:

INT. GRANDMA’S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Where to his astonishment, Dad is cooking breakfast.

              DAD
       I know you like ‘em scrambled.

              CONOR
       What are you doing here?

              DAD
       What do you think?

He motions for Conor to sit at the table, then dishes up two 
plates, sets one in front of Conor and sits down himself.  
They eat in silence, Conor just playing at his food.

              DAD 
       That was quite a mess you made.

Conor says nothing.

              DAD 
       She called me this morning.  Very, 
       very early.
          (beat, it’s not what we 
           expect)
       Your mum’s taken a turn, Conor.

Conor looks up.

              DAD 
       Your grandma’s gone to the 
       hospital.  I’m going to drop you 
       off at school-

              CONOR
       School!? I want to see mum!

              DAD
       It’s no place for a kid right now.  
       I’ll pick you up after and take you 
       to her.  Sooner...  If I need to.

Conor looks down at his breakfast, no longer hungry.

              DAD 
       Hey, remember what I said about you 
       being brave?  Well, now’s the time 
       you have to do it, Con.
          (nods to sitting room)
       I can see how upset you are.

              CONOR
       I didn’t mean to.  I don’t know 
       what happened.

              DAD
       Worse things happen at sea.

              CONOR
       What does that mean?

              DAD
       It means we’re going to pretend 
       like it never happened, because 
       other things are going on right 
       now.

              CONOR
       You’re not even going to punish me?

              DAD
          (sighing)
       What would be the point, Con?  What 
       could possibly be the point?

Dad eats in silence.  Conor can’t take another bite.

INT. PHYSICAL SOCIAL AND EDUCATION CLASS - LATER THAT DAY

Conor sits at his desk, looking at the VIDEO on his phone 
again.  Mr Clark lectures in the background, BULLYING on the 
Powerpoint (along with, ironically, “This school operates a 
zero-tolerance anti-bullying policy”).  Classmates’ hands 
(including Lily, next to Conor) are in the air.

Mr Clark walks by Conor’s desk.  He and Conor exchange a 
look, and we see Mr Clark decide to let Conor keep looking at 
his phone this time.

Conor’s become untouchable.  Which is worse than ever.  Harry 
catches his eye.  Conor looks away.

EXT. SCHOOLYARD - LATER THAT DAY

Conor leans against a wall at breaktime, isolated.  He sees 
Lily with friends across the way.  She never looks over.

We see FLASHES OF HIS NIGHTMARE as he thinks of it:

--The two pairs of hands in the ferocious grip.

--The undefinable violent motion, dark and burning.

But then he spies Harry, Anton and Sully approaching and gets 
a funny look.  Is it relief?

              HARRY
       Conor O’Malley.

Conor stands up, almost eager.  But Harry just waits.  And 
waits.  Even Sully and Anton grow uncomfortable.

              CONOR
       What are you waiting for?

              SULLY
       Yeah, what are you waiting for?

              ANTON
       Hit him.

But Harry doesn’t move, just stares that eerie stare.  Conor 
grows more and more agitated, until-

              CONOR
       Just do it!

              HARRY
          (faux surprise)
       Do what?  What could you possibly 
       want me to do, O’Malley?

Standoff continues, Conor’s fists clenching at his side, 
Harry just staring.

The bell rings.  Miss Kwan appears at the other end of the 
yard, watchful.  Everyone starts moving inside.

              HARRY 
       I guess we’ll never know.  What it 
       is O’Malley wants.

The three bullies move out of the yard and inside.  Leaving 
Conor alone, again.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - LATER THAT DAY

Conor carries a cup of coffee from a vending machine.  He 
reaches a HOSPITAL ROOM DOOR and pauses outside because there 
are voices arguing within.

              MUM
          (muffled)
       Bad show, Liam.  Again.


              DAD
          (muffled)
       You’re changing the argument-

Conor pushes the door open and...

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

...his Mum and Dad look up at him guiltily.  The room is 
filled with get-well cards and balloons.  The anger on his 
Mum’s face is hidden quickly behind an exhausted smile.  
She’s clearly much sicker and weaker.  Her voice is heavier, 
as with a chest infection.

              MUM
       Hey there.

Conor pauses before entering, suspicious.  He holds out the 
coffee to his Dad, who takes it.

              DAD
       Thanks, sport.  I’m going to see 
       about finding some food.  You want 
       anything?

              CONOR
       I want you to stop calling me 
       “sport”.

Mum laughs, then coughs.  It sounds ugly.  Dad gives up and 
makes his exit.  

Mum pats the bed, like before.  Conor sits next to her.  She 
ruffles his hair.  He notices the tubes and bruises on her 
arm.  She sees him noticing and tries to change the subject.

              MUM
       Hey, you know what I was just 
       thinking about?  When we were at 
       Alton Towers for your birthday, 
       remember?  On the roller-coaster?

Conor doesn’t look at her, but of course he remembers.  She 
snorts.

              MUM 
       We really shouldn’t have had that 
       Indian food.

              CONOR
          (as if to himself)
       That was a brilliant day.

              MUM
       It was a brilliant day.

Conor nods.  It was so brilliant it’s too painful to share 
with her just now.

              CONOR
       Are you okay?  What happened this 
       morning?

Mum sighs, meaningfully.

              MUM
       I had a bit of a bad reaction, 
       sweetheart.  Not what they were 
       hoping for.

Here it is.  Here’s the bad news.  But once again-

              MUM 
          (forced brightness)
       But there’s one more thing they’re 
       going to try, a medicine that’s had 
       some good results.

              CONOR
       Why didn’t they try it before?

              MUM
       Well, this is something you take 
       when the normal stuff hasn’t quite 
       worked the way they want it to.

              CONOR
          (carefully)
       Does that mean it’s too late?

              MUM
          (quickly, firmly)
       No, Conor.  Don’t think that.  It’s 
       not too late.  It’s never too late.

              CONOR
       Are you sure?

              MUM
          (smiling)
       I believe every word I say.

              CONOR
          (to himself)
       “Belief is half of healing.”

              MUM
          (surprised)
       Well, yes, I suppose it is.

Beat, as perhaps something important’s been left unsaid.  Mum 
plays with his hair again.

              MUM 
       Oh, and here’s something.  You know 
       that tree behind our house I’m 
       always prattling on about?

Conor freezes, comically.  Mum coughs, again ugly, leans back 
on the bed.

              MUM 
       Well, if you can believe it, this 
       drug is actually made from trees 
       like that.

              CONOR
       It is?

              MUM
       Yeah, I know.  All this time, we 
       could have just chopped the damn 
       thing down.
          (laughs)
       Well, not that one.  That one’s 
       almost like a friend.

Conor doesn’t answer as his face shows a growing revelation.  
Could this be the reason?  Is it too much to hope for?

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER

Conor exits his mum’s room, gently shutting the door.  Raised 
voices again and he looks down the corridor to see his 
Grandma arguing ferociously with his Dad, poking her finger 
into his chest.

              DAD
          (loud enough to hear)
       Well, what do you want me to do?

Grandma just storms away from him.  She passes Conor, but 
won’t meet his eye.  Conor walks down to his Dad.  

              CONOR
       Why is everyone yelling at you?

Dad makes a face.

              DAD
       Let’s go for a walk.

EXT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

A huge CLOCK FACE on the front wall of the hospital.  We pull 
down to follow Conor and his Dad as they cross from the 
hospital entrance to a PARK across the road.

              DAD
       I’ve got some bad news, Con.  I 
       have to fly back home tonight.

              CONOR
       Tonight?  Why?

They enter...

EXT. PARK ACROSS FROM HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - DAY - CONTINUOUS

...a small, leafy park with trees and pathways and benches, 
most of which are filled, surreally, with patients in 
hospital gowns sneaking cigarettes.

              DAD
       Stephanie called.  The baby’s sick.  
       Probably nothing serious, but your 
       step-mom went a bit crazy and took 
       her to hospital-

              CONOR
       Are you coming back?

              DAD
       Yes.  Yes, I am.  Sunday after 
       next, so not even two weeks.

              CONOR
          (thinking)
       But that’s okay, though.  Mum’s on 
       this new medicine, so two weeks-

Turns when he sees his father has stopped by an empty bench. 
He goes back and they both sit.  Long beat, as his Dad 
doesn’t know where to begin.

              DAD
       Conor, this new medicine your mum’s 
       taking-

              CONOR
          (firmly)
       It’s going to make her well.

Beat, as Dad makes the important decision.

              DAD
       No, Conor.  It probably isn’t.

              CONOR
       Yes, it is.

              DAD
       It’s a last ditch effort, son.  
       Things have moved too fast.

              CONOR
       It’ll heal her.  I know it.  This 
       new medicine is the whole reason, 
       I’m telling you-

              DAD
       Reason for what?

              CONOR
       So you just go back to your other 
       family and-

              DAD
       Conor, no-

              CONOR
          (snaps)
       It’s going to work!

              DAD
       Son, stories don’t always end how 
       you want them to.

A sudden doubt for Conor, because he knows full well that 
they don’t.

              DAD 
       This is too much to ask of you.  I 
       know it is.  It’s not fair.

Conor doesn’t respond, just gets up from the bench, firm 
resolve on his face.  

              DAD 
       Conor?

Conor heads out to the path and looks up to the huge Hospital 
clockface.  It’s 4.15.  Clockface morphs into...

INT. GRANDMA’S GUEST ROOM - THAT NIGHT

...another, smaller clock on the wall of Grandma’s guest 
room.  Conor watches it intently.  It ticks through 12.06 and 
45 seconds.  12.06 and 55 seconds.  Click, 12.07.

Conor throws back the blankets and gets out of bed.

EXT. GRANDMA’S BACK GARDEN - SECONDS LATER

Conor steps out into his Grandma’s back garden.

              CONOR
       Where are you?

              MONSTER 
       I am here.

The Monster steps from the darkness over his Grandma’s office 
in one easy motion. He stands above Conor, huge as ever.

CUT TO:

EXT. GRANDMA’S BACK GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER

Conor and the Monster are mid-conversation.

              CONOR
       But can you make her better?

              MONSTER
       It is not up to me.

              CONOR
       Why not?  You said the yew was a 
       tree of healing.

              MONSTER
       It is.  If your mother can be 
       healed, the yew tree will do it.

Conor crosses his arms.

              CONOR
       Is that a yes?

The Monster sighs and in what we can see is an extraordinary 
action, SITS DOWN.  He places all his weight on the roof of 
Grandma’s office.  The wood moans.  Conor winces, but it 
seems to hold the Monster’s weight.

              MONSTER
       You still don’t know why you’ve 
       called me.  It’s not as if I do 
       this every day.

              CONOR
       I didn’t call you.  And even if I 
       did, it was obviously for my mum.

              MONSTER
       Was it?

              CONOR
       Why else?  To listen to idiotic 
       stories that make no sense?

              MONSTER
       It is not time yet for the Third 
       Tale.  But soon.  And after that, 
       you will tell me your story, Conor 
       O’Malley.  You will tell me your 
       truth.

Conor grunts impatiently, but the Monster leans forward.

              MONSTER 
       You know of what I speak.

Conor looks up as the sounds from his nightmare start 
filtering in.  The scene around them starts to melt away.  
Conor turns in rising horror as the walls of the garden grow 
blacker, and the sound of screaming start to rise.

              CONOR
       No!  No, not this!

The wind rising.  The distant ROARING is heard-

              CONOR 
       No!  Please!

The garden is suddenly as it was before.  Conor is shaken.

              CONOR 
       That’s not my truth.  That’s just a 
       nightmare.

              MONSTER
       Nevertheless, it is what will 
       happen after the third tale.

The Monster stands.  Grandma’s office groans in relief.

              CONOR
       I want to know what’s going to 
       happen with my mum.

              MONSTER
       Do you not know already?

The Monster steps back over Grandma’s office.  It’s leaving.

              CONOR
       If you’re a tree of healing, I need 
       you to heal!

              MONSTER
       And so I shall.

With a last look, the Monster EXPLODES into a murder of 
crows, black against the night, flying away, leaving Conor 
alone.

MUSIC RISES.  A montage of days passing:

EXT. SCHOOL ENTRANCE - MORNING

Grandma drops him off at school, barely looking at him as he 
gets out of the car.  He turns to maybe say goodbye, but 
she’s already driving away.

INT. GRANDMA’S SITTING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Conor looks in on the sitting room.  It’s been cleared of 
debris, but looks empty and broken.  The precious clock has 
been replaced by something comically cheaper and smaller.

INT. SCHOOL CORRIDOR - DAY

Conor walks against the flow of students, alone.  They 
unconsciously leave an area around him, as if they can’t see 
him at all.

EXT. GRANDMA’S BACK GARDEN - NIGHT

Conor sits in the dark in a lawn chair.  He checks the clock 
on his phone.  It switches from 12.07 To 12.08.  No monster.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - EVENING

Conor is at the door to the room.  His Mum, helped by a 
FEMALE NURSE, is in distress.  

Fear in her eyes, his Mum gestures angrily for Grandma to get 
Conor out of the room.  Grandma does.  She’s stern, though, 
not spiteful.

INT. GRANDMA’S GUEST ROOM - NIGHT

Conor has a laptop on the bed, open to a SKYPE session with 
his Dad.  Dad holds up a baby for Conor to see.  Conor tries 
to look interested, but it’s not going great.

MUSIC FINISHES

INT. SCHOOL CAFETERIA - DAY

Conor sits alone, not eating the food in front of him, 
withdrawn into himself.  In the background, we might notice 
that the digital clock reads 12.04.

SLAP!  From across the table, two hands smash down on either 
side of his tray.  It’s just meant to startle him, but it 
knocks his orange juice into his lap.

Conor stands, lap covered in juice, and looks into the 
laughing faces of Anton and Sully, either side of Harry’s 
usual eerie stare.

              SULLY
       O’Malley’s wet himself!

Anton flicks some spilled juice onto Conor.

              ANTON
       You missed some!

They laugh, but then notice that Harry and Conor are doing 
that uncomfortable staring thing again.  The laughter dies.

              HARRY
       I think I’ve finally figured you 
       out. 

Harry steps forward.  Conor braces himself.

              HARRY 
       Here is the very worst thing I can 
       do to you.

He holds out his hand to shake.  Surprised, Conor shakes it.

              HARRY 
       Goodbye, O’Malley.  I no longer see 
       you.

He lets got of Conor’s hand and turns his back to leave.  
After a confused beat, Anton and Sully do the same.

Conor watches them go, growing more and more upset...

...and as the bullies pass in front of the digital clock, it 
ticks over to 12.07.

The Monster now stands behind Conor, stretching up to the 
tall ceiling of the cafeteria.  It kneels down and speaks 
into his ear.

              MONSTER
       It is time for the third tale.

Without looking back at the Monster, Conor starts to walk 
after Harry.  The Monster matches him, step for step.

              MONSTER 
       There was once an invisible man, 
       who had grown tired of being 
       unseen.

              CONOR
          (to Harry)
       Hey!

Conor quickens his step.  The Monster keeps up.

              MONSTER
       It was not that he was actually
       invisible.  It was just that people 
       had become used to not seeing him.

              CONOR
       HEY!

Conor catches up to Harry and grabs him by the shoulder, 
twisting him around.  Harry pretends to not see Conor, 
pretend-blaming a laughing Sully for grabbing him.

              MONSTER
       And if no one sees you, are you 
       really there at all?

Conor watches the three bullies walking away again.

              CONOR
          (to Monster w/o turning)
       What did the invisible man do?

              MONSTER
       He called for a monster...


Conor raises his fists.  Behind him, the Monster does the 
same.

              MONSTER 
       ...to make them see.

Conor runs after Harry, the Monster following.  Here at last 
is the explosion of rage that’s been building.  

ANGLE ON:  Harry, Sully and Anton turn in amusement, but 
their faces change to fright.  Are they seeing the Monster or 
just Conor?  Sully and Anton bolt, leaving Harry.

ANGLE ON:  Conor, runs at him, yelling his rage.  He raises a 
fist.  The Monster raises a fist behind him in mirror.  They 
both swing forward.

SLOW-MOTION of Harry and chairs and tables flying through the 
air, as if hit by an explosion.

INT. MISS KWAN’S OFFICE - LATER

Conor flexes his fists in his lap.  They’re bloody and 
bruised.  MISS KWAN is there, but we stay tight on Conor.

              MISS KWAN 
       I don’t even know what to say to 
       you, Conor.  You sent him to 
       hospital. His parents were 
       threatening to sue.  

Conor looks up, briefly.

              MISS KWAN 
       But I explained that he’d been 
       bullying you and that your 
       circumstances were... special.

Conor winces at the word, looks back down, examining his 
battered fingers.  He remembers:

FLASHBACK TO:

INT. SCHOOL CAFETERIA - EARLIER

Conor’s memory of frantically punching an overwhelmed Harry.  
Sound is echoey, distant.  But are the punches coming from 
Conor or from the Monster behind him?

INT. MISS KWAN’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS FROM PREVIOU As before.	 	MISS KWAN  
           (shouting)
       But that’s not the point!

Conor jumps.  Still doesn’t look at her.  We hear her sigh.

              CONOR
       It wasn’t me.

              MISS KWAN
       What was that?

Finally glances up to her, very briefly then down again.

              CONOR
       It wasn’t me.  It was the Monster.

              MISS KWAN
       The Monster.

FLASHBACK TO:

INT. SCHOOL CAFETERIA - EARLIER

Distant, echoing sounds again.  Conor continues punching, 
even though Harry is clearly beaten, being tossed like a 
ragdoll by the Monster (or is it Conor?).

              CONOR
       I’m not invisible!  I am NOT 
       invisible!

The Monster, with Conor, fells the final blows onto the 
weeping Harry.  His words are all close, intimate, as if 
spoken into our ears against silence.

              CONOR 
       I am not invisible.

He stops at last and looks up.  Every horrified eye in the 
cafeteria is on him.

              MONSTER
       But what all invisible men learn...

A mist rises around the Monster behind Conor.

              MONSTER 
       ...is that there are harder things 
       than not being seen.

It disappears, leaving Conor with everyone watching him.  
Then adult hands, including Mr Clark, grab Conor to take him 
away.

INT. MISS KWAN’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS FROM PREVIOUS

As before.  

              MISS KWAN
       Conor, an entire dining hall saw 
       you hitting him.  Saw you beating 
       him very badly.
          (beat)
       Heard you yelling about not being 
       invisible.

Conor winces again, and keeps looking down at his fists.

              MISS KWAN 
       I understand how angry you must be.  
       I mean, I haven’t even been able to 
       track down a parent or guardian for 
       you.

              CONOR
       My dad’s gone back to America.  My 
       Grandma turns her phone on silent 
       so it won’t wake up my Mum.

Miss Kwan sits back.  It’s an impossible situation.

              MISS KWAN
       School rules dictate immediate 
       exclusion.

Conor shuts his eyes in anticipation.  Here it comes.  We 
sense that, in fact, he wants it.

              MISS KWAN 
       But how could I do that-

Conor opens his eyes, surprised.

              MISS KWAN 
       -and call myself any kind of 
       teacher?

He looks up at her in disbelief and crushing disappointment.

              MISS KWAN 
       Go back to class.  We will talk 
       about this one day, Conor.  But not 
       today.

              CONOR
       You’re not punishing me?

She mirrors the words his father spoke earlier.

              MISS KWAN
       What could possibly be the point?

INT. SCHOOL CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER

Conor, shellshocked, walks back to class.  He passes a 
STUDENT, who gives him an elaborately wide berth.

INT. PHYSICAL SOCIAL AND EDUCATION CLASS - MOMENTS LATER

Mr Clark is in mid-flow about EMOTIONAL WELL-BEING but 
everyone, including him, stops when Conor opens the door.  

Conor pauses for a moment, then walks through the silence, 
all eyes on him, past Harry’s empty desk and back to his own, 
next to LILY.  He sits, defeated, as Mr Clark faintly 
continues his lesson.

A small scraping sound.  Conor looks down.

CONOR’S POV - Lily’s finger tentatively pushes a NOTE onto 
his desk.

Conor looks at her.  She’s face-forward to Mr Clark, but 
wants him to take the note.

He takes it.  Opens it, unfolding it a comical number of 
times.  Finally, it’s just four lines:

“I’m sorry for telling everyone about your mum.”

“I miss being your friend.”

“Are you okay?”

“I see you.”

The “I” in the last line is underlined vigorously.

Conor reads it again, then looks slowly up to Lily, who’s 
looking at him now.  He doesn’t know what to say.

              CONOR
       Lily-

The classroom door opens again.  A SECRETARY enters with a 
note.  Conor and Lily watch as she crosses to Mr Clark and 
they read it together.  

They both look up, right at Conor.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY

Conor’s Grandma leads him to his Mum’s hospital room.  He 
makes to enter, but stops when she doesn’t follow him in.

              CONOR
       Aren’t you coming?

Grandma struggles with herself, knowing what awaits him.  She 
finally just puts her hands on his shoulders and squeezes 
them brusquely.  Her version of a hug.

              GRANDMA
       I’ll be...  I’ll be around.  Okay?

She nods, still struggling with herself.  Then abruptly walks 
away.  Conor watches her go.  Then opens the door.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY - CONTINUOUS

Mum’s bed is in the sitting position.  She looks very bad, 
breathing tube in her nose, but she smiles when she sees him.  
She holds up a long, straight-haired, yet purple wig.

              MUM
          (voice thin)
       I suppose even drag queens get old.

But her joke falls flat, as Conor doesn’t laugh.  He realises
fully what’s about to happen.

Surprisingly, all he feels is anger.  

Mum pats the mattress like before.  But Conor pointedly sits 
in the chair by her bed instead.  She nods that this is okay, 
too.

              MUM 
       What did you do to your hands?

              CONOR
       Why did Grandma get me out of 
       school?


Mum readies herself, smiles again.

              MUM
       I wanted to see you.  And you know 
       how the morphine sends me off to 
       Cloud Cuckoo Land sometimes-

              CONOR
          (angrily)
       This is the talk, isn’t it?  
       Everybody always wants to have a 
       talk lately.

He stares down at the floor.

              MUM
       Look at me, son.

He refuses at first, but finally does, arms crossed tight 
against himself.  Here it is.  There’s no going back.

              MUM 
       I spoke to the doctor this morning.  
       The new treatment isn’t working, 
       sweetheart.

              CONOR
       The one from the yew tree?

              MUM
       Yes.

              CONOR
       How can it not be working?

Beat, as Mum swallows, tries to smile for him.

              MUM
       Things have just moved really, 
       really fast.  Much faster than they 
       thought.

              CONOR
          (as if to himself)
       But how can it not be working?

              MUM
       I know.  I had big hopes for our 
       own personal yew tree.

              CONOR
       But it didn’t help.

Mum shakes her head slightly.

              CONOR 
       So what happens now?  What’s the 
       next treatment?

Mum doesn’t answer.  Which is an answer in itself.  Conor 
looks back at the floor and says the final thing out loud.

              CONOR 
       There aren’t any more treatments.

              MUM
          (quietly crying now)
       I’m sorry, son.  I’ve never been 
       more sorry about anything in my 
       life.

              CONOR
       You said it would work.  You 
       believed it would work.

              MUM
       I know.

              CONOR
       You lied.  You’ve been lying this 
       whole time.

              MUM
       I think, maybe, deep in your heart, 
       you’ve always known, though.  
       Haven’t you?

She reaches for him, but he won’t take her hand.

              MUM 
       It’s okay that you’re angry, 
       sweetheart.  It really, really is.
          (rueful laugh)
       I’m pretty angry, too, to tell you 
       the truth.  But I want you to know 
       this, Conor, it’s important that 
       you listen to me.  Are you 
       listening?

Conor, still looking away, eventually nods.

              MUM 
       You be as angry as you need to be.  
       Don’t let anyone tell you 
       otherwise.  Not your grandma, not 
       your dad, no one.  And if you need 
       to break things, then by God, you 
       break them good and hard.

Conor still can’t look at her.  She starts crying harder, but 
pushes through it.

              MUM 
       And one day, if you look back and 
       you feel bad for being so angry 
       that you couldn’t even speak to me, 
       Conor, then you have to know that 
       it was okay.  That I knew.  I know, 
       okay?  I know everything you need 
       to tell me without you having to 
       say it out loud.  All right?  All 
       right?

Conor can hardly bear it.  Agreeing means there’s no going 
back.

But without looking at her, he finally nods his agreement.  

Mum breathes out in exhausted relief.

              MUM 
       I’m so sorry, sweetheart.  I’m 
       going to have to take some more 
       painkillers.

Obviously in pain, she presses the morphine button.  She 
reaches for Conor again.  After a beat he finally takes her 
hand.

              MUM 
          (quietly weeping)
       I wish I had a hundred years.  A 
       hundred years I could give to you.

Conor holds his mother’s hand and looks at the floor, as she 
drifts to drug-induced sleep.  There’s nothing more to say.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - LATER

Conor’s Mum is asleep.  The light outside has grown dimmer.  
Conor sits, alone, in the chair, hunched down low.  Grandma 
enters, a worried look on her face.  How did it go?

Conor looks up at her, his eyes red, with grief, with rage.

              CONOR
       I want to go home.

              GRANDMA
       Conor-

              CONOR
       My home.  The one with the yew 
       tree.

EXT. CONOR’S HOUSE DRIVEWAY - LATER THAT AFTERNOON

Evening is coming on.  Conor’s Grandma pulls into the drive.  
She watches Conor warily as he gets out of the car.

              GRANDMA
       I don’t like leaving her like this, 
       Conor, even when she’s sleeping.  
       What do you need that’s so 
       important?

              CONOR
          (looking at house)
       There’s something I have to do.

Beat, as Grandma considers.

              GRANDMA
       One hour.  
          (puts car in gear)
       You’re going to want to be there 
       tonight.

Conor starts walking up his own front steps.  Grandma pulls 
away.  We follow Conor in one continuous shot as he opens his 
front door and goes into...

INT. CONOR’S HOUSE FRONT HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

...where he doesn’t even shut the door behind him and 
continues through...

INT. CONOR’S SITTING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

...stepping through it into...

INT. CONOR’S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

...increasing his pace, he goes to the back door and heads 
out into...

EXT. CONOR’S BACK GARDEN - CONTINUOUS

...running now, across the garden, where we can see the 
hilltop and yew tree ahead of him.  He goes to the back fence 
and we follow him as he expertly climbs over and...

EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - CONTINUOUS

...crosses the train tracks to a torn opening in the fence on 
the other side.  He ducks under it and we follow him...

EXT. HILLTOP - CONTINUOUS

...into the graveyard that stretches down the hill.  The yew 
tree is up top, but still just a tree.  Conor runs furiously 
now...

Up the hill, dodging through the tombstones...

The tree getting closer and closer...

              CONOR
       WAKE UP!

Still in the continuous shot, he reaches the tree and starts 
pounding and kicking it.

              CONOR 
       I said, WAKE UP!  I don’t care what 
       time it is!

Kicks it again.  And again.

And the tree steps out of the way, causing Conor to fall.  We 
pull up higher and higher, in the Monster’s POV, seeing Conor 
on the ground.  Continuous shot ends.

              MONSTER
       You will do yourself harm if you 
       keep that up.

Conor gets angrily to his feet.  It’s nearly night now, the 
sky darkening.

              CONOR
       It didn’t work!  You said the yew 
       tree would make her better, but it 
       didn’t!

              MONSTER
       I said if she could be healed, the 
       yew tree would do it.  It seems she 
       could not.

Conor attacks the monster again, pounding it with his fists.

              CONOR
       Fix it!  Make her all right!

              MONSTER
       Conor-

              CONOR
          (still attacking)
       What’s the use of you if you can’t?  
       Just stupid stories and getting me 
       into trouble and everyone looking 
       at me like I’ve got a disease-

The Monster swoops down a huge hand to lift Conor in the air, 
trapping him with his fingers.

              MONSTER
       You are the one who called me, 
       Conor O’Malley.  You are the one 
       with the answers to these 
       questions.

              CONOR
       If I called you, it was to save 
       her!  It was to heal her!

              MONSTER
       I did not come to heal her.  I came 
       to heal you.

Beat, as Conor takes in the impact of this.  He squirms in 
the Monster’s hand.

              CONOR
       Me?  I don’t need...  My mum’s the 
       one who...

Squirms more and more fruitlessly, but the weight of the 
Monster’s words are too much.  He gives up.

              CONOR 
          (quietly)
       Help me.

Beat, as the Monster takes in a breath.

              MONSTER
       It is time... for the fourth tale.

Conor’s eyes widen in horror, but before he can speak, the 
Monster drops him roughly to the ground.  Conor rolls over to 
rise but the world has changed around him to:

EXT. THE FOURTH TALE NIGHTMARE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor is on a dark, barren stretch of ground, bordered by 
impenetrable brambles.  An evil place, in the blackest night.  
The sounds from Conor’s nightmare rise again - the blowing 
wind, the faint rumblings.  

The Monster stands over Conor, but is dangerous-looking and 
sinister, its eyes changed to a merciless blankness.

              CONOR
       No!  Please!  Get me out of here!

              MONSTER
          (scarier than ever)
       There will be no more delays.  It 
       is time for you to tell the fourth 
       tale.

              CONOR
       I don’t know any tales!  I have to 
       get back to my Mum!

The Monster looks past Conor into the unseen distance.

              MONSTER
       But she is already here.

Conor turns to look.  The clearing stretches up to what looks 
like the top of a precipitous cliff.

Conor’s Mum stands at its edge, looking over.  She is frail 
and thin, but not bald, dressed in flowing white cloth.  She 
turns and smiles at him, but so vulnerable.

              CONOR
       Mum!  Get away from there!  Get 
       away from the edge!

The wind swirls around them.  Conor struggles to stand, but 
tendrils of black smoke, rising from the ground, seem to bind 
him and hold him back.

              MUM
       I’m fine, darling.  There’s nothing 
       to worry about.

              CONOR
       Mum, run!  Please, run!

              MUM
       But darling, there’s-

She stops and looks back over the cliff, as if she’s heard 
something.

The wind drops, and we hear it, too.  A distant ROARING, as 
of something impossibly big.

              MUM 
          (troubled)
       Conor?

Terrified, Conor fights the smoky tendrils and forces himself 
to his feet.  The roaring increases.  Something’s coming.

              CONOR
       Mum!  MUM!

The roaring gets louder still.  Conor struggles against the 
tendrils to run forward.  The Monster stands impassively 
behind him.  Conor’s Mum steps back in horror from the cliff 
face, seeing something.

              MUM
       Conor!

Conor keeps struggling towards her, but before he can reach 
her, a CLOUD OF BURNING DARKNESS rears up the cliff face and 
over her.

Here it is.  The REAL MONSTER of Conor’s nightmares.  The 
thing he is most afraid of in the world.  It’s hard to see 
clearly, but burns with ash and fire.  It looks down with 
evil burning eyes at Conor’s Mum, who screams in terror.

              CONOR
       MUM!!

TWO BURNING FISTS rush down in a violent pounce and grab her, 
pulling her rapidly over the cliff face and down.

Conor screams but tears away from the tendrils and can 
finally run for real.  His mum is disappearing from sight, 
screaming for him, but he runs faster and faster and...

EXT. THE FOURTH TALE CLIFF FACE - CONTINUOUS

...catches her hands as she goes over the cliff, desperately 
holding her there.

This is the nightmare in full flow, flashes of which we’ve 
seen before.  The screaming, the roaring, the wind, all 
because he’s holding onto his mother, trying to prevent her 
from falling.

The Nightmare Monster still has her firmly in its grip, 
though, trying to pull her down to her doom.  

              MUM
       Don’t let go, Conor!  Don’t let me 
       fall!

              CONOR
          (struggling)
       I won’t!  I promise.

The Nightmare Monster roars and pulls harder.  Conor’s Mum 
starts to slip from Conor’s grasp.

              CONOR 
       No!

Conor turns to our original Monster, still not moving to 
help, giving nothing away.

              CONOR 
       Help me!  I can’t hold onto her!

              MUM
       Conor!  I’m slipping!

              CONOR
       NO!

But it’s getting too much. She’s too heavy.  The Nightmare 
Monster roaring and pulling on her-

              CONOR 
          (to himself)
       Please.  Please.

The original Monster has moved up close behind him.

              MONSTER
       And here is the fourth tale.

              CONOR
       Shut up!  Help me!

              MONSTER
       Here is the truth of Conor 
       O’Malley.

Conor’s Mum is screaming, slipping.

              CONOR
       No!  Help me!

She’s pulling away from his hands, from his fingers.  He’s 
trying, trying-
   
              MUM
    Conor!

              CONOR
       NO!  Mum-


But she falls.

The Nightmare Monster takes her and they fall, fall, fall 
away, her white dress a light in the darkness.  Conor 
collapses to the cliff face, watching in anguish as she falls-

And the world around him changes again.

EXT. THE FOURTH TALE NIGHTMARE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Conor is back in the clearing, surrounded entirely by the 
brambles.  No escape.  The original Monster waits.

              CONOR
          (angry, frightened)
       This is when I wake up.  This is 
       when I always wake up.

              MONSTER
       The tale is not yet told.

              CONOR
       Get me out of here.  I need to see 
       my mum!

              MONSTER
       She is no longer here, Conor.  You 
       let her go.

The tendrils of smoke start wrapping around Conor again, as 
if they’re part of the Nightmare Monster.  He struggles 
against them, growing more and more upset.

              CONOR
       This is just a nightmare.  This 
       isn’t the truth.

              MONSTER
       It is the truth.  You let her go.

              CONOR
       She fell.  I couldn’t hold onto her 
       any more.

              MONSTER
       You let her go.

              CONOR
       She fell!

The tendrils wrap around his legs, tumbling him to the 
ground.  They start wrapping around his body, binding him.

              MONSTER
       You must tell the truth or you will 
       never leave this place.

              CONOR
       Let me go!  Please!

The Monster leans over him, as terrifying as it’s ever been.

              MONSTER
       Speak the truth!  Speak it or stay 
       here forever!

              CONOR
       What truth?!  I don’t know what you 
       mean!

The Monster’s face surges down close to his.

              MONSTER
       You do know.

A sudden quiet.  Conor does know.  He’s always known.

              CONOR
          (quietly)
       No.  I can’t.

              MONSTER
       You must.


              CONOR
       I can’t.


There’s a sudden note of kindness in the Monster’s voice.

              MONSTER
       You can.

Conor begins to cry, tears streaming from his eyes, even as 
he battles the tendrils, which have mostly paralysed him.

              CONOR
       Please don’t make me.

              MONSTER
       You let her go.

              CONOR
          (shaking his head)
       Please-

              MONSTER
       You let her go, Conor O’Malley.

FLASH of Conor’s grip on his Mum’s hand releasing.  Did he 
let go first?

Conor squeezes his eyes shut tight.

              MONSTER 
       You could have held on for longer, 
       but you loosened your grip and let 
       the nightmare take her.  You wanted
       her to fall.

              CONOR
       No.

              MONSTER
       You wanted her to go.

              CONOR
       No!

The tendrils look as if they’re swallowing him now.

              MONSTER
       You must tell me the fourth tale, 
       Conor O’Malley.  You must!

              CONOR
       It’ll kill me if I do!

              MONSTER
       It will kill you if you do not!

Conor struggles more.  We see a light form in his chest, a 
kind of eruptive fire starting to bubble.

              MONSTER 
       You let her go.  Why?

Beat, as Conor struggles.

              MONSTER 
       Why, Conor?  Tell me WHY!  Before 
       it’s too late!

              CONOR
       No-

The fire rises in Conor’s throat, burning his mouth.  He 
fights it.  

              MONSTER
          (pleading)
       Speak the truth!

Until, finally...

Conor can’t fight it any longer...

He speaks the truth.

              CONOR
       I want it to be over!  I can’t 
       stand it anymore!  I can’t stand 
       knowing that she’ll go!  I want it 
       to be finished!  I let go of her!  
       I let her fall!  I let her die!

The fire erupts from his mouth and burns the entire world to 
blackness.

EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

Conor opens his eyes.  He’s lying in the grass on the hilltop 
behind his house.  The Monster stands above him.  Conor sits 
up, his face beyond sad, helpless tears coming.  After a 
moment, Conor speaks.

              CONOR
       Why didn’t it kill me?  I deserve 
       punishment.  I deserve the worst.

              MONSTER
       Do you?

              CONOR
       I’ve known forever she wasn’t going 
       to make it, almost from the 
       beginning.  She said she was 
       getting better because that’s what 
       I wanted to hear.  And I believed 
       her.
          (beat)
       Except I didn’t.


              MONSTER
       No.

              CONOR
       And I started to think how much I 
       just wanted it to be over.  How I 
       couldn’t stand how alone it made me 
       feel.

              MONSTER
       And a part of you wished it would 
       end.  Even if it meant losing her.

              CONOR
          (whispering)
       I let her go.  I could have held 
       on, but I always let her go.

              MONSTER
       And that, is your truth.

              CONOR
       I don’t mean to, though!  And now 
       it’s for real!  Now she’s going to 
       die and it’s my fault!

              MONSTER
       And that, is not the truth at all.

Conor gives into his grief, collapsing onto the grass.  The 
Monster gently takes him up in his two huge hands, making 
almost a comforting bed out of them.

              MONSTER 
       It is not your fault, Conor 
       O’Malley.

              CONOR
       It is.

              MONSTER
       You were merely wishing for the end 
       of pain.  Your own pain.  It is the 
       most human wish of all.

              CONOR
       I didn’t mean it.

              MONSTER
       You did, but you also did not.

Conor looks up at the big face in front him.


              CONOR
       How can both be true?

              MONSTER
       How can a prince be a murderer and 
       a saviour?  How can an apothecary 
       be evil-tempered but right-
       thinking?  How can invisible men 
       make themselves more lonely by 
       being seen?

              CONOR
          (shrugs, exhausted)
       I don’t know.  Your stories never 
       made any sense to me.

              MONSTER
       Because humans are complicated 
       beasts.  You believe comforting 
       lies while knowing full well the 
       painful truths that make those lies 
       necessary.  It is a wonder you can 
       survive at all.

Conor isn’t sure he buys this, as much as he might want to.

              MONSTER 
       In the end, Conor, it is not 
       important what you think, it is 
       only important what you choose to 
       do.

Long beat as Conor considers this.

              CONOR
       So what do I do?

              MONSTER
       What you did just now.  You speak 
       the truth.

              CONOR
       That’s it?

              MONSTER
       You think it’s easy?  You were 
       willing to die rather than speak 
       it.

              CONOR
       Because what I thought was so wrong-

              MONSTER
       It was not wrong.  It was only a 
       thought.  One among millions.

Conor takes a long breath, he’s exhausted.  In fact, he’s 
fighting to keep his eyes open.

              CONOR
       I’m so tired.  So tired of all of 
       this.

              MONSTER
       Then sleep.  There’s time.

              CONOR
       Are you sure?  I want to see my 
       mum.

              MONSTER
       You will.  I promise you.

Conor considers this.

              CONOR
       Will you be there?

              MONSTER
       Yes.  It will be the final steps of 
       my walking.

Conor nestles into the monster’s hands.

              CONOR
       How does the fourth story end?

But he hears no answer as he can no longer fight off sleep.

EXT. HILLTOP - NIGHT - LATER

Conor is asleep on the hilltop.  The Monster is now just a 
tree, but there’s still a suggestion that it’s cradling him.  
Conor’s phone buzzes in his pocket but he doesn’t wake.  We 
hear a car pull up offscreen and a door open.

              GRANDMA 
          (faintly)
       Oh, thank God!

Conor blinks himself awake.  He looks up.

              GRANDMA   
       Conor!  CONOR!

He sees his Grandma running towards him from where she’s left 
her car (lights on, engine running, door open) by the church 
next to the graveyard.  She’s putting away her phone, 
obviously the one who’s been calling him.

              GRANDMA 
       CONOR!

He stands, bracing himself, but when she reaches him she 
grabs him in a hug so vigorous they almost tumble over.

She releases him and, being who she is, starts shouting.

              GRANDMA 
       Where have you BEEN?  I’ve been out 
       of my MIND trying to find you!

              CONOR
       There was something I needed to-

But she’s already dragging him towards the car.

              GRANDMA
       No time!  We have to go now!

She sprints off away from him, back to the car, and what this 
means finally sinks in for Conor.  He races after her.

INT/EXT. GRANDMA’S CAR/CITY STREETS - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

Grandma drives at extremely high speed, cutting corners, 
running red lights.  It would be funny if it weren’t so 
desperate.  Conor sits in the passenger seat, shy of how much 
she’s both crying and trying to control herself.

              CONOR
       Grandma-

              GRANDMA
       Don’t.  Just don’t.

They fly over a bump.  Conor rechecks his seatbelt.  

              CONOR
          (quietly)
       I’m sorry.  About the sitting room.  
       And everything.

She laughs a thick, sad laugh.

              GRANDMA
       It doesn’t matter.  It doesn’t 
       matter.

              CONOR
       It doesn’t?

              GRANDMA
       Of course it doesn’t.

She starts to really cry, so just lets herself.

              GRANDMA 
       You know, Conor?  You and me?  Not 
       the most natural fit, are we?

              CONOR
       No.  I guess not.

              GRANDMA
       I guess not either.

She takes a corner so fast Conor has to grab onto his door 
handle to stay upright.

              GRANDMA 
       But we’re going to have to learn, 
       you know.

              CONOR
       I know.

Grandma makes a little sobbing noise.

              GRANDMA
       You do know, don’t you?  Of course 
       you do.

She barely slows down before she runs through a red light.

              GRANDMA 
       But you know what, grandson?  We 
       have something in common.

               CONOR
       We do?

              GRANDMA
       Oh, yes.


The hospital hoves into view.  Grandma takes the first 
available space, not even trying to park legally and 
screeching to an abrupt stop.  Grandma looks at him.

              GRANDMA 
       Your mum.  That’s what we have in 
       common.

Conor doesn’t answer, but he knows what she means.  This is 
their peace talk, and he agrees to it.  He nods.

She reaches forward, grabs his hand, squeezing it tight, 
once.  Then she opens her door.

              GRANDMA 
       We have to hurry.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

Grandma and Conor race down the corridor, Grandma in the 
lead.  They reach his Mum’s hospital room and...

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

...burst inside, Grandma with a terrible question on her 
face.  The fight is clearly almost over for his Mum.  The 
room is lit only by a small light above her bed.  The Female 
Nurse stands by it, checking an IV.

              NURSE
          (to Grandma)
       It’s okay.  You’re in time.

Grandma makes a cry of relief, covering her mouth with her 
hands.

              NURSE 
       I see you found him.

Grandma goes to the opposite side of the bed, sits down and 
takes her daughter’s hand, kissing it and rocking back and 
forth.

The Nurse leaves, acknowledging Conor.  Conor stands in the 
darkness by the doorway, not knowing what to do.

              MUM
          (slurring)
       Ma?

              GRANDMA
       I’m here, darling.  I’m here.  
       Conor’s here, too.

              MUM
          (eyes still closed)
       Is he?

Grandma looks at Conor, urging him to say something.

              CONOR
       I’m here, mum.

Eyes still shut, Conor’s Mum reaches out a hand for him to 
take.  Just like he held it on the cliff face.

There is movement behind Conor, a familiar shadow appearing.

              MONSTER
       Here is the end of the tale.

              CONOR
          (to Monster)
       What do I do?

Somehow the Monster fits in the room, and reaches forward to 
put two hands on Conor’s shoulders, gently pushing Conor 
towards his mother’s bed.  

Conor looks at the clock as he goes.  It reads 11.58.  
Moments before 12.07.  Conor silently guesses the importance 
of this.

              CONOR 
          (whispering)
       I’m afraid.

              MONSTER
       Of course you are afraid.  And yet 
       you will still do it.  Because now 
       you know you can. 

They reach the bed, where his Mum’s hand is still 
outstretched.  Conor’s eyes begin to water.  

              CONOR
          (whispering, to Monster)
       You’ll stay?  You’ll stay until...

              MONSTER
       I will stay.  Now all that is left 
       is for you to speak the simplest 
       truth of all.

The moment is here.  Conor takes his mother’s hand.  

She opens her eyes, just briefly, but she sees him there.  
Really sees him.  Then she closes her eyes again.

And, at last, he can finally tell her the truth.

              CONOR
          (simply, quietly)
       I don’t want you to go.

              MUM
          (eyes still closed)
       I know, my love.  I know.

Conor’s tears begin to spill now, in a quiet way.

              CONOR
          (again)
       I don’t want you to go.

And there’s nothing more to say.  He leans forward onto her 
bed, and slips an arm around her, holding onto her.

We pull back, watching Conor hold his mother, the Monster 
supporting him, his Grandma across the bed, holding his Mum’s 
hand.  

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

..a slow approach towards the clock on the hospital room 
wall.  As the second hand slowly sweeps from 12.06.40 to 
12.06.45, we hear Conor’s earlier question to the Monster.

              CONOR 
       How does the fourth story end?

And this time, we hear the Monster’s response.

              MONSTER 
       It ends with the boy holding on 
       tight to his mother.  And by doing 
       so, he can finally let her go.

We dissolve gently to black before the second hand’s sweep 
reaches 12.07.

FADE TO BLACK.

THEN FADE UP ON:

EXT. HILLTOP - DAY

The hilltop on a sunny day, the yew tree in the middle.  

Conor stands at a new gravestone in the graveyard.  We can’t 
read it, don’t need to.  After a moment, he looks around and 
up at the tree.  Which stays a tree.

Slowly, he walks over and sits down underneath its branches, 
his back against the trunk.

He takes out his phone and presses the screen.  We can 
perhaps hear what he’s watching if we listen closely enough: 
the laughter, the roller coaster, the screams of delight.

The sun shines.  The birds sing.  A breeze blows through the 
branches of the tree.  

Conor has made it through.

END TITLES.

