            "AMERICAN SNIPER"

                 by
              Chris Kyle 
            with Scott McEwen 
             and Jim DeFelice

               Screenplay
                 By 
               Jason Hall

              Second Draft
               07.17.13


        All gave some. Some gave all. 

OVER BLACK
The groan of tank treads drowns out THE CALL TO PRAYER as 
an entire MARINE COMPANY advances over the top of us. 

EXT. STREET, FALLUJAH, IRAQ - DAY

The sun melts over squat residences on a narrow street. 
The MARINE COMPANY creeps toward us like a cautious 
Goliath. FOOT SOLDIERS walk alongside Humvees and tanks. 

               COMMANDING OFFICER
           (radio chatter)
      Charlie Bravo-3, we got eyes on you from 
      the east. Clear to proceed, over.

EXT. ROOFTOP, OVERWATCH - SAME 

Sun glints off a slab of corrugated steel. Beneath it--

CHRIS KYLE lays prone, dick in the dirt, eye to the glass 
of a .300 Win-Mag sniper rifle. Hes Texas stock with a 
boyish grin, blondish goatee and vital blue eyes. Both 
those eyes are open as he tracks the scene below, 
sweating his ass off in the shade of steel. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Fucking hot box. 

GOAT (24, Arkansas Marine) lies beside him, woodsy and 
outspoken, watching dirt-devils swirl in the street.

               GOAT
      Dirt over here tastes like dog shit.

               CHRIS KYLE
      I guess youd know. 

Goat balks and fixes his M4 on the door.

CHRIS SCOPE POV

TRACK ACROSS bombed-out buildings, twisted metal and 
golden-domed mosques. Ragged curtains flutter out a 
window. Cat-tails on the river sway the same direction. 
We are seeing what hes thinking as--

SFX: A LOW FREQUENCY BUZZ escalates over picture as his 
concentration deepens. Cross-hairs land on--

A MAN ON CELL PHONE watches the convoy from a rooftop.   


               CHRIS KYLE 
           (keys mike)
      I got a military-aged male, on a cell 
      phone, watching the convoy. Over.

               COMMANDING OFFICER
      If hes reporting troop movement you have 
      a green-light. Your call. Over.

MAN ON CELL studies the convoy, his hair tossed by wind. 
CROSS-HAIR push left of target, compensating for windage. 

SFX: Chris takes a deep inhale, holds it, then expels.

His finger is taking up trigger-slack when the man dips 
his shoulder slightly. Chris holds off as-- 

MAN ON CELL hangs up and steps away. 

               CHRIS KYLE
           (keys mike)
      He stepped off. 

Chris sucks air. Close. The ambient world floods back in. 
Barked orders, diesel engines and-- 

A WOMAN AND KID exit the same structure. Theyre headed 
up the sidewalk but cut sharply into the street.

               CHRIS KYLE 
           (keys mike)
      Hold up. I got a woman and a kid, 200 
      yards out, moving toward the convoy. 

(ECU)-- The woman cradles something beneath her robes.   

               CHRIS KYLE 
      Her arms arent swinging. Shes carrying 
      something. 

CROSS-HAIRS ON WOMAN as she pulls a cylindrical object 
from her robes. His vision obscured but--

               CHRIS KYLE 
      She just pulled a grenade. An RKG Russian 
      grenade. I think she gave it to the kid. 

               COMMANDING OFFICER
      --you say a woman and kid?

SFX: his heart-beat, THUMP-THUMP THUMP-THUMP THUMP-THUMP.

               CHRIS KYLE
      You got eyes on this? Can you confirm? 


               COMMANDING OFFICER
      Negative. You know the ROEs. Your call. 

               GOAT 
      Theyre gonna fry you if youre wrong.

THE KID moves toward the convoy with the grenade. 

               CHRIS KYLE 
      Fuck--


MOTHER motions the Kid to hurry along (ECU)-- her robes 
flutter, trash blows in the street, the dust off her 
sons footsteps; all blowing the same direction.

THE KID sprints toward the Marines. 

IN THE STREET

YOUNG MARINES. Wading into war. Boots scuffing dirt. 

CLOSE ON CHRIS

His exhale hisses from tobacco-stained teeth. Breathe it 
down. He struggles to get calm, fighting for control, 
SFX: THUMP-THUMP THUMP-THUMP THUMP--

CROSS-HAIRS left of the running target, leading him, 
compensating for a dozen different considerations as--  

He pauses upon exhale. The world goes quiet. Landscape 
pulses with color and focus. He stokes the trigger and--

THE BULLET 

Leaps from the barrel. Cracks like a whip. The .300 round 
hurls forward, glinting as it enters the flesh of--

A WHITE-TAIL BUCK

It staggers, draws and topples to the ground. We are--

EXT. HILLS, WEST TEXAS - PRE-DAWN

A field shrouded in fog. CHRIS KYLE(8) jumps from a deer 
blind, innocent and excited, running toward the buck.

               MANS VOICE
      Get back here.

Chris stops, turns back. WAYNE KYLE, his father, is 
sturdy and earnest with mutton chops and Texas calm. 

               WAYNE
      Dont ever leave your gun in the dirt.

               CHRIS
      Yes, sir. 


               WAYNE
      Helluva shot, son. Thats a gift. Youre 
      gonna make a fine hunter someday. 

Chris nods, clear-eyed, as if hearing the whisper of 
destiny. He grabs the .30-06, running again, bounding to-- 

THE BUCK

Glassy brown eyes look up at Chris. Its still alive. 

               CHRIS
      Can it see me?

               WAYNE 
      Its a deer, son.

Chris processes his first kill, watching as-- (ECU) a 
flea crawls around the animals inner-ear. 

               WAYNE KYLE
           (hands him hunting knife)
      You shot it, you finish it.  

Chris straddles the deer. It tries to gouge him. He looks 
frightened but drags the blade across its neck.

INT. BARN - DAWN

In the misty light of morning, the deer is strung up by 
chain, CHRIS and WAYNE hoist it off the ground. 

INT. CHURCH

A Protestant church. CHRIS is dressed in Sunday best, 
shuffling pages of a LITTLE BLUE BIBLE to create breeze. 

               PASTOR
      --we dont know his plan. We cannot see 
      with his eyes. Our lives unfold like 
      puzzling reflections in a mirror. But on 
      the day we rise, we will see with clarity 
      and understand the mystery of his ways--

JEFF(6), his reedy little brother, watches Chris slip the 
Bible in his pocket. Jeff laughs and gets smacked by--

DEBBIE, their mother. She wears big oval glasses and runs 
a boys home with that same steady hand.  

INT. BARN - DAY

WAYNE points the knife at the carcass, guiding Chris in 
butchering the deer. A rite of passage.

               WAYNE KYLE
      There are three types of people in this 
      world. Sheep, wolves and sheepdogs. 

A BLANK WALL behind them will soon display the antlers.

INT. CHRIS BEDROOM

Dust motes drift across a dresser, settling on a Pop-
Warner football, that blue Bible, and METALLIC TOY 
SOLDIERS guarding the bullet casing from his first buck. 

               WAYNE KYLE 
      Some people prefer to believe that evil 
      doesnt exist in the world--

PUSH THROUGH the modest ranch house into--

INT. DINING ROOM 

WAYNE lectures his boys over venison. 

               WAYNE KYLE
      And if hatred ever darkened their 
      doorstep they wouldnt know how to 
      protect themselves. These are the sheep. 

Jeff bites back tears. Chris looks troubled.

EXT. SCHOOLYARD

FROM THE BACK, we watch a BIG BULLY pummel a KID ON THE 
GROUND. His meaty fists coming down repeatedly as--

               WAYNE KYLE 
      Then you got the predators. These people 
      use violence to prey on the weak. They 
      are the wolves.

KID ON THE GROUND is JEFF, his nose bloody. PUSH TOWARD 
the fight--(ECU) blood flecks fly from the Bullys fist. 

               WAYNE KYLE  
      Then there are those who are blessed with 
      the gift of aggression and an 
      overpowering need to protect the flock. 

A FIST CONNECTS with BIG BULLYs temple. He goes down. 
Chris stands over the bully, beating the tar out of him. 

               WAYNE KYLE  
      These men are the rare breed that live to 
      confront the wolf-- 

EXT. FIELD 

CHRIS stands with his arms extended. Wind blows dirt off 
his palms and it plumes out across the land.

               WAYNE KYLE 
      Theyre the sheepdog.

INT. DINING ROOM

WAYNE removes his belt and lays it on the table. CHRIS 
looks at it, worried. 

               WAYNE KYLE
      Now were not raising any sheep in this 
      family and I will whoop your fucking ass 
      if you turn into a wolf--

                DEBBY
     Wayne--


               WAYNE
      But we take care of our own. And if 
      someone picks a fight with you or bullies 
      your brother, you have my permission to 
      finish it. 

               CHRIS
      The guy was picking on Jeff. 

                WAYNE KYLE
     That true?


               JEFF
           (eye swollen)
      Yes...sir... Yes he was...

               WAYNE KYLE
           (turns to Chris)
      And did you finish it?

Chris shows the knuckles of his right hand, swollen, 
likely broken. He nods, judiciously-- yes, sir. 

EXT. BARN

A GROWN MAN exits the barn into the bright light of day. 
Behind him, horns of dozens of bucks cover the wall. The 
barn door closes leaving us in brindled darkness. 

AMERICAN SNIPER

EXT. RODEO

A hand grips the tie on a bronc. CHRIS sits bareback atop 
the horse, its nostrils steaming, eyes shock wide-- 
(ECU)-- a hair-line crack along its right front hoof.

BUZZER SOUNDS. GATE OPENS. The bronco leaps out. 

The crowd blurs. The Bronc and Chris united in struggle. 
He leans right, the bronc circling right, staying off 
that bad hoof. Chris makes the buzzer but-- 

He gets tossed on dismount. The bronco stomps his hand. 
He scrambles out of the ring as RODEO CLOWNS distract it. 

FIND JEFF(19) ringside, with tight lips and severe eyes. 
Hes cringing, and laughing, at his big brother. 

INT. FORD TRUCK

Headlights rattle over a dirt road. JEFF drives. CHRIS 
rides, BAG OF ICE on hand, BELT BUCKLE prize on the dash. 
He stares into the field where A WILD HORSE, races 
alongside them, a spectral image in the darkness. 

               JEFF
      Its too damn big to wear. Whatre you 
      supposed to do with it? 

               CHRIS
      Youre supposed to get laid with it. 
           (grabs belt buckle)
      Im gonna wear it in and see if it puts 
      Sarah in the mood. 

               JEFF
      A strong wind would put Sarah in the 
      mood.  

               CHRIS
      Is that what they say? 

               JEFF
      You know what they called her in high 
      school-- 

               CHRIS
      Dont say it.

               JEFF
      Sarah suck-a--

Chris swings his bag of ice, smacks Jeff in the face.


               JEFF 
      Shit man--

He swerves off the road. The truck almost coming apart 
before he ramps back up, coming to a dusty halt outside--

EXT. BUNKHOUSE

Spanish moss hangs over a shackle-board residence. Chris 
tumbles out the truck, clips on the belt buckle and-- 

INT. BUNKHOUSE

CHRIS swaggers into the narrow bunkhouse. A sheet hangs 
in back, separating sleeping area from living area. 

               CHRIS
      Who wants to hump a rodeo star?

Movement back there. A MAN ASS suddenly protrudes from 
the curtain as a BURLY COWBOY-TYPE climbs into jeans. 

               CHRIS 
      What the fuck--

SARAH steps out, his high school sweetheart all grown up. 

               SARAH
      You said you werent coming home until 
      tomorrow.

               CHRIS
           (wounded)
      Why would you do this?

Cowboy leaves his shirt open flaunting a big hairy chest. 


               SARAH
      Just let him out. He didnt know...

Chris looks shamed, steps aside for Cowboy to move past--

               CHRIS
      You didnt know?

Cowboy doesnt answer. Chris SLAMS HIS HEAD into the 
refrigerator and ramps him out the front door. 

               SARAH
      What the fuck is wrong with you! Whatd 
      you expect? You drag me out here then run 
      off with your damn brother every weekend!

               CHRIS
      Get out. 


She jumps at the chance-- ripping clothes out of closets. 

               SARAH
      You think youre cowboy cause you rodeo? 
      Youre no cowboy. Youre just a lousy 
      ranch-hand and a shitty fuckin lay! 

The door slams behind her. Chris stares at the dent in 
the fridge then opens it up and pulls out a beer. 

LATER

TV plays across Chris drunken face. He lays on the sofa, 
a beer on his chest. JEFF is sprawled in a chair. 

               JEFF
      Some people aint worth fighting for. 

               CHRIS
      But she was right. I cant just shovel 
      shit the rest of my life-- 

               JEFF
      A job is a job. At least were outside.  

               CHRIS
      But if thats all there is...
           (drifting)
      I think that bronc broke my hand.

Hes bleary and lost, staring at his swollen hand. The 
images on the TV dont immediately register but--  

NEWS FOOTAGE of the WORLD TRADE CENTER BOMBING (1993) 
plays on TV. An explosion has demolished the garage. 

               NEWS ANCHOR
      --group of radical militants called Al-
      Qaeda are taking credit for a bombing 
      that left six dead and hundreds injured--

American flags at half mast. His chest rises and falls--  

               CHRIS
      Jeff, wake up. Look at this-- 

The faces of INNOCENT VICTIMS play across the screen. 
Chris injured hand slowly curls into a fist. 

               CHRIS 
      Lookt they did...

INT. NAVY RECRUITING OFFICE

Posters of destroyers on walls. The NAVY RECRUITER is 
lean and shrewd.

               CHRIS
      I seen what they did to our towers and... 

               NAVY RECRUITER
      And youre from Texas. Youre a patriot 
      and it pissed you off. 

               CHRIS
      Yes, sir. But I cant see myself on a 
      ship. Thats why I was thinking Marines--

               NAVY RECRUITER
      Marines are great if you wanna get your 
      ass shot off. But if you wanna fight...
           (reaches into desk)
      Meet the warrior elite. 

He slides him a brochure-- NAVY SEALS emerge from the 
water, armed and bound for glory.

               CHRIS KYLE
      Seals?

               NAVY RECRUITER
      Sea, Air and Land. 

               CHRIS
      I aint much of a swimmer-- 

               NAVY RECRUITER
      Theyll fix that. But, understand, this 
      isnt for the faint of heart. Most men 
      arent made for this.  

               CHRIS
           (flash of uncertainty, then)
      Im not most men, sir. 

               NAVY RECRUITER
      Alright but - if you wash out - youll 
      end up on the deck of a ship. 

Chris looks from the battleship to the brochure of the 
Seals-- and nods, he believes he is that man. 

TRANSITION TO:

AN EYE CHART. Incredibly small letters. In sharp focus:

               CHRIS (PRE-LAP)
      C....L....A....D....B....

INT. NAVY HOSPITAL, DALLAS FT. WORTH

THE DOCTOR pulls the tong away from Chris eye. 



               NAVY DOCTOR 
      20/10. 

               CHRIS
      Whats that mean?

               NAVY DOCTOR
      Means you can spot a bug on a blade of 
      grass from about fifty yards. 

As the doctor signs his medical release--

CUT TO:

INT. BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER - HELOCASTING- NIGHT 

CHRIS looks scared, packed standing amongst A DOZEN MEN 
in Ts and nylon shorts, all soaked to the bone. 


               INSTRUCTOR
      Go, go, go!

Hes shoving boys out. Chris appears before him--



               INSTRUCTOR 
      --you deaf? Go!

He shoves Chris out. We are falling, falling, fall--

INT. OCEAN - NIGHT

The water meets us sooner than expected. It swallows us. 
Bubbles rush past, an army of feet kicking in darkness. 
Chris swims for the surface, takes a foot in the face--

ON THE SURFACE

Chris is taking in water. Going under. Rotors whip the 
sea into frenzy. A spotlight hits. TWO SEALS plunge in 
beside him, securing Chris in a life ring. 

The helicopter plucks him from the ocean and arcs into 
the darkness with Chris dangling by a string.  

EXT. NAVAL SPECIAL WARFARE CENTER / THE GRINDER - DAY 

CHRIS, RYAN and 50 OTHER CANDIDATES lay on their backs 
doing flutter-kicks on a patch of blacktop surrounded by 
beige buildings. INSTRUCTORS wield hoses. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE
           (sprays Chris in the face)
      You are fleet-meat. Dont turn away from 
      the water. Look up and take it. You are 
      old as fuck arent you? Did you join the 
      Navy cause you had such a good time on 
      Noahs Arc? How old are you?

                CHRIS
     30, sir. 


               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE
      30! You fart dust and couldve fathered 
      half these boys.  

Instructors haze other candidates across the Grinder. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      You think cause you had a pop-gun back in 
      Texas youre cut out to be a SEAL?

               CHRIS
      No, sir.


               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE
      No, youre not cut out to be one?


Chris is twisted in agony, clearly dislikes the water. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      What kind of asshole joins the Navy but 
      hates the water. 

               CHRIS
      I love water, sir. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE  
      My ass you do. 

A CANDIDATE chokes a giggle. Rolle wheels around on--

RYAN JOB, a goofy, overweight Oregon kid who looks like 
he should be taking orders at a drive-thru window.

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      Is that you giggling you fat fuck? Look 
      at you. Youre so fat they had to baptize 
      you at Sea World. Your momma fat too? 

               RYAN
      No sir, shes not. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      Dont lie to me! I bet we could use her 
      panties as a parachute. What the fuck are 
      you doing here fatboy? Do your feet get 
      wet when you shower? Whens the last time 
      you saw your pecker? Youre not a Seal, 
      youre a fuckin Walrus. A big giggling 
      Walrus. Biggles thats your new name-- 

BIGGLES is choking, coughing, struggling. ROLLE points 
to A BRASS BELL mounted on the back of a truck. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      --and thats your ticket home. Just drag 
      your jelly-roll ass up and ring it and 
      youll be headed home to momma Shamu.  

BIGGLES is beaten, legs giving out, ready to quit when-- 

               CHRIS 
           (draws him off Biggles)
      Two hundred. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE
           (whirls around, hosing)
      Did I ask you to count?

               CHRIS
      No, sir. 


               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE
      Was that your ass talking then?

THE BELL RINGS. Chris jerks up, worried it was Biggles. 
An ATHLETIC CANDIDATE, the fittest of all, staggers off. 

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      Thats a quitter. If he quits here, hell 
      quit in battle. When shit gets hairy, he 
      cant step up. You get shot, he cant 
      pull you out. Were gonna weed out the 
      quitters and see if we can find a warrior 
      or two. 

Chris and Biggles share a look, a vow, as--  

               INSTRUCTOR ROLLE 
      Wave goodbye to the sun, boys...

EXT. DOCKS - NIGHT

Mist whips through spotlights shining down on FORTY 
CANDIDATES laying on the docks, soaked and chanting:  

               CANDIDATES CHANT
      A yellow bird, with a yellow bill,
      Was sitting on my window sill.
      I lured him in with a piece of bread,
      Then I smashed his fucking head. 

INSTRUCTOR TONY(34) is a salty sea-dog with cholo 
flare. He ambles past CANDIDATES nearing hypothermia. 

               INSTRUCTOR TONY 
      How bout this-- if any of you turds can 
      sport wood in 30 seconds your team sits 
      out the next evolution. Got any takers?  

Movement down the row. BIGGLES has a hand down his 
shorts, eyes closed, frantically trying to produce.

               INSTRUCTOR TONY 
      We got a gamer-- Biggles! Talk dirty to 
      him, ladies. You know how he likes it.

His BOAT CREW CHEER, talking dirty to Biggles. The least 
likely to make it is becoming their heart and soul.

EXT. BEACH - SNAKE PIT - NIGHT

A bonfire crackles atop a sand dune. CANDIDATES crouch in 
a pit they dug, hugging oars, shivering. 


CHRIS stands at attention, trying to make INSTRUCTORS laugh so he can earn a place by the fire beside BIGGLES. 


               CHRIS
      We were 16, and both virgins, and the 
      condom broke. She was crying, begging me 
      to do something and Id heard if you pour 
      soda up there you wont get pregnant-- 
           (guys start laughing)
      So we went to 7-11, got a liter of Coke 
      and drove back into the woods. She took 
      her panties off and did a handstand 
      against a tree but when I start pouring 
      it in, she screams ouch, it stings but 
      then I stop and she screams no, dont 
      stop and its fizzing out--

INSTRUCTORS in stitches. Fire flickering off Chris face--

               INSTRUCTOR TONY (PRE-LAP)
      Everyone wants to be a Seal on a bright 
      sunny day...

EXT. MUD FLATS - DAY

Today is not that day. Fog shrouds CANDIDATES COVERED IN 
MUD, seated, hugging belly-to-back, shivering--

               INSTRUCTOR MENLO 
      Youre really from Connecticut, Dauber? I 
      never met a hick from Hartford before.

DAUBER is 64 and 240 with a flop of yellow hair like 
the character from Coach. A Connecticut cowboy. 

               DAUBER
      Country is countrywide, sir. 

               INSTRUCTOR TONY
      I dont think he likes black dudes, D. 

D is African American, from Indiana, stoic and stacked. 
He has a rhythmic grumble and a meat-eaters glare.  

               D
      Thats alright, sir. Im not black. 

               INSTRUCTOR TONY
      No? 


               D
      No, Im new black. We run slow, jump low, 
      swim good and shop at Gap. We make white 
      folk proud then hose their ladies. 

BIGGLES still giggles, but hes looking fit as they 
chip away everything that isnt a Navy Seal.  

               INSTRUCTOR TONY
      You hungry, Biggles? Id bet youd eat 
      the ass out of a low-flying duck. 

               BIGGLES
      Yes sir. Id toss that critter shitter on 
      a baguette and get my eat on, sir.    

SQUIRREL is a San Clemente surfer kid, just tall enough 
to ride roller-coaster, with a jutty jaw. 

               INSTRUCTOR TONY
           (screams in his face)
      Squirrel! Whered you hide your nuts?

               SQUIRREL
      Nuts crawled up inside, sir. Those little 
      shits are gone for good. 

CHRIS sits up front, covered in mud. His eyes burn 
steely blue, full of resolve. Hes found himself here. 

               INSTRUCTOR TONY
      How about you old man? How you feeling?

               CHRIS KYLE
      Dangerous, sir. Feeling dangerous. 

The boys send up a spirited HOOYAH and-- TONY looks 
them over with some small measure of approval. 

EXT. BEACH - SUNSET

32 CANDIDATES SWARM each other, howling and dog-piling at 
the completion of hell-week. But victory is short-lived.

INT. DIVE POOL - TOWER DIVE

Chris splashes in wearing mask and weight belt, 
descending a 30m dive tower. INSTRUCTOR ROLLE shadows him 
with a breathing apparatus. The deeper they go--

The darker it gets. Chris is trying to clear his ears but 
he looks distressed. Rolle watches as--

BLOOD BURSTS from Chris ears and nose. It plumes in 
front of him like black ink. His eyes roll back-- 

TO BLACK:

HEADLIGHTS CUT through black. The OLD 97s Born to be in 
Battle blasts as we swerve across the roadway. 

               BIGGLES
      1, 2, 3, 4...I declare van war!

INT. PASSENGER VAN - NIGHT

A MASS OF HUMANITY is tossed about. Biggles rises up from 
the wrestling bodies and blows a fart. D throws him in 
a headlock, choking him unconscious. Up front--

CHRIS rides shotgun, COTTON IN EARS, in a foul mood. 

               CHRIS
      Youll be shipping out and Ill be 
      picking cotton from my fuckin ears.

INT. MULONEYS BAR - NIGHT

A crowd watches the boys toss darts at a bulls-eye drawn 
on DAUBERS naked back. At the bar, BIGGLES and CHRIS-- 

               BIGGLES 
      Getting rolled back isnt the end of the 
      world. Youll sit and heal a few months-- 

               CHRIS
      Its a big deal man, Im older than you-- 

               BIGGLES
           (overlapping)
      Stop yelling.

               CHRIS
      I feel like Im gonna miss it.

                BIGGLES
     Miss what?


He cant articulate it but fate has its hooks in him. 

               BIGGLES 
      You need to get off your pity-pot man, 
      were about to get pinned.

Chris processes it, watching Biggles sip from a straw. 


               CHRIS
      Dont ever say that again. And we dont 
      drink out of straws. 

               BIGGLES
      Its Long Island Ice tea. I need a straw. 

               CHRIS
      You need a new drink. 

               BIGGLES
      What about at a drive-thru? You dont 
      drink from a straw when youre driving?

               CHRIS
      Ever watch yourself sip from a straw? 

               BIGGLES
      How about a movie? Youre in the dark--

               CHRIS
      Would you suck a dick if the lights were 
      low?

The straw comes out. 

               CHRIS 
      Theyre going to let me pre-qual for 
      sniper school. 

               BIGGLES
      You want to be sniper?

               CHRIS
      Whats cooler than being a sniper?

               BIGGLES
      Blowing shit up. Blowing shit up is way 
      cooler. Can you shoot? 

A brunette steps to the bar. A sharp object with heavy 
eye-shadow and tight leather pants. This girl owns her 
sexuality but shes often been used for it. 

This is TAYA. She is trying to ignore the advances of A 
SHORT NAVY GUY but hes relentless. Chris watches as 
(ECU)-- Tayas fingertips whiten, gripping her glass. 

Chris edges closer, she looks up, defensive-- but he just 
stands there, letting his protective presence be felt.  

               DAPPER NAVY GUY 
      Come on, just let me buy you a drink. 


               TAYA
           (end of her rope)
      Will a drink make you 6 inches taller and 
      charming? Will it make you not married? 

               DAPPER NAVY GUY
      Im not--


               TAYA
      I watched you take your ring off. Dont 
      be a scumbag. Go home.  

Navy Guy retreats. Taya sips her scotch, doesnt look up. 

               CHRIS
      It could be the leather pants. 

               TAYA
      Yeah? What kind of pants does a girl have 
      to wear to be left alone? 

               CHRIS
      Corduroy.


She takes him in. Loose sweatshirt, no hair gel. But its 
the cotton in his ears that peaks her curiosity. 

               TAYA
      Is that how it is with you guys-- 
      suddenly single after three beers? 

               CHRIS
      Only thing that happens to me after three 
      beers is a forth. 

               TAYA
      Thats great. A real red-neck.

               CHRIS
      Im no redneck, Im a Texan.  

               TAYA
      Whats the difference?

               CHRIS
      We ride horses, they ride their cousins. 

               TAYA
           (almost laughs)
      What happened to your ears?

               CHRIS
      They popped.  

               TAYA
      What do you do for work that your ear 
      popped? 

               CHRIS
      I polish dolphins. They have to be 
      polished in captivity or their skin 
      disintegrates.  

               TAYA
      Do I look stupid to you?

               CHRIS
      No, you look sad. 

She shocked by his observation. And now looks angry.  

               CHRIS 
      Am I tall enough to buy you a drink?  

               TAYA
      Im not drinking with you. Not until you 
      tell me what you do.

               CHRIS
      How about this: one shot, one answer. 

Chris passes her a shot. She throws it back, fierce. 

               TAYA
      Youre obviously military. What branch? 

               CHRIS
      Im just finishing BUD/S. 

               TAYA
      Are you fucking kidding me? Youre a 
      Seal? 

               CHRIS
      That was two questions... 

               TAYA
           (two angry shots)
      I know all about you guys. My sister was 
      engaged to a Seal. 

               CHRIS
      Whats that mean you know all about us?

               TAYA
      You are a bunch of arrogant, self-
      centered pricks who think you can lie and 
      do whatever the fuck you want. 

               TAYA 
           (pushes him a shot)
      Id never date a SEAL. 

               CHRIS
      How can you say were self-centered? Id 
      lay down my life for my country. 


               TAYA
      Why? 

               CHRIS
      Cause its the greatest country on earth 
      and I believe its worth protecting. 

She struggles to understand. He climbs off his stool. 

               CHRIS 
      Im sorry this guy hurt your sister but 
      thats not me. Nice talking to you.  

               TAYA
      Where are you going?

               CHRIS
      You said youd never date a SEAL, so Im 
      going home.

               TAYA
      I said Id never marry one. 

Its a lie. They both know it. 

               CHRIS
      Well in that case... whats your name?

               TAYA
      Taya. 


               CHRIS
      Nice to meet you, Taya. Im Chris Kyle. 

               TAYA
           (liquor softening her)
      Pretty egotistical of you to think you 
      can protect us all, isnt it Chris? 

               CHRIS
      Our instructors tell us our biggest 
      enemies are liquor, women and ego.

               TAYA
      Sounds like youre under attack.

She levels a look and downs another shot--

EXT. MULRONEYS BAR, PARKING LOT - LATER

Mist rolls in. Chris holds Tayas hair as she pukes. She 
takes a deep breath, wipes her mouth--

               TAYA
      --Im not going home with you so dont 
      even think about it.  

She smiles, then turns to puke again-- 

EXT. RANGE - SNIPER SCHOOL - CAMP BILLY MACHEN - DAY

Near the border. An arid range with human-shaped targets. 
PETTY OFFICER(PO) WEBB walks the ranks of prone students.

               PO WEBB
      Feel breath filling every cell of your 
      body. This is our ritual. We master our 
      breath, we master our mind---

FIND CHRIS on .300 Win-Mag. Both eyes open. Dip packed. 
Deep breaths. His finger taking up the trigger-slack. 

               PO WEBB 
      --pulling the trigger will become an 
      unconscious effort. You will be aware of 
      it but not directing it. And as you 
      exhale, find your natural respiratory 
      pause and the space between heart-beats.

Chris exhales, pauses, strokes-- BAM!

INT. DOCTORS OFFICE

A ZOLOFT BROCHURE shows smiling faces. TAYA wears a suit-
skirt and tries to mimic the esprit of the brochure. She 
leaves a box of samples with the RECEPTIONIST but her 
smile fades as she pulls her trolley to the door-- 

INT. TAYAS CONDO - DAY

Blades of light leak through closed blinds. Taya hides 
under blankets on the sofa. PHONE RINGS, goes to message: 

               CHRIS
      Its me again. The guy whose shoes you 
      puked on? I was thinking maybe you didnt 
      get my last message. Or the one before 
      that. So, I figured--


She snatches up the phone--  

               TAYA
      You figured what?

--looking for a reason not to be alone. 

INT. RANGE - CAMP BILLY MACHEN - DAY

ON CHRIS, both eyes open looking downrange. 

               PO WEBB 
      Aim small, miss small. If you aim for his 
      shirt button, you might miss by two 
      inches. If you aim for his shirt, you 
      miss by two feet. 
           (over Chris, raises binocs)
      You better close those groupings, Kyle.  

WEBB POV (BINOCS) 

Mirage boils off the horizon at 35 degree angle, pushed 
by wind. BAM! Chris shot hits the outer edge of target. 

               PO WEBB 
      Mirage is boiling at 35 degree angle.

               CHRIS
      Check. Im dialed for windage.

               PO WEBB
      Hold right-four, up-two.  

BAM! He misses. It spits dirt. Not even close. 

               PO WEBB 
      Are we looking at the same target? You 
      need to shut your off-eye. 

               CHRIS
      If I close my off-eye I cant see whats 
      out there.  

               PO WEBB 
      There is nothing out there but a target. 

               CHRIS
      Negative. Theres something--

CHRIS POV (BOTH EYES VIEW) 

The circular scope floats over the target. Left of scope, 
a SWATCH OF GRASS doesnt sway like the rest. 

               PO WEBB
      Put the gun down and give me 50 push-- 

The scope drifts left of target--BAM! A RATTLESNAKE is 
flung through the air, blown to shit, some 500 yards out.   

               CHRIS
      There it is.  

He sets the rifle aside and starts cranking out push-ups. 

EXT. OCEANSIDE PIER - DUSK

PAN ACROSS a target shoot game to a bench overlooking 
surf. CHRIS and TAYA sit with a GIANT TEDDY BEAR.  

               TAYA
      Did you always want to be a soldier?

               CHRIS
      I wanted to be a cowboy-- but I did that 
      and I felt like I was meant for more. 

               TAYA
      So you started rescuing girls from bars?

               CHRIS
      I rescued that bar from you. 

She smiles at his sweetness. 

               CHRIS 
      Do you like country music?

               TAYA
      Only when Im depressed. 

               CHRIS
      You want kids?

               TAYA
      Not right this minute. But someday... 
           (revealing)
      My mom says I have a nose for picking the 
      wrong men. 

               CHRIS
      Thats a shitty thing to tell a girl. 

               TAYA
      My men proved her right.  

The Ferris wheel casts its glow on them.  

               CHRIS
      When my eardrums popped I felt like it 
      was the worst thing that ever happened to 
      me. But now Im here with you while the 
      rest of my class is back east training. 
      And those wrong picks of yours put you 
      here, so Im grateful for em. From here 
      it all just looks like part of the plan. 

He smiles, confident. She feels safe.   

INT. TAYAS CONDO - NIGHT

CHRIS sits on the couch, hands on knees, anxious. TAYA 
appears in the hall, in lingerie. Shes sultry and 
seductive and determined to blow his mind.

               TAYA
      Well...?


               CHRIS
      That is coolest thing Ive ever seen. 

She straddles him but shes not meeting his eyes. 

               CHRIS 
      Youre trembling... 

               TAYA
      I know. I dont... 

She finds his eyes. Finds her breath.   

               CHRIS
      We dont have to do this...

               TAYA
      No, I want to. I swear I do...

She inserts his hand into her panties; her wetness proves 
it. He lifts her up and lays her across the couch. 

ANOTHER ANGLE 

Soft light spills in on pale bodies. Taya writhes with 
longing. Chris follows her every movement and impulse, 
his awareness calming her, quieting her. His patience 
forces her into the present and shes swept up in a river 
of emotion there. Her eyes fill with tears. He eases into 
her-- she gasps and arcs and draws him deeper.  

INT. CLASSROOM, NAVY SPECIAL WARFARE CENTER - DAY

An airless room. SNIPER CANDIDATES study formulas on the 
board. A CROSS-HAIR is drawn with hash-marks indicating 
the mil-reticles and the figure of a man inside. 

               PO WEBB
      From the top of a mans head to his 
      collar is twelve inches and if that takes 
      up point-five mils in your gun. How far 
      out are you?

FIND CHRIS scribbling, doing the math--

               SNIPER CANDIDATE #1
      610 meters. 


               PO WEBB
      Correct.


Chris finally lands on 610. Too slow. Frustrated, he rubs 
out red Shooters Strawberries on his elbows.  

               PO WEBB 
      And if you have no one standing around?  
      How do we gauge distance? 
           (no volunteers; lays it on)
      Infantry are marching in. Lives are on 
      the line! How far outs the enemy? 

Alert with worry, Chris hears a DIESEL ENGINE outside-- 

               CHRIS
      Average car is four feet tall. Same as 
      the chest of a military-aged male.   

               PO WEBB
      What if there are no cars in the street. 

               CHRIS
      Doorways are a standard eighty inches-- 

               PO WEBB
      Nothing is standard in the middle-east. 

               CHRIS
           (takes a beat)
      Bricks are. You also got street signs. 
      And a goats a goat, anywhere you go. 


INT. CHURCH - DAY 

A beach church. Sunlight of the spirit pouring in. A 
COMMUNION TRAY is passed to CHRIS and TAYA.  

               PASTOR 
      --youve given us the pledge that our 
      bodies shall rise, so what is to be 
      feared in death, oh Lord? And what glory 
      shall be ours in resurrection-- 

AN OLDER LADY seated next to Chris watches Taya take an 
extra thimble of wine. He winks at her, explaining--

               CHRIS
      Hair of the dog... 

She drinks one then the other. Chris cant help smiling. 

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

Ethereal white sheets. Two bodies lay like spoons. Chris 
WHISPERS SOMETHING. Taya closes her eyes. A beat--

               TAYA
      Youve only known me ten months. 

               CHRIS
      I know enough. Youre a package deal, 
      babe. 

She stares at the wall. 

               CHRIS 
      What are you afraid of?

               TAYA
      Nothing. Everything. I dont know. What 
      if it doesnt work out?  

She moves to stand. He holds her put. 

               CHRIS
      Im going to marry you, and were going 
      to start a family. 

               TAYA
      You got it all planned out, dont you.

               CHRIS
      I love you. Im done.  

               TAYA
           (crushed)
      Well... youre gonna need a ring if you 
      want to talk all tough like that. 

She accepts with a deep kiss then prances off with the 
sheet, flashing fanny as she pads down the hall. 

He smiles and falls back onto the bed. The sheets are 
cool. The curtains dance in the morning light. Then-- 

               TAYA 
      Oh my god-- No! Chris-- 

Chris bounds up, running into the next room. Taya stands 
in front of the television. They both watch as--

ON NEWS-- THE SECOND PLANE hits the World Trade Center. 

It steals their breath. Chris hugs her close, trying to 
protect her from it. His shock bleeds to rage.   

LATER

Chris stands at the window sipping a beer with grim 
certitude. The world has changed but, under bluebird 
skies, Oceanside appears blissfully unaware of it. 

               TAYA  
           (low)
      --he asked me to marry him, mom.

FIND TAYA, on the phone, a bittersweet moment.

               TAYA 
      We dont know. Hes on standby. But can 
      you believe it. Im getting married...  

Chris looks up. Their eyes meet. The world is silent.

TRANSITION TO:

A RENT-A-YATCH, moored to the docks, sways under billowy 
grey skies. Water laps hull as we PUSH ONTO--

INT. RENT-A-YACHT - DAY OF WEDDING

A wedding march plays. A PASTOR stands under an arbor, 
checks his watch. 50 NERVOUS GUESTS seated on the bow. 
WAYNE, DEBBIE sit with JEFF; he wears MARINE DRESS BLUES 
and quietly explains PFC stripes to THE BOY beside him. 

PUSH UP the aisle to TAYAS MOM, sharply-drawn. 

               TAYAS MOTHER
      I hate to say I told you so--

               TAYA
      Then dont. Can you not be right just 
      this once? 

TAYA, sweating in her wedding dress, dials her cell--

INT. PASSENGER VAN (MOVING) - SAME

A CELL PHONE rings in a cup-holder. PAN UP to D, a 
madman at the wheel, glancing at the phone as-- 

               D
      Fuck man. We are dog-ass late--

In back, CHRIS is duct-taped to a gurney and covered in 
green spray-paint. BIGGLES scrubs him with paint-thinner. 

               BIGGLES
      This shit is not coming off. 

               SQUIRREL
      We forgot to shave his eyebrows!

DAUBER squeezes an IV drip running into Chris arm. 

               DAUBER
      Hes got fluids. He should be awake--

               D
      Get his uniform on, Squirrel. 

               SQUIRREL
      Why man? Hes out cold. 

               DAUBER
      Wake up, Tex. Cmon, wake up!

DAUBER SLAPS HIM and Chris bolts upright, punches Dauber 
and tumbles off the gurney. His phone goes silent--

INT. RENT-A-YACHT - DAY 

TAYA flips her phone closed, crushed. She avoids her 
mothers eyes as she turns and marches up the isle. 

               TAYA
      Im sorry. I dont know what happened but 
      Im not going to make you sit here and--


FOOTSTEPS BOUND down gangway. The boat rocking, the entire WEDDING PARTY turns to see--

CHRIS, in the aisle; clean and dapper in Navy Whites. 

               TAYA 
      What happened to you?

               CHRIS
      I had a rough night. It was-- 

D clears his throat, enough said.

               CHRIS 
      It was all worth it--

               TAYA
      Oh, Im so glad--

               CHRIS
      To get here. To get to you. 

TAYA isnt going for it. JEFF signals, keep talking bro!

               CHRIS 
      I love you, Taya. I want you to be my 
      wife, to have and hold until were old-- 
           (ineffective, drops to knee)
      There are only a few things I know. I 
      know theres a God. I know hes got a 
      plan. And I know I was put on this earth 
      to love you. Marry me and Ill protect 
      you and worship you until the day I die. 

               TAYA
           (jaw set, fights tears)
      Did you bring a ring? 

Biggles tosses a ring-box. Chris turns to catch it and 
Taya sees the back of his NECK PAINTED GREEN. What the-- 

He turns and slips the ring on her finger. She slips a 
GOLD WEDDING BAND on his. He smiles a sleepy smile-- 

               D 
      If you dont kiss her, I will. 

Chris dips Taya for a kiss and we PUSH PAST them to a 
storm brewing at the edge of the ocean. 

INT. BAR, YATCH - LATER

The day greying with weather, SEALS cling to the bar. 
TONY bowls up, once their instructor, now their Chief. 

               D
      Whats the word, Chief? 

               TONY
           (nods with import)
      Its on boys. Just got the call. 

They hoist their drinks, barking approval, HOOYAH! 

ON DANCE FLOOR

CHRIS dances TAYA in slow circles when the Hooyah shocks 
them. Biggles nods, were going. Taya grips him tight. 

               CHRIS
      We knew this was coming. Its all part of 
      the plan. Dont be afraid. 

He pulls her close and HIS EYES FIXED on someone else--

               TAYA
      Your heart is beating out of your chest. 

Jeff stands on the rail, enlisted, a smiling Marine. 

CAKE CUTTING - EVENING

The boat rocks on choppy waters. Taya dabs cake on Chris 
nose and they kiss. THE BOOM of distant fireworks is 
followed by AIR-RAID SIRENS as shock & awe hit Bagdad. 

CUT TO BLACK.

CHYRON: OPERATION PHANTOM FURY: 2nd BATTLE OF FALLUJAH

               MARC LEE
      Welcome to Fallujah. The new wild west of 
      the old middle east. 

INT. M-113 ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIER, FALLUJAH - DAY

SOLDIERS sit elbow to elbow. 6 SEAL SNIPERS and A SQUAD 
OF MARINES to watch their backs. CHRIS tucks the little 
blue Bible and American flag and into his webbing then 
removes his wedding band, hanging it from his necklace. 

MARC LEE(26) is a poster-boy Navy Seal, soulful and 
handsome. He glows like a halo in a river full of shit. 


               MARC LEE
      AQI have put a price on your heads and 
      extremists from around the globe are 
      flooding the borders to collect on it. We 
      saw what happened to those contractors 
      here a few months back--

The rig hits a pothole and faces clench expecting an IED. 

               MARC LEE 
      You snipers will be paired with a man to 
      watch your back and inserted along the 
      main road to do overwatch for 1st 
      Marines going door to door. Your job is 
      to protect those Marines at all costs. 

The truck battles to a stop. 

               MARC LEE 
      The city was evacuated. Any military-aged 
      male still here, is here to kill you. 
      Lock and load. Bring these boys in safe. 

The Marine paired with Chris is a mouthy Arkansas boy, 
WINSTON. The hatch falls open-- 

EXT. HOSPITAL, NORTHERN BRIDGE, FALLUJAH

A gunmetal sky. The staccato pop of GUNFIRE in the 
distance. SNIPERS and SUPPORT cross an orchard. WINSTON 
skitters tree to tree. CHRIS walks upright. 

               WINSTON 
      Keep your head down, Tex. The Muj got 
      snipers too. 

               CHRIS
      A sniper wont aim for your head. 

A DOZEN MARINES are posted outside an apartment complex. 

               WINSTON
      They got this sniper thats been hitting 
      headshots from 500 yards out--

INT. APARTMENT COMPLEX

An open atrium eight stories tall. CHRIS and WINSTON walk 
past a giant pile of furniture and debris tossed down. 


               WINSTON 
      --they call him Mustafa. He was in the 
      Olympics. 

               CHRIS
      They got sniping in the Olympics now?

They step on the elevator. The doors close.

ELEVATOR (CLIMBING)

               WINSTON
      They also got this midget sniper they 
      drop off in a suitcase. So be on the 
      lookout for some fuckin luggage.

               CHRIS 
      This is your floor. Good luck. 

Doors open. He pushes Winston off. Doors closing--

               WINSTON
      Im your protection, man.  

INT. APARTMENT, SIXTH FLOOR

Chris walks from APARTMENT TO APARTMENT, some vandalized, 
others untouched, checking sight-lines out windows. 

               WINSTON
           (trailing Chris)
      Whatre we looking for? 

               CHRIS
      You ever hunt?

               WINSTON
      I aint that kind of red-neck. 

He unzips and peels off into the bathroom.

               WINSTON 
      Fuck, fuck--


WINSTON FIRES TWO ROUNDS in the bathroom. Chris pulls a 
Springfield .45 as--

A GOAT 

Bounds out of the bathroom, runs out the apartment door 
and leaps OVER THE RAILING, falling six floors. 

RAILING

CHRIS and WINSTON look down to the lobby, where Marines 
stand around the DEAD GOAT. 

               CHRIS
           (laughing)
      You just got your first kill, Goat. 

GOAT will be his name from here out.

               CHRIS 
      Im going to the roof. You stay here and 
      be on the lookout for farm animals. 

EXT. ROOFTOP/ SNIPER NEST - DAY 

Under a corrugated piece of steel, a ritual unfolds--

Chris packs a dip. He lays out his Bible and flag. Loads 
bullets in a wrist-sheath. Starts to marshal his breath. 

Time slows as he lowers his eye to the glass.

(NOTE: we are back to the beginning of the film.) 

CHRIS SCOPE POV

TRACK ACROSS bombed-out buildings, twisted metal and 
golden-domed mosques. Ragged curtains flutter out a 
window. Cat-tails on the river sway the same direction. 

SFX: A LOW FREQUENCY BUZZ escalates over picture as his 
concentration deepens. Cross-hairs land on--

A MAN ON CELL PHONE watches the convoy from a rooftop.   

               CHRIS KYLE
           (keys mike)
      I got a military-aged male, on a cell 
      phone, watching the convoy. Over.

               COMMANDING OFFICER
      If hes reporting troop movement you have 
      a green-light. Your call. Over.

MAN ON CELL studies the convoy, his hair tossed by wind. 
CROSS-HAIR push left of target, compensating for windage. 

SFX: Chris takes a deep inhale, holds it, then expels.

His finger is taking up trigger-slack when the man dips 
his shoulder slightly. Chris holds off as-- 

MAN ON CELL hangs up and steps away. 

               CHRIS KYLE
           (keys mike)
      He stepped off. 

Chris sucks air. Close. The ambient world floods back in. 
Barked orders, diesel engines and-- 

A WOMAN AND KID exit the same structure. Theyre headed 
up the sidewalk but cut sharply into the street.

               CHRIS KYLE 
      Hold up. I got a woman and a kid, moving 
      toward the convoy. 

(ECU)-- The woman cradles something beneath her robes.   

               CHRIS KYLE 
      Her arms arent swinging. Shes carrying 
      something. 

CROSS-HAIRS ON WOMAN as she pulls a cylindrical object.

               CHRIS KYLE 
      She just pulled a grenade. An RKG Russian 
      grenade. I think she gave it to the kid. 

               COMMANDING OFFICER
      --you say a woman and kid?

SFX: his heart-beat, THUMP-THUMP THUMP-THUMP THUMP-THUMP.

               CHRIS KYLE
      You got eyes on this? Can you confirm? 
      Over.

               COMMANDING OFFICER
      Negative. You know the ROEs. Your call. 

               GOAT 
      Theyre gonna fry you if youre wrong.

THE KID moves toward the convoy with the grenade. 

                CHRIS KYLE 
     Fuck--


MOTHER motions him to hurry along (ECU)-- her robes 
flutter, trash blows in the street, the dust off her 
sons footsteps; all blowing the same direction.

THE KID sprints toward the Marines. 

IN THE STREET

YOUNG MARINES. Wading into war. Boots scuffing dirt. 

CLOSE ON CHRIS

His eyes water with focus, his exhale hisses from tobacco-
stained teeth. Breathe it down. He struggles to get calm. 
SFX: THUMP-THUMP THUMP-THUMP THUMP--

CROSS-HAIRS left of the running target, leading him, 
compensating for a dozen different considerations as--  

He pauses upon exhale. The world goes quiet. Landscape 
pulses with color and focus. He stokes the trigger and--

THE BULLET 

Leaps from the barrel. Cracks like a whip. The .300 round 
hurls forward, glinting as it enters the flesh of--

CLOSE ON CHRIS

He winces, sickened by his first kill. He struggles to 
swallow the little piece of him that just died. 

               GOAT 
      - Fuck that was gnarly.

CHRIS SCOPE POV

THE MOTHER flees down the sidewalk, robes aflutter. CROSS-
HAIRS lead her. BAM. It pocks the wall behind her. A hot 
round ejected to the floor. CROSS-HAIRS swing forward, 
leading her six feet. BAM. She runs into the scopes 
radius, reaches center and meets his bullet. A red mist. 

               GOAT  
      Shit yeah. Evil bitch!

               COMMANDING OFFICER
      Nice shooting, Tex. Helluva call.

               COMPANY COMMANDER 
      Copy that. Good lookin out Navy.

ON CHRIS 

Breath racing. Bleeding sweat. Trying to process the 
praise and reconcile his disgust. Trying to remember his 
purpose: Protect the Marines. Protect Marines. Protect...

Clouds crawl over Chris like ghosts, swirling feverishly 
as HOURS SLIDE BY. His face takes on a preternatural 
blankness as he learns to slip into the shadows of self. 

Suddenly-- clouds halt, pupils flare, chest inflates.

EXT. ELIZABETH STREET - SAME

Sun flares as MARC LEE advances alongside ZEBRA PLATOON 
(40 men) when-- A SHOT SOUNDS. A BODY TUMBLES out of the 
sky and lands in their midst with a meaty thud. 

               ZEBRA MARINE #1
      -Fuck, man! What the hell--

ZEBRA COMPANY duck for cover then look to the sky--

               ZEBRA MARINE #2
      -Whered it come from?

               MARC LEE
      Thats your overwatch, Einstein. You can 
      thank him later. Keep moving.  

Marines slowly return to standing, glancing up at 
surrounding structures trying to spot their protector.

INT. WINDOW - LATE AFTERNOON

Chris lays atop a baby crib. A scrim hangs in front of 
him. Sunlight burns through it, casting thousands of 
pinpricks of light across his face. SUN MARCHES ACROSS 
the sky and pixels twist over his cataleptic shape.  

Suddenly-- sun halts, chest inflates, eyes flare. 

INT. STREET - SAME

A CAR SPEEDS toward Zebra platoon. MARINES open fire with 
the feeble POP-POP of M4s. The car still coming-- 

A SNIPER SHOT BOOMS across the sky like thunder. The 
windshield spiders, blood splattered, and the car stops. 

As Marines search rooftops for him-- THE CAR EXPLODES.   

INT. LOOTED ROOM, ELIZABETH STREET - EVENING

CHRIS plants a loop-hole charge at the base of the wall 
and steps around the corner to trigger the charge. 

CUT BETWEEN:

INT. HALLWAY, DOWN ELIZABETH STREET - SAME

Black robes draw across mosaic tiles as-- AN INSURGENT 
SNIPER slips down a hallway with phantom swiftness. A 
Dragunov Sniper Rifle over shoulder, he hears the loop-
hole charge detonate nearby and turns, entering a tiled 
washroom to his left. This is MUSTAFA. 

LOOTED ROOM 

CHRIS lays his kit in front of the blast-hole: gun, flag, 
Bible. Packs a dip, elbows meet cement, eye meets glass--

WASHROOM

MUSTAFA lays in front of a mortar-hole. In a leather 
satchel: ammo, oil, cell phones. His eye meets glass-- 

LOOTED ROOM

CHRIS finds his stillness. The instant he does-- SHADOWS 
CREEP over him and night swallows the room.

EXT. ELIZABETH STREET - NIGHT

A palm tree burns like a candle over Fallujah. Below it,  
head-lamps dance chaotic as VIPER TEAM MARINES exit a 
house spray-painting X on the gate. 

               MARINE VIPER #1
      --hot as Bigfoots ballsack over here. 
           (knocks on next gate)
      Derka, derka, derka....

MARINE VIPERS laugh, bowling into a courtyard. 

CHRIS SCOPE POV (N/V)

Glowing green hue. CROSS-HAIRS track the Marines entry, 
sweep the street and push toward the rooftop, when--

A SHOT SOUNDS. A MARINE FALLS in a 2nd story window.  

               MARINE VIPER #4
           (over radio)
      --Fuck! Man down! It came through the 
      window-- 

CROSS-HAIRS whip across rooftops, on a swivel. 

               CHRIS 
      That was sniper fire. Shooter is on our 
      side of Elizabeth street. Over. 


               MARINE VIPER CO
      Negative. East side of Elizabeth is 
      locked-down. Over. 

Viper Marines drag the soldier out. In the phosphorous 
green glow, we watch his body tremor as he dies. 

SFX: CHRIS ELEVATED HEARTBEAT pounds over scene as--

WASHROOM

MUSTAFA flees down the hall. A fluttering shadow in 
darkness, except for the reflective swoosh on his Nikes. 

LOOTED ROOM 

Chris lays on the gun, brow pinched with onus, silence 
like a scream. This happened on my watch. 

CHRIS SCOPE POV (N/V)

CROSS-HAIRS TRACK across the city-scape. TIME LAPSES and 
the world in his scope SPEEDS UP. Humvees and tank streak 
past, lights blur in movement, trees blowing in choppy 
havoc, people entering and exiting structures, then--   

TIME SUDDENLY SLOWS to a crawl as CROSS-HAIRS FIND A MALE 
hurrying into a alley, pulling shit from a pack, likely 
planting an IED. We zero-in, center-mass, when-- a flame 
flickers. The male is cooking opium on a spoon. 

CROSS-HAIRS drift off him and TIME SPEEDS UP, dogs eat a 
dead mule by the roadside, violent in time lapse. Scenery 
moving faster as TWO WOMEN wobble down an alley with 
buckets of water, A KID spray-paints a wall, wind whips 
roadside grass into a tizzy and WE SUDDENLY HALT--

CROSS-HAIRS ON A PERFECT CIRCLE in the grass, the size of 
a nickle, or the end of a rifle-barrel. Stay on it. In 
stillness it takes on texture and context; its rusty, a 
RUSTY PIPE discarded there. TIME SURGES FORWARD again, 
LOVERS zip past on a Vespa, OLD MEN frantically bows to 
mecca on a rooftop as clouds boil across sky and night 
pales and dawn rises and Chris eye never leaves glass.  

               MARC LEE
      Smells like piss in here.
           (no response)
      Way to start your war, man. Those were 
      some ballsy shots.

               CHRIS
      That sniper walked right up our ass and 
      took that shot. 


               MARC LEE
      I got all over their security detail 
      about it. It wont happen again. 

               CHRIS
           (beat)
      My shooter statements are on the dresser. 

Marc Lee picks up a stack of YELLOW PAPERS on the desk. 

               MARC LEE
      Six?


               CHRIS
      Should be eight. Two got dragged off. 

Marc is silent, Chris finally rolls off the gun.  

               CHRIS 
      Did I do something wrong?

               MARC LEE
      No...but you did get more kills than the 
      rest of the snipers combined. 

Chris rubs red shooters strawberries from his elbows. 

               CHRIS
      They still got one of our guys. 

               MARC LEE
      You cant shoot what you cant see. 

Marcs eyes land on piss-stained cement where Chris lay, 
motherfucker didnt take his eye off the glass all night.   

EXT. CAMP FALLUJAH -FORWARD OPERATING BASE(FOB)- EVENING

Across the river, behind miles of concertina-wire, a 
twenty-acre BASE CAMP. Portable aluminum trailers, 
shithouses and tent farms. A Humvee pulls past-- 

INT. CHARLIE COMPANY BARRACKS, CAMP FALLUJAH - NIGHT

Chris steps in, letting the air-conditioning blow down on 
him. Cots, lockers and cruise-boxes line the room. 
Biggles reads a PUNISHER graphic novel, doesnt look up. 

               BIGGLES
      Heard you got your dick wet. 

               CHRIS
      Where is everybody? 

               BIGGLES
      Training those haji soldiers. 

               CHRIS
      Why aint you out there? 

               BIGGLES
      I got the shits. Marc Lee said you were 
      on fire out there. 

               CHRIS
           (shedding gear)
      You still read fuckin comic books?

               BIGGLES
      Talk to me, man. Did you pop your cherry? 

A heaviness falls over Chris, slowly--

               CHRIS
      This kid didnt even have hair on his 
      balls and his mom hands him a grenade-- 
      sends him running off to kill Marines. 

               BIGGLES
           (sees his hurt)
      You saw his balls?

               CHRIS
      It was evil, man. That was hate like Ive 
      never seen it before. 

               BIGGLES
      A grenade could take out five or six 
      Marines-- 

               CHRIS
           (cant reconcile it)
      I know. I know...

               BIGGLES
      What about the other kills?

               CHRIS
      The other ones?... The other ones were 
      righteous. Like God was up there blowing 
      on my bullets. 

Biggles laughs, jealous--

               BIGGLES
      You fail your swim, roll-back and somehow 
      youre still first in the fight? Man, we 
      shoulda all drown in that pool.

               CHRIS
      Drown? I had an ear infection--

               BIGGLES
      You had your fuckin period. 

Chris pounces and throws him in a choke. TONY, DAUBER, 
SQUIRREL and D enter with ASIAN; a Japanese SEAL. 

               DAUBER
      What the fuck is this? 

               D
      Thats some dont ask dont tell.

               SQUIRREL
      You guys playing just the tip?

They surrounding the cot where Chris chokes Biggles. 

               D
      Heard you got in the fight there, Tex. 
      You know what we been doing? 

               DAUBER
      Farting bubbles and burping glitter.

               D
      -Did some carpet shopping though. Got a 
      nice rug to take home to mom. 

               CHRIS
           (tightens the choke)
      Tell em to back off, Biggles.

               BIGGLES
      Jump his ass. 

Tony laughs and walks away as-- they pounce on Chris, 
holding him down as Asian duct-tapes upside his legs. 

               SQUIRREL
      This is Asian. Know why we call him that?

               DAUBER
      Show him your lil hands.  

               ASIAN
           (shows very small hands)
      These hands were made for killing-- 

               BIGGLES 
      And very small hand jobs. 

He rips the tape off Chris leg. OFF HIS SCREAM--

SNIPER SEQUENCE

OVERWATCH

CROSS-HAIRS land on INSURGENT WITH RIFLE; INSURGENT 
PEEPING three times; INSURGENT BURYING IEDs. BAM-BAM-BAM.

               ANOTHER SNIPER
      --that you again Kyle? 

CROSS-HAIRS are moving, no answer follows. 

MARINE INTEL TRAILER

Chris is covered in dust, sitting in a small chair facing 
two clean, well rested JAG OFFICERS.

               JAG OFFICER
      Your scores at sniper school were average 
      at best, then you get here and youre 
      suddenly lighting the world on fire?   

Chris opens a PLASTIC WATER BOTTLE, sips it, waits-- 

               CHRIS
      Was that a question?

OVERWATCH

Chris takes over for a SNIPER shooting from a window. 

               MARINE SNIPER
      Havent seen shit all day. Maybe the war 
      is over and they forgot to tell us.  

Chris goes through his ritual, settling-in when AN 
INSURGENT crosses the street with CAR BATTERY and an AK. 

               CHRIS
           (keys mike)
      I got an armed military-aged male with a 
      car battery. Maybe he needs a jump? 

               COMMANDING OFFICER
           (over radio)
      Negative. Bomb maker. Green-light. 


Exhale, pause, pull. A SHOT RINGS OUT.  

               MARINE SNIPER
      --are you fucking serious? 

MARINE INTEL TRAILER

CHRIS scrunches that EMPTY WATER BOTTLE, gratingly, as 
JAG OFFICERS continue the interrogation:

               JAG OFFICER
      His wife said he was carrying a Koran. 

               CHRIS
      Well, I dont know what a Koran looks
      like but I can describe what he was 
      carrying-- it was pressed metal, fired 
      7.62s and looked just like an AK-47.  

MESS HALL

CHRIS and BIGGLES enter. Heads look up, nodding, that the 
guy? Word spreading, Biggles sees it, hops up on a chair--

               BIGGLES
      Listen up ladies and genitals. The Legend 
      here would like you to know that when it 
      comes to sniping its better to be lucky 
      than good! And our boy here has a Texas 
      horseshoe crammed so far up his--

Chris flings a cafeteria tray at his head.

EXT. ROOFTOP - DAWN

In murky predawn light, CHRIS sits on a SATELLITE PHONE--

               TAYA
      Have you killed anyone yet?

               CHRIS
      Thats not how the call-home goes, babe.

               TAYA 
      Dont be weird with me. Seriously. I want 
      you to tell me everything.

Chris covers the phone as distant gunfire chatters. 

INTER-CUT WITH:


INT. CHRIS & TAYAS HOUSE, SAN DIEGO - SAME 

TAYA sits in front of a partially assembled baby-crib 
with a six month baby bump. She turns down the TV. 

               CHRIS
      There things we cant say over the phone. 

               TAYA
      You knocked me up and now Im stuck here 
      by myself assembling baby-cribs and you 
      cant talk to me? Thats the big plan? 

HIS CROSS-HAIRS track across a distant rooftop. Socks 
sway from a clothesline in a 5 knot breeze. 

               CHRIS
      I cant stop thinking about that pink 
      silky thing you wore on our honeymoon...

               TAYA
      Its called a nightgown. 

                CHRIS 
     Yeah-- 


               TAYA
      And three days is not a honeymoon. 

               CHRIS 
      It was a good three days. I miss you bad. 

               TAYA
           (curls up in chair)
      You want me to talk dirty to you?

               CHRIS 
      Yeah. But I got my gun in one hand and 
      the phone in the other--

               TAYA
      Well, youll just have to decide whats 
      more important wont you?   

               CHRIS 
      Youre horny preggers, arent you? 

               TAYA
      Im fat and horny. Its disgusting. 

               CHRIS 
      You could be 300 pounds Id still do you.

Shes touched, hormonal, starts crying. 


               TAYA
      -So romantic.  

               CHRIS
      Hows my boy? 

               TAYA
      Nobody said its a boy-- 

CROSS-HAIRS TRACK INSURGENTS on the street; then linger 
on a parked car, measuring distance by height--

               CHRIS 
      I cant wait to see the way you are with 
      him. Youre gonna be incredible. 

               TAYA
           (harbors doubt)
      How do you know?  

               CHRIS
      I just know. I can see it. 

Her face falls as-- TV NEWS shows the graphic of 
American Death Toll in Iraq. The number is 835. 

               TAYA
      Did your dad get a hold of you?

               CHRIS
      No, I keep missing him-- 

CROSS-HAIRS follow insurgents as they slip out of view. 

               TAYA
      Shit. You need to call him. Hang up and--

               CHRIS
      What happened?

               TAYA
      Im so selfish. I wasnt even thinking--

               CHRIS
      Taya.


               TAYA
      Your little brother shipped out. 

               CHRIS
      What happened to jump school? I thought--

               TAYA
      I dont know. You gotta call your dad--

               CHRIS
      Wheres he going? Shipping out where?

               TAYA 
      Over there. Hes headed to Iraq. 

The news ricochets around inside him like razor blades.

FIVE MEN IN BAKLAVAS stand over an AMERICAN HOSTAGE in an 
orange jumpsuit. The thick Jihadist leader draws a 
machete to behead his hostage. VIDEO PAUSES. 

TRANSITION TO:

               COL. GRONSKI 
      The man with the blade is a Jordanian 
      radical funded by Bin Laden, trained by 
      Bin Laden and loyal to Bin Laden. 

INT. OP BRIEF TENT - DAWN

COLONEL GRONSKI is cob-nosed bulldozer. 75 Marines study 
a PHOTO OF AL-ZARQAWI, with bushy black eyebrows. 

               COL. GRONSKI
      His name is Zarqawi. He is the prince 
      of al-Qaeda in Iraq and hes here in 
      Fallujah. AQI, his army, are 5000 strong. 
      They are well trained, well paid and 
      theyre waging the heaviest urban combat 
      weve seen since Vietnam.

FIND CHRIS in back, scanning heads for his brother.  

               COL. GRONSKI 
      Zarqawi and his Lieutenants are our 
      highest priority. Only way to root them 
      out is to go house-to-house until we find 
      them, or find someone who knows their  
      whereabouts. We need to clear ten 
      structures an hour. Its aggressive so 
      well loosen things up with air support--

Chris looks to Marc Lee, ten structures an hour? 

EXT. CAMP FALLUJAH - MORNING

The sun hangs like a blood-clot in the sky. Chris and 
Marc Lee are walking, TALKING LOW--


Jeff Kyle.

               CHRIS
      These Marines keep rushing in like they 
      been doing, theyll get their asses shot 
      off. They dont clear corners, they-- 

               MARC LEE
      Theyre Marines. They dont get the 
      training we do. Half of them were 
      civilians six months ago.

               CHRIS
      So lets coach them up. Ill show them how 
      we do it, and lead a unit in the street.

               MARC LEE
      Negative. A Seal sniper is too valuable. 
      We need you on overwatch.

               CHRIS
      The muj know were up there now. They 
      arent presenting like they were. But if 
      I was down in the street--

               MARC LEE
      Whats your deal, man? House-to-house is 
      the deadliest job here. You got some kind 
      of savior complex? 

That lands.

               CHRIS
      I just wanna get the bad guys. And I 
      cant shoot them if I cant see em.

Hes hiding a deeper need and Marc senses it.    

               MARC LEE
      You got a hot hand and everyone knows it. 
      The Marines know your name and they think 
      theyre invincible with you up there. 

               CHRIS
      Theyre not-- 

               MARC LEE
      They are if they believe they are. Just 
      keep banging on the long-gun and let 
      these dogs go sniff out Zarqawi.  

Marc walks off leaving Chris biting at a shamal wind. 

CUT TO:


AN F-18 RIPS OVERHEAD firing 500lb JDAMs into the next 
block. Smoke and dust billow outward--

INT. ROOFTOP

Under a fluttering canopy, CHRIS lays on the gun, cursing 
zero visibility while GOAT camps nearby, on a GameBoy. 

               CHRIS
      You said that AQI sniper was in the 
      Olympics-- but Iraq hasnt qualified a 
      shooter in the last three games. 

               GOAT
      Mustafas not Iraqi. Hes from Syria. 

Chris steals a glance at him, processing this, as--

CHRIS SCOPE POV

KILO COMPANY MARINES JOG to a pink house with windows 
boarded up. One of the Marines looks like Jeff Kyle.

               CHRIS
           (keys mike)
      Ive got limited visibility once youre 
      inside so proceed with fucking caution. 

Jeff Marine sets a charge, turns-- not Jeff. Door blows 
off. Marines rush in. GUNFIRE POPS. 

Marines rush back out, dragging out a gut-shot Marine.  

               CHRIS 
      Fuck this-- Im going down to clear 
      houses with the Marines. You coming?

               GOAT
      No man. I like my life. I wanna make it 
      home. I go fishing and do all kind of 
      cool shit. Its not my job to knock down 
      doors. Those guys picked the wrong 
      fucking job. I aint doing that shit. 

               CHRIS
           (nods)
      Ill see you down there. 

INT. STREET, SOLDIERS DISTRICT - MINUTES LATER

KILO COMPANY firing on the structure. CPT. GILLESPIE 
(smart, sunburned) is shouting hold your fire as-- 

               CHRIS
           (bowls up)
      You wanna be a sniper? Swap me guns. 

               JEFF MARINE
      Really?


               CHRIS
      Ill roll with you guys if thats cool?

               CPT. GILLESPIE
      Hey, any Navy Seal is cool by me. 

THOMPSON (big, wobbly voice) nods, lugging an M240G. 

               THOMPSON
      Youre that guy. Theyre calling you The 
      Legend. You got like 24 confirmed kills.

He recognizes his way to gain entry, so he plays it up.   

               CHRIS
      Its 32. But whos counting.

               THOMPSON
      Thats badass. 

SANCHEZ (neck tattoos, Catholic) chimes in. 

               SANCHEZ
      Theres some nigger in Bravo catching up. 

               CHRIS KYLE
           (nods, packs a dip)
      Yall are meateaters. But I got a lil 
      training I could share with you, some 
      simple shit, that might just keep us 
      above ground. What do you say?

His need to protect cloaked beneath cool cowboy calm. 

EXT. CAMP FALLUJAH, FOB - EVENING

A sunset burns across an aluminum trailer. OFF-DUTY  
SOLDIERS toss the football in background as--

KILO COMPANY corners from behind the trailer, guns up, 
covering angles. CHRIS FOLLOWS, coaching them up:

               CHRIS 
      Cities are full of corners; the soldier 
      that corners best, wins the engagement. 

               CHRIS  
      The first man around a corner covers the 
      nearest wall, the next corners in the 
      opposite way and covers the far wall. We 
      clear our sectors, sweeping to center-- 

He illustrates, crouched, sweeping his imaginary gun.

PULL BACK/REVEAL 

GOAT leads MARC LEE into the street, points out Chris. 

               GOAT
      Your orders were to do overwatch but 
      hotshot is more interested in training 
      Marines to sweep houses. Im done with 
      him. I aint dickin around in the street. 

He scuffs off. Marc watches Chris lead Kilo Marines 
around another corner, and theyre catching on. 

EXT. MICHIGAN STREET - OUTSIDE THE WIRE - DAY

Training is over. KILO COMPANY are doing house-to-house.  
Tension high, they are bunched up around a doorway. CHRIS 
motions them back, not so close, sets a charge--

INT. HOUSE, DAY

BOOM!-- KILO COMPANY corner in, clearing the room, just 
like he taught them. Chandeliers and regal armoires. 
CHRIS gives hand signals. SANCHEZ whispers--

               SANCHEZ
      - Whas that mean again?

               GILLESPIE
      Cover and follow. 

Chris nods with Gillespie and they corner into a room 
with sofas, hand-dyed rugs and-- 

               CHRIS
      Down. Down! Get down--

A KID(12) stands across the room with dark eyes and 
pronounced forehead, staring at Chris. 

               CHRIS 
      On the floor, now!

THE KID is rocking on his heels like hes going to run. 

               CHRIS 
      I will fucking shoot you! Down! Get down--

               FATHER OF KID (OS)
      No, no, please-- 

THE FATHER runs in, tall and bearded. Gillespie clocks 
him and he drops. The Kid screams like hes deaf. 

               FATHER OF KID 
           (from the floor)
      Please! He cant understand. Look at him-- 

               GILLESPIE
      He does look a little retarded.

               CHRIS
      You were ordered to evacuate. Why are you 
      still here? 

               FATHER OF KID
      This is our home. I wont give it to 
      them. Or to you. 

SANCHEZ pushes THREE WOMEN (in berkas) into the room. 

               SANCHEZ 
      I found these bitches in the back closet. 

               FATHER OF KID
      Im Sheikh al-Obeidi. You are my guest 
      but please tell the others to come 
      inside. If you are in the street he will 
      know we have spoken. 

               SANCHEZ
      This sand nig want us in here so he can 
      blow us up. Check his ass for a vest.

A KETTLE whistles in the kitchen. Guns still trained. 

               CHRIS
      Who will know weve spoken? 

               SHEIK AL-OBEIDI/FATHER
      Your enemy is mine enemy. You understand? 
      We have this. You understand?

Chris studies the women, and lowers his gun.

               CHRIS
      Bring Thompson and the Terp in. 

TIME CUT - LATER

Chris and Gillespie sit with SHEIK AL-OBEIDI while the 
kid (OMAR) plays with his fathers hair.  

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      If we talk to US soldiers he will come to 
      our home and make examples of us--

               CHRIS
      Who is he? I need a name.

The Marine Interpreter aka TERP (20s, Diesel jeans, 
hair gel) repeats the question.

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      The man who comes we call The Butcher.
      He is the despaired one, son of Shaytan-- 

Sheik mumbles in Arabic, fearing the words on his tongue.

               TERP
      He calls him - the pure flame of fire- .
      Basically, this man comes to their house 
      and prey on the weak with hurt. 

               CHRIS
      So hes a kind of enforcer?

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      Enforcer. Yes. Top soldier of Zarqawi.  

               CHRIS
           (jumps)
      We want Zarqawi. How do we find him?

OMAR CACKLES like crow, playing peeking games.

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      If you find The Butcher you will find 
      that he reports direct to Zarqawi daily.  

An F-18 rips overhead. RADIO CHATTER. THOMPSON steps out--

               CHRIS
      How do we find him? 

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      You must understand the risk to us.  

               TERP
      Hes going to ask for money. 

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      We need one hundred thousand US dollars. 


THE BOOM of distant ordinance shakes the structure. 

KITCHEN

THOMPSON on the radio, a Marine Unit calling for support:

               MARINE JTAC
      --the coordinates were off, he bombed a 
      orchard. Were trapped in a house, out of 
      ammo, with 40 bugger-eaters outside-- 

               MARINE SIGNET
      Air support turnaround is 12 minutes--

               MARINE JTAC
      --in 12 minutes well be toast--

Thompson listens in; that drop wasnt far off.   

LIVING ROOM

Chris studies the calm in Sheik Obeidis eyes.  

               CHRIS
      We dont even have proof this guy exists. 

The Sheik grabs his wife, pulls her arm from her robe-- 
her hand has been hacked off, the stump healing. 

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      Is this not proof?

               CHRIS
      Im sorry. I want to help you. I do. But 
      I need names, places, phone numbers--

               THOMPSON
           (rushes in)
      Captain, we got a Marine unit pinned down 
      in a house just uprange--

               CHRIS
      Give me a name, Sheik. Give me something. 

               THOMPSON
      Theyre out of ammo. If we dont go now-- 

Sheik stonewalling, Chris stands to go, fuck--

               SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI
      Amir Khalaf Fanus. This is given name 
      of The Butcher. But to help you find him-- 


Sheikh Obeidi SWEEPS A HAND across his open palm, pay me. 

TRANSITION TO:

Chris sweeps a hand across his open palm, pay me. We are--

INT. DIA TRAILER, CAMP FALLUJAH - DAY

CHRIS and MARC LEE sit in front of AGENT SHEAD, a square-
faced agent for the Defense Intelligence Agency. 

                AGENT SHEAD 
      I guess that translates to pay me in 
      just about any language, doesnt it? 

               CHRIS
      Yes it does. 

               MARC LEE
      Thats why were here. Youre the guy 
      with the flats of cash, right. 

Shead thinks more highly of himself. A game of Solitaire 
on his computer. CORNHUSKER football posters on the wall. 

               AGENT SHEAD
      When you were having tea with Sheik al-
      Obedie did he tell you he ran a network 
      of highway bandits before AQI moved in?  

               CHRIS KYLE
      He left that part out.  

               AGENT SHEAD
      Thats AQIs racket now. Your Sheik got 
      edged out. This could be blowback.  

Hes minimizing their source. Chris drills down.

               CHRIS
      Or he could be upset that The Butcher cut 
      off his wifes hand. Either way, seems 
      like youd wanna explore it. 

Shead would rather not enter into this with them but-- 
he slides a white-board to reveal an AQI HIERARCHY. 

               AGENT SHEAD
      This is your guy here. 
           (points to photo directly 
            under Zarqawi)
      We believe The Butcher is Zarqawis 
      number two man. 


THE BUTCHER is a squat, rawboned man with eyebrows forming a grizzled line over dark bloodshot eyes. 

               CHRIS
      But you didnt have his real name. 

               AGENT SHEAD
      We have several aliases but-- 
           (picks up phone, dialing)
      If Fanus is legit we go see the Sheik.

               MARC LEE
      Hes asking for 100,000. 

               AGENT SHEAD
      If he delivers the Butcher hell get it. 
           (into phone)
      Yeah its Agent Shead, DIA, I need a name 
      check on Amir Khalaf Fanus. Ill wait. 

He kicks his feet up, like he runs the war.

               CHRIS
      If were going back out, TEAM 3 could 
      pull security--

               AGENT SHEAD
      If were humping money the head-shed will 
      want contractors on it. 
           (into phone)
      Im here. What do you got?

He listens a beat, his feet hit the floor, eyes flick up-- 

INT. HUMVEE #2 - TWO DAYS LATER

An object thumps beneath the tires. SECURITY CONTRACTORS 
wear baseball caps, Oakley blades and grizzled beards.  

               CONTRACTOR
      Road-kill. 


They sit on benches opposite CHRIS and MARC LEE; the 
animosity between military and mercenary symbolized in a 
shrink-wrapped PALLET OF CASH between them. AGENT SHEAD 
sits closest the driver, playing big-dick with the mercs.    

               AGENT SHEAD
      The Butcher is Zarqawis enforcer, his 
      weapon of choice is a power drill. How 
      much would you love to lay hands on him. 


Chris looks to Marc Lee, his eyes closed in prayer. When he opens them he sees Chris looking. The rig sways--

               MARC LEE
           (explains)
      I went to seminary school before I joined 
      the Navy. Came close to being a preacher. 

               CHRIS
      Why didnt you?

               MARC LEE
      I love to gamble, man. Love those dice. 

Their laughter is liberating in the face of these bad-to-
the-bone contractors. It bonds them. 

               CHRIS
      My kind of preacher.

MORE LAUGHTER. A PHONE RINGS. Chris digs out a SAT PHONE. 

               MARC LEE
      Its like that now, huh?

               CHRIS KYLE
      You havent heard? Im The Legend. 
           (laughs at self; into phone)
      Hey babe--

               TAYA
      You were right-- its a boy.

               CHRIS KYLE
      Its a boy!


               MARC LEE
      Hell yeah. Congratu--

WHAAP! Windshield spiders. CONTRACTOR/DRIVERS brains 
spackle them. THE HUMVEE CRASHES into a storefront.

RADIATOR HISSING, CONTRACTORS SCREAMING, Call for 
backup Capel is down Dump the truck, cover us. 

EXT. MEDICAL PLAZA, SAN DIEGO - DAY

A crowded quad. TAYA, ON THE PHONE, stops in her tracks.

               TAYA
      Chris!--


EXT. STREET 



Looted shops, burnt awnings, colorful signage. MARC LEE 
and CHRIS pile out. THE SAT PHONE falls in the dirt. 

               MARC LEE
      I heard one shot. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Check. Large caliber. Came in at an 
      angle, gotta be 300 or more out--

They duck into a shallow bomb-blasted storefront. Theyre 
looking downrange from the jagged orifice when--

A SHOT THUNKS into a Leo DiCaprio billboard overhead. 

               MARC LEE
           (ducks back)
      Hes all over us. You get a bead? 

                 CHRIS KYLE
    Negative--


               AGENT SHEAD 
      Transfer the pallet. Were pulling back.

INT. DISTANT MINARET

MUSTAFA sprawled on the balcony. PUSH past the swoosh of 
Nikes, up dark robes, along the cut of an unshaven cheek--

MUSTAFA SCOPE POV

UNIQUE CROSS-HAIRS wobble over CHRIS and MARC LEES 
position to CONTRACTORS SCRAMBLE SHEAD into the street. 
Mirage boils straight up. His breath exhales--

INT. STOREFRONT

A BULLET SMOKES through CONTRACTOR #1, ejecting half his 
vertebrae. CONTRACTORS SCRAMBLING--

               CHRIS 
      Minaret, 11 oclock!

Chris uses his rifle to reach out from behind the wall 
and TILT THE SIDE-MIRROR on the crashed Humvee to see--

DOWNRANGE (IN REFLECTION)

THE BUTCHER stands in the street revving a HAND-DRILL 
over OMAR, whose strange screams echo down the block.

               CHRIS 
      Eyes on The Butcher. It looks like hes 
      got the Sheikhs kid in the street-- 

A SNIPER ROUND shatters the mirror hes looking at--

               CHRIS 
      Fuck!--


Agent Shead and Contractors pulling away in Humvee #2. 

               CONTRACTOR
      Theres no room. Well come back for you--

               MARC LEE
           (into radio)
      --requesting back-up. Were pinned down 
      taking sniper fire on approach of high-
      value target, GRID 04536237. Over.

Chris kneels and tries to edge his gun around the wall-- 
PHWAAAP! The wall inches above his head explodes. 

He huddles there, on the wrong end of this. He studies 
the room. Debris blocks the back-door. No way out. 

               MARC LEE 
      Fuckin ducks in a barrel. 

               CHRIS
      Only way out is the way in. Im gonna pop 
      smoke but dont move till I say. 

Chris tosses smoke. A haze clouds the exit--

               CHRIS 
      Hold.


Smoke spewing, Marc anxious to move.

               MARC LEE
      We gotta go. Lets move--

               CHRIS
      Hold!... Holding... Hold... 

A SHOT RINGS OUT, CHUNKS CONCRETE near the exit. 

               CHRIS 
      Move now. Go--

As they slip out, around the corner--

               MARC LEE
      How the fuckd you know hed do that?

               CHRIS
      Cause Id do that. 

In the smoky haze, FIND SAT PHONE in the dirt--

EXT. MEDICAL PLAZA, SAN DIEGO

TAYA listens for gunfire as the lunch crowd teems past. 

               TAYA
           (sobbing, into phone)
      Chris--

CAMERA CIRCLES HER as her world comes unhinged. On the 
next revolution the scenery changes and--

MUSTAFA POV / FROM MINARET  

CROSS-HAIRS TRACK to a doorway where--

SHEIKH AL-OBEIDI 

Stands with his family, weeping, pleading. He steps 
forward and A SNIPER SHOT POCKS the dirt at his feet--

THE BUTCHER

He powers up the drill and drives it into Omars thigh. . 
OMAR SCREAMS and pitches, shrieking for help--

INTERSECTING ALLEY

Marc waves Sheikh Obeidi to stay put (across the street). 

               CHRIS
      No angle. I need elevation.

Seconds ticking down, Chris eyes telephone wires upside 
the wall. He pulls himself up--

ROOFTOP

CHRIS rolls onto the roof and-- A DOG SNAPS, BARKING and 
rabid, chained to a US sig M-60. 

SNIPER POV / IN MINARET

CROSS-HAIRS FIND the barking dog, then CHRIS BOOT. 

THE BUTCHER

Powers up the drill, THE BUZZING rings over his words--

               THE BUTCHER
           (in Arabic)
      You talk to them, you die with them.

He steps on Omars neck, lowers the drill toward his jaw.

CHRIS 

Hears the drill and Omars preemptive screams. He knows 
hell be exposed but-- HE POPS UP to shoot The Butcher. 
Before he can get his gun over the ledge--

A SNIPER ROUND clips his helmet. Hes knocked flat-back. 
Clouds strobe across his eyes. The dog barks viciously 
inches from his face. Saliva flying off incisors as--   

THE SHEIKH

Watches the drill enter his sons face and he runs into 
the street. A SNIPER ROUND rips through his chest--  

SNIPER POV 

CROSS-HAIRS drift back to the rooftop where-- 

ROOFTOP / CHRIS POV (UPSIDE DOWN)

His helmet wobbles to a stop, ruptured like a plum.  

CHRIS 

Rage animates him. He staggers to his feet with lunatic 
emotion, FIRING M4 on the minaret until it expires. Then-- 

A SPECTRAL FLUTTER of cloth crosses the mouth of an alley 
a block north. Mustafa. Hes rounding the corner when his 
stride slows and he appears to glance back-- 

Chris draws his .45, but the shadows are empty. Hes 
gone. Women sob over the bodies in the street below.  

EXT. STREET - LATER

TEAM THREE SEALs hold perimeter. The sheet draped over 
Omar is marked by a dozen blood spots. Chris is buzzing 
with remorse, staring at the body then the minaret.  

               CHRIS KYLE
      He had line-of-sight 500 meters out.  


               BIGGLES      Colonel Gronski is all over Marc, bro. 

In the distance, GRONSKI barks at MARC LEE then climbs in 
a Bradley. MARC approaches them--

               CHRIS
      Can we work up a squad to pursue him?  

               MARC LEE
      Theyre shutting us down. Were confined 
      to base pending an incident review.  

               CHRIS
      What do you mean? He cant do that. Im 
      shipping home in three weeks.

Wind blows the sheet off Omar. 

               BIGGLES
      Its gonna be a long three weeks. 

EXT. WEIGHT LIFTING CAGE, CAMP FALLUJAH, FOB - SUNSET

Chris stalks the cage, shirtless and sweating. His eyes 
track the horizon as darkness falls on Fallujah. 

EXT. NORTH AIRFIELD, CORONADO, CALIFORNIA - NIGHT

Halogen spotlights illuminate tarmac. SOLDIERS emerge 
from darkness, pushing toward their waiting families. 

FIND TAYA in heels, 9 months pregnant. Chris limps toward 
her. She walks into his arms and STARTS SWINGING fists. 

               TAYA
      Two weeks! I thought you were dead for 
      two fucking weeks--

He holds her close until her rage gives way to tears. 

               CHRIS
      Im sorry. Im so sorry.

They stand there long after everyone has gone.  

INT. BEDROOM

Taya lowers the lights, steps out of her dress and looks 
at herself in the mirror, 9 months pregnant, and not sure 
shes sexy. Chris exits the shower, stops, staring-- 

               CHRIS
      I think youre the most beautiful thing 
      Ive ever seen. 

               TAYA
      I have an alien growing inside me-- 

She deflates and sits on the bed. He kneels before her.

               TAYA 
      And theres a strange man in my bedroom. 

               CHRIS
      Our bedroom.


               TAYA
           (pulls his ring off necklace)
      Why isnt it on your finger?

               CHRIS
      If it catches the light... 

He doesnt spell it out. She slips it on his finger. 

               TAYA
      Your hands feel different. 

               CHRIS
      Theyre mine. I swear... 

               TAYA
      Why am I so fucking nervous? 

               CHRIS
           (kissing her belly)
      Im nervous too.

               TAYA
      No youre not. 

               CHRIS
      I am... 
           (climbs on top of her)
      What if the little alien reaches out and 
      grabs me?

She squishes his cheeks, making faces with his face. 

               TAYA
      I need you here. 

He pretends he didnt hear it. Her face opens in ecstasy. 


INT. BREAKFAST TABLE, CHRIS HOUSE - MORNING

CHRIS, showered, shaven and ill-at-ease, applies ointment 
to red, calloused Shooters Strawberries on his elbows. 

               TAYA 
      --it might be nice to get out--

His coffee steams like smoke off a barrel.

               TAYA  
      --are you listening to me? Chris--

                 CHRIS
      Huh?--


A lawn-mower starts outside. His eyes track the windows.  

               TAYA
      Im asking you what you want to do.

               CHRIS
      Cant we just relax?

               TAYA
           (watches his leg pump)
      Yeah. Of course. Whatever you want.

He clocks her watching, and quickly stills himself. 

INT. OBGYN OFFICE, SAN DIEGO - DAY

A room doused in sunshine. TAYA lays on the table. DOCTOR 
HOFFSTADER works the wand over her belly. 

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      How you feeling? 

               TAYA
      I just want him out.

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      Itll be any day now. 

Chris pets his wifes hair but hes sweaty and flush.  

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER 
      How about you Mr. Kyle? Howre you 
      feeling?

               CHRIS KYLE
      Good. Doing good. 


               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      I imagine youre still decompressing.

               CHRIS
      Not really. 


               TAYA
      This is the first time we left the house. 

               CHRIS
           (shoots a look)
      Im happy to be home. 

Hoffstader studies him, reaches for a b.p. cuff. 

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      Here, slip this on for me. 

He awkwardly consents. The cuff tightens. 

               CHRIS
      If you wanna help, you should be looking 
      at my knees. I dont know what I did but--

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      Are you a smoker?

               CHRIS
      No, maam. 


               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      Do you drink?

               CHRIS
           (charming)
      Only when Im thirsty.  

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      170 over 110. 

               TAYA
           (concerned)
      Jesus Christ Chris...

               CHRIS
      Is that high?

               DOCTOR HOFFSTADER
      Not if you just had 14 cups of coffee. 
      But for someone who is sitting down--

               CHRIS
      Ill look into it. Thanks doc. 


Hes smiling but his tone quiets her. She overstepped. 
INT. TRUCK, SOUTHBOUND FREEWAY - DAY

CHRIS is weaving through rush-hour traffic. 


               CHRIS
      You sabotaged me back there. 

               TAYA
      What am I supposed to do. Youre not 
      talking. You act like its all okay--

               CHRIS
      It is okay. Im fine. 

               TAYA
      Youre not fine. Your blood pressure--

               CHRIS
      Im driving down the freeway, its sunny 
      and 72 degrees. Im fine. 
           (gripping the wheel)
      But there are people dying over there and 
      I look around and its like its not even 
      happening. Its barely on the news, no 
      one talks about it. No one cares. And if 
      I stay too long Ill forget about it too. 

               TAYA
      Chris--


               CHRIS
      Were at war and Im headed to the mall. 

She looks pained, ready to cry--

               CHRIS 
      I dont belong here. I cant help 
      anybody. I--

Shes arching in the seat, MOANING as her water breaks. 

               TAYA
      --its happening-- 

               CHRIS
      Shit. Oh shit--

Chris swerves from the SOUTHBOUND FAST-LANE across the 
dirt median and into the NORTHBOUND FAST-LANE. 


               TAYA
      Whatre you doing!

               CHRIS
      Im going back-- 

Dust kicks up. Horns blare. Hes speeding north now.

               TAYA
           (laughing and crying in the 
            same breath)
      --oh my god, youre crazy! Youre fucking 
      crazy you know that?

A look between them like spilled sunlight. He reaches and-

Taya grips his hand. Her WAILING SCREAMS fall silent and--

TRANSITION TO:

INT. DELIVERY ROOM

Taya stares blankly at Chris. He thinks he lost her. 
Then-- A SMALL CRY breaks the tension. Taya gasps. 

THE BOY lands in Chris arms covered in vernix and blood. 

               CHRIS
      My boy...


He holds him to the light and relief pours over him.  

               CHRIS 
      Look at our boy. Look what we did. 
           (nuzzles close to her)
      I love you, baby. We made it-- 

He holds his family close as BEDOUIN MUSIC SWELLS--

FADE TO:

A THERMAL IMAGE. Cross-hairs on MARINES emerging from 
tall grass. A SHOT FIRED. A MARINE FALLS. An Arabic 
sickle & sword appears over the image. We are--

INT. DEN, CHRIS HOUSE, CORONADO, CA - NIGHT

PAN ACROSS an Iraqi parcel on the coffee table. FIND 
CHRIS staring at the TV, livid, lit by Christmas lights.

               TAYA 
      The baby is crying. I thought you were--


Chris lunges for the remote as another KILL SHOT PLAYS. 

               TAYA 
           (gasps)
      Oh my god--

He cant work the remote. The damage is done.

               CHRIS
           (explains)
      This sniper over there is recording his 
      kills. They sell the DVDs in the street.

               TAYA
      That day we were on the phone, it was him 
      wasnt it. What happened that day...

               CHRIS
      Doesnt matter. 

               TAYA
           (trying to assuage him)
      My imagination is so much worse than 
      anything you could ever tell me...  

               CHRIS
      No, its not. Theyre fuckin savages. 

               TAYA
      Chris--


               CHRIS
      Theyre savages. You understand?

His blood pressure pulses on his unyielding face. 

               TAYA
           (hands him baby)
      Hold him while I make a bottle. And turn 
      that off. I dont want it in our home. 

Chris holds his son. The ruddy innocence; this was him. 
BEDOUIN MUSIC swells again. Chris arms tighten around 
his son, protective, as his eyes draw back to the TV. 

SECOND TOUR

EXT. AL TAQADDUM AIRBASE, IRAQ - DAY

The tail of a C-17 draws down. YOUNG MARINES file off 
leaving CHRIS, squinting into a dirty sunset as he tucks 
his ring away like hes stowing part of himself. 


               CPT. MARTINS
           (sharp-nosed, fit)
      Welcome home, Petty Officer Kyle. Colonel 
      Jones is waiting. How was the flight? 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Slower than Christmas. 

Chris is following him toward a Blackhawk when-- 

               CHRIS
      Can you give me a second--?

               CPT. MARTIN
      The colonel is waiting--

Chris is already striding across the tarmac toward--

A SQUAD OF MARINES 

Loading onto a C-17 weary, injured, heading home. JEFF 
KYLE doesnt see Chris until he has hands on him. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Hey, grunt-- 

Chris shakes him and pulls him into his arms. 

               JEFF
      Chris?


Jeff is slow to react, like he cant see past the 
atrocity branded on back of his eyeballs.  

               CHRIS KYLE
      Yalright? You in one piece? 

He looks him over, undamaged but for the eyes. 

               MARINE LCPL  
      Lets go, PFC Kyle. Move your ass.

Marines on-board the C-17. Jeff is anxious, shifting--

               CHRIS
      You okay? Jeff?--

               JEFF
      I heard youre kickin ass our here. All 
      the guys, thats what they say--

Chris fixes Jeffs collar; a tender gesture.


               JEFF 
      I knew you would, bro. You been kicking 
      ass your whole life.

               LT. MARTINS
      Petty Officer Kyle. Colonels waiting--  

               JEFF
           (swollen with emotion)
      The Legend...

The four massive turbo-engines on the C-17 kick-on. 

               JEFF 
           (over deafening noise)
      Im gonna miss my ride. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      What happened?

               JEFF
      Im just tired, man. Im--
           (swallows it)
      Im going home. 

               CHRIS
      Im proud of you. You hear me?

He cant hear shit over those fans. 

               CHRIS 
      Dad too. Hes proud of you. 

               JEFF
      Fuck this place--

               CHRIS
           (cant hear him)
      What?

               JEFF
      Fuck this place. 

His eyes well with despair. Chris is taken aback by it; 
his own mortality reflected on his brother. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Youll miss your plane. Go on home. Just 
      forget about this place. Go home. 

He shakes some vinegar into him, sends Jeff off. As Chris 
turns, his eyes ignite with rage at what they did to him.

INT. BLACKHAWK - DAY

LT. COLONEL JONES is a clear-eyed Ivy grad; the new-
school leadership changing of the guard. 

               COL. JONES
      You made Chief. Congratulations.  

               CHRIS KYLE
      Thank you, sir. 

               COL. JONES
      Gronskis gone. A lot of top-brass are. 
      Were working off a new playbook now.  

The Blackhawk lifts off, ZOOMING across the desert floor. 

               COL. JONES 
      Ive studied insurgencies for the last 
      decade. I know of every stick sharpened 
      and stone thrown since before the first 
      century. These wars are won and lost in 
      the minds of our enemy. 

He hands over an AQI BOUNTY POSTER with an illustration 
of a SNIPER RIFLE and GALLIC CROSS and a reward. 

               COL. JONES 
      That you? 


Chris rolls his sleeve, showing his Gallic Cross tattoo. 

               COL. JONES 
      Youre now the most wanted man in Iraq.

               CPT. MARTINS
      Thats $180,000 on your head. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Dont tell my wife, she might take that 
      number right about now. 

               COL. JONES
      I understand you wanted to put together a 
      direct-action squad to hunt The Butcher. 

      Yes, sir. 

               CHRIS KYLE

               COL. JONES
      We plugged the rat-hole that is Fallujah 
      and he was flushed into Ramadi. 


As they cross the Euphrates the SLUMS OF RAMADI are laid 
out before them like a blanket of chaos. 

               COL. JONES 
      I want you to put the fear of God in 
      these savages, and find his ass. 

INT. OP SEC TENT, SHARK BASE - NIGHT

CHRIS stands in front of Team Three, armed with a 60-inch 
monitor and a TuffBook. Theyre chanting, Power-point. 

               CHRIS
      You guys know how I hate this shit so 
      shut your traps. Our target is Amir 
      Khalaf Fanus aka The Butcher. 
           (clicks first slide)
      Well be heading upriver under cover of 
      darkness, two boats teams and--

Theyre cracking up. He turns to see his slide has been 
hijacked with A PHOTO OF HIS BACHELOR PARTY; the best 
men pose with a spray-painted groom. They look so young. 

Chris turns back to his men and, for a moment, their 
smiling faces appear immortal in the feeble light. 

TIME FADE

Brief finished, TEAM THREE file out past giving atta-boys 
and cracking jokes until only one remains--

               MARC LEE
           (picks up Chris Little Blue 
            Bible off the table)
      Is this thing bulletproof?

               CHRIS KYLE
      I dunno. Why?

               MARC LEE
      You never open it so I just assumed...

               CHRIS KYLE
           (crosses chest)
      Its God, country, family-- right?

               MARC LEE
      Thats what they say. You got a God?

               CHRIS KYLE
      Depends whos shooting at me.  



               MARC LEE
      If you find anything here, make it that. 

               CHRIS
      You getting weird on me?

               MARC LEE
      We had an electric fence around our 
      property in Oregon and us kids used to 
      see who could hang on the longest. War is 
      like that, it puts lightning in your 
      bones-- but if you let go here you die.

Chris looks uneasy, impatient--

               MARC LEE 
      You believe in what were doing here?

               CHRIS KYLE
      Evil lives here, Marc. Weve seen it. 

               MARC LEE
      It lives everywhere. It lives in men. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      You wanna invite them to come fight in 
      San Diego? Or Seattle? Were protecting 
      more than just this dirt. 

               MARC LEE
           (dials it back)
      I know how personal this is for you. Just 
      dont lose yourself to it. 

               CHRIS
      Do you want to sit this one out?

               MARC LEE
           (considers it)
      Hell no. Lets go kill this motherfucker.

He bangs out. Chris is alone. Lightening in his bones.

EXT. RIVERBANK - NIGHT

SEAL TEAM THREE/CHARLIE COMPANY motor upriver in two 
rafts, geared to the tits, black on black.

               BIGGLES 
           (whisper mic)
      Dont rock the boat, Legend cant swim. 

A sickle moon glimmers off their faces as they motor past 
bombed cars, refuse and the rotting carcass of a mule. 

EXT. UPRIVER - NIGHT

SEAL TEAM 3 emerge from ink black water, guns up, fluid 
and balletic, unlike anything weve seen up till now. 

A nine-foot wall envelopes the two-story dye factory. 

CHRIS POV (N/V)

The green hue of night-vision, pushing to the wall. 
BIGGLES and TITTIES lace their hands and boost Chris up-- 

COURTYARD

Boots land softly. Chris looks up and 20 INSURGENTS are 
sleeping on prayer mats in the night air, AKs at ready.  

CHRIS POV (N/V)

Hes tracking across them, waiting for movement. 

               MARC LEE
           (over radio)
      You alright in there?

The massive entry door is 20 feet away. Chris holds his 
gear from rattling and steps over the sleeping men.

Hes moving agonizing slow when-- A MAN STARTS coughing 
and sits up. Chris raises his M4, aiming at him as the 
man stands and-- he stumbles inside without looking back. 

Chris dodges to the door, undoes the latch and the DOOR 
CREAKS open. BIGGLES and MARC LEE are just inside when--

               YELLING INSURGENT
      Shinzi al wada!! Shinzi al--

A YELLING INSURGENT lifts his gun. BIGGLES TAGS HIM, 
Chest then header, a fucking pro. TEAM 3 floods in and--

               MARC LEE
      Stay on the ground. Hands on your head-- 

SQUIRREL, TONY and D stick. TEAM 3 PUSH INTO--


INT. DYE FACTORY

TEAM 3 bowl in, tentacles of fire reaching into darkness. 
INSURGENTS shoot from behind machinery and textiles. 

               BIGGLES
      Moving. 


Chris comes upon A FALLEN INSURGENT with jitters. One arm 
bent behind him. Chris FLASHES A PHOTO--

               CHRIS
      The Butcher. This man. Is he here?

Chris applies pressure to a wound. The MAN SCREAMS, NODS--

               CHRIS 
      The back? Hes in back? 

               MARC LEE
           (sees something beneath him)
      Grenade--

Marc tackles Chris away as-- THE BLAST sends a thousand 
shards of metal slicing outward. Powdery silence follows. 

WHIP TO CHRIS, breathless. Marc rips open his vest.  

               MARC LEE 
      Hold still. 


SHRAPNEL punctured the Bible and just-pierced his body 
armor. Chris is gasping, the Bible saved his life.

GUNFIRE CHATTERS out back. Short-bursts. 

               DAUBER
      Squirters. Red side. Contact. 

Chirps of CLEAR then-- A SINGLE SHOT behind a vat. 
Biggles steps out, doused in moonlight.

               BIGGLES
      If theyre worth shooting once...

OUT BACK

Wind rattles reeds along the river. ASIAN and DAUBER 
guard a Suzuki Samurai with TWO DEAD INSURGENTS inside. 

               ASIAN
      Tight Samurai, huh?

               DAUBER
      Butcher rides in style.

Chris checks the driver, nope. He circles to the 
passenger, unwraps a keffiyeh, shines a light on him.

               CHRIS
      It aint him. 

               ASIAN
      How can you tell? They all look alike. 

               MARC LEE
      What do you want to do?

Chris is staring at the two dead men. 

EXT. COURTYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Everyone in the courtyard hears the INTERROGATION INSIDE: 

               CHRIS
      --youre going to tell me where he is, or 
      Im going to put a bullet in your head--

TERP TRANSLATES(OS), jabbering away when-- 

               CHRIS 
      Fuck it--


BAM! A single shot. INSURGENTS panic. 

               SQUIRREL
      This op just went southbound.

               CHRIS KYLE
           (storms out, shadow looming)
      Whos next? 

               D
      How bout Mr. Pizza face here. 

Chris calmly drags MR. PIZZA FACE inside. 

INSIDE

MR. PIZZA FACE is on his knees next to THE BODY.  

               CHRIS
      I want to know where the Butcher is.

TERP REPEATS his question. PIZZA FACE begs for mercy. 


               CHRIS 
      Was he here? Where do I find him!  

COURTYARD

INSURGENTS are silent. Some mutter prayers. 

INSIDE (SIDE-VIEW)

Chris raises the gun to the back of MR. PIZZA FACES head.  

               CHRIS 
      Fuck you, moving on--

BLAM! He fires. The body crumbles forward. But no blood. 
He fell from shock. BIGGLES gags him, removes his jacket-- 

They drag him out and pull in dead body of SAMURAI GUY #2 
(two bodies on the floor match the two shots fired).  

COURTYARD

Chris barrels out, gun in hand. 

               CHRIS 
      Next.


               D
      How bout Poopy Pants here?

Chris looks past the man who shat himself to AN INSURGENT 
staring at the ground with eyes like BLACK OPALS.

INSIDE

CHRIS drags BLACK OPALS to the face-down bodies. 

               CHRIS
      Where is The Butcher? Whered they go? 

TERP is pleading (throughout). BLACK OPALS is sweating. 

               BIGGLES
      Hes trying to help you! Wheres the fall-
      back spot? 

               CHRIS
      Where is he you fucking savage! 

Chris throttles him, a vicious blow to the jaw. 

               CHRIS 
      I can go all night. 


CHRIS holds his .45 to the back of the mans head. The look in his eyes has changed. This time its real. 

               CHRIS 
      Ill kill every one of you-- 

               MARC LEE
      Chris--


               CHRIS
      I need another body. 

                BIGGLES
      Smoke him, man. Smoke his ass--

               MARC LEE
      Whatre you doing?

               CHRIS
      Where is The Butcher!

The TERP SCREAMING translations. 

               CHRIS 
      You ready die for him! Are you!

               MARC LEE
      Its not worth it, man-- 

               BIGGLES 
      He knows man. He fucking knows--

Chris stroking the trigger-- 

               CHRIS
      Last chance--

               BIGGLES
      Do it! Burn him. Do it--

The hammer suspended--

               MARC LEE
      Chris! No-- 


               CHRIS
      Burn in hell--

He turns his face to avoid the splatter--

               BLACK OPAL
      Fahima Halal! Fahima Halal. 

Breathless silence. Chris looks to Terp.

               TERP
      This restaurant is in South Ramadi. 

               ASIAN
      Were 6 clicks off. Two hours to sun-up. 
      Itd be tight. 

               CHRIS
      We gotta move. Call it in.  

               SQUIRREL
           (into radio)
      This is Cadillac 3-2, requesting 
      immediate follow-on-target pursuit--

Black Opals watches them with eerie calm. 

EXT. STREET - LATER/NIGHT

TEAM 3 push deeper. MARC LEE leads them through shadows. 

ON ROOFTOP ABOVE

CHRIS lays on his rifle. BIGGLES watches his back. 

               BIGGLES
      I popped wood when I shot that guy. 
           (beat)
      Rock hard boner. Is that weird or what?

               CHRIS
      This shits all weird

Biggles draws The Punisher skull in loose gravel. 

               BIGGLES
      You were really gonna smoke that guy 
      werent you? I saw your switch flip.  

Chris is silent. Lightening shocks the sky. Rain falls.  

               BIGGLES 
      Next time a girl asks what turns me on-- 

               CHRIS
      Next timell be the first time. 

               BIGGLES
           (turns face to rain)
      Ill say, war baby. War gives me wood. 

EXT. STREET/NEAR FAHIMA HALAL - PRE-DAWN

Neon shimmers across wet streets. TEAM THREE trundle past 
shops and buildings largely unbombed. ASIAN holds a 
tablet with mapping schematics, pointing--

               ASAIN
           (into whisper-mic)
      This building, any apartment on the east 
      side, will look down Fahima Halal.

INT. STAIRCASE/HALLWAY, 4TH FLOOR, BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

TEAM THREE push down a hallway, surrounding a easterly 
door. Biggles pulls out a cat-claw, ready to breach when--

A BABY CRIES behind the door. Chris waves them off. 

They trundle down the hall to another door. BIGGLES 
wedges the claw between door and jam, nodding, 1, 2, 3...

INT. CORNER APARTMENT, SIXTH FLOOR 

A modest apartment. The family gathered; PROTECTIVE 
FATHER hugs his BOY(4) and GIRL(9) as his WIFE frets.

               CHRIS
      Tell em they wont be leaving till we do-- 
           (hands Terp a photo)
      Ask if they seen him.

TERP TRANSLATES, showing a PHOTO OF THE BUTCHER. 

LOOKING OUT WINDOW

The RESTAURANT BELOW is boarded up with painted metal. 

               ASAIN
           (Hall & Oates song)
      --Private eyes, were watching you, 
      watching your every move...

               D
      Why a restaurant?

               MARC LEE
      Big freezers. 

Marc turns away, leaving them to wonder. 

               CHRIS 
      Lets keep eyes on it and-- 
           (in pain)
      Get pictures of anyone coming and going. 

               D
      You dingd up, Chief? 

               CHRIS
      My knees. Im fine. 

D lands a judicious eye on the rugs covering the floor.  

               D
      They got some nice rugs up in here. Look. 
      Hand-knotted. Isnt it beautiful.

He runs his hand across the vibrant coloring--

INT. BACK BEDROOM - MORNING

Sunlight plays on walls. Chris lies on the floor, head 
resting on his ruck-sack. His eyes flutter closed--

INT. CHRIS HOUSE, SAN DIEGO - DREAM SEQUENCE

FROM ABOVE- we look down on TAYA laying in the middle of 
the floor hugging COLTON to her chest. Shes talking to 
him, solemn, then her EYES FLASH to us and something 
liquid and dark begins to seep out from beneath her. 

Blood darkens the carpet, covers the floor and keeps 
rising. The boy starts CRYING, trying to escape her. 
Tayas eyes are locked on us as she holds him tight. His 
crying becomes the BLEATING OF A SHEEP and-- its now a 
sheep struggling in her arms. The blood keeps rising, 
submerging Tayas now-naked body. As it rises-- 

The sheep breaks free and stands on Tayas chest. Theres 
surrender in her eyes as blood overtakes her ears, mouth 
and nose. The sheep now stands alone on a lake of blood 
in their living room. 

INT. BACK BEDROOM - NIGHT

CHRIS springs up, swinging at a figure in the dark. 

               D
      Easy. Im on your side. 
           (offers a hand)
      Get up. You wanna see this.


LIVING ROOM WINDOW / LOOKING BELOW

This section of city has electricity. Lights are visible 
around the plywood on the restaurant windows. 

               MARC LEE
      16 military aged males have gone in. 

               BIGGLES
      They serve more customers than McDonalds.

               MARC LEE
      A van pulled up at 1900 and ushered an 
      Iraqi cleric inside. And check this--

ON DIGI-CAMERA, ZOOMS ON PHOTO of The Butcher entering-- 

               CHRIS
      And were sure hes still inside? 

               BIGGLES
           (a weird high; mocking Marc)
      Unless he snuck out under some fundos 
      robe. 

               MARC LEE
      There could be another way out--

               BIGGLES
      He could have an invisible fuckin cape-- 

CHRIS SLAMS BIGGLES in the chest. Biggles stumbles 
backward, gasping. DAUBER and D jump in: Easy.

               CHRIS KYLE
      You better get right, real fuckin quick--

               D
      Back off, Chris! 

               BIGGLES
           (held back)
      What the fuck is wrong with you! Ythink 
      youre different than us now? That it?

               CHRIS
      I outrank you, so yeah, I am--

               BIGGLE
      Youre not shit. You just got a fucking 
      horse-shoe crammed up your ass. 

Chris finds Marc Lees eyes; quite understanding there. 

               CHRIS
      Hash out tactics. We go at zero-dark. 

Hes slipping away when FATHER SPEAKS, TERP TRANSLATES:

               TERP 
      He invites you to join him for Eid al-
      Adha supper. He says -on this day 
      everyone has a seat at my table-.   

               CHRIS
      Tell him thats real generous. I think we 
      could all use a hot meal. 

Chris nods gratitude and slips down the dark hallway.  

DINING ROOM - LATER

A braised head of a lamb eaten clean. The boys are 
chowing down, in good spirits, and Chris watches--

THE FATHER teaches his SON to read; the boy lights up at 
his dads approval. Chris cant take his eyes off them. 
Hes moved by their connection and suddenly aware of what 
this war is costing him. Regret sets in. Hes jealous-- 

Thats when he sees (ECU)-- SHOOTERS STRAWBERRIES on 
fathers elbows. Theyre red and calloused, just like his 
own. Chris darkens, stands and slips down the hall--

BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATE

CHRIS searches the closet, ripping through clothes, 
pressing on wall panels. He is crossing to the bed when-- 
THE FLOORBOARDS CREAK beneath the rug underfoot.  

He stands there, shifting his weight, floor creaking. 

DINING ROOM/HALLWAY

BIGGLES is shoveling more food in when hand stops him.  
Chris signals, no more. THE FATHERS eyes flick up as-- 

CHRIS RIPS THE FATHER out of his chair, dragging him down 
the hall. WIFE and KIDS screaming. D holds them off-- 

Chris dumps the father at a STASH HOLE in the floor. 
Inside, a cache of AKs, RPGs and IED components. 

               CHRIS 
      Tell him hes gonna be shipped off for 
      detention and the Iraqi courts can decide 
      what to do with him-- or he can help us 
      get inside that restaurant down there. 


The Father reacts, pale with defiance.
EXT. FAHIM HALAL - NIGHT

THE FATHER shuffles up the dusty street toward us--

               D 
      Approaching the door...

IN ADJACENT ALLEY

CHRIS, MARC LEE and D wait.

      10 meters...

               D 

BACK ALLEY

TONY, BIGGLES and ASIAN... 

      5 meters...

               D  

SNIPERS NEST

DAUBER watches with cross-hairs. 

               D  
      Hes knocking...

AT THE DOOR

A sliding grate opens and-- 

               D  
      Theyre vetting him. 

GUARDS POV

FATHER attempts to alert the Guard, nodding to the TWO 
MEN in robes at the oil drum. Guard doesnt see it--

               D 
      Hold. Hold--


CHRIS POV (N/V)

As the door opens, the GUARD comes into view--

               D 
      Now. 



Chris fires and the GUARDS HEAD explodes. FATHER dives 
for Guards weapon, FIRING BACK at Chris when--

GUNFIRE FROM INSIDE shreds him. He folds forward, dead. 

TWO MEN in robes (ASIAN & SQUIRREL) rush the door tossing 
grenades, pulling the father out as the GRENADES EXPLODE. 

CHRIS, MARC LEE and D push inside--

INT. FAHIM HALAL

A smoky banquet hall. GUNFIRE lights from far wall. A man 
we recognize as THE BUTCHER is ushered through a doorway. 

               CHRIS
           (keys mike)
      We have eyes on the target. Flushing them 
      out the back--

IN THE ALLEY

TONY and BIGGLES are posted in the alley, waiting. 

               BIGGLES
           (keys mike)
      Negative. Nothing yet. 

BANQUET HALL

CHRIS and COMPANY push through the doorway the Butcher 
passed through, but its not an exit. It is--

KITCHEN 

An IRAQI MAN is hung up by a chain, the majority of his 
skin carved off, still alive. A walk-in freezer ahead. 

               CHRIS
           (to D)
      Help him--

               MARC LEE 
      Down here.


Stairs lead down into darkness. Chris follows him into--

AN UNDERGROUND TUNNEL

A naked bulb illuminates a tunnel stretching to darkness. 


               CHRIS
           (realizes; keys mike)
      Theyre coming back up! Watch your six--

THE TUNNEL DETONATES. Dirt and debris explode at them. 

BACK ALLEY

BIGGLES and TONY are posted up. The RADIO STATIC--  

               BIGGLES
      --I cant hear you. Say again. Chris--

BEHIND THEM

TEN INSURGENTS pour out of another building, circling 
back toward Biggles and Tony.

KITCHEN 

CHRIS and MARC LEE bowl in, panicked, covered in dirt. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Move. 


D turns from a WALK-IN FREEZER full of bloody parts. 

               D
      Big freezers. 
           (sickened, following)
      Fuck--

SNIPER NEST

DAUBER SEES INSURGENTS approaching Biggles-- 

               DAUBER
      Contact! Watch your six--

He starts downing them but more seep out downrange.

BACK ALLEY

BIGGLES and TONY are being overwhelmed when CHRIS, MARC 
LEE and D steps out, laying down fire. 

               CHRIS
      Pull back! Loading--

               BIGGLES
           (up, gunning)
      Got you. 


AN RPG screams down the alley. It whistles between them 
and EXPLODES INTO SNIPER NEST. As dust clouds the night--

THE BUTCHER 

Slips through smoke, shooting his way to a getaway truck.

               CHRIS
      Contact. Eyes on The Butcher. 12 oclock.

MORE INSURGENTS, push up the alley, covering him.  

               CHRIS 
           (keys mike)
      Dauber? You got visual? Confirm.   

SNIPER NEST

Dauber struggles from under debris. 

               DAUBER
      Negative. No shot--

CHRIS 

Starts advancing along the wall. He DOWNS THREE 
INSURGENTS as The Butcher jumps into a truck.

               CHRIS
      Hes on the move. Crossing!

               D
      Check. Get some.

Chris dodges across fire-fight alley, running into the 
next street (parallel with truck) hoping for a shot--

NEXT INTERSECTION

As Chris arrives, the GETAWAY TRUCK roars past a block to 
the north. Chris continues at a dead-sprint but--

At next intersection, hes lost more ground and comes up 
lame, grabbing his knees, sucking wind. His GALLIC CROSS 
TATTOO visible on his forearm as he recovers. 

IN WINDOW ABOVE

A YOUNG SHADOW balances a gun on the window-sill, aiming 
down at Chris. He pulls trigger-- click. Its jammed.  

CHRIS looks up, shocked. He backs away. YOUNG SHADOW 
picks up an old Nokia Cellular, dialing--

INT. MUSTAFAS ROOM, UNKNOWN BUILDING

Incense wafts over a dozen components of a DRAGUNOV 
SNIPER RIFLE, oiled and laid across a prayer rug. A CELL 
BUZZES and is answered. A few short words, then-- 

HANDS ENTER FRAME, assembling the rifle. The metallic 
snap-and-slide escalating, PAN TO the wall-- 

A GALLIC CROSS is depicted beside a sniper rifle on a 
faded CHRIS KYLE BOUNTY POSTER hung there. 

BACK TO:

TIRE FIRES plume tendrils of black smoke. We are--

EXT. FAHIM HALAL - NIGHT

A four way intersection, neighbors pouring into streets.  
An angry crowd hoists the FATHERS BODY in the air as a 
MESSIANIC TRIBAL LEADER riles them with chants. THE SON 
stands up-front, small hands fisted, glaring at CHRIS.

               CHRIS
           (cant take eyes off son)
      I offered his father detention. I gave 
      him a choice--  

               CPT. MARTIN
      He picked the wrong side. Thats all 
      there is to it. 

THE CROWD growing in tension and number. 

               PFC ALVAREZ
      Sir, we have armed insurgents moving this 
      way. We need to make tracks. 

               CPT. MARTIN
           (hops in Bradley; to Chris)
      Helluva an effort here. You keep after 
      this bastard. Well get him.  

They roar off. Chris pulls Terp over to the TRIBAL LEADER 
whose SHOCKING GREEN EYES reflect firelight. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Tell him this boys father was fighting 
      for the people that butchered his clerics 
      we found in the freezer in there. 

DISTANT ALLEY

A flutter of robes. A rusty gate pushed open by an OLD 
MAN. Mustafa slips past, brushing the mans shoulder in 
thanks. Breath in cadence with step, his head turns up-- 

Smoke plumes into night, their signal leading him ahead. 

CHRIS/TRIBAL LEADER

Terp translates, Tribal Leader responds violently-- 

               TERP 
      - This is our territory. If you want to 
      set foot here, you ask me. If you want to 
      locate someone, I can locate them-  

               BIGGLES 
           (atop Humvee, on the .60)
      Lets go, Chris. Shits getting hairy--

               CHRIS KYLE
           (to Tribal Leader)
      If I ask for your help youre the one 
      they carve up next. Ive seen it happen.

A crowd of 300 chanting, as Terp translates. 

ALLEY

TWO MEN stand by a 12 foot wall. A dark shape sprints 
toward them. One man kneels, the other braces him. The 
reflective swoosh catches light as--

Mustafa runs up the mans back, leaping onto the wall.

CHRIS/TRIBAL LEADER

Tribal Leader rages, crowd at his back, eyes on fire--

               TERP
      -I am the seventh son of Isaac of 
      Abraham. This is the land of my father, 
      and I am not afraid.- He says your evil 
      is greater than those you fight. He calls 
      you the devil of Ramadi.

Chris venomous expression makes it appear true. The glow 
of a Nike swoosh is seen crossing a nearby rooftop.

NEARBY ROOFTOP

Nikes cross gravel. Mustafa kneels. Unfolds his bi-pod. 

CHRIS/TRIBAL LEADER

               CHRIS KYLE
      Tell him he can deliver the Butcher to 
      me, or the devil comes back. 

MUSTAFA SCOPE POV

CROSS-HAIRS TRACK past smoke blown sideways, trash 
gusting-- FIND CHRIS as he turns for the Humvee. Cross-
hairs leading him, compensating for windage. 

As he pauses his exhale-- THE FATHERS BODY is hoisted in 
the air. Mustafa tries to adjust as his SHOT RINGS OUT--  

EXT. HUMVEE (PULLING AWAY)

THE ROUND HITS the shield. BIGGLES fires at the rooftop. 
Bullets strafing night as the Humvee door closes and they 
roar off. A burning tire rolls off a rooftop and hits the 
street, arcing over them, spitting fire-- 

Biggles ducks, dancing the .60, looking for a reason. A 
PUNISHER SKULL gleams in the moonlight, drawn in grease 
on his shield. Mustafas shot struck the Punisher in the 
eye. PUSH ON the LONG TEETH of the logo and--

CHRIS LONG FINGERS pressed to the glass. SFX: his breath 
rattles quietly over following scenes. We are-- 

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. MATERNITY WARD, SAN DIEGO

CHRIS stares into the nursery window where his NEWBORN 
DAUGHTER IS CRYING. The air feels thick around him. It 
seems to slow his movement and dull his reactions. 

               TAYA 
      Are we winning this war? 

               CHRIS 
      I dont know...

TWO NURSES walk past his daughter. Chris bangs on the 
glass, trying to get their attention. 

               CHRIS 
      Hey, some help here-- Shes crying--

He pounds the glass. The nurses dont hear but it 
frightens his daughter. She cries harder. 


INT. JIFFY LUBE - DAY
SFX: MECHANISTIC BUZZ of power-tools as we-- PAN ACROSS 
GUMBALL MACHINES and TOY DISPENSERS on the wall. 
COLTON(3) holds a toy, pissed its not the one he wanted.  

               COLTON 
      But I want that one-- 

               CHRIS
           (the air still thick, his 
            words spoken from afar)
      You dont get to choose, bubba. 

               COLTON
      But I dont like it! I want that one--

THE DRILL BUZZES in the garage again. Chris nerves are 
fraying. CUSTOMERS are looking at him. 

               CHRIS
      You get what it gives you. Thats how 
      this thing works. 

Colton melts to the floor, crying. 

               CHRIS 
      Dont do this. Get up. Come on--

THROUGH THE GLASS-- THE MAN with the drill is visible. 
Dark hair like The Butcher, hes turning toward us--

               RECEPTIONIST 
      Chris Kyle, your truck is ready. 

               CHRIS
           (snaps-to; grabs Colton)
      Get off the floor. Right now-- 

               MANS VOICE 
      Excuse me, sir. 

A YOUNG MAN steps too close. Chris rears up, defensive.

               YOUNG MAN
      Are you... Chief Chris Kyle? 

               CHRIS
      Thats me. 


               YOUNG MAN
      Sorry to intrude, sir, but we met in 
      Fallujah. You saved my life. 

               CHRIS
      Did I--?


               YOUNG MAN/VETERAN
      Yes, sir. I was with 1st Marines. We were 
      trapped in a house when you showed up 
      with the Marines. You carried me out. 

Chris remembers now, but it was lifetimes ago-- 

               CHRIS
      Right. Yeah. How you holding up? 

               MADS/YOUNG VETERAN
      Great, sir. Im grateful to be alive. It 
      hasnt been easy but--

He lifts his pant-leg and shows an ARTIFICIAL LEG. 

               MADS
      It cost lots of guys more than a leg. 

               CHRIS
      Did you lose some friends?

               MADS
      Im talking about guys that lived. Lots 
      of these guys are back but theyre just 
      not back. They cant get right in the 
      head. 

DRILL STARTS UP again. The mechanic passes the glass. 

               CHRIS
      I-- Im sorry to hear that. 

               MADS
      You should come down to the VA sometime.  
      Everyone knows who The Legend is. 

Chris nods but doesnt respond. Mads kneels to Colton. 

               MADS 
      I bet you missed your daddy when he was 
      gone but can I tell you something? Your 
      dad is a hero. You know that is...
           (eyes well up)
      He saved my life and he helped me get 
      back home to my little girl. 

Colton looks at his dad with uncertain awe. Chris wells 
with uneasy emotion. CUSTOMERS stand captive-- 


               MADS 
      So thank you for loaning him to us, lil 
      man. I wouldnt be here without him. 

Mads stands and comes to attention. He salutes Chris.  

               MADS 
      My family thanks you for your service. 

Chris bites back emotion, returns a hard-fought salute. 

INT. NURSERY 

A pink cocoon of a room. Taya sits in a rocker, breast-
feeding their daughter, MCKENNA. Shes gentle, imploring--

               TAYA
      Im making memories by myself. I have no 
      one to share them with. 

               CHRIS 
      Were going to have the rest of our lives 
      for that. 

               TAYA
      When does that start? Even when youre 
      here, youre not here. I see you, and  
      feel you-- but youre not here. 

Taya pulls McKenna off her breast. Chris scoops her up.

               TAYA 
      I hate them for it. I do. Youre my 
      husband and the father of my children--  
           (cries softly)
      And theyre the ones that pull you back.  

               CHRIS
           (doesnt look up from his 
            daughter face)
      We can wait. They cant.

A long pause...

               TAYA 
      If you think this war isnt changing you 
      youre wrong. 

There is gravity and haunt in her words. He looks up and-- 

POV CHRIS-- Taya sits in her rocker on the side of a 
bombed-out road in Ramadi; destruction all around her.   

               TAYA 
      You can only circle the flame so long. 

SCORE BUILDS, a steely guitar over tribal drums. 

THIRD TOUR

THE PUNISHER symbol spray-painted on the roof of a white 
Taxi speeding past a burnt rocker in the street. We are--

INT. TAXI, RAMADI - DAY

Passenger seat removed, an M60 swings there, suspended by 
rope. Chris mans it, tattoo visible, skull bandanna and 
sunglasses cover his grizzled face. The Punishers--

               BIGGLES 
           (keys mike)
      Cadillac 3-1 actual, we are tailing the 
      Butchers courier, currently on Maryland 
      Street, headed into the catacombs. Over. 

BIGGLES DRIVES, trailing a BROWN VAN. The city goes from 
light to shadow as they enter an built-up section called--   

THE CATACOMBS 

               BIGGLES 
      I bought the ring. 

               CHRIS
      Here?


               BIGGLES
      Theyre cheaper here. 

               CHRIS
      You want some savages ring? What if its 
      a blood diamond? 

               BIGGLES
      What the fuck do you care? You spilled 
      more blood than anyone!

               CHRIS
      Not for a rock. 

               BIGGLES
      Whatever, man. 


               CHRIS
      Ease off, dont get too close.
           (the van turns ahead)
      You gonna tell her where it came from?

               BIGGLES
      Hell no! Ill tell her I got from Zales.

Theyre on a long leash; cocky and invincible. 

TWO BLOCKS BACK - HUMVEE FOLLOWS

MARC LEE drives. D rides shotgun. DAUBER in back. 
Uniforms bastardized; Slayer blasting in broad daylight. 

               BIGGLES 
      Still with us cookie?

               D
           (into radio, checking GPS)
      Wet and ready, Big Giggles. 

               MARC LEE
      20 years from now, well have a reunion 
      and youll be married to a dude. 

               D
      As long as you cook and clean.

DAUBER sits in back, shaking his head--

UNDERCOVER TAXI

STREET SPOTTERS reach for their cell phones. Chris glares 
at them, ominous in skull mask, flipping the bird.

               CHRIS
      The Butcher has his peepers out--

               BIGGLES
      This motherfucker is Keyser Sze. Next 
      time you got a shot try not to miss. 

               CHRIS
      Miss? I coulda taken him in that alley if 
      I didnt have to save your ass--

               BIGGLES
      Whatever helps you sleep at night, man.
           (accelerates)
      This fucker is driving us in circles.

ON A ROOFTOP


A BAREFOOT TEENAGER races across gravel, aims a RIFLE 
down at the taxi with The Punisher symbol--

UNDERCOVER TAXI

A ROUND pierces the roof and goes through the floorboard--

               BIGGLES 
      You think the skull gave us away? 

               CHRIS
      Naw. 


               BIGGLES
      Twelve-oclock--

SIX INSURGENTS pop up on a rooftop, firing. Chris leans 
into the .60 spitting lead in pneumatic bursts.  

INT. MUSTAFAS APARTMENT - SAME

A dry hand spins a SNIPER ROUND on a tabletop. It wobbles 
to a stop facing the man who set it in motion-- 

MUSTAFA, head-on. A messy beard and thousand-yard stare. 
Haunted but unrelenting, he spins the round again. 

An IRAQI WOMAN appears, shushing an infant. She looks to 
Mustafa but he doesnt look up. A phone vibrates. He 
grabs a duffle and steps out. By the door, A PHOTO OF 
MUSTAFA on a medal stand at the Atlanta Olympics. 

INT. UNDERCOVER CAR

Biggles speeds after the van, taking fire from above. 

               CHRIS
      Get me a shot, grandma. 

               BIGGLES
      Its not me. Its a Camry--

He stomps the accelerator, whips around a corner--

A SHORT STRAIGHTAWAY

CHRIS BLASTS 200 ROUNDS (M60) into the van; just 
pulverizes the thing and watches it hiss to a stop.

               BIGGLES 
      That should do it.

COURIER bounds out of the van, diving into a building. 

               CHRIS
      What the fuck!? Howd he survive-- 

               BIGGLES
      Rubber junk-mans got your horseshoe. 

They roll out in pursuit-- 

EXT. DISTANT ROOFTOPS 

MUSTAFA crosses rooftop-to-rooftop with fluency. 

INT. HALLWAY, APARTMENT COMPLEX

BLOOD DROPLETS lead to a door. Biggles kicks-in.

INT. APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Biggles and Chris dance around each other like smoke. 

                BIGGLES 
      Clear. 


An open window. Stairs climb the wall outside. 

               CHRIS
           (keys mike)
      Were headed to the roof. Secure the van. 

THE VAN

DAUBER and D cover MARC LEE and TONY as they open the 
back of the van. Inside, flats of RED CLAY TILES.

               D
      The Butcher is building a 7-11? 

Marc rips off the top layer, finds: 200,000 ROUNDS AMMO.

               MARC LEE 
      No ammo, no jihad. 

ROOFTOP

Drying sheets billow on crisscrossing wires. Chris tracks 
blood-drops to the ledge. The next roof 15 feet off.

               BIGGLES
      How the helld he make that?

               CHRIS
      He didnt-- 


Two stories below, COURIER lays face down in his mess.  

               BIGGLES
      So much for leading us to the Butcher.

               CHRIS
      So much for him having my horseshoe. 

Chris pulls his mask down. He has a beard and the sturm 
und drang of war are writ loud on his face. 

DISTANT BALUSTRADE 

MUSTAFA lays prone, mumbles a prayer and takes two deep 
breaths before putting his eye to the scope. 

MUSTAFA SCOPE POV

CROSS-HAIRS TACK to fluttering sheets, the wind revealed 
in their billow. TWO FIGURES are cloaked there, 
indistinguishable heads peaking over laundry lines. 

He aims left-and-above the head closest to him. 

ON THE ROOF

Chris and Biggles stand among the billowing sheets.  

               CHRIS 
      Shell take it to Zales and try to find 
      out how much your spent.

               BIGGLES
      Shes not like that. 

               CHRIS
      Theyre all like that. 

               BIGGLES
           (laughs)
      Its giant, bro. Four karats. It probably 
      belonged to one of Saddams bitches--

Chris is laughing when he sees a FLASH OF GLASS in the 
distance. Before he can utter a warning-- 

A GUNSHOT SOUNDS 

The bullet flays the muzzle of Biggles M4. Shrapnel 
enters his face. Biggles goes down in a red mist--  


               CHRIS
      No!--


The right side of his face is a pulpy cavity. His eye 
socket obliterated. He appears mortally wounded. 

               CHRIS 
           (dives on him, keys mike)
      Biggles is down! Man down. Fuck--
           (pulls Biggles close, 
            chiseled with grief)
      No, buddy. No! Stay with me--

He drags him one way, then another. He cant see past the 
blood-spackled sheets. A SHOT pocks the roof at his feet. 

               CHRIS 
           (keys mike)
      Cover! I need cover. Hes picking us off--

ANOTHER SHOT inches from his head. They are being hunted. 

               BIGGLES
           (gargled)
      Im got it. I got it-- I can walk--

Biggles pulls himself up, tilting his head forward to not 
choke on his own blood. With heroic effort, he stumbles 
to the stairs. Chris, stunned hes alive, ducks an arm-- 

EXT. STREET 

TWO MARINE UNITS provide cover as the Humvee speeds off. 

INT. HUMMER

MARC LEE drives. DAUBER applies gauze to hold Biggles 
face on. CHRIS kneels there, holding his hand. 

               BIGGLES
           (gargling blood)
      --Im sorry--

               CHRIS
      You got nothing to be sorry for. I 
      shouldnt have had us up there--

               BIGGLES
      Am I gonna die?

Chris looks to Dauber--


               DAUBER
      Well rub a little dirt in it, get you a 
      sip of water, youll be fine.

Dauber shakes his head, hes not going to make it. 

               BIGGLES
      --it was always gonna be me--

               CHRIS
      Coulda been any of us. Just hang on-- 

               BIGGLES
      Not you. Not the Legend. You lucky fuck-- 

His body goes into shock. Chris comes unwound. 

               CHRIS
      Dont die, Ryan. You hold on--

INT. MEDICAL TENT

LOW ANGLE- plywood floor littered with needles, blood and 
latex gloves. A cart is rushed past. MEDICAL PERSONNEL 
shouting, were losing him. The picture pulses, blurs--

EXT. MEDICAL TENT

THE PUNISHERS stand around the Humvee, still as a photo.  

               D
      Did you see where it came from?

               CHRIS
      He was 1000 meters out. Theres only one 
      enemy sniper makes that shot. 

A jeep pulls up. COLONEL JONES and CPT. MARTIN step out. 

               COL. JONES
      Will he make it?

Chris turns away, choked up.   

               DAUBER
      Doesnt look good, sir.  

               D
           (kicks the Humvee)
      Fuck!

The sun still high in the sky. 

               COL. JONES
      A Shia cab driver we deal with is saying 
      theres a stronghold seven doors down.  

               CPT. MARTIN
      Marine units that covered your exfil are 
      still engaged there. 

               COL. JONES
      I understand if you want to stand-down 
      and regroup. Its up to you.  

A biblical wind blows. 

               MARC LEE
      Lex talionis... 
           (looks up)
      Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.     

Its out of character, but they all agree. 

               CHRIS
      Were going back.  

EXT. STREET, RAMADI

METALLICA, Master of Puppets blasts as-- an M1A2 ABRAMS 
TANK speeds 45 mph down a street, bad as fuck. TWO 
BRADLEY TRANSPORT vehicles follow. 

A CAR pulls into the road ahead. INSURGENT PASSENGER 
leans out, FIRING AN RPG. It explodes across the tank but 
does no damage. Tank still coming, Insurgents pull away-- 

In pursuit, the tank catches them. Treads climb the back 
of the car, crushingly overtaking it. INSURGENTS are 
trying to get out, screaming, as steel folds around them. 
Blood splats as the 2-ton trash compactor flattens them.

The ABRAMS vaults off the other side of leveled vehicle--  

INT. BRADLEY TRANSPORT VEHICLE

THE PUNISHERS. Ears pinned back. Metal blasting. Ampd to 
kill. FIND CHRIS consumed by mind-melting rage; he pulls 
the BIBLE and AMERICAN FLAG out and sets them aside. 

               MARC LEE 
      Two clicks out. Lock and load. 

He glances at Chris, feeding off him. They all are.   


               CHRIS 
      For Biggles. 

IN THE STREET

The tank skids to a stop. The turret spins to a castle-
like structure and BA-BOOM! 

THE PUNISHERS pour out of their Bradleys, rolling in both 
directions, arcing toward the point of entry--  

THE COURTYARD

Punishers pour in. FOUR INSURGENTS lay dead, dispatched 
by the tank. Zero resistance.

               MARC LEE
      Courtyard is clear. Moving.

               CHRIS
      Some stronghold. Move.

DAUBER and TONY follow them up a crumbled staircase--

LONG HALLWAY

Ominously still. Sunlight spills through grated windows 
facing the street. Chris and Marc move to the first door-- 

FIRST ROOM 

A sleeping mat. A TV plays an Al Jazeeri game show. Marc 
pushes toward the bathroom, coming around the corner---

BATHROOM

The faucet runs on a straight-razor. 

               MARC LEE
      Clear.


FIRST ROOM

MARC steps back in, golden dust motes float around him.

               MARC LEE 
      Somebody left in a hurry. 

               CHRIS
           (keys mike)
      You sure we got the right address--

CANON-FIRE HITS the outer-hallway from across the street. 
Brrrrrb-Brrrrb!! Rounds banging with seismic force. 

               DAUBER (OS)
           (from hallway)
      Fuck--

TIME SLOWS as Chris bounds toward the door. Marc Lee gets 
there first, steps through it, into-- 

LONG HALLWAY

GUNFIRE RAINS through grated windows. The hall is coming 
apart in dusty chunks of plaster. 

DAUBER and TONY are pinned between windows. MARC LEE 
steps to the nearest window to lay suppressive fire.

                MARC LEE
     Contact--


GUNFIRE STRAFES IN AT AN ANGLE, HITTING MARC LEE IN HIS 
OPEN MOUTH. HES BLOWN BACKWARDS, HITTING THE WALL AND--

MARC LEE is down. Blood pooling. A forever stare. 

               CHRIS
      Marc--


CHRIS is staggered but his training takes over and he 
steps into the same window, BLASTING FIRE.

DAUBER is trying to intubate Marc but the back of his 
head is gone. He was dead before he hit the wall. 

THE ABRAMS TURRET SPINS. THE CANON BOOMS. THE EARTH 
TREMBLES AS THE BUILDING ACROSS THE STREET IS FLATTENED-- 

TRANSITION TO:

The trembling is the turbulence. We are-- 

INT. C-17 GLOBEMASTER (IN FLIGHT) - NIGHT

In dim red-glow, FIND BIGGLES in a tented gurney, stable 
but critical; his head caved in. CHRIS stares ahead-- 

               MARC LEES MOM 
      Glory is something some men chase and 
      others find themselves stumbling upon.

REVERSE TO MARC LEES CASKET draped in stars and stripes. 

EXT. FORT ROSECRANS NATIONAL CEMETERY - DAY

A pasture of tombstones overlook the Pacific. CHRIS, with 
a chest-full of medals, stands with TAYA, COLTON(4) and 
MCKENNA(2). TAYA watches MARCS WIFE weep as-- 

MARC LEES MOM reads his LAST LETTER HOME:

               MARCS LEE MOM 
      My question is when does glory fade away 
      and become a wrongful crusade? 

CHRIS HEARS MARCS VOICE:

               MARC LEE 
      When does it become an unjustified means 
      by which one is completely consumed.

COLTON reaches for his fathers hand. Chris starts, looks 
at Colton, then Taya. Hes caught with his guard down-- 

It appears like he may let them in... but he quickly 
returns his gaze to the flagged casket.  

CLOSE ON CASKET

NAVY SEALS bang their Tridents into the coffin. A hollow 
thump, like fists trying to revive a heart. 

INT. TAYAS CAR (MOVING) - LATER

San Diego traffic. THE KIDS chatter in back. CHRIS 
drives, in a fugue-state when he spots-- 

A BROWN VAN, four cars back, same as the one in Ramadi.

               TAYA
      Debbie said he wrote that letter two 
      weeks ago. Did he say any of that to you?

VAN ROARS up the turning lane. Its pulling alongside 
them. Chris grips the wheel, ready-- the van roars past

               TAYA 
      Chris, I want to know what you thought of 
      his letter...

               CHRIS
           (slow, absent)
      An AQI informant called in a tip. Biggles 
      had just been shot. We were operating off 
      emotion and-- we walked into an ambush.  


The kids have quieted. The air sucked from the car. 

               CHRIS 
      But thats not what killed him. That 
      letter did. That letter killed Marc Lee. 
           (looks to her)
      He let go and he paid the price for it. 

Taya turns away. They drive in silence. 

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

TV lights the dark room. NEWS GRAPHIC: Americans killed 
in Iraq: 3932. CHRIS and TAYA talk to the ceiling.  

               CHRIS
      If something ever happened to me-- youd 
      meet someone else. Youd be alright. 

His detachment is unearthly.

               TAYA
      Do you want to die? Is that what it is? 

               CHRIS
      No.


               TAYA
           (cheeks shine with tears)
      Then tell me why do you do it. I want to 
      understand. 

               CHRIS
      I do it for you. To protect you. 

               TAYA
      No you dont. Im here. Your family is 
      here. Your children have no father--

               CHRIS
      Without this, theres nothing. 

               TAYA
      What does that mean! No. Thats bullshit-- 
           (violent)
      You did your part! Weve sacrificed 
      enough. We did. Let somebody else go.

               CHRIS
      I couldnt live with myself. 

               TAYA
           (pleading)
      You find a way. You have to. I need you 
      to be human again. I need you here. 
           (he doesnt respond, calms)
      If you go back Im going to leave you.   

It startles him. He seems suddenly alert to her suffering 
and reaches for her, holding her to his chest. 

               CHRIS
      I know. 

Her eyes sink into a well of ruin.

INT. VETERANS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, SAN DIEGO - DAY

A DUST MOTH flutters around the wall sconce. Wilted 
flowers and get-well cards cover the windowsill. 

               CHRIS
           (enters)
      Hey, buddy--

BIGGLES lays in bed. Half his head caved-in and badly 
marred, one eyelid open on a milky-white eyeball. 

               BIGGLES
      Chris? Where are you?

               CHRIS
      Im right here just give me a minute--
           (hobbles around the bed)
      Just blind as a bat, huh?

               BIGGLES
      Yeah... It fucking blows. Theyre gonna 
      fix my face though. 

               CHRIS
      Thats good. Your face always needed some 
      fixing. 

Chris sounds upbeat but his eyes betrays him. 

               CHRIS 
      I heard you proposed? Did you tell Kelly 
      the diamond was from Zales?

               BIGGLES
      Naw, I bought a new one. A small one. Her 
      dad helped me out.  

               CHRIS
      Nice.  


               BIGGLES
      She wouldnt leave me, bro. I told her to 
      go-- but she wouldnt leave. 
           (voice cracking)
      Shes getting a raw fucking deal.

               CHRIS
      No shes not. How can you say that? Shes 
      getting you. 
           (eyes welling up)
      All four inches. 

Biggles laughs and tears roll from his vacant eye. 

               BIGGLES
      Im glad this happened to me and not you. 
      No way you couldve handled it. 

               CHRIS
      Im glad you cant see. This place is a 
      shithole. Im coming back here for some 
      titanium knees but now Im worried-- 

               BIGGLES
           (in disbelief)
      Youre going back?

               CHRIS
      Bad guys fled up into to Sadr City. Were 
      gonna wall them in and hunt them down. 

               BIGGLES
      You dont have to do this.

               CHRIS
      Yes I do. Theyre going to pay for what 
      they did to you.

His mind made up. Biggles is stunned but understands. 

               BIGGLES
      Hooyah, brother. 

EXT. HALLWAY, VETERANS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - MOMENTS LATER 

CHRIS passes room after room of wounded soldiers. His 
eyes are fixed ahead, refusing to look-- 


INT. CHRIS HOUSE, SAN DIEGO - DUSK
CHRIS kneels in front of his son, COLTON. His words are 
packed with an emotion like hell never see him again.  


               CHRIS
      There are only three types of people in 
      this world; sheep, wolves and sheepdogs. 
      Some people dont believe evil exists and 
      if showed up at their door they wouldnt 
      know how to defend themselves. Those 
      people are the sheep. Then you have 
      predators who use violence to prey on the 
      weak. Theyre wolves. The last type are a 
      rare breed, bred to fight, and cursed by 
      a need to protect the flock. Thats the 
      sheepdog. Thats who we are. 
           (almost as if hes trying 
            convincing himself)
      Look me in the eye, son. Always look a 
      man in the eye.  

               TAYA 
      Thats enough, Chris--

TAYA stands at the door. The CAR PACKED outside. 

               CHRIS
      You understand what Im telling you? 

               COLTON
      Can I get a dog when we get back from 
      Grandpas house?

His innocence wounds Chris. He pulls the boy close. 

               TAYA
      Lets go Colton. 

Colton places A TOY SOLDIER in his hand and runs out.

               TAYA 
      God, country, family; isnt that what you 
      guys say? Let me know when that order 
      changes. 

Door closes behind her. Chris looks down at the METALLIC 
TOY SOLDIER, the one he had on his dresser as a child.  

INT. SURGICAL THEATRE - DAY

A SPOTLIGHT SHINES on Chris knees, cut open vertically,  
muscles peeled back and clamped. The SURGEON tests the 
drill. That buzzing. CLOSE ON CHRIS, his eyelids flutter. 

INTER-CUT WITH:

NEWS FOOTAGE (TV)

A bombing raid north of Baghdad has leveled a structure.   

               NEWS ANCHOR
      U.S. war planes dropped two 500-pound 
      bombs on a house where al-Zarqawi was 
      meeting with insurgent leadership. 

SURGICAL THEATRE

SURGEON drills titanium caps in place. Machines beeping, 
NURSES hurry about as Chris blood pressure spikes. ON 
CHRIS, eyes tracking back-and-forth beneath his eyelids.

NEWS FOOTAGE (TV)

A PHOTO OF ZARQAWI, pale, bearded and dead. 

               TV NEWS ANCHOR
      Zarqawis killing is a triumph for 
      coalition forces but analysts warn that 
      his death may not stem the tide of 
      insurgency any more than Hussein's did--

The TV ILLUMINATES CHRIS sprawled on the bed. We are--

INT. CHRIS BEDROOM - NIGHT

Both knees sewn shut, prescription bottle in one hand, 
.45 in the other. Suddenly, the HOUSE ALARM goes off. 

Chris bolts upright, throttled by pain. 

               ALARM 
      Intruder in the hall. Intruder in the 
      hall--

EXPLOSIONS BOOM on the news. Chris staggers out of bed, 
missing the news, leaning on the wall, gun leveled--

CHRIS POV

The hall swimming. Shadows shifting. INTRUDER slips into--


               ALARM 
      Intruder in the kitchen. Intruder in the 
      kitchen--

KITCHEN

Chris bowls in, knocking dishes off counters, reacting--

               ALARM 
      Intruder in the living room. Intruder--

SHADOWS DART through the living room. Chris pursues, 
adrenaline pumping now, cornering into-- 

HALLWAY

Gaining control, pushing pain out, hunting--

               ALARM 
      Intruder in the hall. Intruder--

Hes outside the bedroom, breathing it down, ready--

COLTONS BEDROOM

Chris hits the lights as he corners in. Gun tracking to 
his boys bed. Finger on trigger. No one there. 

               ALARM 
      --Intruder in the bedroom. Intruder in 
      the bedroom--

He sinks to the floor, rocking back and forth, face 
twisted in agony. Hes the intruder.

EXT. SOLANA BEACH

A ghostly fog. Chris emerges from it, jogging with a 
pained, lumbering gait-- pushing himself. 

INT. BEDROOM, CHRIS HOUSE

A duffle. Little Blue Bible and American Flag on top. He 
considers them a beat, then opens the Bible at random-- 

JOSHUA 6:21 - And the Lord commanded him to destroy all 
that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old 
and ox and sheep and donkey with the blade of his sword.

His eyes darken with purpose. God has spoken. 

INT. C-17 GLOBEMASTER -  DAY

75 Marines packed in. CHRIS hobbles up the isle like 
Achilles. His import draws the attention of soldiers he 
passes. He settles into a seat. Across from him--

               MARINE LT.
      The Legend, right? I heard you killed 101 
      men your last tour. The hajis call you 
      The Devil of Ramadi. 

Chris removes his wedding band, hangs it from his 
necklace. 

A DARKENED MARINE in a nearby jump-seat looks on, in awe. 

               MARINE LT. 
      So how many kills you got now?

               CHRIS KYLE
      You have to ask the Navy. I lost count. 

His reserve silences the Lieutenant. ENGINES ROAR as--

               FOURTH TOUR

EXT. STREET, SADDR CITY - NIGHT

Fires glow in bombed-out buildings like Jack-o-lanterns. 
An emaciated DOG stands by a flooded bomb-hole, barking 
at the darkness. The water in front of him ripples with 
vibration. Soon every dog in Sadr City is barking. 

FOURTH FLOOR APARTMENT

In shadow-- CHRIS KYLE, on the gun, face painted black; 
hes beyond wrath and beyond reason. He is the shadow. 

               CHRIS KYLE
           (keys mike)
      Stryker 1-2 actual, In position. Bring in 
      the wall. Over. 

IN THE STREET

Tanks rumble from the darkness, leading 18-wheelers 
transporting 12-foot CONCRETE T-BLOCKS that will be used 
to build a wall through Sadr City. But--

Without warning, ENEMY TRACERS ARC across the sky, and 
the entire city erupts in a firefight. 

CHRIS SCOPE POV (N/V)


In ghostly green-- INSURGENTS MOVE across the city 
canvas. Chris drops body after body. Pause, pull, reload. 
At 400 yards, theyre fingernail-sized in his scope.

A MORTAR-SHELL EXPLODES across an 18-wheeler. The DRIVER 
leaps from his rig on fire. He gets peppered with 
bullets, falls in a flooded-crater and continues to burn. 

CROSS-HAIRS land on a NEARBY INSURGENT. His faces fills 
the scope. Hes right across the fucking street. Dark eye-
sockets staring at us. LIGHT FLARES as he fires an RPG-- 

SNIPER NEST

THE SHATTERING BLAST of an RPG explodes across the space. 
The room staged in fire. Chris scrambles to his feet--

THWWWAP!-THWWWAP!

A ROUND clips his helmet. A SECOND ROUND chunks into his 
back-plate. He goes down.  

TO BLACK:

THE BLACK IS A BRUISE the size of a cantaloupe. We are-- 

INT. MEDICS TENT

The YOUNG MEDIC inspects the bruise on Chris back. 

               YOUNG MEDIC
      I dont know what to say other than you 
      got real lucky.

               D 
      He aint lucky, hes The Legend. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      What up, D?

               D
      Fuck man, just another day in paradise.  

Relieved to see someone he knows, Chris up and walks out. 

EXT. FOB - DAY

CHRIS and D walk past a boneyard of charred vehicles. 
This base feels like a remote outpost.  

               D
      We been shot off position three nights in 
      a row. Fallujah was bad, Ramadi was worse 
      but this shit is fuckin biblical. 

               CHRIS
      Any other Punishers here?  

               D
      Squirrel cycled out. Dauber was set to 
      come back but his wife knocked him up. 
      And if I bring home any more rugs, my old 
      lady is gonna murder my ass.

               CHRIS
           (laughs, nostalgic)
      You and your fucking rugs.

               D
           (a beat)
      That Biggles news hit hard. 

               CHRIS
      I know. I visited him before I left. That 
      fucker cant see shit.

               D
           (stops walking)
      Bro... Biggles is gone. He was in surgery 
      yesterday and-- he died on the table. 

Chris stares at him, ruined, waiting for him to take it 
back. SFX: A PHONE RINGS thousands of miles away as-- 

CHRIS SCOPE POV

CROSS-HAIRS track along Jamila street, past cranes 
assembling the T-wall that will stretch across the city.

The phone stops ringing, VOICEMAIL picks up. 

               TAYA VOICEMAIL 
      -This is Taya, I cant get to the phone 
      so please leave a message. 

A car pulls into an intersection, ominous in inactivity. 
Dust blows sideways off its halted tires. 

               CHRIS MESSAGE 
      Hey, its me. Just calling to hear your 
      voice. Im missing you guys. I been 
      thinking about what you said. The order 
      of things-- 

The car disappears down a side-street. CROSS-HAIRS linger 
at that spot, knowing the routine.

               CHRIS MESSAGE 
      Tell the kids I love them--

AN INSURGENT darts out, flips the sight-finder on an RPG.  
Mirage boils off the street, same as dust, 45 degrees. 

               CHRIS MESSAGE 
      I love you too. 

CROSS-HAIRS compensate left for windage. A SHOT RINGS 
OUT. Red mist. CROSS-HAIRS scan the sector, they wont 
leave an RPG. Finally, ANOTHER FIGURE runs out--

A YOUNG KID 

No older than Colton. He grabs the RPG, shoulders it. 
CROSS-HAIRS zero on him, center-mass. SFX: Chris 
heartbeat bangs like a 800lb hammer. Not again.

               CHRIS 
      Dont do it--

OUR CROSS-HAIRS tremor as Chris hands start to shake. 

               CHRIS  
      --please God--

Young Kid stands, takes aims and-- he suddenly discards 
the RPG in the street and runs off.  

CHRIS

He rolls off the gun, gasping for air, biting back tears. 
After years and years of war hes finally breaking down.  

INT. OP TENT - DAY

Wind batters the tent. A squad of 16 SPEC OPS GUYS from 
different branches stand studying a map with-- 

               LT. MARTINS
      Brass believe this T-wall will end the 
      war by trapping remaining AQI inside. But 
      we got a sniper picking off contractors 
      from deep behind the wall.

                   CHRIS 
 		 How deep?


Every man looks to the back wall where Chris stands.

               LT. MARTINS
           (knows where it leads)
      Roughly 1000 meters.

               CHRIS
      Is it Mustafa?



               RANGER ONE
      Moo-who?
    
           D
      The sniper who shot our boy Biggles. 

Thats a warning. Ranger One backs off. 

               CPT. MARTINS
      He can be whoever you need him to be, we 
      just need him dead. 

Chris nods, eyes ablaze. Martins points to a map, south 
of the wall is green, north of wall is red. 

               CPT. MARTINS 
           (points to red-zone)
      Well shuttle you six blocks north into 
      enemy territory which will put you right 
      up under his nose when he takes his shot. 

Storm winds blast the tent flap open--

               DELTA SNIPER
      In the middle of a fucking sandstorm? 

               CPT. MARTINS
      Bring your goggles, Bambi. We need to 
      shut this shooter down. 

EXT. FORWARD OPERATING BASE

A Stryker rumbles out, headed across the desert floor. 

INT. STRYKER

CHRIS sits up front, checking his weapon. An OLD MERCEDES 
speeds across the desert toward them. A train of dust 
plumes behind it. As the vehicles pass-- (ECU) TWO IRAQI 
MEN in the Mercedes hide their faces behind keffiyehs. 

               CHRIS
      What was that--

Chris whips around in his seat but he cant look back. 


EXT. GUARD POST - CONTINUOUS

MARINE GATE GUARD studies the OLD MERCEDES speeding 
toward him with mounting concern. 

               MARINE GATE GUARD
           (into walkie)
      This is east gate. Ive got an unknown 
      vehicle coming up fast. 

Guards roll out of their posts, guns up. Mercedes skids 
to a sudden stop 30 meters out. Dust blooms from it. 

               GATE GUARD
      Get out of the car! Now--

INSIDE MERCEDES

TWO IRAQI MEN eye the guards. THE DRIVER mutters 
something to the passenger and pops the trunk-- 

GUARD POST

GUARDS, lit with urgency, react as-- BOTH MEN STEP OUT of 
the Mercedes, hands in air, circling toward the trunk.

               GATE GUARD 
      Step away from the car!

               GATE GUARD #2
                --move for the trunk you will be shot. 

GUARDS POV 

THE TWO IRAQI MEN duck behind the trunk. After a 
painfully long moment, they reemerge with-- 

               GATE GUARD 
      Drop it! Right there! Drop him now--

They drop A MAN BOUND in blood-smeared plastic. GUARDS 
BARKING orders. THE DRIVER unwinds his scarf to reveal--

MESSIANIC TRIBAL LEADER (shock green eyes) who confronted 
Chris in Ramadi; the one tasked with finding The Butcher. 

               TRIBAL LEADER
           (in Arabic)
      Tell the devil we found his Butcher. We 
      will protect ourselves now.

He waits for response. Guns stay on him. The wind howls. 

CLOSE ON BUTCHER

Beaten to within an inch of his life. Bloody plastic 
suffocates his mouth as he tries to inhale. 

EXT. SADR CITY - AERIAL SHOT - MOMENTS LATER

The Stryker speeds up a side-street into insurgent 
territory (north of wall). Next street over, PACKS OF 
INSURGENTS push south, toward the construction site. 

EXT. STREET, SIX BLOCKS NORTH OF T-WALL - DAY

Stryker slows. Boots hit dirt, silently slipping into--

EXT. BANANA FACTORY, SIX BLOCKS NORTH OF T-WALL - DAY

PUSH UPSIDE a five story building. Bombed-out walls 
reveal conveyors and fruit lockers inside.  

ROOFTOP

An open rooftop, RANGER ONE is concealed under a vent as 
INSURGENTS pass in droves in the street below. 

               RANGER ONE
      The streets are crawling. Hold your fire. 

Across the roof, D on a .50 BMG looking at the MILE-
WIDE SANDSTORM pushing toward Baghdad.  

               D
      Enter the motherfuckin sandman. 

CHRIS

3rd floor. In a fruit locker. Breath racing. Hands 
tremoring. Electricity coursing through him.  

Gun pointed north, Chris searches nearby buildings for 
the sniper. PUSH BEHIND HIM, SIX-BLOCKS SOUTH to--   

T-WALL 

A CRANE lowers a T-block. MARINE ENGINEERS guide it in.

ENEMY CROSS-HAIRS ENTER FRAME (REVERSE ANGLE)

ENGINEERS in the street signal success and ANOTHER 
ENGINEER scurries up the neck of the crane to release the 
chain. The cross-hairs track the MOVING ENGINEER and--

BOOM! A shot echoes across the landscape and TOPPLES THE 
ENGINEER from the crane. He lands dead in the street. 

CHRIS

Hears it, pulls off the gun, looking behind him. 


               CHRIS
      No--

           (keys mike)
      It came from behind us. We went the wrong 
      way. Hes south of the wall. 

               RANGER ONE
           (over mike)
      Doesnt matter. Hold your fire. We got 
      uglies right below us--

Chris repositions himself, FACING SOUTH-- he lowers his 
eye to glass, bleeding sweat, aiming toward Bagdad.  

CHRIS SCOPE POV (BOTH EYES VIEW)

CROSS-HAIRS track to distant rooftops. Everything wobbles 
and fumes. Trash blows, fronds sway, curtains flap, 
mirage boils-- all gusting different directions. 

Almost by accident, he lands on an IMPOSSIBLY SMALL 
SHAPE. Person? A bag of trash? Or nothing at all. As 
small as a pepper-flake inside the radius of his scope.

               CHRIS 
           (into mike)
      I got something. 1900 yards out. 

               RANGER ONE
      You cant even see that far out. Hold 
      your fire. Youll expose us all.

He twitches and wobbles off-target by a city block. 
Tracking back he spots something in the street-- A GOAT.

               D
      Hes right, Legend. No fuckin bueno. 

CROSS-HAIRS on goat, measuring it between mil-reticals, 
calculating for distance, then tracking back to target. 

               CHRIS 
      Correction. Target is 2100 yards out. 

               D
      Thats over a mile. Impossible shot, even 
      if there was zero wind. 

               CHRIS 
           (beat)
      Its him.

ENEMY SNIPER HIDE

THE SNIPER is covered in a black Hefty bag disguising his 
presentation, and identity. Ready to kill again.

               CHRIS 
           (over radio)
      Fire base thunder, this is Charlie 2 
      Bravo. We have eyes on the target. 
      Prepare immediate evac. Over.  

               D
      Theres no way you can confirm its him. 

ON CHRIS

Trying to breathe it down, please god, breathe it down--  

               CHRIS
      Doesnt matter, he has eyes on our guys.

               RANGER ONE
      Quick Reaction Force is 20 minutes out. 
      You will stand the fuck down--  

               D
      --you wanna get us dead--

Chris scoops dust off the floor and watches with his off-
eye, as it blows off his palm and plumes outward.

SNIPER SCOPE POV

CROSS-HAIRS track to the cluster of MARINE ENGINEERS. 

CHRIS SCOPE POV

CROSS-HAIRS wobble on the dark shape a mile away.

               CHRIS 
      Aim small. Aim small.

We zero-in on a small fold on that black bag. SFX: A LOW 
FREQUENCY BUZZ escalates as concentration deepens. 

CLOSE ON SNIPER

Face obscured, a PRAYER HISSES from his bearded mouth.

CLOSE ON CHRIS

Both eyes open, a PRAYER WHISPERS across his lips.

               CHRIS 
      For Biggles.


CLOSE ON SNIPER/CLOSE ON CHRIS

SFX: Thump-thump....Thump-BAM! 

Chris fires first. The shot echoes across eternity. One, 
two, three seconds later. A red-mist paints the wind.

THE SNIPER tumbles off his platform and out of view. 

               CHRIS KYLE
      Tango down. 


The world rushing back in, he hears INSURGENTS below. 

STREET BELOW FACTORY

INSURGENTS point up at the building, yelling, rushing in-- 

ROOFTOP 

Chris bangs out onto the roof, joining the SIX MAN SQUAD. 

               RANGER ONE
      You just fucked us, Legend--
           (screams into mike)
      We need Stryker and QRF units, ASAP. 

               CHRIS  
      He was on our boys and I took him out. 

               D
      What about us! You took us out too.

               RANGER ONE
      We are fucked like a football bat! 

SIDE VIEW (FACTORY)

INSURGENTS clear the second floor, bounding toward--  

ROOFTOP

They survey ammo and set-up firing stations. Chris is 
shaken but his training is ingrained:

               CHRIS
      There are only two ways onto the roof. We 
      cover both stairways and conserve ammo. 

Muted nods all around. Footsteps coming. This is it. 

               D
      Fuck it man. I cant die mad at you. 
      Mission fucking accomplished. Longest 
      shot in Iraq. Bigglesd be proud. 
           (pounds fists; to others)
      And if you new guys shit your pants, 
      dont stop shooting. Scoop and shoot. 
      Scoop and--

GUNFIRE POPS behind them. MARINE GUNNER lights it up.

               CHRIS
      Conserve your--

OPPOSITE DOOR bangs open across the roof. Chris hammers 
the INSURGENT but he keeps coming, drugged up. 

TWO MORE roll out behind him, on the same glue. This is 
close-quarter contact, visceral and savage. 

IN THE STREET

INSURGENTS enter surrounding buildings in droves. 

ROOFTOP

Wind kicking up. Ammo running out. Insurgents keep 
coming. Worst environment imaginable. 

               RANGER ONE
           (into mike)
      Negative, negative, danger-close, theyre 
      all over us--

               D
      Drop motherfucker! Drop! 

CHRIS laces bad guys. Amending folly with brutality. They 
fall at his feet. Tracers light from the next roof.

               D 
      3 oclock. Loading. Last clip. 

An INSURGENT is running at Chris with a machete. He 
swings his Win-Mag. Downs him. Swings again. 

               RANGER ONE
           (screams)
      Exfil is stuck three blocks out. 

               MARINE GUNNER
      Im out of ammo--

INSURGENTS use rebar to cross from a nearby rooftop. Two 
ways on just became three. They are swarming them. 

Hand-to-hand chaos. A bad way to die. 

               RANGER ONE
      I dont wanna get dragged in the street--  

               D
      Call it in. Light us up. 

Chris cuts a mans throat. Hes spackled with blood.  

               CHRIS
      Do it. Call in our coordinates. 

               RANGER ONE
           (keys mike)
      This is Rio Two Bravo, requesting 
      ordinance drop. GRID 04837959.  
           (gunfire)
      I know my fucking position! Theyre right 
      on top of us. Drop it!

RADIO GOES STATIC, he nods, its done. 

               MARINE SNIPER
      White-side!


INSURGENTS crossing the gap. Chris pulls his 45, pivots--

DRONE FOOTAGE of Chris on the roof of the Banana Factory. 
Surrounding streets are filled with bad guys. We are--

TRANSITION TO:

INT. COMM-OP TENT

Wind battling tent. COL. MARTIN stands over a NAVY 
DISPATCH OPERATOR, staring at the footage. 

               COL. MARTIN
      Tell the pilot to turn it loose.   

DISPATCH OPERATOR looks up, realizing whats happening.

EXT. F-18 RAPTOR

PILOT looks to his wing as STINGER MISSILES engage. 


               COL. MARTIN
           (over the box)
      Raptor 3-4, copy. 20 seconds out. 

ON THE ROOFTOP

TWO DOZEN insurgents surround them on the rooftop. CHRIS 
waits till a guy gets right up on him and-- BAM!  

               D
      Youre up-- 


D trades the SATELLITE PHONE for his Springfield.  

               CHRIS
      --you got four rounds. 

In their exchange, an unspoken goodbye. Then--

Chris struggles to dial, hands shaking. IT RINGS. He 
squints north. RINGS AGAIN. F-18 rocketing toward us-- 

 
               TAYA
     Hello?

Chris is stunned. She answered. Hes speechless. 

 
               TAYA 
     Hello? 

               CHRIS
           (struggles)
      Hey, babe-- 

               TAYA
      Chris-- Whats the noise? 

Wind howls. F-18 closing. 

               TAYA 
      I cant hear you. Baby--

               CHRIS
           (tears)
      Im ready to come home. Im ready...

She starts crying. The F-18 almost upon them.

               TAYA
      Whats happening--

               CHRIS
      --I love you. Im coming home. Can you 
      hear me? Im coming home. 


               TAYA
      Chris--


F-18 seconds out. Chris looks up and sees--

THE SANDSTORM 

Has shifted. A tsunami of dirt is about to swallow them. 

F-18 RAPTOR

THE PILOT flying into the storm. Sensors screaming. He 
cant hold his line. 4, 3, 2-- He pulls up early. 

ROOFTOP

HELLFIRE MISSILES scream over the Banana factory and  
EXPLODE INTO the next building. Fire and dirt engulf 
them. The blast recedes but the sand-storm escalates. 

               CHRIS
      Go, go, lets move--

He leads D, RANGER ONE and FOUR OTHERS across the roof. 
They cling to each other to avoid being blown away. 
INSURGENTS stumble past, blinded by sand. 

STREET BELOW

CHRIS and SQUAD stagger into HOWLING CHAOS, clinging to 
each other, trailing Chris as GUNFIRE POPS behind them.

               CHRIS 
           (choking, into mike)
      Stryker-3, whats your location--

AN INSURGENT is blown right into them. D wrestles his 
gun away and beats him down with it. 

               CHRIS 
      Hold there! We are 30 seconds out--
           (pointing ahead)
      Go. Straight ahead. Go--

They run for their lives. Unable to see two feet ahead. 
Wind shredding their skin. Chris is struggling--

Squad passing him. Knees failing him. He cant keep up.  

INT. STRYKER

THE GUNNER stares at REMOTE WEAPONS SCREEN when SIX 
FIGURES EMERGE from the dust. Hes about to fire--


               RANGER ONE
      BDUs-- Thats them! Drop the ramp.

The ramp drops. STORM HOWLING. RANGER-ONE dives in, 
MARINES follow, then D rolls in. The rig pulls off.  

               D
      Wheres Chris? He was just--

IN THE STREET

Chris falters forward. Insurgents pursuing. The Stryker 
just visible ahead-- pulling away. 

IN THE STRYKER

M2 GUNNER cant see shit on his monitor.  

               D 
      --stop the rig, man! Stop--

               DRIVER
      I dont see him--

IN THE STREET

Chris is ten-feet behind the rig, sprinting. Bullets sing 
past. He sheds flack-jacket and webbing, Bible and flag. 
Still out of reach, he drops his gun in the dirt, dives--

His outstretched hand clutches the last rung of slat-
armor and-- Chris Kyle is dragged off the battlefield. 

IN THE STREET

Sand buries the METALLIC TOY SOLDIER that followed him 
since childhood. Wind whips pages of the Bible and pulls 
at the flag until it flaps unfolded. WERE BLOWN AWAY 
with it, twisting and clapping into an otherworldy beige. 

IN THE STORM

We catch glimpses of the city below: graffitid T-walls, 
a cracked expanse of desert floor and the lanky body of 
an enemy sniper splayed across a rooftop. 

Wind rips the Hefty bag away and sand pocks the DEAD FACE 
OF MUSTAFA-- before were swept up into the howling rage. 

LONG FADE:

EXT. TARMAC, AIR BASE, CORONADO - DAY

CHRIS, grizzled in jeans and t-shirt, hobbles toward the 
area where men kiss their wives and hug their kids; heat 
shimmers off tarmac and gives the appearance of a mirage.  

               PO2 KELLY
      Chief Kyle. Were here to take you home. 

Chris turns to a prim PETTY OFFICER KELLY.

INT. SEDAN - AFTERNOON

The rhythmic hum of wheels on road fills silence. 

               PO2 KELLY
      Two silver stars. Must be quite an honor.
           (no response)
      The Navy would love to keep you. Im sure 
      we can find you a nice desk job. 

Chris eyes electrical wires looping along the roadside. 
Watching with him, WE HEAR the buzz of electricity.  

EXT. FORD DEALERSHIP - EVENING

PETTY OFFICERS stand with A CAR DEALER watching CHRIS 
roar out in a big black FORD F350. 

               PO2 KELLY 
      Guess hes not interested in a desk job.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

A grubby room. Beer cans litter the bedside. Chris sits 
on the bed in boxers, in a stupor, on the phone: 

               CHRIS
           (into phone)
      I thought Id make it home tonight but-- 
      I got hung up with some stuff. 

               TAYA (OS)
      Chris, the kids-- we were expecting you. 
      Its been nine months.

               CHRIS
           (turmoil)
      Im trying...I am... 

               TAYA
      I dont understand. 

               CHRIS
      I miss you guys so much, I just--

In bedside drawer, his .45 lays on GIDEONS BIBLE.  

               CHRIS 
      I dont know if I can do this. 

               TAYA (OS)
      Youre scaring me, Chris. Are you drunk-- 

He closes the drawer, crying now. 

               CHRIS
      Maybe we could move back to Texas. 

    
               TAYA
  Come home--

               CHRIS
      We could start over there--

               TAYA
      Just come home-- 

               CHRIS
      I am... I am...

He nods into silence. The room darkens. 

INT. MOTEL - LATER

Flashing neon burns through gauzy curtains. Chris is 
asleep when-- A BUZZING SOUND wakes him. He sits up, feet 
hit floor, the sound emanates from inside the wall. 

He slips to the wall, investigating, running a hand along 
it. (ECU)- the drywall vibrates beneath his touch. He 
tilts an ear. It sounds like SOMEONES DRILLING into his 
room. The sound grows louder and louder until--

A DRILL BIT juts through the wall, piercing his hand. He 
tries to pull away but a second drill-bit pierces his 
other hand. Hes strung up, arms outstretched, screaming-- 

The hallucination disappears. In silence, hes holding 
himself to the wall. He sinks to the floor, sobbing. 

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

TWO CHILDREN on swings, rising and falling against the 
rusted sun. The family dog, A PYRENEES SHEEPDOG, bounds 
around them. FIND TAYA AND CHRIS, on the back-steps.

               TAYA 
      I always figured youd be a better father 
      than you were a soldier. 
           (trying)
      That was the plan anyway.

Chris watches the kids, hits his beer--

               CHRIS
      Its like theyre all grown up. 

She hears him distancing himself from responsibility. 

               TAYA
      I dont know what your head is telling 
      you, Chris, but I know its lying. 

She puts a hand on him. His head falls. When he looks up-- 

COLTONS BIRTHDAY PARTY

Streamers and balloons against a grey sky. 6 YEAR OLDS 
and PARENTS mill around, but all WE HEAR-- 

               TAYA  
      I know how hard you fought. I know all 
      that you gave up to protect us... 

COLTON AND TWO FRIENDS chase each other around the yard.

               TAYA  
      But youre not done. Its not over-- 

THE SHEEPDOG jumps on the back of COLTONS FRIEND. The 
boy goes down hard, gets up crying, running from the dog. 

               TAYA  
      Youre gonna have to fight for us.

The Sheepdog bounds after the boy and jumps on his back 
again. THE BOY FALLS AND HIS CRYING is all we hear--

THE BOYS MOM runs over. His back is clawed up, bleeding-

               BOYS MOM
      Get him off!--

Chris rips the dog off by its collar and drags him across 
the yard in a shocking display of violence. 

INT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

Chris holds the dog down, scolding him when-- THE DOG 
SNAPS at him. Chris rips his .45 from his belt and with a 
boot on the dogs neck hes ready to shoot--

               TAYA 
      No! Chris. Dont-- 

He looks up, bent with animus.

               TAYA  
      He doesnt know! Hes just a puppy. 

Chris comes to, releasing the dog. He watches, confused 
when it hurries to Tayas side. Her protector. 

FADE TO:

HEADLIGHTS swerve across the road. We are--

INT. FORD F-350 - NIGHT

Chris is careening down a tree-lined street. His hand 
loses the wheel. The truck ramps over a curb, splinters a 
picket-fence and CRASHES INTO-- 

INT. RESIDENTIAL HOME - CONTINUOUS

Glass and drywall rain down. The airbag throttles Chris-- 
WHOOMPH! He tumbles out, nose bleeding, concussed. Hes 
standing in a kitchen so he opens the fridge. 

ANOTHER ANGLE - APPROACHING POV

Chris opens a beer bottle with his teeth and takes a 
slug. A SHOTGUN BARREL extends into frame. 

               HOMEOWNER 
      -What the fuck did you do, boy?

INT. MINIVAN (PARKED) - NIGHT

POLICE LIGHTS whirl across the windshield. Chris sits in 
the passenger seat, staring at the house he drove into-- 
his face pinched with emotion, he breaks down sobbing. 


               CHRIS
      I couldve killed them...

PULL BACK to see Taya sitting behind the wheel. 

               CHRIS 
      I couldve killed them all...

She doesnt understand but she sees him shedding his skin 
so she reaches for him. Its her turn to protect him. 

EXT. VETERANS HOSPITAL - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY

The mini-van pulls up. TAYA at the wheel. CHRIS looks up 
at the faded hospital. His wife touches his shoulder. 

INT. VETERANS HOSPITAL - DAY

Harsh light. Water-stained walls. CHRIS looks beaten, 
afraid and dubious of this buttoned-down NAVY DOCTOR. 

               NAVY DOCTOR
      My guess would be you saw things, or 
      maybe you did some things, you wish you 
      hadnt. Some soldiers can cope with that 
      and some cant. We treat the--

               CHRIS
           (low)
      Thats not me.

               NAVY DOCTOR
      Whats not you?

               CHRIS
      Thats not who I am. When I aim... 
           (breath fills his lungs)
      When Im on you...the world falls away 
      and my heart-rate drops through the 
      floor. Im more relaxed killing you than 
      I am talking to you. And I did. I ended 
      some evil men, and I will stand before my 
      creator and answer for every shot I took. 
      Thats not it--
           (flushes with shame)
      Its the guys I couldnt save. Those are 
      the faces I see. Thats my regret-- that 
      I couldnt hold on longer. That I 
      couldnt do more.


               NAVY DOCTOR
      When we go to war there are two wars we 
      fight. The one over there, then one at 
      home. You want to save people, walk down 
      any hall in this hospital. We have plenty 
      of soldiers that need saving. 
           (pulls prescription pad)
      Im going to recommend Zoloft and-- 

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

CHRIS exits the office, crumpling up the prescription and 
heading down the hall to-- 

EXT./INT. REC ROOM

A window looks in on TEN YOUNG VETERANS sitting around a 
TV. They stare blankly at it; wounded, edgy, in need. 

Chris enters the room and takes a seat among them. 

INSIDE 

Chris watches TV with them, Jerry Springer.  

               CHRIS
      Whose in charge of the remote up in here?

A large, legless Marine looks up. He has a jelly-roll 
face like Biggles once did. This is WYNN.

               WYNN
      I am. You got a problem? 

               CHRIS
      I got lots of problems, man. But Jerry 
      Springer is right up there.

               WYNN
      Then you havent been here long. 

MORE VETS look over. 

               CHRIS
      This all yall do? Sit around and watch 
      this garbage.

               WYNN
      Pretty much. 

               CHRIS
      You a shooter?

               WYNN
      I was. Howd you know? 

               CHRIS
      Your shoulders. Theyre fuckin lopsided. 
      Nobody told you your shit is lopsided?

Chris mimics how one shoulder is higher than the other, 
poking fun. Wynn laughs and sun flares through window--

MATCH TO:

A circle of light surrounds the EYE OF WYNN. We are--

EXT. SHOOTING RANGE, UNIDENTIFIABLE LOCALE - DAY

CHRIS kneels before WYNN who is armed with a 300 Win-Mag. 
The gun rests on Chris shoulder. Wynn takes aim, FIRES--

               CHRIS 
      Hows it feel?  

               WYNN
      Feels like The Legend is trying to fuck 
      up my shot. Stay still, man. 

ON CHRIS

His eyes calm, like hes finally found some peace. BAM! 

               WYNN 
      Bulls-eye, boy! Damn, if that dont make 
      me feel like I got my balls back. 

Chris laughs, stands, dusting himself off. Uprange, JEFF 
KYLE is helping MORE GUYS from the VA. 

               WYNN 
      Dont you have a family? Why are you 
      spending all this time with us?  

               CHRIS
      I heard you had a nice boot collection 
      before the war and I figured since you 
      wont be needing them... 

               WYNN
           (laughing)
      Dumbass. Seriously. Why do you do it.  

Chris grows still, looking into the sun.

               CHRIS 
      We gotta take care of our own.

INT. POOL (UNDERWATER)

CHRIS SWIMS through aqua blue water looking up at 20 
INJURED VETERANS, many with stumps for arms and legs. 
They are splashing around with A DOZEN PATRIOTIC SORORITY 
GIRLS; their sun-kissed bodies in string bikinis. 

Sunlight bounces across the surface of the water and 
reflects down on him. A glorious vision. 

FADE TO:

A MOVING TRUCK passes a road-sign: WELCOME TO TEXAS 

EXT. KYLE HOME - MIDLOTHIAN, TEXAS - DAY

A residential neighborhood. Flags wave from stoops. CHRIS 
and COLTON carry boxes inside. MAX THE SHEEPDOG bounds 
along with them and never leaves Chris side.  

               COLTON
      And youll wake up here, then go to work, 
      then come home again? Every night?

               CHRIS
      Every night, bubba. And Im gonna teach 
      you to hunt and fish like my dad taught 
      me. 

Taya stands in the window watching the gentle way Chris 
has with him; her boy has a father.  

               COLTON
      Dad...fish are kinda gross.

               CHRIS
      Yeah, I never liked fishing much.  

Chris looks over the gentle sloping hills, finally home. 

INT. CHURCH - DAY

A bright church. Chris wears that BELT BUCKLE he won long 
ago. Taya sings from a hymn book. Chris stares at her.  

               TAYA
      Whatre you looking at.

               CHRIS
      Just imagining what youll look like when 
      were old and grey. 

               TAYA
      Do I hold up alright?

               CHRIS
           (whispers)
      Id still do you. 

That boyish playfulness is back. She takes his hand.  

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Chris and Taya make love. He worships her with his touch.   

EXT. FIELD - DAWN

A tapestry of fading stars hang over a prairie as the 
first rays of morning paint the land golden. 

A WHITE-TAIL steps out of the brush. It looks toward us--

A SHOT RINGS OUT 

REVERSE TO COLTON on the gun. He leaps from a deer-blind. 

               COLTON
      I got it, dad. 

               CHRIS
      You sure did. 

Chris looks proud and apprehensive in equal measure.  

               CHRIS 
      You have a gift, son, but this gift comes 
      with a responsibility. When you pull the 
      trigger, you do it for the right reason.  

Colton nods with clear-eyed intent. Chris drapes an arm 
over his shoulders as SCORE BUILDS--

CHYRON: FEBRUARY 2, 2013

INT. KYLE HOUSE - DAY

The blinds are screwed open and dust motes drift across 
horizontal blades of sepia light, falling on Chris. Hes 
twirls an antique six-gun around his finger and--


               CHRIS       Get em up, lil lady. Hands in the air. 

TAYA is at the window gazing at their kids in the yard. 

               TAYA
      Can I tell you something.

               CHRIS
      Tell it to the judge. 

               TAYA
      Im proud of you and I dont say it 
      enough. I feel blessed. Youre an 
      incredible father and-- I feel lucky to 
      have my husband back. 

               CHRIS
      We could lock the doors. They cant get 
      out of the yard. 

               TAYA
      I know how hard you fought to get here. 

               CHRIS
      Youre worth fighting for. 

She moves through the light. He kisses her, lifting her-- 

               CHRIS 
      I meant what I said about locking the 
      doors. 

               TAYA
      Arent you guys going to the range? 

               CHRIS
      Not for four minutes. 

               TAYA
      Is that all it takes. 

               CHRIS
      Itll take half that. Then I got two 
      minutes leftover just to look at you. 

The front door opens and a BURLY NEIGHBOR with a wide 
smile enters. This is CHAD LITTLEFIELD. 

               CHAD LITTLEFIELD
      Six-guns and sex standing up, just 
      another day living next to The Legend. 


               TAYA
      Hey, Chad. 


               CHAD LITTLEFIELD
      Whas up, girl.

               CHRIS
      You dont knock? 

               CHAD LITTLEFIELD
      Would you answer if I did?

               CHRIS
      Im a busy man. 

               CHAD LITTLEFIELD
      I see that. 
           (opens fridge)
      Whos this kid were taking out? 

               CHRIS
           (eyes on Taya)
      A former Marine. His mom works at our 
      school and thought hed like it if I took 
      him out. 

               CHAD LITTLEFIELD
      Hell yeah. Who doesnt want to go 
      shooting with the Legend? 

COLTON and McKENNA race in.  

               COLTON
      Dad, you want to play Skylander? Please--

               CHRIS
      When I get back. But only if you let me 
      win. 

               COLTON
      No way.


               MCKENNA
      Poke the bear-- 

McKENNA pokes Chris and he BARKS like a dog.

               MCKENNA 
      No. Youre supposed to roar. Like Grrr.

She pokes him again and Chris emits a RUMBLING ROAR. She 
giggles and hugs him so hell save her. 


               CHAD LITTLETON      Better get going...

Chris kisses his daughter and tosses his sons hair. 


               CHRIS
      Look after our women, Bubba. 
           (turns to Taya)
      Love you, babe. 

               TAYA
      Love you too. 

Chris kisses Taya and lingers, smiling like a schoolboy; 
his eyes worship her just like he promised. And, for a 
moment, he appears immortal in the bladed light. Then-- 

HIS IMAGE DISSOLVES in front of her, fading like a 
memory. Chad is gone too. The house quiet. Colton plays 
video games. McKenna colors. Max lays by the door. 

Taya screws the blinds closed, bringing darkness. 

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The black F-350 roars down two-lane blacktop.

INT. F-350 (MOVING) - DAY

CHRIS, driving, glances up at the REAR-VIEW MIRROR and 
the DARKENED KID(28) hiding under a ball-cap in the 
backseat. He talks haltingly and we never see his eyes. 

               CHRIS
      Its not easy getting back. I know that. 
      But we dont have do this thing alone. 

               DARKENED KID
      You know, I saw you once... on a plane... 
      You didnt see me, but I saw you... 

He watches the kid a moment but cant get a read on him.

               CHRIS
      We fought together, now we heal together. 
      Im going to look after you, Eddie.   

The sun burns over the hills, blasting them with light.


EXT. SHOOTING RANGE, ROUGH CREEK - EVENING

LOW ANGLE- Wheels crunch gravel, stopping on a wide-
promontory. Doors open, boots hit dirt on passenger side. 

FIND CHRIS, behind the wheel, removing his wedding band 
and hanging it from his necklace. Hes about to drape it 
around his neck but hangs it from the rear-view instead. 
He watches it twist there, catching the sunlight. 

IN REAR-VIEW MIRROR

A shadowy reflection of Chris and Chad crossing to the 
shooting deck as the dark one trails behind. 

CARD(1): Chris Kyle retired from the Navy in 2009 as the 
most lethal sniper in United States military history.

SFX: A GUNSHOT SOUNDS and echoes across oblivion. Then 
another. And another. A six gun salute. 

CARD(2): On February 2, 2013, Chris Kyle was killed on a 
shooting range by a former Marine he was trying to help. 
He died as he lived, looking after one of his own.

EXT. HIGHWAY

A funeral procession appears from over the distant ridge. 
Rain falls as the well-worn voice of Randy Travis sings 
Amazing Grace. Police escorts lead a white hearse and 300 
vehicles down a highway lined with people waving flags. 

               TAYA KYLE 
      ....Chris, there isnt enough time to 
      tell you everything you mean to me and 
      everything you taught me. I know you had 
      no idea you were teaching me, but there 
      is something only God and I have known 
      for a long time-- God worked through you 
      to make me into the woman I am supposed 
      to be. I almost feel sorry for you, babe, 
      cause God knew it would take the 
      toughest, big-hearted man on earth to get 
      a hard-headed and cynical, hard-loving 
      woman like me to see what God needed me 
      to see-- and he chose you for the job. He 
      chose well. You taught me reckless love 
      without abandon. You taught me how to 
      turn a life full of fear into a life full 
      of faith. You taught me that I could be 
      more independent than I ever wanted to 
      be. 

               TAYA KYLE  
      You taught me how to raise children with 
      love and softness and proved it could be 
      done with a high standard of respect and 
      old fashioned values. 
           (a feint Taps plays)
      You taught me that I could forgive more 
      deeply than I ever thought I could. You 
      taught me that Im okay just the way I am 
      and that, no matter what life lays in 
      front of you, it is unwise to worry or 
      over-think it because even in the worst 
      of times life has a way of working out. 
      You showed me that in life, even in 
      death, some people are always with you. 
      I love you Chris... 
           (weeping, whispering)
      I love you. I love you.  

The last car passes. TAPS concludes. A CIVILIAN stands 
alone in a muddy field saluting a fallen hero.   

               SEAL TEAM THREE 
           (rising, in unison)
      Hooyah, Chris Kyle. 

THE END

