                ARGO
                 by
              Chris Terrio

           Based on true events

             March 25, 2010

Smoke House
(818) 432 0330


INT. BATHROOM STALL - DAY
LUKE KNOWLES, late 20s, a slight Texan drawl. His face is 
bruised and his mouth is swollen. Hes cowering on the floor 
of the stall next to a toilet filled with vomit and shit. He 
speaks quietly and urgently.

             KNOWLES
      Shes looking at me, is first of 
      all, shes staring at me like a 
      Chinese waiter and the dress, 
      Shirley Temple, Good Ship Lollipop, 
      shes saying off, take it off her, 
      and I hear it, school p.a., Voice 
      of America, and its loud, its 
      saying, This is not a clean world. 
      This is a dirty world. So I said 
      it, I said, Here I am Lord. I got 
      no strings to hold me down so You 
      Show Me. You show me how to clean 
      this dirt -- 

Someone -- and we can only see his back -- leans down, close 
to Knowles. Tries to pick him up. Knowles recoils. Then, a 
voice. Its quiet, and patient, and it feels like safety.

             MENDEZ
	(O.S.)
      Look at me. I will help you, but 
      you need to trust me. This is what 
      I do. I get people out.

A blank look on Knowless face. Unclear whether he 
understands this, or anything.

The reverse: TONY MENDEZ, mid-40s, our hero. Fifth generation 
American. Hes had 19 years with the CIA and hes the best 
exfiltration specialist the agencys ever had. 

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Take a minute.

And Knowles nods. Barely, but he nods.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Tony leaves the stall and closes the stall door. Were in an 
empty and decaying bathroom in need of a Five Year Plan.

Super: MOSCOW - March 6, 1979

And a MAN IN A BLACK COAT, 30s, enters. Goes to a rusty sink 
to wash his hands. Tony stands next to him, washing his own 
hands, and speaks, barely moving his lips. 


             MENDEZ      Who was she?

The man -- BURROUGHS -- answers, as quietly, and in American 
English.

                                      2.

             BURROUGHS
      A prostitute. He used her 
      stockings. Around her neck.

             MENDEZ
      How the fuck did he get past 
      O.M.S.?

             BURROUGHS
      Every screening with flying colors. 
      No schizos in the family... Tony. 
      Ops just gave a stand-down. 
      Colmans saying give him up to the 
      ments. Disown.

             MENDEZ
      He had full officer status. He  
      comes out.

             BURROUGHS
      Youre not authorized.

Mendez turns the faucet to full and leans in to Burroughs, 
holding his arm. Hard.

             MENDEZ
        (in Burroughss ear)
      In his rotting brain is the name of 
      every embassy chauffeur and typing 
      girl hes ever brought in for us. 
      We disown, he talks, they die.

Mendez holds out his hand. Burroughs hesitates. Then hands 
over two PASSPORTS with burgundy covers.

Knowles, now standing, opens the stall door.

INT. LENINGRADSKY RAIL STATION - DAY

Mendez, guiding Knowles, who moves his lips like an autist. 
They walk out a door where a BATHROOM ATTENDANT, a pensioner 
in her 70s with an Eisenstein face, sits outside with a 
change cup. 

And they move into the crowds of a busy Old World-style rail 
station with a drab Soviet make-over, a bust of Lenin on a 
pedestal.


                                      3.
Mendez leads Knowles past SOVIET GUARDS wearing shapkas and 
holding automatic weapons. Down a train platform where signs, 
in Cyrillic and Latin alphabet, show the destination: 
HELSINKI. To the second car of a boarding train. 

INT. TRAIN - DAY

A KGB BORDER OFFICER waits inside the train, at the door to 
the cabin. Mendez gives him one of the burgundy passports. 
Knowles, on another planet.

             MENDEZ
	(RUSSIAN)
      My brother is ill. Im taking him 
      home to Helsinki. 

Border Officer looks at Knowles, then at the passport -- its 
a FINNISH PASSPORT with Knowless picture. Border Officer 
waves Knowles into the car and Knowles goes. But he STOPS 
Mendez.

             BORDER OFFICER
	(RUSSIAN)
	(CONTD)
      Your passport.

Mendez looks into the crowded car where Knowles now moves 
down the crowded aisle. He gives the Border Officer another 
burgundy passport. Border Officer opens it: another FINNISH 
PASSPORT with Mendezs picture on it. 

Now Knowles is invisible behind passengers jamming luggage 
into the overhead racks.

Border Officer feels the texture of Mendezs passport. Holds 
it up to light. Looks at the name and address again.

             BORDER OFFICER
	(CONTD)
        (now, speaking in FINNISH)
      You live on Temple Street. Near the 
      food stalls.

             MENDEZ
        (answering in FINNISH)
      No, sir. The food stalls are in 
      Market Square. On the other side of 
      the city.

It was a test. The Border Officer, satisfied, nods Mendez  
through. 

Mendez, moving inside the railroad car, scanning the seats. 
No Knowles. Pushing past Russians in the aisles. Still, no 
Knowles. 


                                      4.
Now Tony, on the opposite end of the cabin, goes to the door 
of the train looks out onto the platform. Hears a voice. In 
English.

             KNOWLES
	(O.S.)
      Look!

Knowles, standing at the edge of the track opposite.

             KNOWLES
	(CONTD)
        (yelling to Tony)
      IM CLEAN NOW!

And with that, Knowles STEPS OFF THE PLATFORM AND IN FRONT OF 
A TRAIN that is pulling onto the opposite track.

A moment while this lands on Tony. Then, alarm sirens. 
Russians converging from all directions, rushing to the 
tracks.  

Tony stands at the door, watching, as his train starts up and 
pulls away.

                             FADE TO BLACK.

WARNER BROS. presents (etc.)

An AMERICAN FLAG is burning in the street. Were watching 
ARCHIVE FOOTAGE of anti-American protests in Tehran, in front 
of the American Embassy. The long-accruing rage of a long-
suffering population has found its outlet here, at a black 
gate on Avenue Taleghani.

Effigies of Jimmy Carter -- crowds chanting Magbar Cartar! 
Magbar Ahmrika! -- fists in the air.

Then, in a famous piece of archive footage, something simple 
happens. A YOUNG MAN IN A SWEATER climbs the gate and makes 
it to the other side. Maybe we see it happen twice or three 
times, or magnified.

Super: TEHRAN - NOVEMBER 4, 1979

And now, we see the REVERSE of that famous shot. This isnt 
archive footage any more. Were looking at the The P.O.V. of 
a MARINE from within the U.S. Embassy, from Guard Post Number 
One.

MAIN TITLE over a CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISION image: IRANIAN 
PROTESTORS are coming over the fence.

             VOICE OF MARINE
      Fort Apache is breached. Fort 
      Apache is BREACHED.


INT. U.S. EMBASSY, CHANCERY - MORNING
Total chaos inside the Chancery, the nerve center of the 
embassy. ANN SWIFT, 39, thick glasses, Deputy Political 
Officer. 

                                      5.

             ANN SWIFT
        (on the phone)
      ... a dozen, a couple dozen ...
        (she looks to an AIDE by 
         the window)
      Okay now hes saying hundreds... 
      Bruce? Hes saying hundreds.

EXT. U.S. EMBASSY GROUNDS - MORNING

YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN -- about 2/3 men 1/3 women -- the men 
dressed in sweaters, button down shirts, some with flak 
jackets; about half the Young Women wear full chador, the 
others sweaters, jeans, and veils. They are now screaming and 
shaking their fists at the doors to the Chancery Building. 
Many of them wear bibs with pictures of AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI. 

When one YOUNG MAN wearing a green military field jacket 
raises his fist, we can see that he has a concealed AUTOMATIC 
WEAPON in his clothes.

INT. CHANCERY - MORNING

The noise of the crowd outside -- the sound of DOCUMENT 
SHREDDERS, everyone on a different phone. Its like an 
emergency room where the patient is the whole building.

             ANN SWIFT
      Now Als ... Hello?
        (on the phone)
      Als saying they just want to stage 
      a sit-in ... yeah, I think ... Does 
      Ed have the Ministry? Can we get 
      some fucking police please?

INT. MARINE GUARD POST 1 - MORNING

MARINE JIMMY GALLEGOS, 20s, hangs up a phone. To another 
Marine.

             JIMMY GALLEGOS
        (trying to process what he 
         just heard)
      He says dont fire. He says open 
      the gates.


                                      6.
U.S. EMBASSY GROUNDS - MORNING

A WIDE of the gates opening and A FLOOD OF HUMAN BODIES 
entering the compound.

Then, the sound of women wailing and praying --

INT. U.S. EMBASSY, TEHRAN; CONSULATE BUILDING - MORNING

Its two IRANIAN WOMEN in chadors in the floor, praying for 
deliverance. This is the part of the Embassy that grants 
visas, and these people were applying this morning.

The LIGHTS in the building go out and there is a SCREAM from 
the women. Move past them to find...

SIX EMBASSY EMPLOYEES -- four men, two women (much more about 
them later) are in a kitchen area in the office. 

One of the six, LEE SCHATZ, 33, has taken from his wallet a 
battered holy card with the Infant of Prague on it and is 
mouthing a prayer to himself.

MARK LIJEK, 29, is attending to his wife CORA LIJEK, 26, who 
is sitting on the floor, breathing heavily.

BOB ANDERS, 55, an embassy consular officer, on the kitchen 
phone.

             BOB ANDERS
        (on the phone)
      ... yeah ... yes ...
        (to the others)
      Ann wants us to stay where we are.  
      Police are coming --

EXT. U.S. EMBASSY GROUNDS - DAY

An IRANIAN POLICE OFFICER kisses one of the PROTESTORS on the 
cheek in a warm gesture. Another APPLAUDS.

Hell breaking loose. Now there must be a THOUSAND ANGRY 
PROTESTORS on the Embassy grounds. YONUNG MEN now carry 
AUTOMATIC WEAPONS openly. A YOUNG WOMAN IN A CHADOR speaks 
into a captured Marine walkie: the sight is bizarre, like 
seeing a nun with a gun.  A BEARDED YOUNG MAN in a green 
jacket smashes a basement window on the Chancellery Building.

INT. CONSULATE BUILDING - MORNING

KATHY STAFFORD, 28, is now attending to Cora.


                                      7.
     		MARK LIJEK
	Wolf-pack, Joe --

		JOE STAFFORD
	Listen to me.

             MARK LIJEK
      My wife is pregnant -- she cant 
      breathe -- Im not taking her 
      running through the goddamn --

JOE STAFFORD, 35, consular officer, choosing his words to the 
other five in his group.

             JOE STAFFORD
        (interrupting)
      Listen to me. We are in the only 
      building with an exit direct to the 
      street, away from the riot. We are 
      going.

A hand on Mark Lijeks shoulder. He turns around. Cora, now 
standing up. She nods at her husband.

And we start to hear the sound of a CROWD shouting --

ARCHIVE FOOTAGE

The much-played clip of AL GOLACINSKI, embassy security 
chief, blindfolded, being prodded and led down the front 
stairs of the embassy. Angry Crowds jeering at him.

             MALICK
	(V.O.)
      At least 60. They say theyre not 
      letting them go til we expel the 
      shah.

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS CENTER - 3:30 A.M.

All hell breaking loose here too -- telexes from all over the 
world -- KERRIGAN, MALICK, BRICE, 30s, State Department mid-
level Aides entering the Ops Center.

     		KERRIGAN
	These fucks can hit us, we 
	cant hit back?

		MALICK
	Mossadeq -- Banquos ghost --

             BRICE
        (to Kerrigan)
      A fly cant bird but a bird can 
      fly.

     		ANALYST
	(entering, to 
	Lieutanant)
	Weve got a red coming in 
	from 0-12 -- Canada --

		KERRIGAN
	Whyd we let the prick into 
	the country? 


             MALICK      Things have consequences. We de-
      balled an entire population --

                                      8.

SUPER: S/ES-O, STATE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS CENTER

      		ANALYST 2
	Ah-yup, sombodys lobster 
	trap drifted into their wah-
	tahs -- No doot aboot it --

		KERRIGAN
	You think the fucking 
	Russians would put up with 
	this? Im serious --

             BRICE
        (to Analyst 2)
      Get rid of it --

Analyst 2 picks up the ringing line.

             ANALYST 2
        (picking up phone)
      Operations.

PUSH IN on Analyst 2 as he listens.

             ANALYST 2
	(CONTD)
        (to the others)
      Shhhhhhhhh....
        (then)
      Hold on holdonholdonholdon --

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT, SEVENTH FLOOR - NIGHT

HICKEY, 40s, balding, skinny, perpetually stressed. He picks 
up a phone.

             HICKEY
      ... with the Canadians? 
        (he covers the phone, to 
         the room)
      Five got out!

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT, SEVENTH FLOOR - NIGHT 

Setting up a war room in the background. Fluid -- camera 
seems to glide from scene to scene -- Hickey charges down a 
hallway. Kerrigan and a couple of Hickeys guys, WEINER and 
BATES, follow.

             KERRIGAN
      Six.

             HICKEY
      Gulden told me five.


       		BATES	(turning behind him)
	Schafer! Schafer!

       		WEINER
	(entering)
	You still havent found 
	Schafer?

       		BATES
	No, I was screaming his name 
	cause cause I was fucking 
	him.

                                      9.

		KERRIGAN
	(to Hickey)
	Six now. Another one joined
	them. Six.

		HICKEY
	Howd they get out?

		KERRIGAN
	I guess they -- ran.

             HICKEY
	(CONTD)
        (to Brice)
      	Oh, you think?

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

SIX STAPLED PAGES with PHOTOGRAPHS. In the hands of SECRETARY 
OF STATE CYRUS VANCE, 62, a former Navy man who is used to 
telling important people what to do.

             VANCE
      ... this is them? 
        (to Hickey)
      Explain it to him...

Hickey speaks to a STATE UNDERSECRETARY as we begin to move 
down a line of panicked State Aides.

             HICKEY
      Six Americans escaped the embassy 
      during the takeover. Theyre hiding 
      at the Canadian Ambassadors house. 

             KERRIGAN
      Do they stay put? Do they head for 
      the border? Are we attempting 
      rescue?

             BRICE
      Hold for the Secretary --

             VANCE
        (as hes handed another 
         phone)
      -- theres no one -- hello? 
        (into the phone)
      This is he ... 
        (to an Aide)
             


             VANCE	(CONT'D)
      Can we get Ottawa patched? Thats 
      twice I asked, Jenny --  

                                      10.

Coming back -- on phone -- 

             VANCE
	(CONTD)
      Is White House joining?

INT. WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

PUSH toward a door that opens and MEN IN SUITS. Its chaos in 
here. Maps of Iran. The big three plus foreign networks on 
the monitors.

HAMILTON JORDAN, 40s, Carters White House Chief of Staff, 
comes into his office. Passing an AIDE who is putting oranges 
into a bowl on his desk as his office becomes a crisis 
center. 

             JORDAN
        (to Vance)
      We wish it was the fucking Den of 
      Espionage. 
        (to Aide; cross)
      Stop giving me fruit. I dont want 
      fruit... C.I. had three people 
      there, Lighthouse for the Blind, 
      didnt see a revolution coming --

Hes wearing a sweater and jeans, was pulled from a long 
weekend. A White House foreign policy ANALYST hangs on his 
words. JON TITTERTON, a WASP-y Aide to Jordan, is near.

             TITTERTON
      The six with the Canadians --

             JORDAN
        (to Aide)
      Bananas count. Bananas are fruit.

He throws the bananas across the room. Now Vance looks to a 
monitor among four, showing footage of a BLINDFOLDED HOSTAGE 
in front of the Embassy. In fact, all the networks are 
showing some variation on this shot.

AIDES everywhere on a staggering array of phones and a cats-
cradle of wires.

             JORDAN
	(CONTD)
      Sleeping dogs. Weve got 60 with 
      guns to their heads. 


                                      11.
             TITTERTON
      -- who are safer than these six at 
      this point. Rogue komiteh are out 
      hunting, shooting first --

             ANALYST
        (hanging up a phone)
      Bani-Sadrs saying itll be over in 
      24 hours.

             JORDAN
      The six of them are safe for the 
      moment. Theyre hiding. Let them 
      hide.

Hold on black for a breath. Then, the sound of cars.

                              CUT TO BLACK.

EXT. GEORGE WASHINGTON PARKWAY - MORNING

Yellow ribbons along trees on the George Washington Parkway, 
which connects D.C. to Langley, Virginia. A Lincoln drives 
by.

Super: LANGLEY, VIRGINIA -- 69 DAYS LATER

EXT. PARKING LOT, CIA - MORNING

JACK O'DONNELL, 60s, gets out of his Lincoln and heads toward 
a white building that looks like a college campus. Were in 
the era of the Old Building of the CIA. Gleaming green glass 
is fifteen years away. 

Jack is Boston Irish, ended up in the Company because he was 
Eisenhowers bodyguard in France during the War. Hes a 
Second Deputy Chief of Operations.

INT. CIA DIRECTORATE OF OPERATIONS - MORNING

The 1979 CIA headquarters: nothing sleek or sexy about the 
interior either. An open area of desks where Woodward and 
Bernstein might be spilling coffee on their thick 70s ties. 
Papers and files everywhere. Trash emptying happens only once 
a week. Cigarette and cigar butts in ashtrays. Everything is 
perpetually a mess. And typewriters. The constant percussive 
sound of telexes and typing is the metronome that beats out 
the day here.

ODonnell is passing JOEY SEGUNA, 50s, an analyst.


                                      12.
             O'DONNELL
      Officer! Gambling on government 
      property!

             SEGUNA
      Packers at Detroit. Put you down?

             O'DONNELL
      Saturday game, right?

             SEGUNA
      Saturday.

             O'DONNELL
      Im lucky on Saturdays. 

He goes to a small messy KITCHEN AREA to get coffee. On the 
coffeepot somebodys pinned a note: CHANGE FILTER IF YOU USE! 
DO UNTO OTHERS.

WIDE: A young AIDE comes almost running up to O'Donnell. Says 
something we cant hear. O'Donnell leaves his styrofoam 
coffee cup steaming and follows the Aide.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, LANGLEY - MORNING

             O'DONNELL
      Ten weeks States sitting on this? 

O'Donnell is sitting face to face with HAL SAUNDERS, State 
Department Iran Working Group, late 40s, bloodshot eyes. He 
looks exhausted. He hands O'Donnell pages with STAFF 
PHOTOGRAPHS of SIX PEOPLE. 

             SAUNDERS
      We got the call the day it went 
      down. The six of them went out a 
      back exit, Brits turned them away, 
      Kiwis turned them away. The 
      Canadians took them in. Theyve 
      been there since.

             O'DONNELL
      Black for the moment?

             SAUNDERS
      For the moment. Trevor says weve 
      got komiteh with guns going door-to-
      door like Jehovahs Witnesses 
      looking for escapees. Executions on 
      the spot for any they find. 

A beat while that sinks in.


                                      13.
             O'DONNELL
      Carter?

             SAUNDERS
      Shitting enough bricks to build the 
      pyramids. He wants them out. We 
      want to set a meeting with your 
      best exfil guy.

             O'DONNELL
      What you probably want is my second 
      best. Upstairs tends not to like my 
      best exfil guy.

             SAUNDERS
      Why? Whos your best exfil guy?

INT. OTOOLES BAR - NIGHT

             MENDEZ
      Now ODooley himself was amazed at 
      the sight/ Especially to see his 
      own wife/ Attempting to steal 
      Sergeant Henleys chapeau/
      A woman at her time of life ...

Tony. Who is, at the moment, shitfaced. Singing into a 
microphone on a small stage used for events priced out of the 
Knights of Columbus Hall.

Were at a retirement party. Balloons and co-workers mixed 
with family. Mendez goes into the crowd and pulls JIMMY  
TOUZANI, 60s, the retiree, who kind of knows the words to the 
song, up from his table. 

             MENDEZ & TOUZANI
      He soon smelled a rat! To the 
      kettle he ran/He sniffed and 
      Begorra! cried he/ Ill make it 
      bad news for the man who put booze/ 
      In the kettle of five oclock tea!

Applause. Microphone screeches and a couple of the KIDS put 
their fingers in their ears.

             MENDEZ
      I just, I wanna say to Jimmy... 
      were gonna miss this sonofabitch. 
      I wanna say -- Now this is a... 
      This is a great American. 27 years 
      this man gave his country, and --
        (applause)
      And what has got to show for it? 
      Look. A trinket with a bird on it. 


He holds up a SILVER CIA MEDAL. The medal engraved with a CIA eagle given to retiring officers. Mendez bites it. The crowd 
stirs a little. The fast dive from Amusing Drunk to something 
else begins.

                                      14.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Cause they dont knight men like 
      this any more. They knight... where 
      is he?  Wheres Engell? Assholes 
      like this one...

He points into the crowd. An awkward silence.  ADAM ENGELL, 
40s, prematurely jowly, looks into his beer.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      There he is. His Majesty the Deputy 
      Chief, never did a day in the 
      field. Took the Mayflower to Yale, 
      his family trees a wreath. 
        (lifts his drink)
      Thats what goes up in our 
      organization. Shit floats to the 
      top othe bowl. Me and Jimmy, we...

Touzani puts his arm around Mendez to lead him away.

             TOUZANI
      Cmon, Tony.

             MENDEZ
      The mandarins are gone. This is the 
      last white tiger, right here. 
      Youre the last white tiger, 
      sweetheart.

He plants a kiss on Touzanis cheek. Another couple of guys 
come to help Mendez down.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
        (half sung in an Irish 
         brogue)
      ODooley got rich on an aqueduct 
      job and he made a considerable pile 
      --

Tony falls, his drink falling out of his hand. Is helped up.

INT. APARTMENT - LATE 

Tony enters his apartment, turns on a light. The place is 
full of unpacked boxes, like hes recently moved in.


                                      15.
Drunk is giving way to hung-over. He looks at a large 
telephone answering machine. No messages. He thinks. Then 
hits a button on it.

             WOMANS VOICE
      Hi, this is Christine, Tony, and 
      Michael. Please leave us a message.

Tony thinks for a moment. Hits REWIND. Then he hits RECORD.

             MENDEZ
      Hi, this is Tony. Please leave me a 
      message.

He hits PLAY.

             VOICE OF MENDEZ
      Hi, this is Tony. Please leave me a 
      message.

He rewinds. Hits RECORD again.

             MENDEZ
      Hi, this is Tony. Please leave me a 
      message.

Rewinds. But now the phone starts to RING. 

INT. LANGLEY, N.E. DIVISION - MORNING

Mendez -- now wide-awake -- and ODonnell walk fast down a 
hallway. 

The CIA hallways: white concrete with large windows. People 
with laminated badges -- always visible on everyone -- and 
folders with red stripes on them, walk with purpose.

             ODONNELL
      Canadian wire traffic calls them 
      The Houseguests. They were embassy 
      employees. 

ODonnell hands Mendez files with each of the people he 
mentions. Clipped to the files, their State Department 
photos.

             ODONNELL
	(CONTD)
      Mark and Cora Lijek.

When he names them, we cut quickly to the Houseguests getting 
their State Department staff photos taken. Getting a better 
look at them than we did at the embassy evacuation...


                                      16.
Mark Lijek, boyish, wearing thick 70s glasses. His wife Cora, 
also wearing glasses: short, pretty, hair pulled back in a 
headband. Camera FLASHES on them.

             ODONNELL
	(CONTD)
      Joe and Kathy Stafford.

Joe, a high forehead and serious eyes. Kathy, soft features, 
the good-mannered smile of her Southern upbringing. FLASH and  
FLASH.

             ODONNELL
	(CONTD)
      Lee Schatz.

Lee, Idaho native, thick moustache like the Brawny paper 
towel man. FLASH.

             ODONNELL
	(CONTD)
      Bob Anders.

Heavy-set. Could be a college professor, maybe one who hits 
on his students. FLASH.

             MENDEZ
      Are they being hunted?

             ODONNEL
      We got Revolutionary Guards combing 
      the city for anybody who ever 
      looked at an American. Six Yankees 
      are the jackpot. 

             MENDEZ
      Canadian Ambassadors house?

             ODONNELL
      But now the Canadians have had it. 
      Foreign secretary thinks if they 
      shelter them any longer, theyre 
      gonna be next. She cornered Vance 
      in Brussels and told him shes 
      serving eviction papers.

             MENDEZ
      Who else knows theyre there?

Somebody gets into the elevator. The conversation STOPS DEAD.

INT. D.O. FLOOR - HALLWAY

Elevator doors open and the conversation continues.


                                      17.
             O'DONNELL
      Just the families. Meanwhile, some 
      genius in the embassy was keeping a 
      mug book of everybody who worked 
      there. 

             MENDEZ
      Jesus Christ.

             O'DONNELL
      We think it got shredded before 
      they got in, but the pricks are re-
      assembling the shreds. Theyve got 
      carpet-weaver sweatshop kids 
      putting Humpty back together again.
        (to an Aide)
      Hold that! 
        (the door; they go 
         through)
      If the assholes can read OR add, 
      any minute theyre gonna figure out 
      theyre six short of a full deck. 
      Theyre gonna make an example of 
      anybody who escaped, Tony. Shot on 
      sight or standing-room-only for six 
      beheadings in the square.

They go into a room where a meeting is beginning at a long 
conference table.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - A FEW MINUTES LATER

CHUCK COGAN, N.E./South Asia Division Chief, is in charge. At 
the meeting: HENRY DOWNING, 50s, a Directorate of Operations 
officer; and ROBERT PENDER, 40s, from the State Department.

             COGAN
      Okay?

             DOWNING
      Bob Pender from State O.S. Hes 
      been talking to Morgan and ExtAff. 
      Bob.

             PENDER
      What we like for this are bicycles.

             DOWNING
      Weve identified backroads from the 
      Shemiran district -- a couple of 
      rat lines through the mountains to 
      the crossing at Tabriz --


                                      18.
             PENDER
      Cars are off the table because of 
      the roadblocks. So we wait till the 
      weather clears up then we deliver 
      six bikes and provide maps to the 
      Turkish border.

He goes to a map on an easel, indicating the north of Iran.

             COGAN
      Can they all-- I mean, can they 
      ride bikes?

             PENDER
      Were prepared to send in somebody  
      to teach them.

             MENDEZ
      Or you can send in training wheels 
      and wait at the border with 
      Gatorade.

             COGAN
      Sorry?

People shift in the room.

             MENDEZ
      Its 300 miles to the Turkish 
      crossings. Theyd need six months 
      of decathlon training and a support 
      crew behind them with a tire pump. 

             O'DONNELL
      Tonys an exfil spesh.

Pender and Cole look at each other.

             MENDEZ
      The only way outs through the 
      airport. You build them new 
      identities, a moses goes in and 
      takes them out on a commercial 
      flight.

             DOWNING
      They wouldnt get through airport 
      control. Komiteh own the place. The 
      six of them have American accents. 

Mendez takes a long pause. Massages the bridge of his nose.

             MENDEZ
      You know what the problem is here? 
      Exfils are like abortions. 
             


             MENDEZ	(CONT'D)
      You dont wanna need one, but when 
      you do, you dont do the shit 
      yourself. See, what youre doing is 
      bending a clothes-hanger and 
      sticking it up your cooch.

                                      19.

INT. OUTSIDE CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

The participants are leaving the meeting. Tony is standing in 
the hall smoking a cigarette. ODonnell stops at the door, 
looks at Tony, shakes his head, walks on.

INT. MENDEZ APARTMENT - NIGHT

Mendez enters his dark apartment with a bag of Chinese 
takeout. He stands looking at the empty room. For a long 
beat.

INT. MENDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT (CROSS CUTTING)

MICHAEL MENDEZ, 8 and about to turn 9, is watching a movie on 
the couch. He picks up on the second ring.

             MENDEZ
	(O.S.)
      Buddy-man.

             MICHAEL
      Moms asleep.

INT. MENDEZ APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (CROSS CUTTING)

Empty cans and Chinese food containers on a coffee table.

             MENDEZ
      You studying your words?

             MICHAEL
      Yeah.

But Tony can hear a television soundtrack with ominous 
electronic music.

             MENDEZ
      What do I hear?

             MICHAEL
        (coming clean)
      Battlestar Galactica. Am I in 
      trouble?

A beat.


             MENDEZ      What channel?

             MICHAEL
      Nine.

                                      20.

Mendez turns on his living room television to the three-hour 
BATTLESTAR GALACTICA made-for-tv movie plays. Dirk Benedict 
shoots laser beams at robot soldiers in a canyon landscape.

             MENDEZ
      Catch me up.

             MICHAEL
      Okay, so the Cylons are robots, 
      right? They were created by these 
      reptile people who are extinct 
      now...

A HIGH ANGLE on Mendez, asleep, with the phone near his ear, 
a couple more empty cans near him. The last moments of the 
film playing on tv. Mendez half opens his eyes when he hears 
insistent knocking on the front door. 

                                  CUT TO:

             MENDEZ
        (into the phone)
      Michael?

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - NIGHT

Michael, on the couch, also asleep, also with the phone near 
his ear.

INT. MENDEZ APARTMENT - NIGHT

More knocking. Mendez puts the phone on the hook. Opens the 
door. ODonnell.

             ODONNELL
      Two hours Im getting busy signals.

Mendez gestures for ODonnell to come inside, but he doesnt.

             O'DONNELL
      I asked the Kids to meet you on C 
      Street in the morning. You work 
      with them on identities and cover 
      stories for the airport. Come up 
      with something we like and well go 
      pitch upstairs. You can run it. If 
      you wanna run it.
             


             O'DONNELL	(CONT'D)
        (then, an afterthought)
      Its gonna take a miracle to get 
      them out. And the Ayatollahs 
      outlawed miracles.

                                      21.

ODonnell turns and walks away. Mendez watches him go.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, DINING ROOM - NIGHT

At dinner around a dining room table: the SIX HOUSEGUESTS; 
KEN TAYLOR, 40s, Canadian ambassador. He has salt and pepper 
hair in a 70s permanent, thick glasses, does much to support 
the myth that Canadians are always in a good mood. Next to 
him is PAT TAYLOR, Filipino, 40s, a very good ambassadors 
wife and an even better doctor or microbiology. Were joining 
various conversations.

             TAYLOR
      They say rain but it feels like 
      snow to me.

             PAT TAYLOR
        (to Lee Schatz)
      He looked like a cartoon witch 
      doctor, everything but the bone 
      through his nose, but he gave her  
      this herbal stuff... 

Mark Lijek starts to pour wine into Cora Lijeks glass. She 
puts her hand over the glass.

             MARK LIJEK
      I forgot.

Joe Stafford, keeping to himself. 

             KATHY STAFFORD
        (to Joe Stafford)
      You ok?

             MARK LIJEK
        (to Cora Lijek)
      Tell him what you said about 
      Martin. 

  MARK LIJEK
	(CONTD)
(then, in Martins Noel 
Coward voice)
Mahhr-tin.

		CORA LIJEK
	I said ... 

             CORA LIJEK
      Youre terrible. Youre so bad.
        (then, to Bob Anders)
             


             CORA LIJEK	(CONT'D)
      I said he had a personality like a 
      case of the clap. And he heard me.

                                      22.

     		BOB ANDERS
	Noooo.

		CORA LIJEK
	He was coming out of the 
        elevator, but it didnt -- 
        that sound it makes, yknow -- 
        ding --

             BOB ANDERS
      It didnt ding.

             CORA LIJEK
      It didnt ding. So Im going on and 
      on, no idea hes standing there --

The sound of a fork on a glass. Ken Taylor is standing up. 
Holding his wine glass.

             TAYLOR
      I read today that Tehran was voted 
      the second most desirable city in 
      the world to live in. Everywhere 
      else tied for first.
        (hes good at this)
      To getting through ten weeks. To 
      our guests.

             LEE SCHATZ
        (raising his glass)
      Our hosts. Mr. Ambassador... 

     		BOB ANDERS
	Hear, hear ...

		CORA LIJEK
	And Mrs.

But the liquid in their wine glasses is beginning to shake. 
The noise of a HELICOPTER. Its abrupt and loud.  
Searchlights reflect of the china. The mood changes.

             TAYLOR
        (trying to still be 
         pleasant)
      You should get into the crawl 
      space.

INT. CIA, O.T.S. DIVISION; FOGGY BOTTOM OFFICES - MORNING

ANGLE - An old black and white TV --

             FRANK REYNOLDS
      Today, a clear threat to place the 
      remaining 50 Americans on trial as 
      spies.


                                      23.
Television cuts to NILOFUR EKTEBAR --- a.k.a., TEHRAN MARY - 
the Penn-educated Tokyo Rose of the hostage crisis, the 
spokeswoman for the hostage-takers. Shes reading a statement 
to the camera. (America Held Hostage broadcast, ABC News, 
12/8/79) 

In the room: the KIDS. Five analysts with the O.T.S. (Office 
of Technical Services) Division.  MARIO MALINOV, early 30s, 
is Bulgarian and has an accent. Like many of the O.T.S. 
officers of the 70s, he was hired after emigrating from 
behind the Iron Curtain. Malinov is ambitious and speaks with 
the bluntness of Eastern Europe. LAMONT, late 20s, a Masters 
from the Woodrow Wilson School. ROSSI, SLAVIN, CREELY -- 30s. 

     		TEHRAN MARY
	(on TV, perfect American 
	English)
	Those who remain here are 
	spies and will be treated as 
	spies who have interfered 
	with the sovereignty of the 
	people of Iran.

		LAMONT
	(watching)
	If youre gonna have a 
	propaganda girl, get a cute 
	one. She looks like a potato.

Mendez enters the room where the tv sits on a shelf. Its a 
run-down conference room thats also the graveyard of a few 
vending machines. These are the oldest CIA offices, former 
OSS campus adjacent to the State Department.

             MENDEZ
      Im Mendez. Im in charge til they 
      take their medication upstairs.

INT. CIA, O.T.S. WAR ROOM - AFTERNOON

The Kids function like a group of grad students at MIT trying 
to finish a problem set before the uppers wear off. Mendez is 
the oldest in the room by what feels like 200 years.

             MALINOV
      Reporters Option again. They issued 
      70-something --

       		SLAVIN
	-- visas for American 
	journalists.

					74.

LAMONT

             ROSSI
      And the Revolutionary Guards keep 
      them on 74 leashes.

Mendez is massaging his forehead.


             MENDEZ      They get caught with journalist 
      creds, youve got Peter Jennings 
      with a noose around his neck in an 
      hour. 

                                      24.

             LAMONT
      World Noose Tonight.

      		MALINOV
	(almost singsong)
	Again. North American accents 
	give us limited options. So 
	we get the Canadians to issue 
	them passports...

		LAMONT
	Oh, cmon, that was funny.

             ROSSI
      You think theyre gonna leave 
      Canadians alone?

             MENDEZ
      Nobodys chanting Death to 
      Canada. More.

             MALINOV
      Theyre Do Gooders.

             MENDEZ
      More.

             MALINOV
      Six Canadians whove been over 
      there inspecting crops in the 
      countryside. Making sure the kids 
      get enough to eat. Get them creds 
      for an agricultural charity --

Malinov pulls from the binder a photograph of an emaciated 
kid in Namibia.

Mendez starts to go through a newspaper on the table. As if 
distracted by something.

   		MALINOV
	  (CONTD)
	Feed the Children shit -- 
	G.A.D. can make binders with 
	starving kids --

       		ROSSI
	Are there starving kids in 
	Iran? 

		LAMONT
	These kids are black. These 
	are African kids.

		SLAVIN
	We can get ethnically 
	appropriate kids.


                                      25.
       		LAMONT
	Im sure theres skinny 
	kids.. 

		MALINOV
	A logo with... seeds. Seeds 
	of Hope ...

Mendez holds a page from the newspaper up to Malinov.

             MENDEZ
      What do you see in this picture?

A beat. Malinov doesnt like this, but hell play.

             MALINOV
      Tehran.

             MENDEZ
      Whats on the ground?
      Snow.

             MALINOV

             MENDEZ
      So what crops are the do-gooders 
      inspecting under Frosty?
        (after a beat of silence)
      Lets graduate from kindergarten.

             MALINOV
      Okay, three hours in here -- you 
      got any ideas? Or you just got 
      spitballs.

             MENDEZ
      I dont get paid to educate you.

And with that he picks up his stuff and goes. The room is 
silent. 

INT. CIA, CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Tony stands at a vending machine eyeing a 2-tablet pack of 
Excedrin. He puts money in the machine. The Excedrin gets 
stuck halfway down. He bangs on the machine. Hard. Harder. 

INT. FORD BRONCO - NIGHT

Mendez listens to the radio as he drives home along the 
Roosevelt Memorial Bridge, the Washington Monument beyond.


                                      26.
             NEWSCASTER
	(V.O.)
      For the first time in  history, the 
      White House Christmas tree was 
      taken down today after never having 
      been lit, as the cruel stalemate in 
      Iran continues.

This is a montage that jumps around the world -- scenes of 
our principals and overlapping news accounts compete for 
attention.

INT. MUSHROOM INN - NIGHT

A dark room where most of the 53 AMERICAN HOSTAGES are kept. 
Separated by dividers that keep them in groups of two.

One of the HOSTAGE TAKERS -- a 21 year old with an automatic 
weapon -- plays with his gun.

INT. SMALL TOWN BAR - DAY

News footage of men inside a small-town bar. Its a broadcast 
of RON MILLER reporting from barometer community 
Pecatonica, Illinois, on ABC News nightly program, America 
Held Hostage. (11/21/79)

             RON MILLER
	(V.O.)
      So, like the government in 
      Washington, the people in 
      Pecatonica are grappling for 
      solutions.

JACK STROUP, Vietnam vet, red beard, a cap with the Kenworth 
trucks logo, a denim jacket. (This, and all t.v. news 
footage in the script, is real and verbatim).

             STROUP
      Even in our little community here, 
      people are drawn up, theyre tight, 
      theyre tense.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, TEHRAN - NIGHT

             CORA LIJEK
	(OVER)
      It IS a word.

Celebratory noises from Bob Anders, one of the other 
Houseguests, as Cora reads from a dictionary.

  		CORA LIJEK
	(CONTD)
	Opposite of postpone. To 
	move a date forward in time.  

		MARK LIJEK
	Lemme see that. You made that
	up... 


                                      27.
Mark puts his hand over his wifes mouth in a mock gesture of 
silencing her. She hits him with the dictionary.

ANGLE ON -- A SCRABBLE BOARD and its letters, including the 
word PREPONE, spelled vertically in the middle.

VERY CLOSE ANGLE ON -- More letters.  Were looking at pile 
of SHREDDED DOCUMENTS -- a hand pieces shreds together to 
form the words: U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE - TEHRAN - 
CLASSIFIED. Were in a ...

INT. CARPET FACTORY - DAY

Kids at carpet shuttles working with the skill of a 
blindfolded child Mozart at the harpsichord. Beyond them, the 
giant pile of these SHREDDED DOCS where the document 
assembling kids work.

ANGLE  -- CLOSE UP of AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI (Footage from a Mike 
Wallace interview. 60 MINUTES 11/18/79).

As Khomeini speaks, a Translators voice is heard over his.

             KHOMEINI
	(FARSI)
      Our young people have taken over 
      this nest of corruption. They have 
      captured the Americans there. 
      America cant do a damn thing about 
      it --

             FRANK REYNOLDS
	(OVER)
      They marched again today. They 
      march every day.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, TEHRAN - NIGHT

             PAT TAYLOR
        (entering)
      Ken saw trucks on Tajik.

The Houseguests stop playing. Mark helps Cora to her feet. 
Kathy Stafford hesitates.

             JOE STAFFORD
        (to Pat Taylor)
      Kathy doesnt want to go down 
      again.

     		BOB ANDERS
	Jesus Christ --

		JOE STAFFORD
	Shes claustrophobic.

                                  CUT TO:


                                      28.
Back to the ABC News report, the bar in Pecatonica. 

             STROUP
      Im like that guy screamin in that 
      movie-program Network, yknow? Ive 
      had it. And if need be, Ill bear 
      arms again.

ANGLE ON 

     		MARK LIJEK
	Youre putting us all at risk 
	--

		JOE STAFFORD
	Theyre not going to come 
	into the house.

	     LEE SCHATZ
	Pfffft.

		BOB ANDERS
	(angry)
	Reason with them. Put flowers 
        in their gun barrels--

Joe puts his arm around Kathy. But she looks at him, nods, 
then follows the other four Houseguests downstairs. Joe, 
after her.

A CROWD SCENE in TEHRAN. Then, ABC News anchor Frank Reynolds 
addressing the camera (11/24/79).

                                  CUT TO:

             FRANK REYNOLDS
      We know you are weary of seeing 
      them. So are we.

INT. MENDEZ APARTMENT, KITCHEN - NIGHT

Mendez is watching Frank Reynolds on America Held Hostage on 
a small television in his kitchen, eating Campbells soup 
with saltine crackers. On the table, stacks of documents. In 
front of him, a folder with xeroxed photographs of the 
HOUSEGUESTS. 

Mendez changes the channel, switching from Frank Reynolds to 
a local station, where Battle for Planet of the Apes, 
acclaimed as the worst (or maybe second worst) in the series.

ON TV: A desert landscape dotted with technological garbage. 
CAESAR, an ape played by Roddy MacDowell, walks across the 
landscape with two other apes.

Mendez picks up the phone, connected to a long cord, in the 
living room.


INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - NIGHT
CHRISTINE MENDEZ, late 30s, doing the dishes, answers. Her 
hair is pulled back. Shes pretty. Shes trying to hold on to 
the cheerful patience she had when she was a first grade 
teacher, but shes always a bit tired. 

                                      29.

             CHRISTINE
      Hello?

             MENDEZ
	(V.O.)
      Hi.


A beat, then --

             CHRISTINE
      Hes asleep. He sleeps all day at 
      school when you do that.

INT. MENDEZ APARTMENT, KITCHEN - NIGHT (CROSS CUTTING)

             MENDEZ
      I missed him.

             CHRISTINE 
      If you want to see him, see him.

             MENDEZ
      I miss you.

Hes waiting for a return of the serve, and he has to wait a 
long time.

             CHRISTINE
        (soft, sad)
      I know.
        (then, quietly, after a 
         beat)
      Bye.

She hangs up. Mendez looks at the phone for a moment. Then, 
back up at the movie. Mendez starts to put the phone back but 
stops. Hes staring at the television. 

The Apes walk into the ruins of what was once a great city.

             RODDY MACDOWELL (ON TV, AS CAESAR)
      This is the hell my forefathers 
      used to speak about. (etc).

ON TONY STARING AT THE MOVIE. Wheels turning in his head. 

He picks up the phone and dials a number.


ANGLE
From above, A DEAD BODY in a flophouse hotel -- a bullet hole 
in its head, a puddle of blood around it. A BLIND WOMAN with 
a German Shepherd Guide Dog walks into the shot.

The DOG goes to the dead body and starts to LICK the blood.

                                      30.

             A.D.
	(O.S.)
      WERE CUTTING!

WIDER reveals that were on a ...

INT. WARNER BROTHERS SOUNDSTAGE - NIGHT

A DIRECTOR, 40s, shakes head at an A.D., mid-thirties.

             A.D.
        (into a walkie)
      Anybody got eyes on Chambers?

JOHN CHAMBERS, 57, walking onto set. Overweight, ruddy, a 
hypochondriac. A Chicago guy who spent his childhood in a 
tenement next to the El. Imagine Truman Capote as a straight 
man from the South Side and youre pretty close. 

                                  CUT TO:

Chambers pops two Maalox into his mouth.

             CHAMBERS
      Ill tell you what this is. This is 
      Retardo Dog.

Super: BURBANK, CALIFORNIA - JANUARY 19, 1980

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
      No dog who is not a mental 
      defective drinks liquid with pepper 
      in it. 

Re-pouring the blood. Lacing it with pepper.

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
        (friendly, to the dog)
      Yeah? You like that? How bout some 
      roach powder?

             A.D.
      Going again please!

As Chambers walks away --


                                      31.
             P.A.
      Mr. Chambers, theres a Tony 
      calling for you.

             CHAMBERS
      Tony who?

             P.A.
      Mendez, I think?

Chamberss face changes from surprised to curious to annoyed.

             CHAMBERS
      Fuck me.

INT. CIA, CONFERENCE ROOM - MORNING

             DOWNING
      Were waiting on Mendez.

Downing, O'Donnell, Creely, Malinov in a conference room. 
ODonnell looks at the clock.

             ODONNELL
      Start without him.

He nods at Malinov.

             MALINOV
      Weve put together a Teachers 
      Option. Its possible the airport 
      guards wont know that the 
      international schools have been 
      shut down, so w--

The door swings open. 

             MENDEZ
      Hi. Sorry. Hi.

             O'DONNELL
        (trying to figure out if 
         hes making a scene)
      Have a seat, Tony.

He doesnt.

             MENDEZ
      Theyre a Canadian film crew on a 
      location scout for a Hollywood 
      movie in Tehran. 

Shift in the room. Mendez is good at making a room 
uncomfortable.


                                      32.
             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Science fiction -- Star Wars, Star 
      Trek. They need an exotic place to 
      shoot so theyre looking at 
      locations around the world. We put 
      it out...

             MALINOV
        (half under his breath)
       -- take our chances with the 
      Schwinns --

             MENDEZ
      -- the Canadian producers put it 
      out that theyre looking at Turkey, 
      Egypt, whatever -- Then we go to 
      the consulate and say we wanna look 
      at Iran. I fly in there to meet up 
      with the six of them -- and then 
      theyve got a reason to be there. 
      We fly out together as a film crew.

             MALINOV
        (weary)
      In an exfiltration, flamboyant 
      cover identities are red-flags, as 
      they increase operational 
      exposure. Spy 101  --

             MENDEZ
      We trained Iranian intelligence. 
      The bad guys took Spy 101.
        (a beat)
      Thats the reason were batting 
      zip. The cover story to get them 
      out has to be as far-fetched as the 
      situation that put them there.

O'Donnell looks at Downing.

INT. G.A.D. DIVISION - DAY

Graphics and Authentication branch of the Company. Other 
parts of the organization look down on these guys. Treat them 
as service employees.

Mendez, at a desk, is using an exacto-knife to make 
passports. With a magnifying glass, he actually gets close 
enough to separate a single sheet of paper into its component 
two parts.

O'Donnell comes in. Sits at the end of Mendezs desk. Mendez 
doesnt look up. Neither says anything for a long time. Then--


                                      33.
             MENDEZ
      Youre blocking my light.

             O'DONNELL
      Downing and I want you to go to 
      L.A. 

Mendez looks up.

             O'DONNELL
	(CONTD)
      If you can make the movie thing  
      credible, he wants you to pitch it 
      to the Director. 

O'Donnell stands to go, then turns back.

             O'DONNELL
	(CONTD)
      I got these people to trust you. 
      You fuck this up, its not just you 
      that goes down. 

INT. T.W.A. FLIGHT - AFTERNOON

Mendez sits in an aisle seat. The PASSENGER next to him is 
looking at the headline of the New York Times: NEW THREATS 
FOR HOSTAGE TRIBUNALS. 

Mendez is reading FILM PRODUCTION HANDBOOK, Second Edition.

INT. MIDDLE-CLASS TEHRAN HOUSE - NIGHT

Six KOMITEH force their way into a house where a WOMAN 
protests. 

             KOMITEH SOLDIER
      SAVAK! SAVAK!

A Komiteh drags away a MAN in his forties while the mans 
wife cries. Automatic weapons are aimed at him, point-blank.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Pat Taylor helps SHAHEEN, 20s, an Iranian cook/housekeeper, 
clear the table.  Echoing AUTOMATIC WEAPON FIRE in the far 
distance.

             SHAHEEN
      Your friends from Canada, maam. 
      All this time. They never go out.

             PAT TAYLOR
      No. They prefer to stay in.


                                      34.
A significant moment of eye contact.

             SHAHEEN
      Yes, maam.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lee Schatz and Bob Anders play poker at the kitchen table. 
The gunfire audible here too. Staring at their cards. 

             LEE SCHATZ
      50 calibur?

             BOB ANDERS
      Mmm. 50, 35.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, KITCHEN - LATER

Kathy Stafford is roughly washing wine glasses at the sink.

             JOE STAFFORD
      Youve washed them three times.

He puts his arm on her shoulder. She ignores his arm. Keeps 
scrubbing. 

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, BATHROOM - NIGHT

Ken Taylor is brushing his teeth in the mirror. Pat comes in, 
closes the door. 

             PAT TAYLOR
      Shaheen knows.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mark and Cora lie in bed in an upstairs bedroom. Another 
ROUND OF FIRE. Mark puts his arms around Cora. Nudges his 
face close to hers.

             MARK LIJEK
      Its far away.

             CORA LIJEK
      Its closer.

INT. CHAMBERSS STUDIO, WB LOT - DAY

Stunt double-masks, deformed monster foreheads, dental 
implants on shelves. Planet of the Apes prosthetics. 


                                      35.
Mr. Spock ears on styrofoam stands. (Chambers created all 
these -- really).

             CHAMBERS
      They dont open windows in here, 
      you get tuberculosis --

There are busts with prosthetics of womens breasts hanging 
off them near the door. As Chambers turns on lights, he names 
each.

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
      Candace Bergen and Tuesday Weld.

             MENDEZ
      Why do you have their tits?

             CHAMBERS
      Prosthetics to make them look like 
      tits.
        (pointing to another set)
      Elizabeth Taylor. Her tits face 
      apart like they just had a big 
      fight with each other. 

Chambers closes the door. 

             MENDEZ
      Its an exfil. 

             CHAMBERS
      From where?

             MENDEZ
      Worst place you can think of.

             CHAMBERS
      Florida?

Mendez picks up a TIME Magazine under a can of Tab on a make-
up table. Its the November 19, 1979 issue, with blindfolded 
Iran hostages on the cover. Chambers takes it in for a 
moment, then --

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
      How you getting in the embassy?

             MENDEZ
      Not the hostages. Six got away and 
      are hiding in the city. Im going 
      over to get them.

             CHAMBERS
      What are the disguises? 


                                      36.
             MENDEZ
      No disguises.

A beat.

             CHAMBERS
      Okay, me simple island girl, no 
      understand. If there are no 
      disguises, why do you need me?

INT. RAINBOW PANDA CHINESE RESTAURANT - DAY

We slowly move closer to Mendez and Chambers sit in a booth. 
Chambers is looking at PHOTOGRAPHS of the SIX. Mendez is 
taking notes. On a photo of Cora Lijek.

             CHAMBERS
      This ones got an M.A. in English. 
      He should be your screenwriter. 
      Sometimes they go on scouts cause 
      they want the free meals.
        (another photograph; Bob 
         Anders)
      This guys the director.

             MENDEZ
      Can you teach a guy how to be a 
      director in a day?

             CHAMBERS
      You can teach a rhesus monkey how 
      to be a director in a day. 
        (re: something on his 
         fork)
      What does this look like to you? 
      These waiters are V.C. Theyre 
      trying to kill me.
        (scrapes it off)
      Look, if youre gonna do it, youve 
      got to do it.
        (to Chinese Waiter)
      Can you take this away? I dont 
      even... animal, vegetable, or 
      mineral here...
        (Waiter takes plate; back 
         to Tony)
      The Khomaniacs are crazy but 
      theyre not stupid. They have 
      phones. They have relatives who 
      live here. You cant build cover 
      stories around a movie that doesnt 
      exist. You need a script. You need 
      a producer.


                                      37.
             MENDEZ
      Im the producer.

             CHAMBERS
      Associate producer. At best. If 
      its a twenty-million dollar Star 
      Wars rip-off, you need somebody 
      whos a somebody to put his name on 
      it. 

The waiter brings fortune cookies.

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
      Somebody respectable. With credits. 
      Who we can trust with classified 
      information. Wholl produce a fake 
      movie. For free. 

INT. BEVERLY HILLS - EVENING

They walk up the driveway of a more modest version of the 
DeMille House.

             CHAMBERS
      You dont talk. I talk. 

A Mexican Housekeeper answers the door of a house with white 
columns. A scotch terrier watches.

             SIEGEL
	(O.S.)
      Yeah, come in.

INT. SIEGEL HOUSE, HALLWAY - EVENING

And theres LESTER SIEGEL, a semi-legendary producer in his 
semi-legendary seventies. Hes equal parts bookie and rabbi. 
His father sold perfume on the Lower East Side. Lester is 
halfway to dressed in a tuxedo.

             SIEGEL
        (shakes hands)
      I only got a couple minutes. Im 
      getting an award from A.F.I. 
      tonight.

             CHAMBERS
      Mazeltov, Lester.

             SIEGEL
        (leading them in)
      Aaah, Id rather stay home and 
      count the wrinkles on my dogs 
      balls. 


             SIEGEL	(CONT'D)
      These fuckin things are like 
      getting measured for your coffin. 
      He dont look so good, should we 
      give him oxygen? Nah. Give him an 
      honorary award.

                                      38.

                                  CUT TO:

ANGLE - ON TV, Ted Koppel.

             TED KOPPEL
      It has become, in some respects, an 
      international media carnival.

The broadcast cuts to: a JAPANESE REPORTER, then a BRITISH 
one. Standing in front of the Embassy in a sea of cameras. 
(ABC News, 12/20/79).

             SIEGEL
	(O.S.)
      A little experiment. You be me 
      hearing you.

INT. SIEGELS DEN - EVENING

The t.v. were watching sits in a room with a couple of 
Golden Globes and pictures of a younger Lester with Billy 
Wilder in Palm Springs with their thumbs turned up like 
hitchhikers. 

Siegel is smoking a cigar. He turns down the volume.

             SIEGEL
      Six people in the middle of a city 
      of, what, four million --

ON TV, a wild-eyed woman in the crowd (in one of the most 
widely-played clips of the hostage crisis) makes an ax-
falling gesture with her arm repeatedly.

             SIEGEL
	(CONTD)
      -- who chant Death to America all 
      the livelong day. You wanna set up 
      a picture in a week. Lie to a whole 
      town of people who lie to people 
      for a living. And Iranian 
      intelligence. Have Double-O Seven 
      here sneak into a country that 
      wants CIA blood with their 
      breakfast cereal. Then walk six 
      white faces out of the most watched 
      city in the world...


                                      39.
             MENDEZ
      ... past a hundred Revolutionary 
      Guards with Kalashes at the 
      airport. 

             SIEGEL
      Look, I wanna help you, but... You 
      know what our rule was in OSS.? You 
      dont even think about a covert op 
      if theres even a chance of 
      failure. So lemme hit it again for 
      the cheap seats: NO. You both 
      belong in Cedars-Sinai, on the 
      floor that dont allow shoelaces.

Chambers gives Mendez a look and gestures for Mendez to walk 
out with him.

             CHAMBERS
        (to Lester, as he gets up)
      Enjoy your fish dinner tonight.

Chambers stops at the muted television. More images of angry 
crowds. 

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
      You ever think, Lester, how its 
      all for the cameras?

Then the following builds as a crescendo of duelling pianos.

             CHAMBERS
	(CONTD)
      Its all moving pictures. Theyre 
      telling a story for the cameras and 
      the whole world is watching it. You 
      invented this shit, Lester.

             SIEGEL
      Youre goddamn right I did --

             CHAMBERS
      Theyre making the movie, Lester.

             SIEGEL
       -- pioneered this shit, I was 
      Lewis AND Clark out here --

      		CHAMBERS
	Theyre making the movie.

			SIEGEL
	-- trading beads with 
	savages!

A beat of silence. ON Mendez. Who are these men?


                                      40.
             SIEGEL
	(CONTD)
      Cmon, willya?! You think I can be 
      manipulated that easy? 

Siegel looks at the TV: at that moment, an image from the 
same ABC broadcast -- a HOSTAGE TAKER in a cardigan sweater 
holding up black and white photos of hostages for the SEA OF 
CAMERAS in front of him.

             CHAMBERS
	(V.O.)
      How bout The Horses of Achilles?

INT. SIEGELS HOUSE - MORNING

Lesters new A.F.I. award sits under a spiked glass of 
Tropicana a coaster. Stacks of scripts on the table. 
Meanwhile, Chambers, on the hold on the phone, holds up the 
Horses of Achilles script in a William Morris binder. 

             SIEGEL
        (moving stacks of scripts)
      Nobody makes Westerns any more.

             CHAMBERS
        (looking through it)
      Ancient Troy.

             SIEGEL
      If its got horses in the title, 
      its a Western. 

A MEXICAN MAID mouths Lunch to Lester and he nods.

             CHAMBERS
        (then, into the phone)
      Hi, yeah, Im calling about your ad 
      in Variety -- the office space --

INT. SIEGELS LIVING ROOM - DAY

Mendez, on the phone near a fully stocked bar that may have a 
couple of Emmy Awards on it. 

             O'DONNELL
	(O.S.)
      The Cardinal wants all cover 
      options on his desk Friday morning. 

INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - DAY (CROSS CUTTING)

             O'DONNELL
      Theyre prepping the Bikes Option 
      and the Teachers Option. 
             


             O'DONNELL	(CONT'D)
      Youve got 72 hours to make yours 
      better... You there? 

                                      41.

Mendez is looking down at the SCRIPT in front of him. He 
opens to the first page. ANGLE on him reading, thinking.

             ODONNELL
	(O.S.)
      Tony?

EXT. LESTERS POOL - DAY

Mendez walks up to the table where Siegel and Chambers are 
already eating.

             SIEGEL
        (giving Chambers a 
         mozzarella ball)
      These are good. These come from a 
      little place in New York.

             MENDEZ
        (entering, reading)
      Fade in on... An arch with a 
      starship in bas-relief. Were in a 
      temple. An exotic, Middle Eastern, 
      vibe. Women dressed in the colors 
      of their planetary tribes offer 
      ecstatic libations to the sky 
      gods. 

             SIEGEL
      Ecstatic whats?

Mendez throws down the script. Chambers reads the cover.

             CHAMBERS
      ARGO. A science-fantasy adventure 
      by Timothy Harris.

             SIEGEL
        (taking the script)
      I know this script. Its in 
      turnaround. You wanna set it up, I 
      can have the option by tomorrow.

             MENDEZ
      Why do we need the option?

             SIEGEL
      Youre worried about the mullahs? 
      Try the WGA. Theyll shut you down 
      before youve set it up. 
        (reading)
      Mr. Timothy Harris. 


Siegel picks up a huge cordless phone from the table. Starts to dial the number on the front of the script.

                                      42.

             CHAMBERS
      You think its available?

             SIEGEL
      Its available. Ive read it. Its 
      shit on a soda-cracker.

INT. TOPANGA HOUSE - DAY

             SIEGEL
      Its a masterpiece.

Siegel, carrying the ARGO script. TIMOTHY HARRIS, 40s, a 
rolled cigarette in his hand (or a joint) leads Lester, 
Chambers, and Mendez into his house. The house:  picture of 
the Maharishi with the Beatles, a Balinese drum. Harris 
himself: still on a drug trip that started in the summer of 
69. An IRISH WOLFHOUND, about as big as a Clydesdale, 
follows, barking.

             HARRIS
        (to dog)
      GRENDEL, SHUT IT!
        (to the others)
      Well Im not gonna say the name, 
      but believe me, youd -- youve 
      seen his movies, so. Six months 
      this goes on, and finally I had it, 
      I said, Do I tell you how to 
      direct? Do I tell the D.P. where to 
      put the lights? How come everybody 
      thinks they can give notes to the 
      writer?

             SIEGEL
      Awful business. Awful.

             HARRIS
      He says to me, If you dont wanna 
      take notes, go home and write 
      poetry and stick it in a drawer, 
      Miss Emily Fucking Dickinson.

             MENDEZ
      We love the script as is.

             HARRIS
        (to the dog)
      GRENDEL, DROP IT!
        (to Mendez)
      Hmmm?


                                      43.
             SIEGEL
      My mothers grave. We wont change 
      a word.

Harris takes a drag. Looks at them. Then he motions for the 
option agreement from Siegel. Flips through.

             HARRIS
      I dont have my glasses. You gotta 
      show me where to sign.

INT. PRODUCTION OFFICE, COLUMBIA LOT, SUNSET & GOWER - DAY

DOUG, a Maintenance Man in his 60s, black, soft-spoken, 
showing them the office. Someone in his taking down signs: 
PRODUCTION OFFICE - THE CHINA SYNDROME.

             DOUG
      This was his chair right here -- 
      Michael Douglass ass. This chair. 
      One week ago. I sweartagod.

             CHAMBERS
      What about phones?

             DOUG
      Already hooked up. Move-in-ready 
      means move-in-ready. 

             MENDEZ
      Sold.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE, TONYS OFFICE - DUSK

Mendez puts the Argo script on a desk and looks around the 
empty office. Deep breath. Siegel pokes his head in.

             SIEGEL
      Okay?


INT. LESTERS MERCEDES - NIGHT

Lester drives Mendez back to his hotel. 

             MENDEZ
      You got kids, Lester?

             SIEGEL
      Two daughters. I talk to them once 
      a year, maybe.


                                      44.
             MENDEZ
      Whys that?

             SIEGEL
      When they were growing up, my fuck-
      ups were spectacular, both in 
      number and quality. 
        (beat while he drives)
      The bullshit business is like coal 
      mining. You forget to wash it off 
      before you kiss your wife and 
      kids... You?

             MENDEZ
      A son. Hes staying out in the 
      country with his mother and his 
      grandmother. 

             SIEGEL
      Youre divorced?

             MENDEZ
      Taking time off. 
        (then, quiet)
      He loves the woods out there. He 
      named every tree.

ANGLE ON 

A POSTER. Its a space-scape that reads: Studio Six 
Productions presents: ARGO. A COSMIC WAR. Were in the ...

INT. PRODUCTION OFFICE - DAY

Mendez and a Graphics Artist are looking at it on his desk. A 
phone rings.

             MENDEZ
      War sounds like Star Wars. Lets 
      use a different word.

Graphics Artist nods.

WIDER reveals that the production office is being set up. A 
couple of FURNITURE GUYS move chairs in. 

Chambers holds up a telephone to Mendez.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
        (to Chambers)
      Ill take it in there.

Mendez goes into a private office, holding the poster.


                                      45.
             ODONNELL
	(V.O.)
      They caught one of the shahs 
      enforcers two steps from an Air 
      France plane, trying to get to 
      Paris. 

INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - DAY

ODonnell reads from the EYES ONLY document.

             O'DONNELL 
      Quote -- Since the incident, the 
      number of komiteh at the airport 
      appears to have doubled. Background 
      examinations of both nationals and 
      foreigners should be expected. No 
      covers gonna stand up to that 
      shit, Tony.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - DAY (CROSS CUTTING)

Mendez, on phone - 

             MENDEZ
      Stall the Cardinal. Get me more 
      time.

Siegel, meanwhile, has entered Mendezs office. Mendez hangs 
up, sits in his chair looking at the Argo poster, the script. 

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Its not enough.

Siegel picks up the Argo poster.

             SIEGEL
      Ill tell you the lesson you learn 
      when youve got an ingenue with a 
      drug problem. You need to sell a 
      lie, you get the press to sell it 
      for you.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - MORNING

Noisy in here now -- ASSISTANTS and controlled chaos --  

             SIEGEL
        (on the phone)
      Crystal Ballroom, press event and 
      reading... No, I promised Variety 
      exclusive on that one ...


Mendez is making a list with a PUBLICIST.
                                      46.

             MENDEZ
      The Reporter, the Times, agents, 
      managers... Biggest Canadian 
      production in history. 

             PUBLICIST
        (getting into it)
      Canadian Gone With the Wind. 

             MENDEZ
      Canadian Sci-Fi Gone With the Wind.

             SIEGEL
      I think I got us a --

Chambers, on the phone, hands Lester a written message slip. 

             SIEGEL
	(CONTD)
      I DID get us a storyboard artist 
      who draws for D.C. Comics. Hell 
      send some stuff today.

             CHAMBERS
        (on the phone)
      I gotta let you know tomorrow, 
      Phil. I cant get my own mother a 
      ticket, Ive had her crying into 
      the phone... Okay ...

Chambers hangs up.

             MENDEZ
      Why are you turning people away?

             CHAMBERS
      You know what gets more suckers 
      than a sign that says Brooklyn 
      Bridge For Sale? A sign that says, 
      Brooklyn Bridge For Sale: Approved 
      Buyers Only.

Publicist walks in and puts down a newly-delivered copy of 
VARIETY.  Mendez flips through Variety and stops on a full-
page ad, modeled around an explosion in space. (This is real 
- Variety): STUDIO SIX PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS: ARGO: A COSMIC 
CONFLAGRATION.

             MENDEZ
        (to himself)
      Conflagration.

Its not a bad word. 


                                      47.
INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - DAY

ODonnell sits down at his desk, reads a memo lying there. 
From the look on his face, it is bad news.

INT. TONYS HOTEL ROOM - EVENING

Mendez, shirtless, wearing a towel, fresh out of the shower.

             MENDEZ
      Whyd they do it?

INT. O'DONNELLS OFFICE - AFTERNOON

             O'DONNELL
      They did it cause they did it. They  
      dont need a reason. Theyre going 
      with the bikes.

             MENDEZ
      Its a death sentence.

             ODONNELL
      Well then its on them. Wash your 
      hands.

             MENDEZ
      Are they out to help these people 
      or are they out to fuck me?

             O'DONNELL
      They did fuck you. When they cut 
      off the money that means they 
      fucked you.

             MENDEZ
      Im making it work. You came to me.
        (then, again, quietly)
      You came to me.

O'Donnell, slumping in his chair.

A KNOCK on Mendezs hotel door.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Im going to continue to assume 
      money will be there. Because I will 
      assume you will find the money. 

Mendez opens the door. A HOTEL VALET is holding a large 
folder wrapped in brown paper. Mendez grabs at his pants for 
a dollar. 


                                      48.
             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
        (to Valet)
      Thank you.
        (closes the door)
      Because I will make this work. You 
      hear me, Jack? I will make this 
      work.

Mendez tears open the brown paper and holds up a large COMIC 
PANEL - a woman in an elaborate anthropoligcal-tech outfit on 
a desert planet. A label reads: ARGO CONCEPT DRAWINGS.

ANGLE -- Moving over the storyboard drawings. Half a dozen 
renderings of a fantastical ARGO comic-book world. A 
MARKETPLACE selling spices exotic-looking vegetables; a Ben-
Hur chariot race with airborne vehicles; etc.

                                  CUT TO:

             MENDEZ
	(O.S.)
	(CONTD)
      Whats happening now?

             MICHAEL
	(O.S.)
      Just turn on the tv.

             MENDEZ
	(O.S.)
      Its not the same channels where I 
      am. You have to tell.

INT. TONYS HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Mendez is lying on his bed, the storyboard drawings spread 
around the room, a phone near his ear.

             MICHAEL
	(V.O.)
      So the guy from NASA saw the 
      metorite that brought the spiders 
      with it.

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - NIGHT

Michael is watching 1975 B-movie Giant Spider Invasion on 
television. A Wisconsin town is being ransacked by a 
fiberglass spider the size of a U-Haul, and now the rednecks 
have had enough.

	      MICHAEL
	So he measured the gamma rays 
	at the crash site and figured 
	out they must be from an 
	interdimensional gateway.

		SHERIFF
           (into walkie, on t.v.)
        Im down here all by myself! 
	Theyre hell-bent on 
	destroying that beast! Call 
	the National Guard back...


                                      49.
             MENDEZ
      Whats that? Like a black hole?

             MICHAEL
      I think so, yeah. A black hole.

ANGLE - Christine, sitting on the floor in the hallway, 
listening.

INT. G.A.D. - DAY

ODonnell, standing over a desk where a GRAPHICS SPECIALIST 
works, not far from Tonys desk.

             ODONNELL
      Youre back in business.

INT.  ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - MORNING

             MENDEZ 
      Howd you do it?

             O'DONNELL
      A tribe of Karubo Indians in the 
      Amazon arent getting their cash to 
      resist Communist influence. Im 
      putting their money in your 
      account.

             MENDEZ
        (on the phone)
      Youre a great American, Jack.

             O'DONNELL
	(V.O.)
      I havent told you the bad news. 
      The Canadians will only give us 
      fake passports for the Houseguests. 
      Not for you.

INT. G.A.D. - DAY

             O'DONNELL
        (reading a memo)
      Documents will be provided only on 
      humanitarian grounds. Not for use 
      by intelligence professionals. 

             MENDEZ
      So get me a different passport.

ODonnell picks up the passport that a Graphics Specialist is 
working on. 


                                      50.
             O'DONNELL
      Yeah, well. We looked at your alias 
      and did what we could do.

The passport: REPUBLIC OF IRELAND.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - MORNING

Mendez, dressed in a shirt and tie, stands front of a mirror.

             MENDEZ
      Hiii, how are youu. Yeeaouuuu. How 
      arrr yeaouuu? Jaysus. 

Siegel and Chambers, dressed similarly, nearby.

             SIEGEL
        (to Chambers)
      Did he have a stroke?

             CHAMBERS
        (to Mendez)
      Kevin. How about youre an Irish 
      national who was raised in Canada?

             MENDEZ
        (normal accent again)
      Yeah, I think I was raised in 
      Candada.

             CHAMBERS
      I think so.

EXT./INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - MORNING

A black sedan pulls up to the hotel. A Driver opens the back 
door. Mendez, Siegel, and Chambers get out of the car. 
Theyre wearing dark business suits and sunglasses.

They walk past a sign that reads: -- PRESS EVENT and READING 
FOR ARGO -- REGISTER IN LOBBY.  A couple of posters with 
the explosion-in-space ARGO: A COSMIC CONFLAGRATION logo.

IN THE LOBBY - The three standing in front of the double 
doors to the Crystal Ballroom. 

Mendez opens the door, the noise floods out, and we follow 
the three into ...


INT. CRYSTAL BALLROOM, BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - MORNING
Storyboard drawings throughout the room. Four or five ACTORS 
IN SCI-FI COSTUMES. 

Camera flashes. Publicist immediately goes to Mendez and his 
two producers.

                                      51.

             PUBLICIST
      Janet from the Times -- You know 
      Johnny Chambers and Lester Siegel. 
      This is Kevin Harkins. Hell tell 
      you a bit about the film --

We leave Mendez with the L.A. Times -- following Siegel --

             WOMAN
	(O.S.)
      Lester.

He turns around. NINA, a woman in her early sixties, made up 
to look younger.

             SIEGEL
      Nina. Youre gorgeous. Youre in 
      the reading?

             NINA
      Im playing Serksi the Ancient 
      Galactic Witch.

Catching Chambers, who has been grabbed by JASON TROOB, an 
agent --

             TROOB
      -- and shes got chops, shes 
      Juilliard, same as Meryl --

             CHAMBERS
      I think Meryl was Yale --

Siegel, passing Chambers.

             SIEGEL
      Keep that fucking galactic witch 
      away from me.

             CHAMBERS
      You know her?

             SIEGEL
      I was married to her.

Publicist guiding Mendez toward an anemic-looking man --


                                      52.
             PUBLICIST
        (to Mendez, introducing)
      Rodd from Variety. Kevin Costa 
      Harkins.

Now following Mendez and Rodd, who has a reporters pad. 
Publicist hands Mendez a LASER GUN and a Photographer snaps 
his picture. Siegel walks by, downing one from the bar.

             SIEGEL
      -- Serksi the Ancient Galactic 
      Bitch --

             CHAMBERS
        (to a reporter)
      ...the ship that Jason used to 
      rescue the Golden Fleece from the 
      dragon, the Argo --

Picking up Nina, who is talking to an attractive young Actor.

             NINA
      -- Awake and Sing together at the 
      Group. Back when Lester had self-
      respect --

             MENDEZ
        (to Rodd)
      Irish films, mostly. You Irish?
        (Rodd shakes his head)
      Big releases over there.

       		SIEGEL
	Clurman, Kazan -- she fucked 
	Tennessee Williams for 
	Christs sake --

		PUBLICIST
	Lets all take our places for 
	the reading, please! Were 
	starting the reading!

             RODD
        (to Mendez)
      You said shooting in Iran? You ever 
      watch the news?

Nina is walking arm-in-arm to the table with the Young Actor. 
She looks at one of the Droids, who waves to her.

             NINA
      You wanna know something about this 
      business? Art has lost. In a 
      landslide. Wasnt even close. 

And we settle on MENDEZ. He takes a glass of wine from a 
passing waiters tray, downs it, and puts it on another 
WAITERS tray. We follow that Waiter through a swinging door, 
into the Kitchen and Prep area, where a small black and white 
t.v. plays ...


                                      53.
ARCHIVE FOOTAGE -- Tehran Mary speaks into a microphone.

             TEHRAN MARY
	(ON T.V.)
      As the Imam Khomeini said, we have 
      found no evidence that proves that 
      these people are diplomats.

INT. O'DONNELLS OFFICE - DAY

ODonnell, watching the same footage on the News at Noon. 

             TEHRAN MARY
	(ON T.V.)
      All evidence proves that these 
      people are spies.

The ARRAY OF VIDEO CAMERAS on tripods recording her.

             NINA
	(V.O.)
        (as Serksi)
      This man you call a hero is a death-
      bringer. Mirror-bright stars tell 
      truth, and clouds are coming. 

INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL, CRYSTAL BALLROOM - MORNING

The reading of Argo is happening around a table.

             NINA
      This Daughter of Light is a fool to 
      believe the fire of hope yet burns.

INT. AROUND THE CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, TEHRAN - DAY

             MARK LIJEK
	(OVER)
      -- fifty-seven -- fifty-eight --

Mark counts out as Lee Schatz does push ups. Bob Anders 
watches a television in the background, subtitled in Farsi.

             JIMMY CARTER
	(ON T.V.)
      We will not yield to international  
      terror or to blackmail.

INT. MUSHROOM INN, AMERICAN EMBASSY, TEHRAN - MORNING

Five of the EMBASSY HOSTAGES -- men from their 20s to their 
50s -- are roused from their sleeping mats by Komiteh. Hoods 
are put over their heads.


             ACTRESS	(V.O.)
        (as Queen Aleppa)
      One hope. And that is the man who 
      left this place long ago.

                                      54.

EXT. AMERICAN EMBASSY, TEHRAN - MORNING

A handmade sign that reads: CIA PENTAGON UNCLE SAM - VIETNAM 
WOUNDED YOU - IRAN WILL BURY YOU. The usual crowds of 
PROTESTORS outside the gates.

             PROTESTORS
      Magbar Cartar! Magbar Ahmrika!

             TEHRAN MARY
      We will begin the trials and will 
      carry out the sentences.

This MONTAGE should give some sense of the chaos, the 
theatrical chaos, in Iran, and of the waves of that chaos 
spreading 7000 miles away to the U.S. Voice upon voice, image 
upon image, landing on television sets.

INT. BASEMENT, AMERICAN EMBASSY, TEHRAN - MORNING

The four hostages, hoods on their heads, placed against the 
wall. HOSTAGE TAKERS raise their guns at the men.

  		GREEN JACKET
	(FARSI)
	Fire!

		ACTRESS
	(V.O.)
        If we find his ship, we will 
        find him. Aboard the Argo 
	lies my hope. My hero. My 
        husband.

They pull their triggers. But nothing happens. Its a mock 
execution (actually occurred -- February 5, 1980). The five 
hostages, after a beat, either scream or take deep breaths or 
collapse.

EXT.  CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - NIGHT

             MARK LIJEK
      A hundred and twelve -- 

Lee Schatz collapses from his push-ups. Breathing heavily. 

             MARK LIJEK
	(CONTD)
      And we have a new champion.

Bob Anders looks up from Jimmy Carter, who keeps talking in 
the background, and applauds.


                                      55.
SHAHEEN quietly cleans a table. Shes watching the 
Houseguests. 

             MENDEZ
	(O.S.)
        (reading stage directions)
      Crane down over the battlefield and 
      hold there ...

INT. BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL - DAY

Mendez, at the table, flanked by Siegel and Chambers.

             MENDEZ
        (reading stage directions)
      ... on a single red flower growing 
      from the ruins of the starship in 
      the desert sands. Fade to black. 
      The End.

INT. TONYS HOTEL ROOM - LATE 

Mendez, Siegel, Chambers in their clothes from the press 
event.  Theyre lying on the floor. A pizza box and a couple 
of open beers near them. Hold for a long time without anyone 
saying anything.

             MENDEZ
        (from the floor)
      Knock knock.

No one responds.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Knock knock.

             CHAMBERS
      Whos there?

             MENDEZ
      Argo.

             CHAMBERS
      Argo who?

             MENDEZ
      Argo fuck yourself.

A beat, then peals of laughter. Theyre exhausted. This 
counts for hilarious. 


INT. O'DONNELLS OFFICE - EARLY MORNING
NATHAN COX, 28, intercepts O'Donnell coming back from the 
coffee machine. Cox has rehearsed this confrontation for the 
last seven minutes.

                                      56.

             COX
      I just hung up with a Brazil 
      station chief having a seizure. The 
      money for his Amazon project went 
      missing. 

             O'DONNELL
        (not stopping)
      I borrowed it.

             COX
      Thats the Karubo money. Weve got 
      Marxist guerillas 500 miles away. 
      We made a deal with their chief --

             O'DONNELL
      Theyre a Stone Age tribe, Nathan.  
      They dont know what money is. You 
      give them money, they try to eat 
      it. 

O'Donnell goes off with his coffee and cheese danish. 

Waiting in front of ODonnells office is ENGELL. His arms 
are folded. Hes ODonnells boss, and hes not happy.

             ODONNELL
      Yessir, can I help you?

INT. BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL, LOBBY - MORNING

A display of newspapers and trade dailies on a table near a 
breakfast buffet. Mendez picks up the Hollywood Reporter.

ARGO TO BEGIN SHOOTING IN MARCH. Oscar-winner Chambers, 
Siegel Among Producers. And there is a photo of Mendez from 
the press event. He heads out.

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - DAY

             CHRISTINE
        (picking up the phone)
      Hello?


INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - DAY
Mendez holds the Hollywood Reporter with his picture as Kevin 
Harkins.

                                      57.

             MENDEZ
      Good morning.

             CHRISTINE
      You sound good.

             MENDEZ
     I am.
        (simply and meaning it)
      I think Im doing something good.

A beat. She softens.

             CHRISTINE
      Were gonna have his birthday party 
      at a bowling alley. You should 
      come.

             MENDEZ
      Im gonna try.

             CHRISTINE
      Try. 
        (listen I-gotta-go)
      My mothers driving us to school. 
      Shes got the snow-tires, so.

             MENDEZ
      Okay, yeah.

             CHRISTINE
      Try, though.

Another line starts ringing. Christine hangs up and Mendez 
picks up the second line.

             MENDEZ
      Yeah.

             ODONNELL
      Its me.

             MENDEZ
      Go buy the Hollywood trades, Jack.


INT. CIA, LANGLEY - DAY (CROSS CUTTING)
             O'DONNELL  (VOICE)
      It hit the fan. You gotta come 
      back.

And hold on Tony, looking out the window at the backlot.

                                      58.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - MORNING

While Tony packs a bag of papers from his desk. 

             SIEGEL
      I made thirty pictures and every 
      one of them got shut down by pricks 
      in the upstairs office at least 
      once. You always gotta go around 
      them.

Mendez finishes packing, zips up the bag.

             SIEGEL
	(CONTD)
      Ill tellya one thing -- my ass is 
      staying right here and running a 
      movie company. 

Siegel takes a bottle of Jack and three shot glasses from a 
drawer. 

             SIEGEL
	(CONTD)
        (pours)
      Fort Sumter. The first shot of the 
      picture. 

Chambers holds up his glass.

             CHAMBERS
      Argo fuck yourself.

They raise to that. They each do a shot. Then Tony picks up 
his bag and heads out. Before he goes --

             MENDEZ
      Lester. Howd you always get around 
      the pricks upstairs?

             SIEGEL
      I went over their heads. You can 
      always find another prick one floor 
      higher up.


                                      59.
EXT. CIA, LANGLEY - DAY

To establish. The sound of footsteps --

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - DAY

Down a hallway. Mendez, coming from an adjacent hallway, 
putting on a tie, joins ODonnell hurrying through the 
building.

             ODONNELL
      Howd you get the meeting?

             MENDEZ
      I pissed off the guys who sign my 
      check and yours. 

             ODONNELL
      I oughta slit your throat.

             MENDEZ
      You can forget about buying the 
      time-share in Ocean City, for 
      starters.

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT, SEVENTH FLOOR; RECEPTION ROOM - DAY

CIA DIRECTOR ADMIRAL STANSFIELD TURNER, 50s, and SECRETARY OF 
STATE CYRUS VANCE walk down the hall together, discussing 
something in hushed tones.

             O'DONNELL
        (under his breath)
      Brace yourself. Its like talking 
      to those two old fucks on The 
      Muppets.

             MENDEZ
      You watch The Muppets.

             O'DONNELL
      Dont be a moron. Everybody watches 
      The Muppets.

Vance and Turner enter the room. Mendez and ODonnell stand 
up.

ANGLE - A concept drawing from Argo. 

             TURNER
	(O.S.)
      Aliens and robots.


             MENDEZ	(O.S.)
     Yes sir.

                                      60.

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT, SEVENTH FLOOR - DAY

ADMIRAL STANSFIELD TURNER, 50s, Director of Central 
Intelligence and not the most popular man ever to hold that 
office, is looking at the storyboard.

             TURNER
      Youre telling me theres a movie  
      office in Hollywood right now 
      thats funded by the Central 
      Intelligence Agency.

             MENDEZ
     Yes sir.

             VANCE
      Whats wrong with the bikes again?

       		TURNER
	... you think this -- 

		O'DONNELL
	We tried to get the message upstairs --

             TURNER
      -- you think this is more plausible 
      than teachers?

             O'DONNELL
      One, there are no foreign teachers 
      in Iran any more. Two, we think 
      everybody knows Hollywood people. 
      And everybody thinks they would 
      shoot during Stalingrad with Pol 
      Pot directing if itd sell tickets.

Turner and Vance look at each other.

             TURNER
      Run it by me again.

INT. D.C. BAR - NIGHT

ANGLE - Mike Wallace speaks with the Ayatollah Khomeini. 
Wallace: deferential but he has just enough asshole in his 
voice to indicate hes an important old man, too.

             MIKE WALLACE
      What can be the answer?

A Translator conveys this to Khomeini; Khomeini speaks. A 
clock says its getting late. 


Mendez is watching half-watching a t.v. above the bar. (60 Minutes, first broadcast 11/18/79).

                                      61.

             KHOMEINI/TRANSLATOR
      Hes not even going to listen.

             O'DONNELL
	(O.S.)
      Scotch, any kind.

O'Donnell sits next to Tony and puts a FOLDER.

             O'DONNELL
	(CONTD)
      They want you to take them through 
      the airport in three days. You get 
      your visa with your Irish passport 
      in Bonn.

O'Donnell pulls from the folder a Lufthansa ticket.

             MENDEZ
     How?

             O'DONNELL
      His Eminence decided Argo is 
      credible.

Mendez, looking at the ticket. Barely believing it.

             O'DONNELL
	(CONTD)
      His twelve year-old grandson is a 
      science fiction nerd. Tonight he 
      told Grandpa Turner about a movie 
      he wants to see.

O'Donnell slaps down a copy of Comics Week. 

THE NEXT STAR WARS? Next to it, a photograph from the press 
event: Mendez holding a laser gun. CANADIAN EPIC WILL BE 
FILMED IN THE MIDDLE EAST.

Bartender brings a glass of scotch.

             O'DONNELL
	(CONTD)
        (lifts his glass)
      The United States government just  
      officially sanctioned your science 
      fiction movie.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Chambers and Lester are sitting in a pitch meeting with a 
couple of writers, JESSE and FRANK, early 30s.


                                      62.
             CHAMBERS
      Is there anybody else who knows 
      theyve switched bodies?

             JESSE
      Just the old lady, the nosy 
      neighbor --

             SIEGEL
      The mute one.

       		FRANK
	Boo Radley, but a woman, and 
	old --

		JESSE
	Cant talk but she can write.

Chambers gets up to answer the phone.

             JESSE
      So she writes in the fog on her 
      window -- yknow, backwards, shes 
      inside -- to tell Caroline --

             SIEGEL
      Sally Field --

       		JESSE
	Sally Field.


		FRANK
	Margot Kidder maybe --

             JESSE
        (annoyed; they discussed 
         this)
      Sally Field. 

INT. MENDEZ APARTMENT - NIGHT

             VOICE OF CHAMBERS
      Studio Six.

             MENDEZ
      Green light. Keep the office 
      running till you hear otherwise.
        (then, this means thank 
         you)
      Argo fuck yourself.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - AFTERNOON

             CHAMBERS
        (quiet and worried)
      Take care of yourself.

Chambers comes back to his chair. Raises his eyebrows at 
Lester. Then --


                                      63.
             SIEGEL
      Ill tellya right now, youre not 
      gonna get Kate Hepburn to play a 
      mute. Youre talking No Lines At 
      All?

             FRANK
      Well maybe shes not mute. She 
      could be --

    		FRANK
	(CONTD)
	Foreign.

		JESSE
	SHY. Maybe Shes shy.

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - MORNING

The phone in the living room rings. No one is home.

INT. DULLES - MORNING

Tony hangs up an airport payphone. 

                                  CUT TO:

He sits near a mailbox inside the terminal writing on a 
postcard with the Washington Monument on it.

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE BUDDY-MAN. NO PHONE FOR A WHILE. JACK 
WILL CALL. LOVE YOU BOTH. Then he adds: SO MUCH. 

He drops the card in the box and heads toward a gate marked 
LUFTHANSA.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, DINING ROOM - EVENING

Pat Taylor helps LEYLA, an Iranian housekeeper, clear dishes.

             PAT TAYLOR
      Did Shaheen not come in today?

Leyla shakes her head.

             PAT TAYLOR
	(CONTD)
      Did she call?

Leyla shakes her head again. 

ON PAT -- very troubled -- as Leyla heads into the kitchen.

IN THE LIVING ROOM, NEARBY -- The Houseguests are playing 
Scrabble. Again. The sound of footsteps down the hall.


                                      64.
             BOB ANDERS
      Dads home.

Ken comes in, carrying his briefcase. To the Houseguests -- 

             TAYLOR
      Youre getting a visitor.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - MORNING

ODonnell and Lamont are standing at a desk reading cables as 
they come through. Malinov, his eyes glazed over with Eastern 
European fatalism, walks up to ODonnell.

             O'DONNELL
        (barely looking up)
      Just one time, can you bring me 
      good news? Anything. Your cats 
      tumor is benign.

             MALINOV
      Vance just qualified his go-ahead. 
      He says execution of Hollywood 
      Option waits for Carters ok.

             LAMONT
      Fig leaf to cover his ass. 

This really isnt good news. ODonnell hates assholes  
micromanaging.

             O'DONNELL
      So we light a candle and pray Mr. 
      Peanut doesnt get nervous.
        (going back to his office; 
         kicks a mail cart)
      Move this shit. Clean up your 
      playroom.

EXT. BONN, WEST GERMANY - DAY

A tram that indicates the cold efficiency of Cold War 
Germany. 

Mendez, wearing a green turtleneck, walks near Hauptbahnhof, 
in the center of the city.

Super: BONN -- JANUARY 25


INT. IRANIAN EMBASSY, BONN - DAY
Mendez sits in a reception room with a few VISA APPLICANTS. 
Photographs of the Ayatollah Khomeini hang on the wall. Two 
REVOLUTIONARY GUARD OFFICIALS in ill-fitting suits sit at a 
desk.

                                      65.

INT. IRANIAN EMBASSY, BONN; VISA OFFICE - DAY

The Iranian Consul Official, late 30s, is smoking.

             CONSUL OFFICIAL (GERMAN)
      What will be the purpose of your 
      visit to Iran?

             MENDEZ (GERMAN)
      Business. Film production.

The Consul Official looks at the Irish passport.

             CONSUL OFFICIAL (GERMAN)
      Why didnt you get your visa in 
      Ireland?

             MENDEZ (GERMAN)
      My boss waited until I was in 
      Germany to send the telex. 
        (lighting cigarette)
      If he had a thought in his head, it 
      would die of loneliness.

Pointed look from Mendez. The universal condition of boss 
hatred almost always works for him, and it does now. Consul 
nods. Stamps the passport. KINGDOM OF IRAN -- He crosses out 
KINGDOM and writes by hand: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF.

EXT. BENCH BY THE RIVER - AFTERNOON

Tony is staring at the cold January Rhine from a bench.

             MANS VOICE   
      Ill tell you the recipe for 
      extremism in all its forms... 

Mendez looks up. A man in his 60s slaps a TIME MAGAZINE with 
its 1979 MAN OF THE YEAR -- AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI -- on the 
cover. (1/7/80).

             MAN 
      Take bunch of 22 year-old men who 
      cant get laid. Hook them up with a 
      geriatric with big ideas who cant 
      get laid either. 


             MAN 	(CONT'D)
      And together they start a 
      revolution, cause theyve got the 
      time to. Mr. Harkins.

                                      66.

The Man is PETER NICHOLLS, late 40s, a Skull and Bones type 
and a very good spy.

                                  CUT TO:

As they walk by the Rhine. 

             NICHOLLS
      Id like to see your day-pass from 
      a psych ward. Youre alone on this?
        (Mendez nods)
      Its Dodge City, Kansas.

             MENDEZ
      What were you doing over there?

             NICHOLLS
      Metal detecting. Carters gonna 
      freeze their assets. 

             MENDEZ
      You find anything?

             NICHOLLS
      Whats left. The Shah fled in a 747 
      so loaded down with gold bars it 
      barely got off the ground. 

INT. CAFE - NIGHT

Nicholls has WHITE AND YELLOW SLIPS OF PAPER with Farsi 
writing on them in hand.

             NICHOLLS
      Heres the rub. Everybody who lands 
      at Mehrabad now fills out one of 
      these. 
        (a WHITE one)
      That slip makes a copy to this one 
      underneath.
        (the YELLOW one)
      Passenger keeps Yellow, Airport 
      keeps White. When you leave the 
      country, the match them up to 
      verify you came into the country 
      when you said you did. 

             MENDEZ
      So if they look, theyll know six 
      people didnt come in with me.


                                      67.
             NICHOLLS
      If they look. N.E. says when you 
      get there, you should go straight 
      to the Ministry of Culture and 
      Islamic Guidance to kiss the ring 
      and pitch your movie. Get on record 
      as having applied for permission to 
      film. If they catch you later, 
      theyll at least be confused while 
      theyre torturing you... Your 
      biggest problem may be convincing 
      the six of them to go with you. 
      Theyre State Department. Theyre 
      willful.

The Waitress brings two shots to the table.

             MENDEZ
      You look like dogshit, Peter.

             NICHOLLS
      June left.

             MENDEZ
      Im sorry.

             NICHOLLS
      She gave me a choice. A Ring or 
      Curtains. Shes a Chinese national. 
      If I married her Id have to 
      resign, so... You and Christine?

             MENDEZ
      Good. Yeah.

He said that without hesitation. Maybe here we realize that 
Mendez is a very good liar.

             NICHOLLS
      Nice work if you can get it.
        (doing a shot)
      Salut... Have an extra for the 
      plane. 

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - NIGHT

Phone ringing. Christine, carrying a laundry basket.

             CHRISTINE
        (yelling upstairs)
      I got it! ... Hello?

             ODONNELL
	(V.O.)
      Christine. Jack ODonnell.


INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - NIGHT (CROSS CUTTING)
             ODONNELL
      Tony wanted me to let you know hes 
      gonna be away. He wont be able to 
      call for a while.

                                      68.

             CHRISTINE
      Where is he going?

             ODONNELL
      I cant tell you, love.

             CHRISTINE
      Is he safe?

             ODONNELL
     Yes.
        (a beat)
      Of course hes safe.

The of course part didnt come out right and they both know 
it.

             CHRISTINE
      You should have stopped talking 
      after yes.

INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

Mendez sits in a window seat.

             CAPTAIN
	(V.O.)
      From the flightdeck, we will be 
      landing in Tehran shortly.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - DAY

Mendez walks through the terminal of a crowded 1960s-era 
airport. Newly-hung portraits of the Ayatollah Khomeini watch  
over the duty-free shops.

Super: TEHRAN - JANUARY 26

AT IMMIGRATION

Tony fills out a white form. It makes an impression on a 
YELLOW form.

Tony presents his Irish passport to a REVOLUTIONARY GUARD 
IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL. Official looks at it, Tony hears the 
sound of a woman screaming in Farsi.


                                      69.
Three lanes away, at the outgoing immigration station, a 
Revolutionary Guard is dragging away the womans HUSBAND.

The Immigration Official stamps Tonys passport -- takes the 
white form, gives Tony the yellow one -- and waves him 
through. 

EXT. TEHRAN - DAY

Archive footage may be mixed with new footage. Normal city 
life mixed with men with automatic weapons. The 
contradictions of Tehran at this moment. Women in chadors 
shaking their fists; a crowd at Kentucky Fried Chicken.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Mendez sits in the back of a taxi in the Tehran traffic, the  
worst traffic in the world, losing only to Bangkok, in a 
photo finish. 

ANGLES OUT HIS WINDOWS: the Ayatollah looks down from 
everywhere with eyeballs you expect to move and follow you. 
An ARMED GANG in the back of pick-up truck pulls up near his 
taxi.

             TAXI DRIVER
	(FARSI)
      416 Varasteh Road.

The driver stops. Theyve arrived.

INT. MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND ISLAMIC GUIDANCE - DAY

A large photograph of the Ayatollah stares down from above a 
desk. His picture is everywhere inside as well as out.

MEHDI BEHROUZ, 33, is the newly appointed Deputy Minister of 
Culture and Islamic Guidance. Like many of the stars of the 
Revolution, he was educated in the U.S. In his case, 
University of Chicago. Right now hes looking at the ARGO 
script.

             BEHROUZ
      This film crew is just yourself?

             MENDEZ
      Six more are joining me today. 
      Theyre coming from Canada. Theyll 
      be staying with the Canadian 
      Ambassador.

             BEHROUZ
      Youd like to film at the Bazaar?


                                      70.
             MENDEZ
      The Bazaar, maybe the Palace.

             BEHROUZ
        (not particularly 
         friendly)
      The exotic Orient. Snake charmers 
      and flying carpets. 
        (a beat)
      Ill review the script and speak 
      with the Minister... You come to us 
      at a complicated time. Before the 
      Revolution, 40 percent of the movie 
      theaters in Tehran were showing 
      pornography. The function of this 
      office is purification as well as 
      promotion of the arts.

EXT. CANADIAN EMBASSY - DAY

Mendez, carrying his luggage, stands at a wrought iron gate 
with MAPLE LEAVES worked into the iron. Ken Taylor comes out 
of the building, opens the gate himself.

             MENDEZ
      Mr. Ambassador.

             TAYLOR
      Ken Taylor.
        (shakes hands)
      I was expecting more of a G-Man 
      look.

             MENDEZ
      Youre thinking of FBI, sir. 

INT. CANADIAN EMBASSY, TAYLORS OFFICE - DAY

Taylor gives Tony EIGHT BLANK CANADIAN PASSPORTS.

             TAYLOR
      These are blank, yknow. The 
      stamps?

             MENDEZ
      Ill take care of that.

             TAYLOR
     How long?

             MENDEZ
      A day to prep them with their cover 
      stories. Two if they need it.


                                      71.
             TAYLOR
      And youll fly out with them? 

Tony nods. A distant sound of a crowd outside.

             TAYLOR
	(CONTD)
      Theres something you should 
      know... Theres a reward out for 
      information about foreigners at 
      large in the country. One of our 
      housekeepers stopped showing up for 
      work a couple of days ago. She knew 
      about the Houseguests. 

Now the noise outside is louder. Taylor turns to the window. 
Tony joins him.

             TAYLOR
	(CONTD)
      So sooner is better.

They stand watching a LARGE DEMONSTRATION passing the 
Sheraton beneath. There must be a thousand protestors. At the 
front, the burning of an American flag. 

A puppet of CARTER with devil horns. Signs with the Ayatollah 
Khomeini. An effigy of the SHAH with a noose around his neck.

NEWS FOOTAGE

Hodding Carter, boyish early 40s, State Department Press 
Secretary. (Briefing, 11/14/79)

                                  CUT TO:

             REPORTER
      Hodding, have you had a chance to 
      talk to this chap Kim King who told 
      the story of his escape from the 
      embassy after it was seized and his 
      reference to Americans who escaped?

O'Donnell and Malinov are watching.

             ROSSI
        (entering)
      Mendez got to the Canadians.

             HODDING CARTER
	(ON T.V.)
      ... let me deal with that one by 
      saying this. If there are any 
      Americans who are at large in 
      Tehran or elsewhere, who belong to 
      the official party, the most 
      irresponsible thing I could do 
      would be to confirm it.


                                      72.
             MALINOV
      They ran out of news. Theyre going 
      fishing.

 		HODDING CARTER
	(O.S.)
	Im simply not going to deal 
	with the question under any 
	of these guises.

		LAMONT
	And they can see his nose 
	growing. 

             LAMONT
      If the story breaks while hes over 
      there, well have armageddon. 

             ODONNELL
        (eyes on the tv)
      What well have is a drag show. 
      Tonys body. Dragged through the 
      streets. For the benefit of the 
      cameras.

INT. CAR - EVENING

Ken Taylor drives up to a two-story white house behind a gate 
with a sloping lawn and a Canadian flag in front of it. 
Automatic gates open.

EXT./INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - EVENING

Taylor leads Mendez inside. Pat Taylor waits for them in the 
hall. Takes Tonys hand.

             PAT TAYLOR
      Just tell me youre not going to 
      get them killed. 
        (takes his hand)
      Pat Taylor.

             MENDEZ
      Kevin Harkins.

             PAT TAYLOR
        (leading them inside)
      Is that your real name?

             MENDEZ
      Im not allowed to say my real 
      name.

             PAT TAYLOR
      I should have made one up too. I am 
      Electra, Warrior Queen. Theyre in 
      here.


                                      73.
INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, TEHRAN - EVENING

They enter the DINING ROOM... and here are the SIX 
HOUSEGUESTS. Theyre looking at Mendez like kids waiting to 
be told the lesson plan.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - MORNING

Siegel puts the key in the door. Stares at the lock. Turns to 
Chambers.

             SIEGEL
      You didnt lock the office last 
      night?

             CHAMBERS
      I did lock it.

They enter and look at the empty Argo office. No ones here. 
No visible signs of disturbance. Theyre spooked.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Each Houseguest has a copy of the ARGO script.

             BOB ANDERS
      Its theater of the absurd.

             MARK LIJEK
      What are the chances?

             MENDEZ
      The chances are good.

             MARK LIJEK
      Whats the number value of good? 
      30 percent chance of success? 80 
      percent?

             CORA LIJEK
      We just ...

             MARK LIJEK
      Coras pregnant. We decided we 
      werent leaving under risky 
      circumstances. Wed rather risk 
      staying.

             BOB ANDERS
      What was the objection to picking 
      normal cover identities?


                                      74.
             MENDEZ
      There are no Canadians in the 
      country for normal reasons.

    		KATHY STAFFORD
	Theyll sniff us out 
	regardless. 

		MARK LIJEK
	The Swedish consul said they 
	accused him of being an 
        American at the airport and 
        held him for an hour. 

             BOB ANDERS
      We cant stand up to that. We dont 
      know what the hell movie people do.

             MENDEZ
      Thats why Im here. Ill be with 
      you. This is what I do.
        (a beat)
      Id like you to take a vote. 

             CORA LIJEK
      Have you gotten people out this way 
      before?

             MENDEZ
      This would be a first.

ANGLE on the one Houseguest who hasnt spoken. JOE STAFFORD

                                  CUT TO:

The Houseguests, minus Joe and Kathy Stafford, go into the 
living room. Mendez stays in his seat.

             JOE STAFFORD
      You should read this. 

The puts the TEHRAN TIMES, the English language Iranian 
newspaper, in front of Mendez.

 		JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
	Do you know that every day...

		KATHY STAFFORD
	... Joe, dont.

             JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
      ... every day they catch another 
      friend of the shah at the airport. 
      Midnight trials then the firing 
      squad. Just for having American 
      names in their phone books.

He puts the paper down. Goes into the living room, followed 
by Kathy.


                                      75.
ANGLE ON - The PHOTOGRAPH in the Tehran Times. A MAN IN A 
SUIT at Mehrabad Airport. Confused and terrified. Being led 
out at gunpoint.

EXT. BACK VERANDA - NIGHT

Mendez comes out and lights a cigarette. Ken Taylor is 
already there, also smoking.

             TAYLOR
      They dont really have the option 
      of staying, you know. Weve got 
      orders to close our embassy and go 
      back. Theres nowhere for them to 
      stay.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

             JOE STAFFORD
      Im serious too. This is what?

     		BOB ANDERS
	Dont do this, Joe ...

		JOE STAFFORD
	... the part where we say 
        Thats so crazy it just 
        might work? Cmon ...

             BOB ANDERS
      I saw it in Burma. They get people 
      out. They know how.

             JOE STAFFORD
      ... snitches in banana republics. 
      They get them over the border after 
      the coup...

     		BOB ANDERS
	Thats your opinion.

		JOE STAFFORD
        ... pay the guards at the 
        crossing a hundred bucks to 
	look the other way...

             LEE SCHATZ
      His opinion got us out of the 
      embassy in the first place.

EXT. VERANDA - NIGHT

             MENDEZ
      If we go, you should plan to be on 
      the next flight. Theres a danger--


                                      76.
             TAYLOR
      Pat and I discussed it. If they 
      catch you at the airport, they come 
      here and we go on trial for 
      harboring the enemy. Its a risk we 
      took.
        (after a moment)
      Can you pull this off?

             MENDEZ
      I dont know.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

             JOE STAFFORD
      That man out there, hes got bad 
      cards, hes gonna lose. If he 
      loses, its our lives. 

             KATHY STAFFORD
        (after a beat)
      And his own.

Another beat. Angles on the Houseguests. Then Mark Lijek 
takes a piece of paper and rips it into six pieces. He takes 
an antique BOWL from an end table and puts it on the coffee 
table in the center of the room. Then, handing a piece to 
each Houseguest.

             MARK LIJEK
      Write yes or no.

Mark Lijek takes a piece of paper out of the antique bowl and 
unfolds it. He lays it on the coffee table with five other 
unfolded pieces of paper.  The Houseguests look at the papers 
and at each ther. We cant see what the papers say. 

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. VERANDA - NIGHT

Mendez stands alone, looking into the night. The back door 
opens. He turns.

             LEE SCHATZ
     Its yes.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Siegel is watching television when suddenly, a DOOR SLAMS 
behind him. He flinches, turns. Its just Chambers. 


                                      77.
             SIEGEL
     Jesus.

Chambers joins Siegel, who is watching Jimmy Carter on t.v.

             JIMMY CARTER
	(ON T.V.)
      I never forget one moment that Im 
      awake about the hostages whose 
      lives and safety depends on me.

Carter is speaking at a White House press conference on 
television. (1/18/80). After a beat.

             SIEGEL
      John Waynes in the ground six 
      months and theres no more MEN in 
      this country, yknow what I mean? 
      Hes like evolutions perfect 
      animal for delivering bad news. 
      Look at his eyes, he dont even 
      have to talk and you know theres 
      bad news... Forget the politics, 
      just gimme Eisenhower, gimme 
      MacArthur. Gimme Gregory Peck 
      playing MacArthur. The countrys 
      tired of bad news.

INT. SHERATON HOTEL - NIGHT

A TELEFAX MACHINE spells out a message, letter by letter. 

MR KEVIN HARKINS - CARE OF HOTEL SHERATON

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - NIGHT

Mendez holds a passport and some papers in front of Bob 
Anderss face. Its late now. The Houseguests are tired, 
sweating, sitting around a dining room. Mendez, sleeves 
rolled up.  The ARGO STORYBOARDS are scattered around the 
room.

             MENDEZ
      Youre not a film director.

             BOB ANDERS
      I am a film director.

             MENDEZ
      Whats the name of the first film 
      you directed?

Bob Anders is silent. He doesnt know.


                                      78.
             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Hes an American spy. Shoot him.

Mendez throws down the passport. ANGLES on the Houseguests. 
Pale, sweating. Theyve been at this a while.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Youve got to know your rsum 
      front and back. Theyll try to 
      break you by getting you agitated.

Mendez moves on around the table to Kathy Stafford.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Where was your passport issued?

             KATHY STAFFORD
     Vancouver.

             MENDEZ
      Where were you born?

             KATHY STAFFORD
     Toronto.

             MENDEZ
      Toronno. Canadians dont pronounce 
      the T.

             JOE STAFFORD
        (getting fed up)
      The border guard wont know that.

             MENDEZ
      If were held for questioning, 
      theyll bring in somebody who knows 
      that.

The Houseguests look at each other.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      Well go again in the morning. 

Tony has a new heaviness in his eyes. Maybe he cant pull 
this off. 

INT. SHERATON ROOM - LATE 

Tony is PREPPING the CANADIAN PASSPORTS -- expertly copying 
Farsi stamps with a very thin paintbrush. A KNOCK on the 
door. Tony hides the passports. Answers the door.

             BELLHOP
      Sir, a telex arrived earlier.


                                      79.
The Bellhop hands Tony a piece of paper.

             MENDEZ
	(V.O.)
      The Minister of Culture and 
      Guidance has approved your location 
      scout.

INT. SHERATON ROOM - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Mendez, on the phone -- 

             MENDEZ
        (reading the telefax)
      He will send a representative to 
      meet you and your crew at the 
      Khayyam entrance to the Grand 
      Bazaar tomorrow at 3 p.m.  

INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - DAY

ODonnell on the phone -- an IRAN EXPERT from NEAR EASTERN 
Bureau, 30s, is in his office with him.

             ODONNELL
      They called your bluff. 

             MENDEZ
      Or maybe theyre cooperating.

             ODONNELL
      N.E.s saying absolutely not. You 
      cannot take those people scouting a 
      Western film at the bazaar. Its 
      the hive. Its Khomeinis support 
      base.

             MENDEZ
      Refusing confirms were not who we 
      say we are. Refusing brings the 
      hive to us.

             ODONNELL
      Are they ready with their covers?

             MENDEZ
      Theyre getting there.

             ODONNELL
      Theres no prize for Most Improved. 
      Are they ready?


INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, KITCHEN - NIGHT
Mark Lijek and Joe Stafford are sitting up watching a press 
conference of the Ayatollah speaking. (11/12/79). Mark 
Lijek translates for Joe.

                                      80.

             MARK LIJEK
      We are a nation of 35 million 
      and... many of these people are 
      looking forward to martyrdom. We--

Kathy Stafford looks into the room. Mark stops talking -- Joe 
looks up.

             JOE STAFFORD
        (to Kathy)
      Five minutes? 

He smiles at her. Kathy, who looks like she hasnt been 
sleeping, nods and leaves. After a moment -- 

             JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
      She pleaded with me.

Mark, looking to Joe. This is new.

             JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
      When the shit in the streets 
      started nine months ago. She begged 
      for us to leave. She packed our 
      bags. I said, A little longer. 
      And what I was thinking was, This 
      is a good thing. Stay. Show Newsom 
      youve got the balls. Grab for the 
      ring.
        (a beat)
      I think were gonna die here. 

INT. KOMITEH HEADQUARTERS, AMIR ABAD DISTRICT - NIGHT

The feeling here is dangerous. Young Men carrying automatic 
weapons casually. The exhilaration of young men who have 
turned the world upside down.

Behrouz stands next to ALI KHALKALI, 30s, a Revolutionary 
Committee security official. He is looking at Tonys STUDIO 
SIX business card and the ARGO script.

INT. SHERATON BALCONY - MORNING

Tony looks at one of the Argo storyboards -- one depicting an 
EXTOTIC SPICE MARKET, a BAZAR -- in the light.


             CORA LIJEK	(V.O.)
      This isnt what we voted on.

                                      81.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING

The Houseguests are gathered in the kitchen. Cora hands the 
telefax to Bob Anders. Joe Stafford, looking on.

             CORA LIJEK
      You said straight to the airport. 
      You said that.

             BOB ANDERS
      Its because they suspect?

             MENDEZ
      What I know is we need to act like 
      a movie crew. We go to the bazaar 
      today, we fly out tomorrow. 

Silent assent among the group. Then Joe Stafford, sitting 
with his wife, speaks up --

             JOE STAFFORD
      We wont do it.

             MARK LIJEK
      He told them there were six of us. 
      Theyre expecting six.

             JOE STAFFORD
        (to Mendez)
      You are about to show the only card 
      were holding. Which is that they 
      dont know were here. 

             MENDEZ
      Im asking you to trust me.

             JOE STAFFORD
      I dont trust you.

             BOB ANDERS
        (fed up, to Joe)
      Do you have an alternative? This is 
      the ball game, Joe. For Christs 
      sake, what world are you living in?

             JOE STAFFORD
      The real world. 

Joe takes Kathys hand and goes, leaving Mendez with the 
others. After a moment -- 


             MARK LIJEK        (to Mendez)
      So well see you at two?

                                      82.

INT. CARPET FACTORY - MORNING

A KOMITEH BOSS inspects the work of the carpet weaving kids, 
who labor quietly.  Dozens of documents are now complete, 
sitting on the floor in rows. Some pages from the EMBASSY MUG 
BOOK are now re-assembled. The Boss picks one of the pages 
up.

EXT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - DAY

             PAT TAYLOR
     This one.

Pat Taylor gives Cora Lijek a Candian maple-leaf lapel pin. 
Cora pins it to her shirt, looks in the mirror.  Joe and 
Kathy Stafford look to each other. Sitting reading newspapers 
while the other Houseguests dress for the scout. The PHONE 
starts ringing.

             PAT TAYLOR
	(CONTD)
        (answering the phone)
      Hello? 

A cloud comes over Pat as she listens.

             PAT TAYLOR
	(CONTD)
      No, theres no one like that here.

She hangs up the phone fast, as if it were hot to the touch.

             PAT TAYLOR
	(CONTD)
      He asked to speak to the Americans.

             CORA LIJEK
      Who was it?

Pat shakes her head. ON Joe Stafford listening. Kathy takes 
his hand.

             KATHY STAFFORD
        (to Joe)
      Somebody knows.

INT. SHERATON ROOM - DAY

Tony sits on his bed, next to the phone. Thinking.


                                      83.
He gets up and leaves, and we start to hear the sound of a 
man talking fast in Farsi.

EXT. CAR RENTAL - DAY

Its a CAR RENTAL MAN, 60s, speaking. Tony is looking at a 
MINI-VAN on a lot of beaten-up rental cars. 

             MENDEZ
      This one, how much? One day, how 
      much? 

EXT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - DAY

Four of Houseguests are waiting out front, dressed in their 
best approximation of the clothes of a movie scout crew. Cora 
has the maple leaf flag pin on her shirt. 

They turn when they see the mini-van that Tony was looking at 
pull up to the residence. Mendez gets out. 

             LEE SCHATZ
        (here we are)
      One two three four. 

While the Houseguests board the van, Bob Anders takes Tony 
aside.

             BOB ANDERS
      Somebody called the house asking 
      for us.

             MENDEZ
     Who?

Bob Anders shrugs. Tony heads into the house...

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE, KITCHEN - DAY

... to find Joe Stafford sitting at the table. Kathy has her 
hand on his. They are badly shaken.

             MENDEZ
      I promise you that if you will play 
      along today, I will get you out 
      tomorrow. 

             JOE STAFFORD
      We have a family at home, Mr. 
      Harkins.


                                      84.
             MENDEZ
      Mr. Mendez.
        (a beat)
      I have a family at home too.

Mendez goes back out to the mini-van. Stay with Joe and 
Kathy.

INT. MINI-VAN - DAY

Mendez, in the drivers seat, looks at the house, then at his 
watch. He starts up the van, filled with four of the 
Houseguests. Then he looks in the rear-view and sees one of 
the back doors open. Joe and Kathy Stafford board.

EXT. TEHRAN - DAY

Tony drives the mini-van through streets of Tehran. The 
Houseguests sit in silence, looking out the windows. Its the 
first time theyve been out in the city since the embassy 
siege. There is a vehement DEMONSTRATION going on -- stars-
and-stripes burning in Molavi Square.

             MENDEZ
      Tell me who you are.

This recalls attention from the windows.

             LEE SCHATZ
      Mike McEwan, cameraman.

             BOB ANDERS
      Robert Baker, director.

             MARK LIJEK
      Timothy Harris, screenwriter.

             CORA LIJEK
      Mary Ann Boyd, location manager.

             KATHY STAFFORD
      Rachel Dewart, set designer.

Kathy looks at her husband.

             JOE STAFFORD
      Sean Bissett, associate producer.

             MENDEZ
      Lets make a movie.


                                      85.
EXT. STREET NEAR THE BAZAAR - DAY

The mini-van double parks on Musavi Street.  Taxis, men 
loading and unloading rolled-up carpets onto pickup trucks, 
chaos.

A YOUNG MAN IN A TIE waits. This is REZA, mid 20s, a low-
level administrator in the Ministry of Guidance.

Mendez gets out and they speak and shake hands. The image 
FREEZES. In a BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPH. And, in the 
REVERSE, we realize that weve been watching from the 
perspective of a REVOLUTIONARY GUARD PHOTOGRAPHER across the 
street.

He takes another photograph. This time focusing on the 
distinctive moustached face of LEE SCHATZ.

EXT./INT. TEHRAN BAZAAR - DAY

Reza is leading Mendez and the group of Houseguests through 
the Tehran Bazaar. A word about the place: the worlds 
largest bazaar. 10 kilometers of narrow alleys. Chinese-made 
Swiss watches, banks, mosques, butchers, fabric stores, gold 
stands. Boys with hand-trucks loaded down with piles of 
fabric cut through the crowd. Its not a Marrakesh timeless 
kind of place: older Islamic architecture elbows up against 
neon signs and rickety wooden stands with second story 
balconies like Bourbon Street.

Bob Anders walks toward the front.

             REZA
      You are the director?

             BOB ANDERS
      Yes.

             REZA
        (pleasant)
      Is this film a foreign bride film?

             BOB ANDERS
     Im sorry?

             REZA
      A film where a foreign bride is 
      brought to Iran, but she doesnt 
      understand the language and customs 
      and there are misunderstandings and 
      laughs.

             BOB ANDERS
     No.


                                      86.
             REZA
        (not happy with that 
         answer)
     Mmmm.

Mendez walking toward the back of the group. Lee, the 
cameraman, is looking through a viewfinder down the alley of 
the bazaar.

             MENDEZ
        (quiet)
      Mike? 

             LEE SCHATZ
        (not looking up)
     Yeh.

             MENDEZ
      If I said you were looking through 
      the wrong end of that viewfinder, 
      would I be right?

Lee turns the viewfinder around and looks through it again.

ANGLE

Mendez talking to Lee from a distance. A zoom, a closer 
snapshot of LEE. Then of CORA LIJEK, who walks through the 
bazaar with an open ARGO SCRIPT in her hand. 

The Revolutionary Guard photographer is taking pictures of 
each of the Houseguests, picking their portraits off one by 
one like a sniper.

Now, a black and white still of MENDEZ. The still returns to 
life, and a beat on Mendez. Looking in the direction of the 
photographer. He knows somethings up.

INT. TEHRAN BAZAAR - DAY

Reza leads the Houseguests Mendez and the Houseguests deeper 
into this city within a city. The bazaar should seem more 
forbidding and than even the rest of revolutionary Tehran, 
fundamentalist ground zero. Now theyre at a street dedicated 
to gold and jewelry. BAZAARIS stand at their shop doors; 
puzzled; unfriendly; some with their arms akimbo;  watching 
the visitors.

Kathy Stafford, the production designer on the scout, takes a 
Polaroid of a window adorned in gold. The SHOPKEEPER, a 70-
ish bazaari, sees her do so. 


He hurries out of his store, speaking in rapid-fire Farsi at her. The Houseguests stop. Reza speaks to the Shopkeeper in 
Farsi, then --

                                      87.

             REZA
        (to Kathy)
      He wants the photograph you took.

             MENDEZ
      Shes the production designer. Her 
      job is to take photographs.

SHOPKEEPER getting more and more heated in Farsi.

             REZA
      He says he did not give you 
      permission to take a photograph of 
      his store.

Other BAZAARIS and SHOPPERS are starting to gather. Kathy 
holds out the Polaroid toward the Shopkeeper.

             KATHY STAFFORD
      He can have the photograph. Tell 
      him --

The Shopkeeper knocks the Polaroid out of her hand.

IN THE BAZAAR

People are now starting to surround Mendez and Reza and the 
Houseguests. Bazaaris more and more heated. Women in chadors 
are screaming and finger-pointing.

             ANGRY MAN
        (in English)
      America NO! ... NO!

Then he speaks in Farsi and makes shooting gestures with his 
hand.

             LEE SCHATZ
        (quiet, to Mendez)
      Hes saying the shah killed his son  
      with an American gun.

Cauldron is getting warmer. ANGLES ON: more and more Bazaaris  
start to gather around the group. ON Kathy -- her 
claustrophobia as the crowd closes in -- a WOMAN sticks her 
finger in Kathys face -- 

             CORA LIJEK
        (to one of the Women)
      Canada... Ca-na-da ...


She shows a Canadian flag lapel button.
                                      88.

             LEE SCHATZ
        (quiet, to Mendez)
      He says were the CIA taking 
      photographs to plan the bombing of 
      the city.

             REZA
      I would like to suggest that we end 
      our visit?

             MENDEZ
      We think thats a good idea.

Reza indicates an exit to the street. The CROWD heckles the 
Houseguests as they walk toward the exit. One or two might 
even spit on them.

INT. MINI-VAN - AFTERNOON

The aftermath: headed back to the Ambassadors. The 
Houseguests, badly shaken. Catching their breath. Mark Lijek 
has his arm around Cora. She wants to cry, but is determined 
not to be That Girl Who Cries, so she bites her cheek. Kathy 
still in shock from the Polaroid incident. Anders, adrenaline 
flowing. Joe, stewing.

             MENDEZ
      You did well. You did very well.

INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - MORNING

Coffee mug on the desk. ODonnells there late.

             ODONNELL
      They drew you out there to take 
      your picture. They could have 
      melted. 

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - AFTERNOON (CROSS-
CUTTING)

Mendez is in the phone in Ken Taylors home office.

             MENDEZ
      They didnt.

             ODONNELL
      You got lucky. The cover storys 
      too hard. They cant hold it at the 
      airport. 


                                      89.
             MENDEZ
      Theyll hold it.

             ODONNELL
      Theyll blow themselves and you.
      You gotta call the game.
        (after a beat)
      There are already 50 at the 
      embassy. Therell be six more.

ON Mendez, not believing what hes hearing.

             ODONNELL
      Theres been a development. You on 
      scrambler?

             MENDEZ
      What do you think?

             ODONNELL
        (quiet, fast, clear)
      Joint Chiefs are planning a 
      military rescue of the hostages in 
      a month. Delta Force started  
      training to storm the grounds. So 
      if the six of them get brought 
      there, they wont be held for long. 

             MENDEZ
      If I leave, theyll be found here. 
      I never would have exposed them if 
      I wasnt authorized to take them 
      out.

             ODONNELL
     Tony --

             MENDEZ
      They will be taken. Probably not 
      ALIVE --

             ODONNELL
      For one fucking minute, LISTEN TO 
      ME. The thinkings changed 
      upstairs. Six Americans get pulled 
      out of a Canadian diplomats house 
      and executed, its another world 
      outrage. Six Americans get caught 
      playing movie make-believe with the 
      CIA at the airport and executed, 
      its a national embarrassment. 
      Theyre calling the operation.

             MENDEZ
      Were responsible for those people.


                                      90.
             ODONNELL
        (genuinely sad)
      What we are is required to follow 
      my orders. Im sorry.

Mendez has hung up. ODonnell sits listening to the dial tone 
for a moment, then puts the phone on the receiver. Then, very 
suddenly, he looks at his coffee cup, half full, and 
backhands it off his desk.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - NIGHT

Bob Anders, a handful of liquor bottles in his arms, walks by 
Mendez, who has a scotch in his hand. Music plays on a record 
player. 

             BOB ANDERS
      Scorched earth policy tonight. 
      Nothing gets left behind.

Taylor, drink in hand, thoughts heavy, looks at Tony. 

             MENDEZ
      So you know?

             TAYLOR
       (nods)
      ExtAff wants you burn their  
      passports before you leave. Dont 
      get caught with them in your bag.

Mendez looks at the Houseguests, prepping dinner.

             MENDEZ
      Will you tell them?

             TAYLOR
      If I do, theyll panic. Its better 
      if you just dont show.
        (a beat)
      It was always a fucked mission. You 
      came closer than anybody else. 

Kathy and Cora are cracking each other up -- a mini flour-
fight at the sink. Theres hope in them.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Mendez drives through nighttime Tehran, back to the hotel. 

Then, as if saying something to test a recording device or to 
hear what his own voice sounds like for the first time.


                                      91.
             MENDEZ
      Thats all, folks... Thats all, 
      folks. Thats all, folks. Thats 
      all, folks.

Mendez keeps repeating it to himself. Hitting the steering 
wheel. Hes very very low.

EXT. RURAL VIRGINIA ROAD - AFTERNOON

Christine driving, Michael in the passenger seat. She pulls 
up to the roadside mailbox outside the passenger side at the 
entrance to a dirt road.

             MICHAEL
      More ... more ... more ... STOP.

Shes inching the car forward. Its their ritual. Christine 
pulls the car close enough to the box that Michael can open 
it the window without getting out of the car.

Michael opens the box pulls a stack of mail. He flips 
through. Catalogs for his grandmother... Bills ... then, 
Tonys postcard with the Washington monument on it. LOVE YOU 
BOTH SO MUCH. He shows it to his mother.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Chambers, listening on a phone, shakes his head at Siegel. He 
hangs up.

             CHAMBERS
      Its off. They want us to pack up 
      the office.

EXT. TEHRAN - DAWN

The city waking up.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - DAWN

The Houseguests, getting dressed. Suiting up for the airport. 

Ken Taylor watches in the hall. He looks at Pat. Sad, silent.

EXT. SHERATON ROOM - DAWN

Tony sits a a table looking out the window.


INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING
Lee Schatz puts his Infant of Prague holy card into an Argo 
script. Packs the script.

Cora Lijek is sitting on the stairs next to her husband. One 
of his arms is around her. His other hand rubs her stomach.

                                      92.

Kathy Stafford looks at the clock.

             KATHY STAFFORD
        (to Joe Stafford)
      Hes late.

EXT. SHERATON BALCONY - EARLY MORNING

Tony comes out to the balcony with a hotel ice bucket in one 
hand and the Canadian passports in the other. He puts the 
passports in the bucket, LIGHTS A MATCH. 

He looks down at the match, at the passports. The first 
stirrings of the morning calls-to-prayer echo in the 
distance. 

HOLD for a long beat on Tony. Thinking. 

Then, HE BLOWS OUT THE MATCH.

INT. ODONNELLS OFFICE - NIGHT

ODonnell is packing up for the night. Paper towels sit on 
top of the coffee spill on his rug. 

His phone rings. He picks up.

             ODONNELL
     Yeah.

INT. SHERATON ROOM - EARLY MORNING

             MENDEZ
      I am RESPONSIBLE. Somebody is 
      RESPONSIBLE for things when things 
      happen, Jack. A PERSON.
        (a beat)
      Im taking them through.

And before Jack can answer, Tony hangs up. Stands. A duffel 
bag over his shoulder, Tony turns out the light in the hotel 
room. Goes.


                                      93.
INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

ODonnell, thinking. Looking at the phone. Then, with a 
sudden decision, he gets up.

Rushing out of his office. To ALAN FRANKLIN, a Directorate of 
Support officer, the guy who allocates the money, one of the 
few black employees weve seen at the CIA.

             ODONNELL
      We need to confirm those seven 
      tickets out of Tehran on Swissair--

             FRANKLIN
      N.E. shut that down. 

             ODONNELL
      Im saying its back on!

             FRANKLIN
      I cant do it. Its backstopped 
      pending Executive Branch GO. 

             ODONNELL
      What the fuck does that mean?

             FRANKLIN
      Carters got to say yes for us to 
      get the tickets.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING

Pat Taylor, wearing a bathrobe, heads downstairs to answer 
the insistent knocking on her front door. She opens it.

             PAT TAYLOR
     Kevin.

Shes shocked to see him. Ken Taylor now appears behind Pat. 
In the hall behind him: The Houseguests are assembled, 
waiting to go. They look their parts -- or, much more so than 
they did on the scout. Bob Anders looks like Fellini, or 
someone playing Marcello playing Fellini. Cora Lijek has 
darker hair. The Staffords look on, fully dressed.

INT. OUTSIDE ENGELLS OFFICE - NIGHT

             ODONNELL
      Wheres Engell?

             SECRETARY
      Hes in a meeting.


             ODONNELL      Pull him out.
        (she hesitates)
      PULL HIM OUT!

                                      94.

EXT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - DAWN

Pat Taylor is embracing the Houseguests, saying goodbye as 
they get into the mini-van.

             MENDEZ
        (to Ken Taylor)
      You go now too.

Ken Taylor nods. Mendez shakes his hand, hurries to the van.

INT./EXT. MINI-VAN - DAWN

Mendez gets into the drivers seat. Lee Schatz, on the 
passenger side.

             LEE SCHATZ
      Switch. I know how to get there.

Mendez takes the passenger seat and Lee climbs into the 
drivers seat. Pulls away.

INT. OUTSIDE ENGELLS OFFICE - NIGHT

             ENGELL
      N.E. said NO, this is not a long-
      leasher ...

      		ODONNELL
	... watching the show behind 
	a one-way whorehouse 
	mirror...

		ENGELL
	... and it never has been. 
	YOU dont decide if it goes 
	...

             ODONNELL
      It is going. 

             ENGELL
      Youre goddamn close ...

             ODONNELL
      Am I goddamn close?

             ENGELL
      Youre goddamn close to the line 
      with me.


                                      95.
             ODONNELL
        (interrupting)
      Im not leaving him at the airport 
      with six people and his dick in his 
      hand. Tell the Director to call the 
      White House. DO YOUR FUCKING JOB.

Engell just stares ODonnell down. Then ODonnell storms out 
of the office.

EXT./INT. MINI-VAN - MORNING

The van speeds down the hills of the Shemiran district. 

             MENDEZ
      The first checkpoint is just to 
      look at your passport. Your 
      passports came straight from the 
      Canadians, so youre gonna be fine.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - A MOMENT LATER

ODonnell, charging in --

             ODONNELL
      Wheres the Director?

             MALINOV
      Hes on a plane.

             ODONNELL
      Find White House Chief of Staff.

             MALINOV
      How would I find him?

             ODONNELL
      Were a fucking SPY AGENCY! FIND 
      HIM!

INT. CANADIAN EMBASSY VAN - MORNING

             MENDEZ
      The second checkpoint --

Lee Schatz brakes hard as he almost hits a MAN ON A MOPED. 
Mendez and the Houseguests hold on.


                                      96.
INT. CIA, WAR ROOM - NIGHT

             MALINOV
      Jordans in the West Wing. Hes not 
      taking calls.

A beat on ODonnell.

             ODONNELL
      Where do his kids go to school?

             LAMONT
     WHAT?

             ODONNELL
      Find out where his kids go to 
      school!

INT. MINI-VAN - MORNING

             MENDEZ
      The second is immigration. Youll 
      hand them these. They say you 
      landed two days ago. 

He gives out yellow immigration forms to the Houseguests.

             MENDEZ
	(CONTD)
      These guys are bureaucrats left 
      over from the shah. They cant be 
      bothered to second-guess you.

INT. CIA, WAR ROOM - NIGHT

Malinov slams a phone down.

             MALINOV
      Georgetown Day!

ODonnell dials a number. 

             ODONNELL
      Yes, this is Mr. Murphy from 
      Georgetown Day School for Mr. 
      Jordan... Im afraid IS an 
      emergency...

INT. WHITE HOUSE OPERATOR ROOM - DAY

             WHITE HOUSE OPERATOR
      Hold just a moment.


She plugs a wire into an old-fashioned Ma Bell switchboard.
             MENDEZ
	(V.O.)
      Third checkpoint is the trap.

                                      97.

INT. MINI-VAN - MORNING

             MENDEZ
      Its manned by Revolutionaries 
      whove appointed themselves 
      guardians of the republic. The same 
      people who took the embassy. Most  
      of them were educated in the U.S. 
      or Europe.

             BOB ANDERS
     Or Canada?

             MENDEZ
      They know how many Ts are in 
      Toronto.

INT. WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF OFFICE - NIGHT

Jordan is in a meeting with two staffers, his feet up on the 
desk. His Secretary opens the door without knocking, hurries 
to Jordan, whispers something in his ear. He immediately 
grabs the phone.

             JORDAN
     Hello?

             ODONNELL
      Jack ODonnell from C.I.

             JORDAN
      Wait... WHO?

             ODONNELL
      Tehran Houseguest operation is 
      ready NOW. We dont have the 
      presidents go-ahead. They are 
      going to be captured.

Jordan stands up with the phone.

             JORDAN
        (yelling out his door)
      BEN! Pick up!


                                      98.
INT. KOMITEH OFFICE - MORNING

The office we visited earlier. Two YOUNG KOMITEH wearing open 
collar shirts look at BLACK AND WHITE 8 by 10s of the 
photographs of the Houseguests from the bazaar in front of 
them and are comparing the photographs to xeroxes of a 
reconstructed U.S. Embassy ledger. 

In front of the komiteh: on one side, copies of diplomatic 
photographs of Americans -- like the ones of the Houseguests 
we saw early in the film -- and, on the other side, the 
candid photographs from the bazaar.

INT. CIA, WAR ROOM - NIGHT

             AIDE
      Telex on Flash.

The telex begins to print, line by line ...

EYES ONLY -- OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- 
HOLLYWOOD OPTION APPROVED -- GOOD LUCK. (Carter White House 
telex, 1/29/1980).

             ODONNELL
      Copy D.S.! Confirm the tickets! GO!

INT. SWISSAIR COUNTER, MEHRABAD - MORNING

Mendezs Irish passports and the Houseguests Canadian 
passports sit on the counter.

             SWISSAIR REP
      Im sorry, sir. I dont have those 
      reservations ...

Swissair Rep looks at some green text on her screen, hits 
another button. 

             SWISSAIR REP
	(CONTD)
      My apologies. They just came 
      through. 

She hits another button and tickets start to print on a slow 
printer under the counter.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

             MALINOV
        (to ODonnell, holding a 
         phone)


                                      99.
             MALINOV
	(CONT'D)
      Swissair says theyve picked up the 
      tickets.

             ODONNELL
      Theyre heading to the checkpoints. 
      Get the L.A. office -- tell them to 
      be ready in case they call.

             MALINOV
      We told them to shut that down!

He RUNS toward a phone --

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, FIRST CHECKPOINT - MORNING

The Passport Official is looking at the Canadian passports of 
the six and waving them through. Mendez has already passed. 
Everyone except Kathy Stafford.

The Passport Official looks at Kathy, who is doing his best 
to look friendly and casual. Then he looks at Kathys 
passport, in which she looks stern and angry.

             PASSPORT OFFICIAL
      Is this you?

Kathy Stafford smooths down her hair frowns like she does in 
the passport photo. The Passport Official half smiles and 
waves her through. Theyve all cleared the first checkpoint.

             BOB ANDERS
        (to Lee Schatz)
      One down, two to go.

INT. KOMITEH OFFICE - MORNING

One of the Young Komiteh -- one with a Moustache -- comes 
upon a diplomatic photograph of a Man With Glasses.  

He starts to leaf through the photographs from the bazaar.

                              QUICK CUT TO:

POV of the Revolutionary Guard Photographer -- Mark Lijek 
being photographed at the bazaar the previous day

                            QUICK CUT BACK:

Moustache looks at the black and white still of Mark Lijek, 
compares it to his diplomatic picture, the first portrait we 
saw of Mark toward the beginning of the film. MATCH.

Moustache stands up. SHOUTS in Farsi to another Komiteh --


INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, SECOND CHECKPOINT - MORNING
Bob Anders presents a YELLOW ENTRY FORM to a rough-voiced 
Immigration Officer.

                                     100.

             IMMIGRATION OFFICER
        (to Bob Anders)
      When did you arrive in Iran?

             BOB ANDERS
      Two days ago. 

             IMMIGRATION OFFICER
      What was the purpose of your visit?

             BOB ANDERS
      We were looking at locations to 
      make a film. Im the director.

Immigration Officer pauses and looks up. Looks at the six 
other faces. He looks every bit as confrontational as Tony 
acted in rehearsal.

             BOB ANDERS
	(CONTD)
        (very calm)
      We have a letter from the Minister 
      of Culture, if youd like to see 
      it.

The Immigration Officer gestures for the letter. Bob takes 
the letter inviting them on their location scout out of a 
folder. Tony, barely perceptibly, nods.

INT. KOMITEH OFFICE - MORNING

Moustache is now speaking with Khalkali. They speak Farsi and 
its untranslated, but we get it. He is showing the 
photograph of Mark Lijek from the bazaar and comparing it to 
the U.S. diplomatic photograph.

Khalkali picks up the phone.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, SECOND CHECKPOINT - MORNING

Immigration Official is conferring with Immigration Official 
2 as they look at the letter from the Minister of Culture. 
The Houseguests and Mendez wait. 

Cora Lijek breathes carefully, trying to stay composed. Shes 
twisting her wedding ring. Shes four months. Its getting 
tight.

Finally Immigration Official 2 shrugs.


                                     101.
             IMMIGRATION OFFICER
      Okay -- Yes -- Okay --

He waves them through. Second checkpoint done.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

Malinov, a phone to his ear. Ringing.

             MALINOV
      Cmon cmon cmon --

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

The phone in the office rings. No one is there.

EXT. COLUMBIA STUDIOS, SUNSET AND GOWER - EVENING

Siegel and Chambers are walking back to the office carrying 
coffee, or maybe In and Out burger bags.

The artificial glow of Hollywood light in the near distance. 
They are within sight of the Argo bungalow, but a P.A. steps 
in front of them.

             P.A.
        (a stage whisper)
      Im sorry, were shooting.

He motions for them to wait. A movie -- it looks like a 
police procedural: a drunk cop, a redemption story -- is 
shooting on the lot between Siegel, Chambers, and the Argo 
office.

INT. AIRPORT GATE - MORNING

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      SwissAir announces general boarding 
      for Flight 363 to Zurich.

Passengers, mostly European businessmen, get up and approach 
the gate.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, THIRD CHECKPOINT - MORNING

Mendez checks in with the Houseguests with his eyes. They are 
now in sight of the airport gates. And here are six Komiteh. 
Young men -- none more than 33 or so -- holding automatic 
weapons. 


They have created their own checkpoint. It looks recent, like the makeshift checkpoints after September 11th, A SCREENED-
OFF AREA WITH TABLES.

                                     102.

             KOMITEH 1
        (in Farsi, then in 
         English)
      Passports.

He looks at the Canadian passports and then almost 
immediately speaks.

             KOMITEH 1
	(CONTD)
     You come.

He directs Mendez and the Houseguests into the screened-off 
area. Speaks in Farsi to another Komiteh.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

             LAMONT
        (holding the phone)
      Pursers telling Swissair theyre 
      not on the plane.

             ODONNELL
      They should have boarded already.

             MALINOV
        (on another phone)
      Still no answer in the L.A. office.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, THIRD CHECKPOINT - MORNING

             MARK LIJEK
     A film.

Mark mimes the Charlie Chaplin universal signal of turning 
the rotor of a movie camera. But its not universal. Komiteh 
1 doesnt understand.

             BEARDED KOMITEH
	(O.S.)
     Sit down.

A young man with a beard -- probably late 20s -- speaks in 
very good American English. He looks at the six and the face 
he singles out is Joe Staffords.

             BEARDED KOMITEH
	(CONTD)
        (harsh, icy)
      You. You had no business in Iran.


He motions for JOE STAFFORD to step forward. Mendez shifts. A tense moment.

                                     103.

             JOE STAFFORD
      We did. We were preparing to make a 
      movie here, sir.

             BEARDED KOMITEH
      You dont have journalist visas.

             JOE STAFFORD
      Not a documentary. A movie. 

Joe Stafford reaches into his pocket and gives Bearded 
Komiteh a copy of the Argo Variety ad.

             JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
     You see? 
        (to Mendez)
      Kevin, wheres your briefcase?

A beat on Mendez. Who then opens his accordion folder and 
takes from it the ARGO STORYBOARDS. Joe Stafford spreads them 
out on the table.

Three other Komiteh in the room -- who are about 21 -- lean 
forward, their AUTOMATIC WEAPONS at their sides, and look at 
the STORYBOARD DRAWINGS. The Persian Empire futurism of Jack 
Kirbys drawings.

             JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
      These are the villains. Ysee these 
      guys here? And these are the 
      heroes... in the spice market...

Joe Stafford points at the various drawings. He speaks with 
an ease and confidence that we didnt know he had. Kathy 
Stafford stares at her husband.

             JOE STAFFORD
	(CONTD)
      Theyre trying to get past the 
      towers and into the city. They have 
      these chariots ... like this one 
      ... they go like this ... whoooosh, 
      hmm? They can fly ... 

Mendez watches. Its a performance. The three young Komiteh 
are now wide-eyed, pointing, whispering in Farsi, like 
teenagers around a comic book.

Bearded Komiteh says something to another Komiteh in the 
room. Then --


                                     104.
             BEARDED KOMITEH
        (to Joe Stafford)
      You dont go until we verify. 

             MENDEZ
      You can call our office.

Mendez hands Bearded Komiteh his card. STUDIO SIX FILMS. 
Kevin Harkins. A 213 phone number. 

ANGLES on the Houseguests as Bearded Komiteh leaves the room 
with the business card and three young Komiteh barely look up 
from the drawings --

EXT. COLUMBIA STUDIOS, SUNSET AND GOWER - LATE AFTERNOON

P.A., with one eye on the A.D., still holding Chambers and 
Siegel. The ACTOR playing the cop is conferring with the 
director. Hes not happy with something. Theyre holding 
everyone until the next take, and --

             P.A.
      Going again please! Were rolling --

EXT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING

A PICK-UP TRUCK with 5 Komiteh -- automatic weapons out -- 
drives up to the Canadian Ambassadors residence. 

Someone uses clippers to force the gate open.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, KOMITEH STATION - MORNING

Bearded Komiteh, who apparently has some authority here, 
enters, telling another Komiteh in Farsi to get off the 
phone. Bearded Komiteh looks at the Studio Six business card 
and picks up the receiver.

EXT. COLUMBIA STUDIOS, SUNSET AND GOWER - LATE AFTERNOON

             SIEGEL
      Im sorry, pally. Were just gonna 
      be in the movie. Call my agent.

             P.A.
     Sir. SIR!

Siegel and Chambers walk through the shot toward the Argo 
office.


                                     105.
INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, KOMITEH STATION - MORNING

Bearded Komiteh dials the long international number. And it 
is a DIAL, so this takes a long time.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, THIRD CHECKPOINT - MORNING

One of the young Komiteh is loudly debating with another 
Komiteh the air-worthiness of a futuristic desert glider in 
the storyboards.  Hes miming the thing crashing.

Joe Stafford and the Houseguests are silent. Mendez can see 
the line of passengers on their Swissair flight dwindling.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, KOMITEH STATION - MORNING

Bearded Komiteh rings the phone three times -- four times -- 
hes going to hang up --

             CHAMBERS
	(V.O.)
        (out of breath)
      Studio Six films.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

A beat of silence. Chambers catching his breath, listening. 
The door to the office wide open.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, KOMITEH STATION - MORNING

             BEARDED KOMITEH
      May I speak to Mr. Kevin Harkins--

             CHAMBERS
	(O.S.)
      Hes out of the country on a 
      location scout. May I take a 
      message?

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Chambers listens for a response. Siegel now catches up.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, KOMITEH STATION - MORNING

             BEARDED KOMITEH
      No message.


                                     106.
INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - MORNING

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      Swissair announces final boarding 
      of Flight 363 to Zurich. All 
      passengers should be at the gate at 
      this time.

EXT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING

Komiteh are forcing the front door of the house open.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, THIRD CHECKPOINT - MORNING

Bearded Komiteh comes back into the screened-off area. Looks 
at Joe Stafford, then at Mendez. Then says something in Farsi 
to the three Komiteh in the holding area. Then he leaves.

The three Young Komiteh look at the drawings, then at Joe 
Stafford. Silence for a moment.

             MENDEZ
        (he pushes the storyboards 
         toward them)
      Our gift to you. From our film.

Komiteh 1, who speaks enough English to understand, 
translates to the others. They forget their revolutionary 
mission for a second, happy with their gift. Theyd high-five 
if they could. Theyre kids.

Komiteh 1 motions for the Houseguests to go.

INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING

A dozen Komiteh, guns drawn, rush into the residence. Empty 
liquor bottles. The remains of what looks like breakfast for 
a group of people. 

But the place is empty. The Komiteh in a Jacket, who seems to 
be in charge, sends someone to check upstairs.

INT./EXT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, FLIGHT GATE - MORNING

Outside, a BUSLOAD of passengers about to be ferried to the 
airplane.

A Swissair Rep is closing the gate to Flight 363. She looks 
up to see the Houseguests and Mendez hurrying through the 
terminal, headed toward her. She holds the gate, speaks in 
German into a walkie, and --


INT. CANADIAN AMBASSADORS RESIDENCE - MORNING
A Komiteh, upstairs, comes to the foyer balcony and shouts 
something in Farsi down to the Komiteh in a Jacket. Who picks 
up a phone on a hallway table and dials a number. 

                                     107.

ANGLE ON

A SwissAir ticket is torn.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, FLIGHT GATE - MORNING

Cora Lijeks ticket is taken and she walks through the door. 
Hurries toward the transport bus. The other five Houseguests 
and Mendez behind her and --

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, KOMITEH STATION - MORNING

A phone rings and a Young Komiteh picks up the call. He 
listens for a moment. Then he drops the phone and RUNS into 
the airport terminal and --

INT. RUNWAY TRANSPORT BUS - MORNING

The Houseguests sit aboard the bus, headed to a waiting DC-
10. 

The DRIVER puts the bus into gear. It doesnt go. He shakes 
his head. This goddamn thing.  Shifts gears again. Now it 
goes.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT - MORNING

Young Komiteh RUNNING through the terminal, pushing through a 
crowd, making a Woman drop her suitcase, contents scattering. 
An automatic weapon at his side. 

The three Komiteh from the Third Checkpoint stand up from the 
table with the Argo storyboards. Young Komiteh shouts at them 
and they take up their weapons and join him, running --

EXT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

The Houesguests head up the stairs to the plane.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, FLIGHT GATE - MORNING

The Young Komiteh arrives at Flight 363s gate. The door is 
CLOSED. 


INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING
The Houseguests put their carry-on luggage into the overhead 
bins. A Flight Attendant is already holding a detached 
seatbelt preparing to do her safety mime.

                                     108.

             ANNOUNCEMENT (GERMAN)
      Please direct your attention to the 
      flight attendants for some 
      important safety information.

Mendez is sitting looking out the window toward the terminal.

ANGLE ON

The wheel of the DC-10. The airplane has now pulled away from 
the gate and is backing up toward the runway -- slowly -- 
maddeningly slow --

INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

Passengers read paperbacks or International Herald Tribunes. 
Mark Lijeks arm is around Cora. Lee Schatz is moving his 
mouth in what looks like a prayer. Kathy Staffords fingers 
shake as she holds an arm rest. Joe Stafford tries to stay 
her hand.

INT. MEHRABAD AIRPORT, FLIGHT GATE - MORNING

The Young Komiteh yells to a Swissair Rep, dragging her back 
toward the gate. We cant hear what she says back, but shes 
shaking her head.

Young Komiteh goes to the WINDOW. He can see the Swissair 
plane slowly turning onto the runway. He picks up a walkie 
and pushes through the flight gate door, setting off an 
alarm, followed by the two other Komiteh.

INT. MEHRABAD FLIGHT TOWER - MORNING

An Iranian FLIGHT TRAFFIC CONTROLLER calmly speaks into his 
radio in British-accented English.

             FLIGHT TRAFFIC CONTROLLER
      SwissAir 363, you are Number 2 for 
      departure.


                                     109.
INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

Out the window of the plane. Two IRANIAN POLICE CARS and a 
CANVAS-TOPPED TRUCK are headed down the runway toward the 
plane.

Its the POV of MENDEZ. Looking out from his window seat.

EXT. AIRPORT RUNWAY - MORNING

An IRAN AIRLINES 747 takes off, revealing the Swissair jet 
behind it. Only empty runway ahead of Swissair 363 now and --

ANGLE ON

Boots taking stairs two at a time.

INT. MEHRABAD FLIGHT TOWER - MORNING

Three Komiteh with automatics rush up the tower stairs --

EXT. AIRPORT RUNWAY - MORNING

Were speeding behind two Iranian Police Cars and a Canvas 
Topped Jeep as they speed toward the Swissair plane. In the 
back of the jeep we can see half a dozen Komiteh, weapons 
drawn and --

INT. SWISSAIR DC 10, COCKPIT - MORNING

A SWISSAIR PILOT, 50s, at the controls.

             VOICE OF FLIGHT CONTROLLER
      Swissair 363 --

The Pilot puts his hand on the throttle control.

INT. MEHRABAD FLIGHT TOWER - MORNING

             FLIGHT TRAFFIC CONTROLLER
      -- you are cleared for take-off.

The Flight Traffic Controller moves his head-set mic away 
from his mouth to take a drink of very strong Iranian tea, 
and -- the door to the Control Room BURSTS OPEN. Three 
Komiteh with automatics, shouting instructions to the Traffic 
Controller, who spills his tea --


                                     110.
INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

Mendez looking out the window -- the three Iranian vehicles 
speeding ahead -- theyre gaining on us -- but now we start 
to pull away from them -- leaving them behind -- beginning to 
RISE UP --

INT. MEHRABAD FLIGHT TOWER - MORNING

The Flight Controller has his arms up... through the floor-to-
ceiling windows of the tower, as three Komiteh watch a 
Swissair DC 10 angle upward and leave the ground ...

EXT. AIRPORT RUNWAY - MORNING

The Komiteh from the jeep are now standing on the runway 
watching the plane disappear. 

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

             LAMONT
        (taking off headphones)
      We have wheels up. Its --

He starts to punch the air. ODonnell stays his arm.

             ODONNELL
      Not till theyve cleared the 
      border.

INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

The Houseguests -- holding their breath -- 

Mendez -- looking out the window -- scanning the air around 
the plane -- behind every cloud --

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      Ladies and gentlemen, it is our 
      pleasure to announce that alcoholic 
      beverages are now available, as we 
      have cleared Iranian airspace. 

A high pitched scream -- 

The Houseguests, who shout and embrace and celebrate.  Bob 
Anders high-fives Lee Schatz, then the other Houseguests. 
Mark Lijek, crying, embraces Cora. 

Kathy Stafford is laughing. She kisses her husbands hand.


Some of the other passengers look up from their newspapers, annoyed at this Canadian fuss.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

All eyes watch Malinov, listening, headphone to one ear...

                                     111.

             MALINOV
      Theyre CLEAR!

Cheers in the CIA. ODonnell throws papers in the air and 
embraces Malinov.

INT./EXT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - NIGHT

Siegel throws down a phone and rushes outside ... to where 
Chambers smokes. 

             SIEGEL
      OUUUT! THEYRE OUT!

Chambers and Lester scream like kids whove just scored the 
game-winning touchdown. The P.A. tries to shush them.

INT. SWISSAIR DC 10 - MORNING

A mini-champagne bottle pops. The Houseguests are 
celebrating: New Years Eve and a Super Bowl victory party in 
a DC-10 aisle.

FIND Mendez, sitting alone, apart from the celebration. 
Looking out the window. Mendez turns to see that someone is 
standing in the aisle next to him. Joe Stafford. Tony looks 
up at Joe.

             FLIGHT ATTENDANT
	(O.S.)
      Im sorry, sir. You need to sit 
      down.

But Joe doesnt pay attention to the Flight Attendant tapping 
him on the shoulder. He extends his hand to Mendez. Who takes 
it. A moment between them. Stafford nods at Mendez, and what 
he means is Youre a good man. Mendez nods back to him.

             FLIGHT ATTENDANT
	(CONTD)
     Sir?

Joe goes back to his seat. 

HOLD on Tony Mendez. For a long time.


INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - NIGHT
Drinking straight from a bottle of Beefeater. Pauses between 
each of these lines.

                                     112.

             SIEGEL
      Its history, is what it is. 
      History plays out first as farce, 
      then as tragedy.

             CHAMBERS
      The quotes the other way around.

             SIEGEL
      Who said that again?

             CHAMBERS
      Marx.

             SIEGEL
      Groucho?

             CHAMBERS
      Karl.


INT. CIA, LANGLEY - NIGHT

The celebration is quieter and drunker now.

             LAMONT
        (a couple of beers along)
      WE are the good guys!

       		ROSSI
	Six down, fifty to go.

		LAMONT
	Call the New York Fucking 
        Times. The CIA are the good 
        guys. 

             MALINOV
      The Canadians are the good guys.

             LAMONT
      -- were not greedy -- them too --

             MALINOV
      Only. Canada takes the credit, or 
      theyll retaliate against the 
      hostages. Great Satan wasnt 
      involved. No CIA. 

             LAMONT
      Is that right, Jack?


                                     113.
             ODONNELL
      Involved in what? Were as 
      surprised as anybody that the 
      Canadians got our people out. Thank 
      you, Canada. 

Jack raises a glass of scotch and takes a drink.

ARCHIVE FOOTAGE

A homemade sign that reads: THANK YOU CANADA! (homecoming 
ceremony for Houseguests 2/1980). Hundreds are gathered to 
welcome the six back.

             TED KOPPEL
      Finally, a sliver of really good 
      news. Not, unfortunately, related 
      to the 50 hostages but to six other 
      Americans whove been hiding in the 
      Canadian Embassy in Tehran for 
      almost three months now.

AMERICA HELD HOSTAGE, DAY 87, BROADCAST (1/29/80).

                                  CUT TO:

CANADIAN MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS FLORA MACDONALD, late 
60s. (A.H.H. 1/29/80)

             FLORA MACDONALD
      It was a simple operation, really.

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT, LOBBY - DAY

The Houseguests -- the ones weve seen throughout the film, 
not the real ones -- arrive in the State Department lobby. 
Television lights everywhere. 

             TED KOPPEL
	(V.O.)
      The six fled the country posing as 
      Canadian diplomats. They simply 
      walked away.

Camera flashes, wild cheers. Banners: WELCOME HOME CORA AND 
MARK! IDAHO LOVES YOU, LEE! Its the first moment of national 
celebration since the beginning of the crisis. 

ARCHIVE FOOTAGE

IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER SADEQ GHOTBZADEH speaks angrily into 
a microphone.


                                     114.
             SADEQ GHOTBZADEH
      Sooner or later, here or anywhere 
      in the world, Canada will pay for 
      this violation of the sovereignty 
      of Iran. (News conference 
      1/29/80).

MORE ARCHIVE FOOTAGE. (1/30/1980) of the State Department 
WELCOME HOME CEREMONY.  Ambassador KEN TAYLOR is presented 
with a HUGE FLORAL BOUQUET. Cheering crowds all around him.

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - DAY

Christine Mendez is watching the scene on t.v. Michael next 
to her reading a Choose Your Own Adventure book. 

HOLD on Christine  watching the celebration. She doesnt know 
her husband was involved. Or maybe she does know.

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - DAY

Mendez walks down the long windowed hall of the first floor.

             SIEGEL
	(V.O.)
      This morning my waitress at Jerrys 
      said to me, You hear what those 
      Canadians did? 

INT. SIEGELS LIVING ROOM - DAY

Lester in a bathrobe. The New York Times in front of him: SIX 
U.S. DIPLOMATS, HIDDEN BY CANADA, LEAVE IRAN SAFELY. Next to 
that, an article about Ken Taylor: DIPLOMAT DIRECTED ESCAPE 
IN IRAN.  (Front page, NYT 1/30/80). 

             SIEGEL
      She said, Why couldnt we pull off 
      something like that? You know what 
      I said to her? 

INT. CIA, LANGLEY - DAY

Mendez at his desk, a pile of messages near him.

             MENDEZ
      Whad you say to her?


                                     115.
INT. SIEGELS LIVING ROOM - DAY

             SIEGEL
      I said Argo fuck yourself.

INT. CIA ARCHIVES - DAY

And suddenly its dead-quiet. Were in a vault inside a vault 
in the basement of the main building.

Mendezs suitcase is lying on a low counter, an ARCHIVES 
OFFICER toe-tagging and cataloging various items. Separating 
Mendezs personal things from material related to the 
operation.

Mendez empties his briefcase and Officer puts a sticker on 
the VARIETY featuring the ARGO ad. Another on the ARGO 
script. Hes putting things into a box that reads: USCIA 
CLASSIFIED MATERIAL.

Mendez opens his accordion folder -- flips through it -- its 
empty -- no. Theres something inside. 

In one of the compartments is a STORYBOARD FROM ARGO. 

One that the komiteh missed. While the Archives Officer is 
turned around, Mendez slips the storyboard back into the 
accordion folder and puts it back with his personal things.

INT. CIA, HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

ODonnell is on his way out. Seeing Mendez, he stops dead. 

             ODONNELL
      And I sent my autograph book to the 
      cleaners.

EXT. CIA, PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON

             ODONNELL
      His Eminence called me. He wants to 
      see you.

             MENDEZ
      He wants to fire me himself.

             O'DONNELL
      He wants to give you the 
      Intelligence Star. 
             


             O'DONNELL	(CONT'D)
      Youre getting the highest award of 
      merit of the Clandestine Services 
      of these fifty United States. 
      Ceremonys two weeks from today.

Mendez stops walking. A beat.

                                     116.

             MENDEZ
      If they do it next week, Michael 
      will be on winter break.

             O'DONNELL
      The op was classified so the 
      ceremonys classified. He cant 
      know about it. Nobody can know 
      about it.

             MENDEZ
      Theyre gonna hand me an award, 
      then theyre gonna take it back?

             ODONNELL
      If we wanted applause, we would 
      have joined the circus.

             MENDEZ
      I thought thats what we did.

ODonnell claps Tony on the shoulder. They walk toward their 
separate cars.

             O'DONNELL
        (yelling to Tony; an 
         afterthought)
      Carter said you were a great 
      American.

             MENDEZ
        (yelling back)
      A great American what?

             ODONNELL
      That he didnt say. 

ANGLE ON

A POSTER on the wall. ARGO: A COSMIC CONFLAGRATION.

INT. ARGO PRODUCTION OFFICE - DAY

A hand takes the poster down. Chambers is disassembling the 
office. Boxes packed. Everything now off the walls.

He turns out the lights.


                                     117.
EXT. COLUMBIA BACKLOT, SUNSET AND GOWER - AFTERNOON

Doug, the maintenance man who rented them the place, is 
watering a planter. He spots Chambers walking past with arms 
full of boxes, posters, an unopened bottle of Beefeater.

             DOUG
      Youre moving out?

Chambers gives the bottle to Doug, slaps his back.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      What happened to Argo?

             CHAMBERS
      Its in turnaround.

Hes walking away from us, through the backlot where a crane 
is moving into place for a night shoot.

EXT. ROAD UP TO RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

A Ford Bronco heads up the road, past a mailbox, toward a 
1920s farmhouse at the edge of the woods.

EXT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE - 

Mendez, a duffel bag on his shoulder, knocks on the door. He 
waits. After a moment, Christine -- red sauce on her hands, 
in the middle of making dinner -- opens the door with a dish 
towel.

             MENDEZ
      Hi.

             CHRISTINE
      Hi.


They look at each other.

             CHRISTINE
	(CONTD)
      My hands are d--

Before she can finish, hes embraced her. Holds tight. Its 
something in between romantic and fraternal. Not 
reconciliation, necessarily, but warmth. She reciprocates. It 
feels right, and good.

WIDEN to hold on them holding each other in dark the hall of 
the very American, even Hummel-kitschy, house. HOLD there for 
a while.

ANGLE ON


                                     118.
A scene of the Old West on a television.

INT. RURAL VIRGINIA HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Michael is watching 1973s sci-fi Western Westworld in the 
living room. Michael doesnt have to describe the scene to 
his father this time. Widen to see that his head is on a 
pillow on Tonys lap.

Card 1: THE IRAN HOSTAGE CRISIS ENDED ON JANUARY 20, 1981, 
WHEN THE REMAINING EMBASSY HOSTAGES WERE RELEASED AFTER 444 
DAYS IN CAPTIVITY.

INT. MICHAELS BEDROOM - NIGHT

We can faintly hear the sounds of gunslinging from the living 
room movie in here. Glow-in-the-dark stars on the wall. A 
Star Wars X-Wing fighter. A couple of rubber Planet of the 
Apes figures that look like theyve been chewed by a dog.

Card 2: OSCAR-WINNING MAKE-UP ARTIST JOHN CHAMBERS WAS 
AWARDED THE CIAS INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT, ITS HIGHEST 
CIVILIAN HONOR. HE REMAINED FRIENDS WITH TONY UNTIL CHAMBERS  
DIED IN 2001.

The camera moves over the dresser of Michaels toys until we 
find, almost unnoticeable among his science fiction 
collection, a piece of cardboard behind Captain Kirk and Han 
Solo figures. 

Its a STORYBOARD FROM ARGO. The one missed by the komiteh at 
the airport. 

Card 3: TONY MENDEZ WAS NOT GIVEN BACK HIS INTELLIGENCE STAR 
UNTIL 1997, WHEN THE ARGO OPERATION WAS DECLASSIFIED BY 
PRESIDENT CLINTON. 

Linger on the ARGO STORYBOARD. A MAN in a futuristic chariot 
sheltering a KID from what look like laser beams. 

Card 4: HE LIVES IN RURAL MARYLAND WITH HIS FAMILY.

FADE TO BLACK. 

THE END.


