               BEAST
                 by
               Zach Dean

               11.13.13

Draft Date: 11.13.13

Written by: 
Zach Dean

Management:
Madhouse Entertainment
Adam Kolbrenner - 310.587.2200


FADE IN:
Blackness.

We hear the young voice of GRAHAM, a sixteen year old boy.

             GRAHAM 
      I dont know how to pray. Nobody 
      ever taught me that...or if they 
      did, I never listened. But Ive 
      learned a lot of other things. 
      Me...I like biology. Everything in 
      nature, has a nature. Some things 
      are predators. Some are prey. Some 
      things get a century to live. Some 
      get one day. Some animals carry 
      their babies on their backs for 
      years. Some abandon their young at 
      birth. Some, when cornered, will 
      give their lives to protect their 
      young. And some will not... 

As Grahams voice fades, we hear the rising SOUND OF BEASTLY, 
LABORED BREATHING.

HARD CUT INTO:

INT. CATTLE TRANSPORT TRUCK - MORNING

Thin shafts of sunlight pierce the putrid air as tightly 
packed LIVE CATTLE press their noses against the perforated 
wall slats for fresh oxygen.

CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICALI/CALEXICO U.S. BORDER CROSSING - SAME MOMENT

A SEA OF AUTOMOBILES slowly merge, bottle-necking toward a 
U.S. BORDER CROSSING in rural southern California.

In the far right lane A LINE of TRACTOR TRAILER TRUCKS creep 
through the commercial check point. 

The CATTLE TRANSPORT TRUCK with Mexico plates advances to the 
inspection booth as the sweltering animals BRAY from inside.

INT. CATTLE TRUCK CAB - CONTINUOUS

The MIDDLE-AGED MEXICAN TRUCK DRIVER removes his sunglasses, 
greeting the BORDER PATROL OFFICER in the booth... 

             U.S. BORDER PATROL OFFICER
      Passport. Manifest. Ag-department 
      clearance...

The Driver hands the Officer a fistful of PAPERWORK and the 
Officer skims through the COMMERCIAL MANIFEST.

             U.S. BORDER PATROL OFFICER 
      Terminal destination?

             CATTLE TRUCK DRIVER
        (Spanish accent)
      Western Valley Meat Processing. 
      Bishop, California...

QUICK CUT TO:

EXT. WHITE SCOUT CAR - MEXICO SIDE - SAME MOMENT

P.O.V. SHOT: Nearby in a nondescript WHITE SEDAN, TWO YOUNG 
MEXICAN LOOK-OUTS keep an eye on the cattle truck, monitoring 
its progress through the checkpoint from a distance.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. CATTLE TRUCK CAB - MOMENTS LATER

The Border Patrol Officer STAMPS the Drivers paperwork...

CUT BACK TO:

EXT. WHITE SCOUT CAR - MEXICO SIDE - MOMENTS LATER

The two Lookouts watch as the cattle truck pulls away through 
the checkpoint into the United States.

The Passenger Lookout reaches for his CELL PHONE and dials a 
number written on the back of A MATCHBOOK. 

A MANS VOICE picks up on an ENCRYPTED SATELLITE PHONE...

             VOICE
        (in Spanish, subtitled)
      The forecast?


             PASSENGER LOOKOUT
        (in Spanish, subtitled)
      The sky is clear. No rain today. 

Without another word, the young Lookout FLIPS THE PHONE 
CLOSED, then STRIKES A MATCH, IGNITING THE ENTIRE MATCHBOOK 
destroying the phone number. 

He sets the burning matchbook in the car ashtray, ejects the 
SIM CARD out of the cellphone and drops it in the flames.

EXT. TRUCK STOP - 40 MILES NORTH OF THE BORDER - AN HOUR LATER

The cattle truck pulls into a wind swept TRUCKSTOP beside a 
JET BLACK SUPERCHARGED CHRYSLER 300. 

The Cattle Truck Driver kills the engine, climbs down from 
the cab, and gets into the passenger seat of the Chrysler...

INT. CHRYSLER 300 - CONTINUOUS

The LATINO DRIVER, (30s) wearing a COWBOY HAT AND AVIATOR 
SHADES, sits behind the wheel chewing on a cocktail straw.

TWO MORE LATINO MEN, one younger in his 20s, the other 
older, sit silently in the back seat. 

The Truck Driver shifts nervously in the passenger seat.

             LATINO DRIVER 
        (in Spanish))
      Keys?

             CATTLE TRUCK DRIVER
        (in Spanish)
      Theyre in the ignition.

The Driver reaches is his jacket and hands the Truck Driver 
an ENVELOPE OF CASH AND A NEW SET OF CAR KEYS. He points to a 
BLUE FORD F-150 parked nearby.

             LATINO DRIVER
        (in Spanish)
      Its yours. Go with God.

The Cattle Truck Driver NODS respectfully, pockets the 
envelope, and quickly exits the vehicle.


EXT. CHRYSLER 300 - SECONDS LATER

The younger of the two Latino Men gets out of the Chrysler 
300 and climbs up into the cab of the cattle hauler.

EXT. OPEN DESERT ROAD - AN HOUR LATER

The sun hangs high above the open California desert.

Avoiding the interstates, the cattle truck winds north on a 
desolate road followed by the Chrysler.

INT. CATTLE TRUCK CAB - SAME MOMENT

The Young Driver lights a cigarette as he taps out a drum 
beat on the trucks steering wheel...

INT. CHRYSLER 300 - SAME MOMENT

The Latino Driver in the cowboy hat keeps his eyes on the 
cattle truck ahead as his partner fiddles with the RADIO. Due 
to the geographic isolation, all the stations are static.

In the distance, the Latino Driver hears something. He 
motions for his partner to kill the noise. 

As they shut off the radio, THEY BOTH HEAR THE THUNDERING 
APPROACH OF SOMETHING BEHIND THEM...

The Driver glances in the rear view mirror as a SPEEDING, HD 
SPORTSTER MOTORCYCLE ROUNDS THE CORNER BEHIND THEM.

A LONE BIKER in full face helmet and black leather 
accelerates, ROARING UP BESIDE THE CHRYSLER...

The Latino Driver eyes the man through the drivers window. 
The Biker holds an OPEN PINT OF BOURBON in his free hand. 

             LONE BIKER
        (yelling at the Driver)
      What the fuck are you looking at!

Through the window, the Latino Driver glares calmly at the 
biker with a deathly expression. HE MAKES A MOCK GUN MOTION 
WITH HIS HAND AT THE BIKER, MIMING SHOOTING HIM.

IN RESPONSE, THE BIKER DEFIANTLY HURLS HIS LIQUOR BOTTLE, 
SHATTERING IT AGAINST THE DOOR OF THE SPEEDING CHRYSLER. 

THE BIKER FLIPS THE DRIVER THE MIDDLE FINGER AND CRANKS THE 
THROTTLE, ACCELERATING AWAY. 

             LATINO DRIVER
        (in Spanish)
      Dead.

Without hesitation, the Latino Driver FLOORS THE SUPERCHARGED 
CHRYSLER 300 IN PURSUIT OF THE MOTORCYCLE...

BEGIN CROSS CUT CHASE SEQUENCE

The motorcycle races past the cattle truck, followed seconds 
behind by the speeding Chrysler 300.

As the Latino Driver passes the truck he signals at the 
Younger Driver in the truck to follow...

EXT. MOTORCYCLE - SAME MOMENT

The Lone Biker glances over his shoulder and sees hes being 
pursued. He rounds another curve and sees a SMALLER SERVICE 
ROAD AHEAD, BRANCHING OFF TO THE RIGHT. 

THE BIKER VEERS OFF THE MAIN ROAD ONTO A SMALLER SERVICE ROAD 
LEADING UP INTO A STEEP MAZE OF RED ROCK CANYONS.

EXT. CANYON ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The Chrysler chases after the motorcycle, veering onto the 
service road, followed a moment behind by the cattle truck.

EXT. MOTORCYCLE - CONTINUOUS

The Lone Biker races around the blind curves, heading deeper 
and deeper into the desolate canyon landscape...

EXT. CANYON ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The Chrysler 300 accelerates, tires screeching, trying to 
close the distance between them and the motorcycle...

Meanwhile, the cattle truck downshifts, slowing on the 
curves, unable to keep up with the other two vehicles.

INT. CHRYSLER 300 - SAME MOMENT

As the Latino Driver cranks the wheel, rounding a sharp 
curve, they speed past a DEAD END - NO OUTLET sign.

Without a word, his Partner reaches under his seat, 
retrieving a matte black SUB MACHINE PISTOL. He slides in a 
HIGH CAPACITY MAGAZINE and racks the action.

EXT. DEAD END - MOMENTS LATER

The Chrysler rounds the corner and stops as the road ends.

The canyon walls rise around them blocking out the sunlight 
as the Cattle Truck brings up the rear and shuts down.

A sudden silence fills the air as VULTURES circle the vibrant 
desert sky high above the canyon.

Thirty yards ahead of the Chrysler, the Lone Biker, still 
wearing his helmet, dismounts his bike. Its clear THERE IS 
NO WAY OUT FOR HIM...

The doors of the Chrysler 300 slowly open and the two Latino 
men rise out of the vehicle. 

The Passenger palms the Machine Pistol. The Driver draws a 
GOLD PLATED 9MM from his jeans and stares at the biker...

             LATINO DRIVER
      You had something to say to me, 
      Gringo?

CLOSE UP ON: The Lone Biker...his face is mostly obscured by 
a full-face helmet. Only his pale eyes are visible and the 
small BLACK CROSS TATTOOED beneath his left eye. 

The Biker removes his helmet, revealing a BLACK MASK BENEATH.

SHIFT ANGLE TO:

             LONE BIKER
      Your temper is your weakness.

SUDDENLY THE CANYON WALLS ABOVE THEM ERUPT IN A BARRAGE OF 
MERCILESS AUTOMATIC SNIPER FIRE...

SMASH CUT TO:

SEVERAL HIGH ANGLE P.O.V. SHOTS: DOWN THE OPEN BI-POD REST 
GUN-SIGHTS OF MULTIPLE M249(SAW) MACHINE GUN POSITIONS. THE 
DEAFENING, 100 ROUND PER MINUTE FIRE RATE ECHOES OFF THE 
CANYON WALLS...

CUT BACK TO:


EXT. DEAD END - CONTINUOUS

THE LATINO DRIVER IS SHOT IN THE CHEST, STOMACH, AND THIGHS, 
THE IMPACT TWISTING HIS BODY BACK AGAINST THE CAR.

HIS PARTNER ON THE PASSENGER SIDE RAISES HIS WEAPON, BLINDLY 
FIRING-OFF HALF A MAGAZINE BEFORE HIS BODY IS BRUTALLY CUT 
DOWN BY THE UNFORGIVING STREAM OF MACHINEGUN FIRE...

INT./EXT. CATTLE TRUCK CAB - SECONDS LATER

Witnessing what is happening, the Young Driver of the cattle 
hauler cranks the ignition, starting the diesel engine.

Unable to turn the large vehicle around, he shifts into 
reverse and begins backing blindly down the canyon 
road...WHERE A STEEL TIRE SPIKE-STRIP has been dragged across 
the road behind him.

THE REAR TIRES OF THE BIG RIG ROLL OVER THE SHARP SPIKES, 
BURSTING AND DISABLING THEM. 

Panicking, the Young Driver hits the air-brakes and scrambles 
for his CELL PHONE only to find there is NO SIGNAL. 

Then he hears the Lone Bikers voice CALLING TO HIM...

             LONE BIKER
      These canyons are dead zone, Amigo. 
      No service up here...

The Young Driver looks up to see the Biker in the black mask 
standing in front of the cab shouldering a TACTICAL SHOTGUN.

Without hesitation, the Biker FIRES A LOAD OF BUCKSHOT 
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD OF THE CATTLE TRUCK, STRIKING THE 
DRIVER IN THE CHEST AND FACE.  

The Biker racks another shell, steps up onto the cattle truck 
running board, and pulls open the drivers door.

Unable to move, the Young Truck Driver wheezes badly. His 
face is a mess, his lungs are punctured...hes dying fast...

             YOUNG DRIVER
      Sinaloa Cartel, fucker. You just 
      signed your own death. 

The Lone Biker FIRES ANOTHER SHELL at close range.

EXT. CATTLE TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

The Biker and THREE OTHER MEN IN BLACK SKI MASKS pull down 
the CATTLE RAMP and unlock the back of the truck. 

As they open the doors the stench of manure and stale hot air 
floods out of the cattle hauler. The Biker raises the shotgun 
in the air and FIRES another loud shell.

Driven by the gunshot, the TERRIFIED CATTLE run down the ramp 
and wander out into the daylight. For an instant, the four 
men watch the animals wandering away free down the canyon 
road...

Then on whim, one of the men RAISES HIS WEAPON to shoot at 
the cattle, but the Biker pushes away the mans gun barrel.

             LONE BIKER
        (re: the cattle)
      Let em be.

INT. CATTLE CAR - SECONDS LATER

A LOUD CHAIN-SAW CUTS INTO THE SHIT COVERED WOODEN PLANK 
FLOORING OF THE CATTLE CAR. AS THE SAW CUTS DEEPER INTO THE 
FLOOR, FINE WHITE POWDER BEGINS TO SPEW FROM THE SAW BLADE...

INT. CATTLE CAR - MOMENTS LATER

With the wooden trailer floor cut open, the four men stand 
over 160 TIGHTLY PACKED KILOS OF BRICK WRAPPED COCAINE.

FADE TO:

SUPERTITLE: OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA - SIX MONTHS LATER

EXT. MORRISON BUNGALOW - EARLY MORNING

The autumn sun rises on a small, rundown California Bungalow 
in a low income neighborhood. Trash drifts in the street. The 
yard and concrete walkway are overgrown with weeds.

INT. GRAHAM MORRISONS BEDROOM - BUNGALOW - SAME MOMENT

Morning sun drifts into the sparse bedroom of a teenage boy. 
A cheap digital clock reads: 6:58AM.

A SHARK WEEK CALENDER HANGS on the back of a hollow core door 
where THE MONTHS AND DAYS HAVE BEEN CROSSED OFF IN RED X 
MARKS counting down to this coming Friday. 


GRAHAM MORRISON, (16), boyishly handsome, bushy hair, his 
tall frame filling out, sits on the edge of his bed in his 
boxer shorts gazing into a saltwater fish tank where a 12-
INCH HAMMERHEAD SHARK PUP swims in circles.

Graham reaches into a zip-lock bag and DROPS A PIECE OF RAW 
BAY SHRIMP into the tank. 

Graham watches as the little shark voraciously attacks the 
meat, ripping it apart and swallowing it.

Suddenly the clock turns to 7:00AM and the ALARM GOES OFF...

INT. KITCHEN - BUNGALOW - MOMENTS LATER

Standing in the kitchen in jeans and a black tee-shirt, 
Graham stares at the coffee maker as it perks and drips.

He sets out two plates, spreads butter on toast, and pours 
HOT COFFEE INTO TWO MUGS. He drinks from one cup, then 
carries the other into the small living room where...

INT. LIVING ROOM - BUNGALOW - CONTINUOUS

Grahams mother, TERRI MORRISON, (40s) her makeup still on 
from the previous night, lies passed-out in a mini-skirt and 
tank-top on the couch. 

Terri is pretty, but years of booze and single parenting have 
taken their toll, stealing the light from her eyes. 

Graham picks up his mothers empty glass and full ashtray 
from the night before. He sets her coffee on the hardwood 
floor beside the couch.

             GRAHAM
      Mom...

She doesnt move. Graham nudges her shoulder.

Terri stirs, wincing at the morning light.

             TERRI
      Shit...what time is it?

             GRAHAM
      Almost eight. Theres coffee next 
      to your head. Dont knock it over.

             TERRI
      Got it. Thanks...


As Graham shoulders his school backpack and turns for the door, Terri makes a face, remembering something...

             TERRI 
      Wait, Graham...happy birthday, 
      honey.

             GRAHAM
        (smiling)
      Thanks, mom.

Terri sits up on the couch, gathering her hair into a pony 
tail and reaching for her coffee.

             TERRI
      I cant believe my boy is sixteen. 
      I was gonna get you another fish 
      for your tank but I didnt know 
      what kind was a good one.

             GRAHAM
      None. He has to be alone. Hell 
      kill anything you put in there.

             TERRI
      Oh. That sucks.

             GRAHAM
      Its not his fault. Its just what 
      he is. (pause) Hes getting too big 
      for his tank anyway. 

             TERRI
      Im glad I didnt waste the money.

             GRAHAM
      Mom, I gotta go...

             TERRI
      Is your uncle picking you up?

Graham NODS and turns for the door, then pauses...

             GRAHAM
      Hey, did Dad call?

             TERRI
      Yesterday.

             GRAHAM
      Everything still good?

             TERRI
      He said hed be home on Friday.

EXT. OPEN PRAIRIE - EASTERN COLORADO - SAME MORNING

October wind blows across the vast open plains of eastern 
Colorado. Low clouds drift to the horizon, where the faint 
outline of the Rocky Mountains are visible.

Far below on the vacant plain, lies a SPRAWLING GRAY PRISON 
surrounded by PERIMETERS OF RAZOR WIRE AND GUARD TOWERS.

SUPERTITLE: EASTERN COLORADO FEDERAL PENITENTIARY

INT. MULTIPURPOSE ROOM - EASTERN COLORADO FEDERAL PEN- DAY

A thin CORRECTIONS OFFICER stands near the entrance to the 
room monitoring a PRISON RELEASE DISCUSSION GROUP.

SEVEN MALE INMATES wearing orange corrections coveralls sit 
in a circle on folding chairs. The men are a eclectic mix of 
stature and race. Using any conventional rubric, theyre all 
intimidating, but one man clearly stands out as the alpha... 

MICK MORRISON, (40s), sits like a granite statue. He doesnt 
speak. His muscular body is a myriad of TATTOOS. The words, 
WARLORDS MC, are tattooed on the knuckles of his right hand.  

Micks powerful presence is palpable, and the other six 
inmates give him extra space at the circle. Absorbed in 
thought, Mick flexes the plastic lid of a disposable coffee 
cup as he listens to... 

MS. HASHID, (30s) a pretty, Pakastani-American prison social 
worker sitting at the head of the circle... 

             MS. HASHID
        (addressing the group)
      Thats the question. What are you 
      going to do when you walk out those 
      doors? Who are you going to be? 
      Look around at each other.

Several of the inmates glance around. Mick does not.

             MS. HASHID 
      Statistically, four of the seven of 
      you will be back behind bars within 
      five years. Four of seven. Thats a 
      hard number to ignore. You would be 
      stupid to ignore that number. But 
      it is just a number. You are not 
      numbers. You are individuals. 

Ms. Hashid leans forward in her chair.

             MS. HASHID 
      But as individuals, you are all men 
      prone to self-destruction. If you 
      werent, you wouldnt be in here. 
      So I want you to take a moment and 
      be honest with yourselves. What 
      truly matters to you in this life? 

Micks pale eyes slowly drift up to meet Ms. Hashids. Its 
clear that beyond Micks ferocious exterior there is a very 
intelligent man.

             MS. HASHID 
      I want you to articulate a goal. 
      One goal to accomplish in your 
      first month of freedom. Write it 
      down. Make a plan detailing how 
      youre going to achieve that goal. 
      Then seal it up in an envelope. 
      Consider it a promise to yourself. 
      In a months time, I want you to 
      open your letter, wherever you are, 
      and decide for yourself if youve 
      kept your word.

A BUZZER sounds, signaling the end of the discussion group. 
Ms. Hashid looks at the inmates.

             MS. HASHID 
      I know that most of you wont write 
      the letter. Four out of seven Id 
      guess. Youll think its a bullshit 
      waste of time. But consider this, 
      if youre not willing to make a 
      promise to yourself and keep it, 
      then a bullshit waste of time is 
      probably exactly what you are.

INT. MICKS CELL - MOMENTS LATER

Lying shirtless on his lower bunk, Mick stares up at the 
underside of the bunk above him. His mind is clearly racing.

Inked on Micks right shoulder are the words: RESPECT FEW, 
FEAR NONE. The name of Micks son, GRAHAM, is tattooed 
over his heart. 

Sitting in the corner, Micks cell-mate, DAVID, a scared 
Southern kid in his twenties quietly reads a paperback novel.

Mick pulls a small, dog-eared PHOTOGRAPH taped to the wall 
beside his head and cups it in the palm of his large hand.


CLOSE UP ON: the PHOTOGRAPH OF EIGHT YEAR OLD GRAHAM, bushy-haired, grinning on the back of his fathers HD MOTORCYCLE. 
Mick gazes at his boys young smile...then pauses...

             MICK
        (to David)
      Hey Kid...

David looks up from his book at Mick. 

             DAVID
        (quiet, southern accent)
      Yes, sir.

             MICK
      You got a pen and paper?

INT. MICKS CELL - LATER

Mick zips A HANDWRITTEN LETTER, along with some clothes into 
a prison issue bag.

David sits on the top bunk watching him anxiously. David is 
blonde, fine-featured, and thin.

             MICK
      You want my books? 

David glances at the books up on the stainless steel shelf.

             DAVID
      Yes, please.

David rubs his head nervously and looks at Mick.

             DAVID 
      Sir, can I ask you something?

Mick looks at him.

             DAVID 
      Im bait now, arent I? Theyre 
      gonna tear me apart...

Mick reads the genuine fear in Davids face.

             MICK
      Youll be okay.

             DAVID
      Dont lie to me, sir.

             MICK
      Im not lying. I put in a word for 
      you. As long as you keep your head 
      down and dont go looking for 
      trouble, no one will touch you.

             DAVID
      Seriously? You did that for me?

             MICK
      Consider it a going away gift.

The young man exhales, overwhelmed with relief.

             DAVID
      My God, thank you...

A BUZZER SOUNDS and the CELL DOOR AUTOMATICALLY OPENS.

A MALE CORRECTIONS OFFICER YELLS from down the cellblock.

             MALE C.O. 
      Morrison! Lets move!

David extends his hand to Mick.

             DAVID
      Sir, if theres anything I can ever 
      do to repay you, you let me know...

Mick shakes his hand.

             DAVID 
      Youre a good man, Mr. Morrison.

Mick looks him in the eyes with a deathly calm.

             MICK
      You have no idea what I am.

EXT. A PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL - OAKLAND, CA - SAME MORNING

An ATTENDANCE BELL RINGS as SCHOOL BUSES drop off a diverse 
crowd of STUDENTS in front of a neglected public high school. 

The buildings windows are CAGED WITH EXPANDED STEEL GRATING. 
Plastic bags litter the parking lot and GANG GRAFFITI slashes 
the once architecturally beautiful building.

In the distance, over the sound of the buses, we HEAR THE 
THUNDERING APPROACH OF A HD MOTORCYCLE...

Micks brother, ANGEL MORRISON (40s) pulls up to the curb on 
a FORKED-OUT CHOPPER and kills the engine. 

With his eyes hidden behind black shades, Angel is as 
intimidating as his brother. The words WARLORDS MC are inked 
across his knuckles. 

Riding behind Angel on the back of the chopper is Graham. He 
wears jeans, a chain wallet, black tee-shirt, and boots.

As Graham dismounts the bike, Angel removes his sunglasses, 
revealing THE SMALL BLACK CROSS TATTOOED beneath his left 
eye, and WE RECOGNIZE HIM AS THE LONE BIKER FROM THE OPENING.

             ANGEL
      You got lunch money?

             GRAHAM
      Five bucks for the taco truck.

Angel reaches his vest, pulling out a THICK ROLL OF CASH. 

             ANGEL
      Dont eat that shit. 

Angel peels off a HUNDRED DOLLAR BILL and hands it to Graham.

             ANGEL 
      Get something decent.

Graham takes the C-NOTE, but keeps his eyes to the ground.

             GRAHAM

      Thanks.

             ANGEL
      You doin alright?

Grahams eyes stay to the ground.

             GRAHAM
      Yeah.

             ANGEL
      Look at me when I talk to you.

Grahams eyes dart up to meet his uncles.

             ANGEL 
      What is it?

             GRAHAM
      Nothing. No worries...


Angel looks at his nephew, reading anxiety in his young face.
             ANGEL
      Im taking you out tonight for your 
      birthday.

             GRAHAM
      Angel, you dont have to...

             ANGEL
        (cutting him off)
      Your daddy just did hard time for 
      this family. Hes my blood. Its 
      the least I can do. 

Angel pauses a beat, then motions to a CUTE BLONDE GIRL 
standing at the entrance to the school, watching Graham... 

             ANGEL 
      Whos your friend?

Graham turns and sees BIRDY, (15) pretty, straight blonde 
hair, in a Grateful Dead Steal-Your-Face tank top and cut-off 
shorts. A silver BIRD CHARM hangs on a chain around her neck.

Graham lets out a hint of a smile.

             GRAHAM
      Birdy. She follows me around 
      sometimes.

Angel nods, looking at the girl for another instant, then he 
slides his dark shades back over his eyes.

             ANGEL
      Ill pick you up tonight at your 
      house at ten.

             GRAHAM
      My mom isnt gonna like that. 

             ANGEL
      Ill speak with her. 

Angel starts the chopper. The straight pipes idle...

             ANGEL 
      See you then?

Graham NODS.

Angel extends his open hand and Graham embraces him in a 
parting OUTLAW GANG HANDSHAKE. 

Angel looks into his nephews eyes.

             ANGEL 
        (clasping Grahams hand)
      Respect few...

             GRAHAM
      ...Fear none.

INT. INTERSTATE 80 - LATE MORNING

Interstate-80 cuts a line westward over the vast plains of 
eastern Colorado. On the far horizon, the snow capped Rocky 
Mountains rise from the prairie.  

INT. TRAILWAYS BUS - SAME MOMENT

Mick sits by himself in the back of the mostly empty bus 
watching the mountains growing larger in the distance. On the 
seat beside him is an AUTO-TRADER MAGAZINE. 

EXT./INT. DENVER STORAGE FACILITY - LATER

With his prison bag over his shoulder, Mick walks into the 
office of a self-storage facility on the outskirts of Denver. 

EXT./INT. STORAGE LOCKER - MOMENTS LATER

There is a rush of dead air as Mick unlocks a 12x12 storage 
locker and raises the garage door revealing tools, cardboard 
boxes, and MICKS JET BLACK, CUSTOM HARLEY DAVIDSON WIDE 
GLIDE CHOPPER. 

For a beat Mick just stares at the motorcycle. Then he walks 
over and places his hand on the dormant machine as if he were 
touching the face of a dead loved one at a funeral...

EXT. STORAGE LOCKER - LATER

In a white tank top, Mick kneels beside the motorcycle 
tightening the threads on a new FUEL LINE.

Having drained and replaced the motorcycles engine fluids, 
Mick wipes motor oil off his hands on a rag bandana. He 
raises a PLASTIC GAS CAN, fills the bikes tank, and screws 
on the chrome steel gas cap. 


Mick turns the ignition and the MACHINE ROARS TO LIFE. He 
works the throttle as the ferocious STRAIGHT PIPES BOOM DARK 
EXHAUST, clearing residual old fuel from the lines. 

Mick eases the gas and listens to the powerful motorcycle 
idle. There is a fleeting pride in Micks expression, which 
quickly fades to something else.

Instead of mounting the machine, Mick KILLS THE ENGINE. The 
silence is sudden and unexpected as the V-Twin engine PINGS 
as the hot metal cools and contracts...  

EXT. STORAGE LOCKER - MOMENTS LATER

A few moments later a rusted, primer grey DODGE RAM WORK VAN 
pulls up to the storage unit.

A BEARDED MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC (50s) wearing a Broncos tee-
shirt steps out of the van and SHAKES Micks hand.

The Mechanics eyes immediately fall on the WARLORDS MC 
tattooed across Micks knuckles.

Working in the periphery of outlaw biker culture, the 
Mechanic is aware of the gravity of deeds performed to earn 
Micks status. There is a polite respect and a palpable fear 
in the Mechanics voice.

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC
        (re: the Motorcycle)
      That her?

Mick NODS.

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC 
      Pretty machine. 

The Mechanic kneels and examines at the bike.

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC 
      Its been sittin awhile?

             MICK
      Thats right. I flushed the fluids. 
      Changed the plugs and fuel line. 

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC
      Its been bored out?

             MICK
      1300 CCs. 


The Mechanic strokes his graying beard as he runs his fingers 
over brake discs, feeling for rutting.

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC
      How long you owned it?

             MICK
      Since I was nineteen. 

The man pauses, then looks up. Mick towers over him.

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC
      Look man, I gotta be honest. This 
      bike is worth more than I can offer 
      ya. Im a family man. I dont want 
      any hard feelings later on.

             MICK
      How much?

             BEARDED BIKE MECHANIC
      Assuming the engines clean, its 
      worth ten...maybe twelve grand. I 
      got six to spend.

Mick considers for a moment, then his eyes fall on the 
Mechanics old gray DODGE VAN...

             MICK
        (nods at the Van)
      You got your pink slip?

EXT. OUTSIDE THE HIGH SCHOOL - OAKLAND - SAME MOMENT

Birdy stands alone at the back of a line of students at a 
TACO TRUCK parked in front of the high school. Lost in 
thought, she absentmindedly braids her blonde hair.

From behind her she HEARS THE APPROACH OF GRAHAMS HEAVY 
ENGINEER BOOTS on the pavement. She SMILES TO HERSELF, 
knowing its him...

             BIRDY
        (without turning around)
      Hi, Graham...

Birdy turns and looks at him. She gently pushes his bushy 
bangs out of his eyes. Grahams heart jumps as her slim 
fingers touch his cheek.

             GRAHAM
      What are you doin?


             BIRDY
      Fixing your hair. 

             GRAHAM
      No, I mean, what are you doing 
      right now?

             BIRDY
      What does it look like?

Graham pauses, gathering courage. 

             GRAHAM
      Cut class with me. 

She grins and looks in his eyes. 

             BIRDY
      But Im hungry.

Graham shrugs boyishly.

             GRAHAM
      We could have lunch somewhere. 
      Wherever...

             BIRDY
      Just the two of us?

His heart in his throat, Graham NODS.

             GRAHAM
      Its my birthday...

             BIRDY
      Are you lying?

             GRAHAM
      No. I dont lie. So what do you 
      think?

             BIRDY
      I think I have a French exam next 
      period. 

Grahams face sinks...

             BIRDY 
      You know what else I think?

Graham, deflated, shakes his head.



             BIRDY 
        (in fluent French)
      I think you are adorable when 
      youre nervous...

Graham looks at her, not understanding a word.

             GRAHAM
      What does that mean?

Birdy takes Grahams hand in hers.

             BIRDY
      It means I already speak better 
      French than the teacher. 

INT. CHINA BEACH - AN HOUR LATER

LAUGHING GULLS glide on the wind as waves break on the beach.

Graham and Birdy sit in the sand with TAKEOUT CHINESE 
watching the ocean. 

Wind blows in Birdys hair as she plays with the tiny silver 
pendant on her necklace.

             GRAHAM
        (re: her necklace)
      Thats cool. What is it?

             BIRDY
      A bird, like me. I found it when I 
      was little. I really like jewelry. 
      Do you wear any jewelry?

             GRAHAM
      No. I dont have any. 

             BIRDY
      If you had some would you wear it?

             GRAHAM
      Sure, I guess.

She smiles as a beat passes.

             BIRDY
      So that guy who drops you off at 
      school is your uncle. Do you live 
      with him?


             GRAHAM
      No. I live with my mom, but my 
      uncle kinda looks out for 
      us...helps us out. 

             BIRDY
      Wheres your dad?

A detached look passes through Grahams face. 

             GRAHAM
      Hes been away.

             BIRDY
      Wheres he been?

             GRAHAM
        (changing the subject)
      So tell me something about you.

There is a silent beat as Birdy notes his redirection. She 
feels Grahams young gaze on her.

             BIRDY
      I havent had sex yet.

Grahams eyes widen with her comment. Its clear by his 
expression hes searching for an appropriate response, but 
hes coming up empty...

             BIRDY 
        (grinning)
      That just popped in my head. Im 
      forward sometimes so I thought Id 
      share.

             GRAHAM
      Okay.

             BIRDY
      Its not a religious or moral thing 
      or anything. My mothers French. 
      She smokes pot at breakfast. My 
      Dads a professor of musicology at 
      Berkley. The hippie flag is flying 
      pretty high over at my place. 

Graham watches the sunlight in her green eyes as she talks.

             BIRDY 
      Im not afraid of sex. I want it. I 
      just havent really found the right 
      person yet. There was a skater boy 
      last summer. 

             BIRDY 
      He was funny but he wasnt honest. 
      Sometimes you can just tell when 
      you cant trust someone.

             GRAHAM
      You dont have to explain.

             BIRDY
      You dont want me to tell you?

             GRAHAM
      No. I do. I want you to tell me 
      whatever.

             BIRDY
      Whatever I want?

             GRAHAM
      Yeah.

She looks in his eyes.

             BIRDY
      I want my first time having sex to 
      be with you.

Grahams heart is punching its way out of his chest.

             BIRDY 
      Ive known it since the first time 
      I saw you.

Graham bashfully looks away from her confident gaze.

             GRAHAM
      Okay. Are you thinking, 
      like...today?

She makes a face.

             BIRDY
      No. Not today. Im no slut. This is 
      our first official date. 

She smiles as she reaches in the bag for her fortune cookie.

             BIRDY 
        (smiling)
      Tomorrow, maybe. 

Theres a silence as she breaks open the cookie, pretending 
to read her fortune, but clearly waiting for his reaction.

             GRAHAM
      Ive never had sex either.

A huge grin blossoms across Birdys face.

             BIRDY
      You are honest.

Birdy pauses for a moment considering, THEN SHE TAKES OFF HER 
CHARM NECKLACE AND GENTLY PLACES IT AROUND GRAHAMS NECK.

             BIRDY 
      Happy birthday, Graham.

Graham smiles, touching the little silver bird.

             BIRDY 
      My parents will be gone tomorrow. 
      Ill give you my address. Come at 
      noon. Ill show you my room.

EXT. INTERSTATE - COLORADO MOUNTAINS - LATE AFTERNOON

The brilliant red sunset spans the mountainous horizon. Far 
below, Micks VAN cuts westward into the Colorado Rockies.

INT. VAN - INTERSTATE - SAME MOMENT

Lost in thought, Mick drives into the sinking sun. The 
expansive sky and jagged mountain peaks are breathtaking. It 
is a stark contrast to the walls of Micks prison cell.

EXT. REST AREA/TRAIL HEAD - MOMENTS LATER

High in the Colorado Rockies, Mick pulls the van off the road 
and parks in a scenic rest area with a walking trail.

EXT. FOOTBRIDGE - COLORADO RIVER - MOMENTS LATER

The alpine air is cool as night falls in the mountains. 
Shafts of fading sunlight cut through the tall evergreens.

Mick stands alone in the center of a FOOTBRIDGE spanning 
sixty-feet above the RUSHING COLORADO RIVER. In his hands he 
holds his worn leather WARLORDS MC jacket. Beneath the gang 
insignia it reads OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA.

Mick runs his fingers over his COLORS...a series of earned 
status PATCHES sewn like combat medals into the leather. 

Mick pauses on each patch, as if recalling the dark moments 
he earned them.

He closes his eyes for an instant, saying a silent prayer in 
his mind. Then he DROPS THE LEATHER JACKET OFF THE BRIDGE. It 
FALLS SIXTY FEET INTO THE RIVER BELOW. 

Mick watches as his Warlords jacket is carried away on the 
surface of the dark river, disappearing beneath the current.

INT. VAN - MOMENTS LATER

Mick lays down in the back of the van attempting to sleep. 
His mind is restless as he looks around at the tight interior 
walls of the van. Mick sits up in darkness...

EXT. VAN ROOF - MOMENTS LATER

At 9,000 feet, Mick climbs up onto the roof of the van and 
lays down under the stars. He breathes deeply, peering up at 
the VAST BASIN OF CONSTELLATIONS ABOVE HIM...

He reaches in his pocket, retrieving the PHOTOGRAPH of 
Graham. He holds the picture up to the bright starlight, 
studying the grin on his boys face.

Mick presses the photo against his chest and closes his eyes.

EXT. ANGELS JAGUAR - CALIFORNIA 5 FREEWAY - MIDNIGHT

Rain falls in the darkness as Angels BLACK JAGUAR cruises 
north on the 5 FREEWAY...

INT. ANGELS JAGUAR - SAME MOMENT

Behind the wheel, Angel strikes his lighter and touches the 
flame to the HALF-BURNT JOINT hanging from his lip.

Angel drags hard, reigniting the dope as Graham sits stoned 
in the leather passenger seat. Graham stares captivated by 
the wet headlights blurring past in the opposite lane. 

             ANGEL
      When the ATF gunned down your 
      granddaddy we lost the place. Feds 
      came in and seized the property. 
      Sold it off in an auction. Broke 
      your Grandmothers heart. Same day 
      she lost her husband and her home. 
      I was twenty-two maybe. 

             ANGEL 
      Your dad a year younger. And Jess, 
      she was still in junior high...

             GRAHAM
      Whos Jess?

             ANGEL
      Your aunt, Jessica. 

             GRAHAM
      I never heard of her. (pause) How 
      come nobody talks about her?

Angel shakes his head...

             ANGEL
      She found God. Ran off to live in 
      Utah or some fuckin place. 
      Nobodys seen her in years. 

Graham rubs his bloodshot eyes, absorbing...

             ANGEL 
      Anyway, after the funeral, your dad 
      and I got the name of each one of 
      the ATF agents in that raid. One by 
      one, we burned their fuckin houses 
      down. It was quite a summer.

Angel slows, taking a rural exit off the freeway.

Graham touches the silver bird pendant around his neck.

             GRAHAM
      Can I ask you a question?

             ANGEL

      Of course.

             GRAHAM
      Whats it like...when youre with a 
      girl?

             ANGEL
      You mean when you fuck a woman? 

             GRAHAM
      I guess. I mean, what do you do? 
      Ive seen porn and everything, but 
      that all seems like bullshit. What 
      do girls really like?

             ANGEL
      Depends on the girl.


EXT. ABANDONED SLAUGHTERHOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Killing the headlights, the Jaguar drives down an overgrown 
TWO-TRACK ROAD past an ABANDONED SLAUGHTERHOUSE.

The Jaguar veers farther from the main road, heading toward a 
sheet-metal sided POLE-BARN in the rear of the property.

The Jaguar parks in the wet darkness beside a BLACK ESCALADE.

INT. ANGELS JAGUAR - SAME MOMENT

Rain drops hit the windshield in the darkness.

             GRAHAM
      What are we doing here?

             ANGEL
      When your dad went away you were 
      just a boy. When he comes home, 
      its important he sees a man. A man 
      who understands commitment and has 
      earned the respect of his peers.

Graham looks at his uncle.

             ANGEL 
      Youre part of this family, Graham. 
      Youre not a child anymore. Its 
      time to earn your stripes.

             GRAHAM
      How?

             ANGEL
      Wades inside waiting for you. 
      Hell help you with whatever you 
      need.

             GRAHAM
      Youre not coming with me?

             ANGEL
      No. 

Graham hesitates. His growing fear is palpable.

             ANGEL 
      This is no time to fuck around, 
      Graham. Make me proud. Make your 
      Dad proud. You understand me? 

Graham NODS.

             ANGEL 
      Ill see you back at the club in a 
      few hours.

Without another word, Angel motions for him to exit the car.

EXT. POLEBARN - SECONDS LATER

Graham stands alone in the rainy darkness as the Jaguar pulls 
away down the two-track back to the main road and disappears.

In the distance, the LONESOME CALL OF A FREIGHT TRAIN cuts 
through the night. 

He takes a step toward the polebarn, then stops. 

Its clear Grahams mind is racing. He waits another beat, 
then turns away from the building. 

Graham starts walking away down the two track road. He walks 
faster and faster, when suddenly, HE HEARS A VOICE CALL OUT 
BEHIND HIM...

             WADE 
      Graham...

Graham freezes in his tracks. He takes a breath, then turns 
back toward the polebarn.

Standing in the polebarn doorway is WADE (40s), a tall man 
in a calf skin jacket and a white shirt. His face is pitted. 
A small SWASTIKA TATTOO is visible on his neck. 

             WADE 
      I need you in here, bud.

INT. POLEBARN - MOMENTS LATER

TWO COLEMAN WHITE GAS LANTERNS HUM on the concrete floor, 
casting long shadows across the interior of the polebarn.

The building stinks of mold and old fuel oil. Rain is audible 
on the corrugated tin roof.

In center of the floor an UNCONSCIOUS MAN lies on a BLUE 
PLASTIC TARP. The Mans hands are bound behind his back. A 
bloody white pillow case is tied over his head. 

Graham swallows hard as Wade crosses the floor and pulls off 
the pillowcase, revealing the unconscious Mans beaten face.


             WADE
        (to Graham)
      Graham...meet Lou. Lou is a dealer 
      in Stockton who from time to time 
      moves weight for us. A few weeks 
      ago Lou disappeared with five 
      figures worth of our property. Hes 
      a thief. And hes been very hard to 
      locate. Lucky for us, I caught up 
      with him tonight...  

As Graham stares at the body of the defenseless man, Wade 
hands Graham a GROCERY BAG. 

Graham peers inside, revealing a BOTTLE OF ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL, 
YELLOW RUBBER GLOVES, and a ROLL OF PAPER TOWELS. 

             WADE 
      Youll need one more thing, bud.

Grahams heart sinks as Wade then hands him a snub-nosed .38 
REVOLVER sealed in a ZIP-LOCK freezer bag.

             WADE 
      Thats loaded with hollow-points. 

Graham takes the heavy zip-lock bag.

             WADE 
      Wear the gloves. Wipe the gun down 
      with the alcohol when youre done. 
      Itll be loud but it doesnt 
      matter. Theres no one out here.

Graham looks at him Wade.

             WADE 
      One in the heart. One in the head. 
      And keep the mess on the tarp.

Barely able to breathe, Graham slowly NODS.

             WADE 
      Ill be outside.

EXT. POLEBARN - SECONDS LATER

Light rain falls as Wade steps outside the polebarn. He 
lights a cigarette and peers out into the darkness. 

He reaches for his SMARTPHONE, OPENING THE CAMERA FUNCTION...

INT. POLEBARN - SECONDS LATER

Grahams young hands tremble as he rips open the packaging on 
yellow cleaning gloves. The rubber squeaks and sticks to his 
fingers as he pulls them on.

He opens the Zip-lock bag and grips the heavy black revolver. 
He takes a step forward, sets his feet, and raises the gun.

The short pistol barrel shakes as Graham attempts to focus, 
aiming the weapon at the unconscious mans chest. His finger 
moves to the trigger when suddenly...

THE UNCONSCIOUS MAN GASPS, INHALING VIOLENTLY, GAGGING AND 
SPITTING UP BLOOD ON THE CONCRETE, REGAINING CONSCIOUSNESS.

Trembling, eyes wide, Graham grips the pistol.

Lou coughs, confused and squinting at the bright lanterns, 
then he sees Graham standing over him with the gun.

             LOU
        (weak)
      Dont. 

Graham, terrified, shaking, tries to control his breathing...

             LOU 
      Kid...dont. Dont do it.

Lou turns his beaten body to face Graham.

             LOU 
      I can see youre scared... 

             GRAHAM
      Please, be quiet.

             LOU
      I dont know who put you up to 
      this, but theyre using you...

             GRAHAM
      Stop talking.

His heart pounding in his ears, Graham cocks the pistol.

             LOU
      Do not pull that trigger.

Graham shakes his head, trying to block out Lous voice.

             GRAHAM
      I have to.


Grahams finger starts to move...

             LOU
      Im a cop.

Graham freezes.

             LOU 
      Did you hear me? Im an undercover 
      narcotics officer. If you pull that 
      trigger youre ending your life as 
      well as mine.

EXT. POLEBARN - A MOMENT LATER

Graham steps out of the polebarn into the rainy darkness.

Wade stands beside the Escalade finishing his cigarette.

             WADE
      I didnt hear any loud bangs, 
      buddy.

             GRAHAM
      Hes a cop.

Wade face turns deathly serious.

             WADE
      What the fuck did you say?

             GRAHAM
      He told me he was a undercover cop.

             WADE
      Thats a bullshit lie to save his 
      ass. And you fuckin fell for it.

             GRAHAM
      What do we do?

Wade pitches his cigarette into the wet grass.

             WADE
      What the fuck do you think we do...

INT. POLEBARN - SECONDS LATER

Dread fills Lous face as Wade bursts through the door.

             LOU
        (off seeing Wade)
      Fuck...

             WADE
        (to Lou)
      So why dont you share with me what 
      you told my young friend here...

Lou struggles to sit up with his wrists tied behind his back.

             LOU
      Im a NARC, Wade. UC Badge 3752...

Wade VIOLENTLY KICKS the bound man in the pelvis. Lou GASPS 
FOR AIR, falling on his side again, gagging.

             WADE
      Bullshit. I vetted you, myself. 

             LOU
        (heaving)
      I guess that would make you 
      responsible...

             WADE
      Youre a fuckin liar!

Graham watches helplessly in the background.

             LOU
      Cop killers get the needle in 
      California...

Without another word, Wade draws a GLOCK 19 from his waist 
and FIRES A SINGLE ROUND INTO LOUS FOREHEAD.

GRAHAM FLINCHES AS THE DEAFENING GUNSHOT ECHOES THROUGH THE 
HOLLOW BUILDING.

Blood pools onto the cheap blue tarp.

Wade exhales with fury, then turns and LEVELS THE WEAPON AT 
GRAHAMS YOUNG FACE.

             WADE
      Look at me, Graham.

Graham stares at him trembling...

             WADE 
      You never speak about this. Not a 
      fucking word. Not to your Uncle. 

             WADE 
      Not to your father. Nobody. 
      Understand?

Graham NODS.

             WADE 
      As far as anyones concerned, you 
      did exactly what you came to do. He 
      was a dealer who stole from us. You 
      pushed his button and earned your 
      stripes. Do we understand each 
      other completely?

Terrified, Graham nods again.

             WADE 
      Say it.

             GRAHAM
        (terrified)
      Yes. I understand.

Wade holds the gun on Grahams face for another instant.

             WADE
      Good. Now grab the other end of the 
      fuckin tarp.

EXT. WARLORDS SOCIAL CLUB - LATER THAT NIGHT

A row of 40 HD CHOPPERS are parked in formation outside a 
private social club.

A heavy set, BEARDED BIKER is stationed outside the front 
door with a communications earpiece in his ear.

INT. ANGELS OFFICE - WARLORDS SOCIAL CLUB - SAME MOMENT

CLOSE UP ON: GRAHAMS FACE. His eyes are heavy. His stare is 
detached. His optic tracking is delayed and sluggish. Its 
clear he is very intoxicated.

As we hold on his face we hear a LOW, MONOTONE BUZZING SOUND 
competing with the muffled rock music through the wall.

PULL OUT TO REVEAL: GRAHAM SLOUCHED ON ANGELS OFFICE COUCH. 
MOOK, (late 20s) a wire-thin biker with a TATTOO GUN INKS A 
BLACK SKULL WITH A SINGLE TEAR INTO GRAHAMS SHOULDER.

EMPTY SHOT GLASSES are scattered on the glass coffee table. 

Mook finishes the ink, wiping away blood with a tissue and 
smearing the fresh tattoo with Neosporin. He affixes a 
bandage over the wound.

             ANGEL
        (to Mook)
      Youre an artist, Mook. Looks good. 

Mook nods at Angel, then extends his hand to Graham in a sign 
of respect. Graham looks at him with drunken eyes, then 
embraces the wiry mans hand in the gang handshake.

             MOOK
        (to Graham)
      My pleasure.

As Mook exits with his tattoo equipment, Angel raises a 
nearly empty whiskey bottle and pours TWO MORE SHOTS.

He sets one in front of Graham. 

             GRAHAM
      Im...Im messed up, man...I dont 
      need anymore... 

             ANGEL
      Your night is just beginning. 
      Drink.  

Graham pauses, then reaches for the glass. He chokes back the 
liquor and swallows hard.

Angel belts back his shot, then takes his nephews young face 
in his hands, looking at him.

             ANGEL 
      You can be one of two things in 
      this world, Graham: you can be a 
      sheep, or you can be a wolf. Its 
      that fuckin simple. Youre part of 
      this now. And were going to open 
      your eyes.

Angel pulls a cigarette from his pack and lights it.

             ANGEL 
      But you dont need to think about 
      that tonight. Tonight I got a 
      birthday present for you. 

             GRAHAM
      Yeah?

There is a quiet KNOCK at the office door.



             ANGEL
        (turning to the door)
      Come on in.

The door opens and STAR (20s), a hot blonde woman in a red 
mini dress and heels walks into the office.

Angel opens his desk drawer and withdraws a GLASS VIAL. Angel 
taps out TWO BUMPS OF COCAINE from a vial onto his tattooed 
knuckles and offers it to her.

Star snorts the white powder from Angels hand, closes her 
eyes, and smiles as the rush comes. 

             ANGEL 
        (to Star)
      Star, this is Graham.

Star turns and gazes warmly at Graham.

             STAR
      Hi, Graham.

             ANGEL
        (to Star)
      Graham wants to know what it feels 
      like to fuck a girl.

Star doesnt take her eyes off Graham.

             STAR
      Okay.

Angel places the COKE VIAL and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR BILLS on 
the coffee table. Then without another word, he exits.

Never breaking eye contact with Graham, Star slides closed 
the dead bolt on the office door. 

Slowly walking toward him, she raises her dress, pulling it 
over her head and dropping it on the floor.

Graham is silent, staring at her with drunken eyes.

Star unhooks her bra and lets it fall, revealing her breasts. 
Then she drops to her knees at the foot of the couch. 

Stars eyes sparkle with coke as she slowly unfastens his 
belt and unsnaps his jeans.

There is a hint of fear in Grahams intoxicated face as she 
begins to stroke him, pulling down his underwear.

             GRAHAM
      Please...I...I dont...

Star puts her finger over his mouth, shushing him...

She slides down her red thongs, straddling him on the couch.

             STAR
        (whispering)
      Its time to say goodbye to all 
      that, baby.

She eases her body downward, sliding him inside her.

FADE TO:

EXT. QUIET RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD - PROVO, UTAH - MORNING

A lush, tree-lined neighborhood of new construction houses. 
Sprinklers spray in the distance as the SOUND OF RUMBLING 
PLASTIC WHEELS APPROACH...

ELSA MAUGHAN (Little Elsa) (5) an adorable curly headed girl 
in a PINK HELMET races her BIG WHEEL TRIKE down the sidewalk. 
Elsa grins, her flowered dress flapping, looking back over 
her shoulder at...

ZOE MAUGHAN (4), Elsas younger sister, also in a PRINCESS 
HELMET, trying to keep up with her sister on her big-wheel. 

The sisters giggle, calling to one another as their little 
bare feet pedal faster and faster...WHEN SUDDENLY... 

Elsa turns back to the sidewalk ahead and BRAKES HARD as a 
MANS LEATHER ENGINEER BOOTS STEP OUT INTO HER PATH.

INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Standing at the kitchen sink unloading the dishwasher is 
JESSICA (MORRISON) MAUGHAN (mid-30s), a pretty, determined, 
quiet woman who has worked hard to build a life after 
escaping the wreckage of a treacherous past. 

From the mudroom, Jessica HEARS THE SIDE DOOR OPEN and the 
girls scrambling into the house... 

             LITTLE ELSA 
        (calling from the mudroom)
      Mommy!

             JESSICA
      Im in the kitchen! Shoes off you 
      two! Elsa help your sister...

Elsa storms into the room with her shoes still on her feet. 
Zoe is running two steps behind her and crashes into Elsa as 
she halts in the kitchen door.

             LITTLE ELSA
      Hey Mommy...

Drying her hands on a dish towel, Jessica grins at her girls.

             JESSICA
      Hey What? 

Jessica notices their shoes...

             JESSICA 
      Do you two have corn in your ears? 
      No shoes in the...

             ZOE
        (cutting her mother off)
      Do we have an Uncle Mick?

Jessicas grin INSTANTLY FADES. Her expression is seized with 
a sudden, serious, almost panicked turn...

             JESSICA
      Why? Zoe, why did you ask that?

Jessica instantly turns to her older daughter.

             JESSICA 
      Elsa, why did she ask that?

             LITTLE ELSA
      Cause hes standing outside.

Jessica is clearly thrown. Her daughters watch her as she 
fights to get her thoughts together.

             JESSICA
      Girls, I want you to go play in 
      your room for a little while, okay?

             LITTLE ELSA
      Why? We want to...

             JESSICA
      Elsa, just take your sister and do 
      it, alright?


EXT. FRONT YARD - MOMENTS LATER
As Jessica steps out the front door she sees Mick standing on 
the front walk. His intimidating, tattooed presence is 
utterly out of place in the gentrified neighborhood.

             MICK
      Hello, Jesse.

She looks nervously at her older brother.

             JESSICA
      Nobody calls me that anymore. 
      People call me by my full name.

             MICK
      Okay.

             JESSICA
      What do you want, Mick?

             MICK
      Just to see you. 

Jessica stares at him. Its clear his face brings back a 
flood of difficult memories.

             JESSICA
      You were in prison, right? That was 
      the last I heard. (pause) Please 
      tell me youre not on the run or 
      something. I cant have that 
      trouble here. Not with my girls.

             MICK
      No. I did my time. I just got out.

Jessica looks at him.

             MICK 
      Your kids are beautiful.

             JESSICA
      Yeah, they are. Elsa and Zoe.

Mick smiles hearing the name Elsa.

             MICK
      You named her after Mom?

Jessica NODS.


             JESSICA
      Listen, my husband worked third 
      shift. Hell be home any minute. 
      Hell be tired. I need to fix his 
      dinner and put him to bed. So I 
      think you should go.

Mick pauses.

             MICK
      Id like to meet him.

             JESSICA
      Why?

             MICK
      I dont know. Youre my little 
      sister. I want to see what kind of 
      man he is...

A defensive contempt rises in Jessicas voice, angered by the 
suggestion that she would want or need Micks approval.  

             JESSICA
      What kind of man he is? Hes a good 
      man. A Christian man. A better man 
      than you or Angel or any of ya. 
      Hes a real father and he helps 
      people...

Jessica cuts herself off, fighting back the rush of anger.

             JESSICA 
      Mick, you are what you are. Im not 
      going to judge you. But Ive worked 
      hard to make something of my life. 
      Ive forgiven a lot...on good days, 
      even myself. Seeing you isnt good 
      for me, okay? And if its not good 
      for me than its not good for my 
      family. So please, just go. Can you 
      do that?

Mick pauses, then NODS.

But as Mick turns to walk away an OFF-DUTY AMBULANCE PULLS UP 
TO THE CURB IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE.

The passenger door opens and BRIAN MAUGHAN, (30s) a thin 
framed EMT with glasses and premature gray hair steps down 
from the rig with his gear bag. 

Still in his EMT uniform, Brian waves his PARTNER off and the 
ambulance pulls away. 


Brian looks at Mick on the walk, then at Jessica standing at the front door. His eyes are fatigued from working all night.

Mick towers over him, but Brian shows no sign of fear. There 
is an inherent serenity in his gaze.


             BRIAN
        (to Jessica)
      Everything alright here, hun?

             JESSICA
      Yes. 

             BRIAN
      Jessica, who is this gentlemen?

Mick looks at Jessica, waiting to take her lead.

             JESSICA
        (to Brian)
      His name is Mick. Hes my brother.

Brian looks Mick in the eyes, absorbing, then sets down his 
gear bag and extends his hand introducing himself.  

             BRIAN
        (to Mick)
      Brian Maughan...

Mick shakes Brians hand, almost surprised at the mans 
comfort with him.

             BRIAN 
      Its a pleasure to meet you, Mick.

             MICK
      I was just leaving...

Suddenly ELSAS LITTLE VOICE CALLS OUT FROM HER OPEN BEDROOM 
WINDOW ABOVE.

             LITTLE ELSA 
      Is he gonna stay for lunch?

THE ADULTS ATTENTION SHIFTS UP TO THE TWO LITTLE GIRLS 
WATCHING THE SCENE UNFOLD FROM THEIR BEDROOM WINDOW.

Brian grins at his children.

             BRIAN
      Of course he is.


INT. KITCHEN TABLE - MAUGHAN HOME - MOMENTS LATER

Sunlight drifts through the kitchen window as Mick, Brian, 
Jessica, and the two girls sit around a kitchen table set 
with sandwiches, potato salad, and ice tea. 

At the head of the table, Brian bows his head.

             BRIAN
      Shall we pray?

Brian takes his wifes hand on his left and his daughter 
Elsas on his right. Mick sits at the other end of the table 
between Elsa and Zoe.  

The TWO LITTLE GIRLS SMILE AND REACH OUT FOR MICKS HANDS TO 
INCLUDE HIM IN THEIR PRAYER.

             LITTLE ELSA
        (reaching for his hands)
      Uncle Mick?

Mick is struck by the innocence of their gesture. MICK LOOKS 
UP AT JESSICA, AS IF ASKING PERMISSION TO TOUCH HER CHILDREN.

Jessica meets his glance, emotion welling beneath her eyes. 
She NODS.

Mick takes the tiny girls hands in his. They smile and lower 
their heads. Brian closes his eyes and begins...

             BRIAN
      Dear lord, we thank you for this 
      beautiful day, for the food on our 
      plates, and the family around this 
      table. We are especially thankful 
      that Mick could be with us for this 
      meal. Bless him on his journey, 
      deliver him safely, and keep him in 
      your light, so he may know peace in 
      this new chapter of his life. Amen.

             ELSA AND ZOE
        (in unison)
      Amen.

Mick looks into the innocent eyes of his smiling nieces 
holding his scarred and tattooed hands.

             MICK
      Amen.



INT. ANGELS OFFICE - MC CLUBHOUSE - OAKLAND, CA  -SAME MOMENT

Angels office. Everything is silent. Dust particles drift in 
the slits of sunlight cutting through the dark window blinds.

Graham is naked and passed out facedown on Angels couch. His 
hair is a mess. His mouth is ajar. He is alone.

A filthy sea of empty SHOT GLASSES, CIGARETTE BUTTS, BUTANE 
LIGHTERS, AND COCAINE RESIDUE litter the coffee table a few 
feet from Grahams face.

Out in the parking lot, A STRAIGHT PIPE CHOPPER ENGINE ROARS 
TO LIFE, RUMBLING THROUGH THE SILENCE. 

Hearing the thundering sound, GRAHAM STIRS. His eyes slowly 
open, taking in his surroundings. He winces at the piercing 
pain in his head, trying to make sense of where he is and 
what has happened.

Blacked out, he sits up slowly, examining the room, seeing 
his UNDERWEAR AND JEANS AND TEE-SHIRT balled up on the floor.

Then he notices the WHITE GAUZE BANDAGE on his shoulder. 

He reaches for it, hesitates, then tears off the adhesive 
tape, revealing the CRYING SKULL tattooed into his 
flesh...AND THEN, LIKE A WAKING NIGHTMARE, THE EVENTS OF THE 
PREVIOUS NIGHT FLOOD BACK TO HIM...

SMASH CUT TO:

FLASHBACK INSERT - A SUDDEN STACCATO BURST OF FLASH IMAGES 

-A STREAK OF BLOOD RUNNING FROM THE CORNER OF A ROLLED UP 
BLUE TARP...

-THE POINT OF A SPADE HEAD SHOVEL DIGGING IN THE WET SOIL...

-STAR, KNEELING AT THE END OF THE LEATHER COUCH, HER BREASTS 
BARE, HER MASCARA SMEARED, HER BODY SHAKING AS SHE FREE-BASES 
COCAINE FROM A GLASS STEM PIPE...

-YELLOW CLEANING GLOVES BLISTERING AND BUBBLING AS THEY BURN 
IN A PUDDLE OF LIGHTER FLUID BLUE FLAME...

-RAINDROPS FALLING IN LOUS VACANT, LIFELESS EYES...

CUT BACK TO:


INT. ANGELS OFFICE - MC CLUBHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Graham is SEIZED BY THE HORROR. HE GAGS, STAGGERING ON HIS 
HANDS AND KNEES TO THE TRASH CAN AND VOMITS.

Naked on the floor, Graham reaches for his jeans, but as he 
grabs them, the SILVER CHARM NECKLACE FALLS FROM THE POCKET 
AND HITS THE FLOOR.

Graham stares at the SMALL SILVER BIRD, remembering...

He turns and looks at the clock on the wall. It reads 2:35PM. 
Hes hours late for his date with Birdy.

Tears well in Grahams eyes. He pulls his knees up to his 
chest and hugs himself like a lost child waiting for someone 
to find him.

EXT. BACKYARD - MAUGHAN HOME - PROVO, UTAH - SAME MOMENT

Mick sits on the lawn in the backyard as Elsa and Zoe climb 
on his muscular frame like a piece of playground equipment.

INT. KITCHEN WINDOW - SAME MOMENT

P.O.V. SHOT THROUGH THE WINDOW: Jessica and Brian watch Mick 
playing outside with the little girls.

             BRIAN
      You know, he doesnt have to leave. 
      Hes welcome to stay the night.

Jessica stares at Mick through the kitchen window, as if she 
didnt even hear Brians comment.

             BRIAN 
      Hun?

             JESSICA
      He wants something.

             BRIAN
      Maybe he just wants to be part of 
      your life.

She gazes out the window as Mick gives both girls a 
simultaneous PIGGY BACK RIDE around the yard. The little 
girls giggle with uncontrollable laughter.

             JESSICA
      Its more than that. I know him. I 
      know how he operates. 

             JESSICA 
      Hes here for a reason. I just 
      dont know what it is.

Brian pauses, considering all she has said and not said. Then 
he reaches out and gently TAKES HER HAND.

In an instant, Jessicas anxiety dissolves away and she 
smiles at her husband. He smiles back at her.

             BRIAN
      Then I suggest we ask him.

EXT. BIRDYS HOUSE - OAKLAND, CA - LATE AFTERNOON

Graham sits beneath a tree across from Birdys house. He is 
wearing the same clothes as the night before. He looks awful. 

After a moment, the front door of the house opens and Birdy 
steps out in a cute yellow sundress with her back pack.

She sees Graham across the street and walks straight for him. 
As she nears, Graham stands up. 

Theres a beat of silence as she looks at him.

             BIRDY
        (motioning to the house)
      I was in there. I took a bath. I 
      brushed my hair. I changed my bra 
      and panties four times wondering 
      what you would like the best...  

Graham starts to speak, but Birdy cuts him off...

             BIRDY 
        (cutting him off)
      Dont you dare say youre sorry!

Graham falls silent as she looks in the eyes.

             BIRDY 
      Dont you want me? Dont you want 
      our first time to be together?

Grahams heart sinks. 

             GRAHAM
      Birdy...I...

Graham stops himself. He reaches in his pocket and pulls out 
the SILVER NECKLACE she gave him. Graham holds it out to give 
it to her.


             GRAHAM       I shouldnt have this.

A blade of heartbreak enters her chest as she stares at the 
Bird Pendant hanging on the chain. She shakes her head...

             BIRDY
      Keep it... 

She turns and walks away.

             BIRDY 
      It doesnt mean anything now.

INT. TERRIS BEDROOM -  BUNGALOW - SAME MOMENT

In the half light, Grahams mother Terri is naked, gripping 
her pillow, face down on her bedspread.

Angel stands at the end of the bed, shirtless, his jeans down 
to his hips, fucking Terri from behind. He is rough with her, 
but its clear this is consensual sex.

Angel grabs a fistful of her hair, thrusting hard, showing 
dominance as he finishes, then he pulls away.

Angel buckles his pants. Then with a flash of a butane 
lighter he lights a cigarette.

Still catching her breath, Terri turns over to face him and 
pulls the sheet up to cover her body. She looks at him.

             TERRI
      Angel? Was that it?

Angel pulls on his shirt.

             ANGEL
      Was that what?

             TERRI
      The last time you fuck me?

Angel pauses. 

             ANGEL
      Thats a strange question.

Angel slowly approaches and sits down on the edge of the bed.

             TERRI
      Micks coming home. Why is that a 
      strange question?

Angel looks at her, then reaches out, bringing the cigarette 
filter to Terris lips, offering it to her.

Terri leans forward, taking a drag...BUT BEFORE SHE CAN 
EXHALE, ANGEL VIOLENTLY SEIZES HER FACE AND NECK, COVERING 
HER MOUTH AND NOSE WITH HIS HAND, TRAPPING THE SMOKE INSIDE 
HER LUNGS, AND PINNING HER TO THE BED.

TERRI STARES AT HIM, FRANTIC, UNABLE TO MOVE, UNABLE TO 
BREATHE, THE SMOKE BURNING INSIDE HER BODY.

Angel gazes calmly as Terri struggles for air.

             ANGEL
      Because Ive never fucked you, 
      Terri. I never so much as looked at 
      you. And if my brother ever hears 
      differently, well, you know how 
      that sentence ends.

He grips her another few seconds, then releases her face.

Terri coughs horribly, heaving for breath, as the cigarette 
smoke escapes her mouth and nose...

             ANGEL 
      Look at me, Terri.

Scared, Terri looks at him...

             ANGEL 
      Im sitting on a once in a lifetime 
      opportunity. My organization is 
      expanding to a whole new level. I 
      need Mick. Hes as brilliant as he 
      is brutal and he understands how it 
      all works. In three months time 
      this piss-ant life of yours will be 
      a distant memory. You and Graham 
      and Mick will be in a nice new 
      house with more money than you know 
      what to do with. I am willing to 
      make that happen. Dont fuck it up.

EXT. DINER - OAKLAND, CA - THAT EVENING

Evening falls as neon flashes outside a greasy spoon diner.

INT. DINER - BOOTH - SAME MOMENT

Terri sits across a window booth from Graham drinking a beer. 
Graham hasnt touched his food. A sad piece of APPLE PIE WITH 
A BLOWN OUT BIRTHDAY CANDLE sits in melted ice cream.

Graham is silent as Terri peels the label on her beer bottle.

             TERRI
      Your Dads gonna be home tomorrow.

Graham doesnt respond. Terri looks at her son as he stares 
absently out the window.

             TERRI 
      Sweetheart?

He doesnt look at her.

             GRAHAM
      I heard you.

             TERRI
      Whats wrong, Graham?

             GRAHAM
      Nothing.

             TERRI
      Honey, talk to me. 

His gaze shifts to her.

             GRAHAM
      Why should I?

             TERRI
      Because Im your mother.

             GRAHAM
      Im not sure thats a good enough 
      reason anymore.

Her warm expression instantly turns cold and defensive.

             TERRI
      Dont you dare talk to me that way. 
      Ive given you my life. I couldve 
      been so much more. But I stuck by 
      and I raised you...me. Every fever.  
      Every bad dream. Every time you 
      were scared at night. I was the one 
      that kept you safe.


He looks at her with contempt.

             GRAHAM
      Then answer one thing...I never 
      came home last night, Mom. And I 
      didnt call. Thats never happened 
      before... 

Its clear by her expression he is hitting a nerve in Terri.

             GRAHAM 
      Why havent you asked me where I 
      was?

Terri pauses, setting her beer on the table.

             TERRI
      You are so ungrateful.

             GRAHAM
      Do you have any idea what I did 
      last night? Do you have any idea 
      what I saw? 

As Terri looks away, Graham NODS, as if confirming a 
suspicion to himself.

             GRAHAM 
      Something tells me you do.

Graham pitches his napkin and stands from the table.

             TERRI
      Sit down, Graham.

Ignoring her, Graham fishes a TEN DOLLAR BILL out of his 
pocket and DROPS IT ON THE TABLE.

             GRAHAM
      Thats for my meal.

Terri gets up from her seat, grabbing at his wrist.

             TERRI
      I am your mother and I told you to 
      sit down!

Graham SHOVES HER AWAY. Terri lands on her ass back in her 
seat. She is clearly shocked...

             GRAHAM
      Those days are over, Terri.

Graham walks out.


INT. KITCHEN - MORRISON HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Terri sits alone at the kitchen table smoking a cigarette in 
the empty house. Its clear shes been crying. She gazes up a 
small KOBALT BLUE JAR resting on top of a high cabinet. 

She looks at the jar for another instant, then wipes a tear 
from her eye, picks up her cell phone, and dials.

BEGIN INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             ANGEL 
      Yeah?

             TERRI 
      Is Graham with you?

             ANGEL 
      No. 

             TERRI 
      He got angry earlier. He took off. 
      Ive never seen him act that way 
      before. I dont know what to do.

             ANGEL 
      Dont do anything. Men get mad. 
      Leave him alone.

             TERRI 
      Hes not a man. Hes just a boy...

             ANGEL 
        (cutting her off)
      Wrong, Terri. And hell never be 
      that again, except in your head. 
      The sooner you accept that, the 
      better itll be for both of you. 

             TERRI 
      What happened last night, Angel? 

             ANGEL 
      Spare me the naive act, Terri. You 
      know how our world works. Beside, 
      from what I hear, it all came 
      pretty naturally to him. I guess 
      its in his blood. (pause) So I 
      suggest you get a couple more 
      drinks in you and go dark for the 
      night. Micks coming home tomorrow. 

Dread chokes Terris expression as the LINE GOES DEAD.

END INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION 

INT. ANGELS OFFICE - WARLORDS SOCIAL CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Angel slowly sets his phone on his desk and looks up at Wade 
sitting on the couch in his office.

Wade shoots Angel a questioning look.

             ANGEL
      Keep an eye on Terri.

EXT. CORNER BODEGA MARKET - OAKLAND, CA  - THE NEXT DAY

A small Latin corner market. Bouquets of white and red ROSES 
stand upright in five gallon buckets of water. Mick stands 
over the flowers debating...

EXT. MORRISON BUNGALOW - MOMENTS LATER

Holding two bouquets of roses, one white and one red, Mick 
stands outside the gate of the rundown bungalow. 

He stares at the small house, noticing the sagging gutters 
and overgrown lawn. He peers down the dilapidated block at 
the sun blanched houses, broken glass, and litter.

Suddenly the front door opens and Terri steps out onto the 
porch in a white Jersey mini-dress. She has curled her hair. 
Its clear she spent some time on makeup and outfit. 

She looks pretty as she smiles faintly from the porch. 

             TERRI
        (re: the roses)
      Are those both for me?

             MICK
      I couldnt decide on red or white.

She laughs.

             TERRI
      Thats funny. I had the same 
      problem with my dress.

Mick smiles.

             MICK
      You look good, Terri.

She smiles as he motions to the closed gate.

             MICK 
        (re: the gate)
      May I?

She pauses, then nods warmly. 

             TERRI
      Its your house.

INT. LIVING ROOM - BUNGALOW - SECONDS LATER

Without a word, Terri walks Mick through the freshly cleaned 
house toward the bedroom. 

INT. BEDROOM - BUNGALOW - CONTINUOUS

Terri leads Mick into the bedroom by the hand. 

The bed is neatly made. The curtains are drawn.

She looks up at him as he towers above her, then lifts her 
dress over her head and drops it on the floor.

In her bra and panties, she strips off Micks tee-shirt. 

She smiles to herself, TOUCHING THEIR SONS NAME TATTOOED ON 
HIS MUSCULAR CHEST. She looks into Micks eyes in the half 
light, then starts to unbuckle his belt.

             MICK
      You dont have to do this, Terri.

She pauses...then kisses his chest.

             TERRI
        (whispering)
      I want to. I want to start off on a 
      good note.

INT. BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Mick and Terri make love in the bed. Mick is on top. His 
muscular body dwarfs hers. 

Terri stares at the ceiling with a bittersweet expression, 
holding him tightly as he moves inside her. 

A TEAR discreetly streaks down her cheek as Mick thrusts. She 
kisses his shoulder and quickly wipes the tear away.


INT. KITCHEN - MORRISON HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

In her bra and panties, Terri lights a cigarette and opens 
the kitchen window above the sink.

Mick sits shirtless at the small kitchen table. 

The silence between them is palpable.

             MICK
      Wheres Graham at?

             TERRI
      School. 

Mick pauses.

             MICK
      I shouldve known that.

She shrugs.

             TERRI
      How would you? 

Terri ashes her cigarette in the sink.

             TERRI 
      You want a drink or something?

             MICK 
      No.

             TERRI
      Sandwich? Something to eat?

             MICK
      Im alright. Thank you.

Her cigarette smoke drifts through the sunlight and escapes 
out the open window.

             TERRI
      So what happens now, Mick?

He pauses for a moment, then motions to the small Kobalt blue 
jar sitting high above the kitchen cabinet.

             MICK
      Are they still in there?

Terri NODS.


Mick stands from the table and reaches up on top of the 
cabinet, retrieving the jar. He removes the lid and turns it 
over.

TWO WEDDING RINGS, a man and a womans, spill onto the table. 
For an instant, they both stare at the rings.

             MICK 
      What happens now is we decide...

She looks in his eyes.

             MICK 
        (re: the rings)
      We decide whether or not to put 
      those back on.

Terri looks away and drags on her cigarette. He looks at her, 
recognizing the pain beneath the surface.

             TERRI
      You think its that simple?

             MICK
      It could be.

             TERRI
      Mick...a lot a shit has happened 
      since youve been away. A lot of 
      things have changed.

             MICK
      Did you stop loving me?

She glares at him, her temper flaring...

             TERRI
      Fuck, Mick! What kinda question is 
      that? 

             MICK
      Seems pretty straightforward.

             TERRI
      Oh bullshit! Its a bullshit 
      question! It doesnt matter how I 
      answer, Im fucked either way.

             MICK
      Tell me whats wrong, Terri.

             TERRI
      Whats wrong? My husband 
      disappeared for eight years and 
      left me to raise our little boy in 
      this snake pit! Thats whats 
      wrong, Mick!

Mick looks away.

             TERRI 
      You know, I wish to God I stopped 
      loving you. It would have been so 
      much better for us. I couldve 
      taken Graham out of here years ago. 
      But instead I thought we were 
      special. I thought I was strong 
      enough to stick it out until daddy 
      got home. (pause) Well I was wrong. 
      I didnt last, Mick. I broke. Just 
      like every other stupid bitch 
      around here. Ive made every bad 
      decision you can think of...

Terri drags hard on her cigarette and crushes the half 
finished butt into an ashtray.

             TERRI 
      And now youre back. (pause) Youre 
      back to pick through the ugly 
      fuckin mess...and decide if you 
      still want us. 

             MICK
      Terri, Im back here for one 
      reason...to be a father, for the 
      first time in my life.

Terri shakes her head.

             TERRI
      You dont really believe that do 
      you? I mean...Christ, I know where 
      your loyalties lie. You couldve 
      cut a deal and been out years ago. 
      But you protected them and let 
      Graham and me rot here. 

Mick looks at the wedding rings on the table.

             TERRI 
      Be honest, Mick. Youre no hero. 
      Youre married to them. Theyre 
      your family. Forsaking all others.


INT. BIOLOGY CLASSROOM - PUBLIC HIGHSCHOOL - SAME DAY

Graham sits in the back of a dark, overcrowded classroom. 
Expanded steel security grating covers the windows, lending 
the sense that the students are caged in.

An EDUCATIONAL VIDEO ON HUMAN SEXUALITY is projected on a 
screen at the front of the classroom.

RENDERED SCHEMATICS AND GRAPHICS OF MALE AND FEMALE 
REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS flash across the screen prompting SNEERS 
AND COMMENTS from the sexually charged group.

             MALE VOICE OVER ON VIDEO
      In nature, the role of the father 
      after conception varies from one 
      species to another. Females are 
      genetically programmed to search 
      for sexual partners that would make 
      suitable life mates... 

Grahams pensive eyes drift to Birdy, sitting at the front of 
the classroom, trying to watch the video.

LUKE and BRETT (both 16), two frosted blond skateboarders in 
hooded sweatshirts sit in the desks behind Birdy. 

In the dark, Luke TAKES THE NOSE OF HIS SKATEBOARD AND 
INSERTS INTO THE GAP AT THE BACK OF BIRDYS CHAIR, PUSHING IT 
REPEATEDLY INTO HER ASS OF HER JEANS.

Birdy turns around and GLARES AT HIM...

             BIRDY
        (whispering to the Luke)
      Whats your problem?

Brett squeezes the crotch of his shorts.

             BRETT
        (whispering)
      We got something for you.

             BIRDY
      Screw you.

             LUKE
      Right in your ass, baby...

A dark stare fills Grahams face as he watches.

SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. HIGHSCHOOL PARKING LOT - LUNCH - MOMENTS LATER

P.O.V. SHOT: Graham walks with purpose, pushing through the 
crowds of STUDENTS around the lunchtime parking lot. 

Graham cuts around the side of the building where Luke and 
Brett practice rail-slides down the stairway guardrails on 
the building loading dock. 

Graham approaches them from the blind side. 

Without warning, as Luke slides down the railing on his 
skateboard, GRAHAM SEIZES HIS BOARD AND RIPS IN OUT FROM 
UNDER HIM. LUKE FLAILS HEAD FIRST AND LANDS HARD ON THE 
CONCRETE BELOW.

Brett turns and looks at Graham.

             BRETT
      What the fuc...

GRAHAM DRIVES LUKES SKATEBOARD INTO BRETTS STOMACH, 
BUCKLING HIM OVER. 

AS BRETT HEAVES FOR AIR, GRAHAM SETS HIS FEET AND SWINGS THE 
SKATEBOARD LIKE AN AXE INTO THE SIDE OF BRETTS LEG. 

Brett SCREAMS as he hits the ground.

A CROWD OF STUDENTS gathers as Graham brutally and repeatedly 
KICKS BOTH SKATERS IN THE ASS WITH HIS STEEL-TOED BIKER 
BOOTS, PAINFULLY HUMILIATING THEM. 

             GRAHAM
        (screaming)
      You want to fuck somebody in the 
      ass, do you?!!

With each blow, Grahams anger grows more and more intense, 
channeling his fear and sadness for so many things into this 
focused act of rage. 

As TWO TEACHERS run into the crowd to break up the fight, 
Graham looks up and sees Birdy. She stares at him, terrified 
by the violent, animalistic fury in his face.

INT. GRAHAMS BEDROOM - BUNGALOW - LATER

Mick, now dressed, walks into Grahams sparse room. He looks 
around at his sons things. 

Mick kneels down and gazes into saltwater fish tank and 
watches the growing HAMMERHEAD PUP circling over and over in 
the too-small tank. Mick touches the glass...

             TERRI 
      He loves that stupid thing.

Mick turns and sees Terri in the doorway.

             TERRI 
      He found it on the street this 
      summer in a garbage bag full of 
      water. Somebody left it for dead. 
      Graham bought the tank and stuff 
      with his own money. 

             MICK
      Its too big for the tank.

             TERRI
      Thats what Graham says.

Mick lets out a smile.

             MICK
      He likes the ocean? All that stuff? 

             TERRI
      I think so. Hes really smart.

Suddenly, Terris CELLPHONE RINGS interrupting. As she 
answers it, Mick watches the hammerhead pup circling.

             TERRI  
      Wait, what? Is he alright?

Mick looks at her, listening to one side of the conversation.

             TERRI  
      Yes. I understand. Im sure theres 
      more to it than that. (pause) Ill 
      be there in twenty minutes.

Terri ends the call. She leans against the doorway and closes 
her eyes. The stress in her face is evident.

             MICK
      What? 

             TERRI
      Nothing. Its not your problem. 
      Look, I gotta call the bar and tell 
      them Ill be late for my shift. 

             MICK
      Terri, what is it?

Terri pauses, clearly annoyed at his insistence.

             TERRI
      What do you care?

He gives her a look.

             TERRI 
      Its Graham, okay? He beat the 
      living shit outta somebody at 
      school. And now I have to go and 
      deal with it and hope they dont 
      fire me at work. Because thats 
      what I do, Mick. Thats my life.

             MICK
      So let me go.

Terri shoots him a look, stunned by the notion.

             TERRI
        (sarcastic)
      Right.

             MICK
      Im serious, Terri.

             TERRI
      You wanna go talk with some 
      fuckin high school principal?

Mick stands.

             MICK
      Yes. 

She looks at him, not sure whether to laugh or scream at him.

             TERRI
      Mick, this isnt a joke. Its that 
      zero tolerance shit. Theyre going 
      to expel him for sure.

             MICK
      Then I cant make it much worse. 

She looks at him.

             MICK 
      Let me try.

INT. PRINCIPALS OFFICE WAITING ROOM - HIGHSCHOOL - LATER

Mick sits in a undersized chair in a principals office 
waiting room. His presence is remarkably out of place. The 
waiting room walls are covered in posters featuring IMAGES OF 
NATURE ACCOMPANIED BY TRITE INSPIRATIONAL QUOTATIONS. 

A moment passes, then the principals office door opens and 
Birdy walks out shyly. 

She pauses, glancing at Mick sitting in the chair.

             BIRDY
      Are you Graham Morrisons, dad?

Mick looks at the pretty young girl.

             MICK
      Yes.

A sadness enters her face.

             BIRDY
      You look like him.

Birdy lowers her head and walks out.

A pencil-thin SECRETARY pushes up her glasses and eyes Mick 
from behind a reception desk.

             SECRETARY
      Mr. Morrison, the principal will 
      see you now.

Mick looks at the woman, almost laughing to himself.

INT. PRINCIPAL BOOKERS OFFICE - SECONDS LATER

PRINCIPAL BOOKER, a very intelligent, sharply-dressed African 
American woman in her forties stands from her desk, sizing up 
Mick as he walks in.

Mick looks at her, then glances around the office. Graham is 
not there.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Mr. Morrison?

Mick nods as she walks out and shakes his hand. 

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      Im Hera Booker. Im glad you could 
      come. Please sit.


Mick takes a seat as she returns behind her desk.

             MICK
      Wheres my son?

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      I had him wait with the public 
      safety officer. I wanted the 
      opportunity to speak with you 
      alone.

Mick looks her in the eyes with intensity. She meets his gaze 
without fear or hesitation.

             MICK
      Are you going to expel him?

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Yes. 

             MICK
      Then what do we have to talk about?

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      What youre going to do to keep 
      Graham from ending up exactly like 
      you.

There is a beat of charged silence as Mick stares at her. He 
examines her face, the fearless way she holds herself, the 
wedding ring on her left hand. Then Mick notices FOUR SMALL 
FADED PIN POINT DOTS MAKING THE SHAPE OF A SQUARE TATTOOED ON 
THE INSIDE OF HER WRIST.

             MICK
      Your wrist...

She glances at the old faded dots on her wrist. SHE SLIDES 
HER WATCHBAND DOWN, HIDING THE DOTS.

             MICK 
      Four dots...the four walls of a 
      prison cell...

Mick holds her gaze.

             MICK 
      They never would have let you have 
      this position if it was you who did 
      time...so the dots are for someone 
      else. Someone you cared about. Who?

Principal Booker looks at him. Her professional demeanor 
breaks only for an instant...

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Thats none of your fucking 
      business, Mr. Morrison.

Mick smiles.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      Were here to talk about your son. 

             MICK
      Im listening.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Good. Then hear this. I have seen 
      young men like Graham before. Hes 
      very smart, very sad, and very 
      angry. And thats a dangerous 
      combination. By assaulting two of 
      his classmates, he just cut the 
      safety net out from under him. 
      Theres nothing else I can do. I 
      have failed him. His mother has 
      failed him. And most of all, you 
      have failed him. 

Mick looks away, rubbing his knuckles, listening...

             MICK
      Why dont you tell me something I 
      dont know.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Alright. I know the two young men 
      Graham beat and I know the reason 
      he beat them. Given the 
      circumstances, his expulsion will 
      be enough. Im not going to refer 
      the case to juvenile authorities. 

             MICK
      What about their parents?

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Theyre uninvolved. 

             MICK

      Like me?

She looks at him, considering her answer.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER
      Their parents meeting on the 
      incident was forty five minutes 
      ago. No one came. 


             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      They did not take the time to 
      advocate for their children. 

She pauses.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      You showed up Mr. Morrison.

Mick looks at her.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      My secretary will direct you to the 
      public safety office.

Mick stands from the chair and reaches for the office door.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      Mr. Morrison...

Mick looks back at her.

             PRINCIPAL BOOKER 
      It may be too late to save him. But 
      if youre going to try, you have to 
      do it right now.

INT. HIGHSCHOOL PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

As Mick walks through the empty highschool cafeteria, into a 
small public safety office. 

As he walks through the door, he sees Graham for the first 
time in eight years. He sits on a bench. GRAHAMS WRISTS ARE 
HANDCUFFED BEHIND HIS BACK. 

A heavy set, PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER in a uniform stands nearby 
chatting with someone on his DESK PHONE.  

As Mick approaches, GRAHAM LOOKS UP, SEEING HIS FATHER. There 
is a moment of silence as they stare at each other.

The Public Safety Officer, preoccupied on the phone, RAISES A 
CHUBBY FINGER TO MICK, AS IF TO SAY, ITLL BE A MINUTE...

Mick looks back at Graham in handcuffs, then takes three 
steps over to the desk and PRESSES DOWN THE CRADLE BUTTON ON 
THE PHONE, ENDING THE OFFICERS CALL MID-SENTENCE.

The Officer, confused, looks at the phone for an instant, 
then realizing what happened, looks up at Mick. 

Mick towers over the stocky man, his knuckles tightening...

             MICK
        (re: the handcuffs)
      Get those fuckin things off my 
      son.

INT. VAN - MOMENTS LATER

The late afternoon sun casts long shadows across the streets.

Graham stares silently out the passenger window as Mick 
drives through traffic.

Mick glances over at his son. The silence between them is 
deafening.

Another moment passes. 

Up the street Mick sees a HOME DEPOT. He considers for a 
moment.

             MICK
      You good with your hands?

Graham looks at his father.

             GRAHAM
      I dont know. I guess so.

Mick looks at him for another moment, then pulls the van off 
into the Home Depot parking lot.

Graham gives him a questioning look.

             MICK
      What time does your mom usually get 
      home from her shift?

             GRAHAM
      Midnight. Sometimes later. It 
      depends.

Mick checks his watch, then reaches for the door handle.

             GRAHAM 
      What are we doin?

             MICK
      Workin.

INT. HOME DEPOT - MOMENTS LATER

A HOME DEPOT. Mick pushes a cart through the aisles with 
Graham following behind him. 

As they walk, Mick points out TRASH BAGS, PAINT-ROLLERS, 
TRAYS, BRUSHES, SOLAR YARD LIGHTS, and more for Graham to put 
in the cart.

EXT. MORRISON HOME - LATER

Mick and Graham pull up in front of the dilapidated bungalow 
and get out of the van, unloading BAGS OF SUPPLIES.

EXT. OVERGROWN YARD - MORRISON HOME - MOMENTS LATER

Mick fills the tank of an old push LAWN MOWER from a plastic 
gas can. Then Mick kneels, showing Graham how to prime the 
old mowers carburetor. 

After several pulls on the starter the chord, the mower 
ENGINE CATCHES AND COMES TO LIFE...

EXT. OVERGROWN YARD - MOMENTS LATER

Pushing the lawn mower, Graham cuts down the weedy lawn.

Across the yard, Mick stands on a ladder, cleaning out the 
leaves from the porch gutters...

INT. LIVING ROOM - MORRISON HOME - LATER

With PLASTIC DROP CLOTHS spread out to protect the hardwood 
floor, Mick scrapes and spackles cracks in the plaster walls.

Graham follows rolling on fresh white paint with a roller...

EXT. MORRISON HOME - LATE NIGHT

Terri pulls up in her Honda. As she gets out of her car, she 
pauses, stunned as she looks up at the house.

The yard is clean of trash. The lawn is cut. The concrete 
walk leading up to the porch is warmly lit by new solar 
walkway lights. 


INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Terri walks quietly through the doorway into the living room.

The house is clean and walls are freshly painted. 

She smiles to herself as she slips off her boots and hangs 
her purse on the hook by the door.

INT. KITCHEN - SECONDS LATER

Terri steps into the kitchen and sees Mick on the floor with 
his head under the kitchen sink cabinet fixing something.

             TERRI
      Hi.

Mick peeks out from under the sink. His forearm and chin have 
white paint dried on them.

             MICK
      Hey, flip the switch will ya?

             TERRI
      What switch?

             MICK
      The disposal.

             TERRI
      It doesnt work. It hasnt worked 
      in forever.

             MICK
      Flip it.

She reaches above sink and flips it. The disposal TURNS ON.

             MICK 
        (from under the sink)
      Run the water.

Terri turns on the faucet as Mick checks for leaks.

             MICK 
      You can shut them both off.

As Terri shuts off the water Mick pulls himself out from 
under the sink and stands up.

             MICK 
      Theres a breaker in the unit. I 
      just had to reset it. 


             TERRI
      Youve been busy.

             MICK
      I had help.  

She smiles.

             TERRI
      Is he asleep?

             MICK
      He crashed out half an hour ago. 

             TERRI
      What happened at school?

Mick wipes his hands on a paper towel.

             MICK
      They expelled him.

Terri nods.

             TERRI
      I knew they would.

Terri opens the freezer and takes out a BOTTLE OF COLD VODKA.

Mick watches her take a glass from the dish rack, pour 
herself an inch of liquor, and drink it down in two swallows. 

She sets the glass on the counter with resignation and 
motions to the house...

             TERRI 
      So...why all this? 

             MICK
      I gotta start somewhere, Terri.

As Terri pours herself another drink, Mick looks at her, 
reading the burden in her face.

             MICK 
      Has he ever beat somebody like that 
      before?

Terri SHRUGS.

             MICK 
      What does that mean?


             TERRI
      It means I dont know. Hes 
      changing, you know? 

             MICK
      Theres something youre not 
      telling me. 

Avoiding eye contact, Terri fishes a cigarette and her 
lighter out of her pack.

             MICK 
      How much trouble is he in, Terri?

             TERRI
      I told you. I dont know. 

             MICK
      Were his parents. We need to know.

             TERRI
        (cutting him off)
      Dont you fuckin lecture me about 
      being a parent, Mick! 

She points her cigarette at him.

             TERRI 
      You think this super-dad bullshit 
      is gonna fool me? I was there, 
      Mick! All those years I washed the 
      blood out of your clothes. I was 
      there for the dope and the 
      indictments and the Christmas 
      morning you came home stabbed. Or 
      worse, all the Christmas mornings 
      you never bothered to come home at 
      all... 

Mick falls silent. 

             TERRI 
      I dont care what you tell 
      yourself. Youre a monster, Mick. 
      And me, Im so stupid, I loved you 
      just the same. But dont you dare 
      tell me how to be a parent.

Terri peers out the window into the darkness.

             MICK
      Im sorry.

             TERRI
      Sure. Me too. Everybody is so 
      fuckin sorry... 

Mick takes a step forward and reaches out, touching her face. 
She looks at him, tears welling in her eyes.

             TERRI 
      You know...when Graham was little, 
      I used to lie to him about you. Id 
      make up these elaborate stories 
      about where you were and what you 
      were doing. I was really good at 
      it. He thought you were so cool. 
      But eventually I got tired of it. I 
      got tired of him idealizing you 
      while he took me, his boring mom, 
      for granted. So finally I told him 
      the truth. You were a bad guy who 
      hurt people for a living. So the 
      police took you away to prison. 

A tear streaks down her face.

Mick nods, and slowly, gently wraps his arms around her, 
hugging her. Terri buries her face in his chest. He holds her 
in the kitchen gently stroking her hair.

             MICK
      Listen, I had an idea. 

             TERRI
      Yeah, whats that?

             MICK
      I thought tomorrow maybe Id take 
      Graham to the aquarium?

             TERRI
      The aquarium?

             MICK
      In Monterey. Just for the day. Give 
      you a rest. You know how you said 
      he was into sharks. They got em up 
      there. Big ones. I thought he might 
      like it. Maybe hell talk to me.

             TERRI
      Did you mention it to him?

             MICK
      No. I wanted to...


             TERRI
      Wanted to what?

             MICK
      I wanted to ask your permission, 
      first. Youre the real parent. 

Terri smiles.

             TERRI
      If he wants to go thats fine. But 
      Mick?

             MICK
      Yeah?

             TERRI
      Hope is a cruel business. Dont you 
      promise things you cant deliver.  

EXT. PACIFIC COASTAL HIGHWAY - MORNING

The sun reflects off the ocean as seagulls hover on the wind.

With the windows down, Micks van cruises south toward 
Monterey along the coastal highway.

INT. VAN - SAME MOMENT

As Mick drives, Graham leans out the passenger, sun on his 
face, watching the waves break on the passing beaches.

EXT. MONTEREY AQUARIUM ENTRANCE - LATER

Standing in line, Mick and Graham are surrounded by TODDLERS 
AND YOUNG FAMILIES WITH STROLLERS.

Ahead of them, a fleece-clad YOUNG FATHER on vacation picks-
up his crying, THREE-YEAR-OLD SON. 

The Young Father hugs him and PATS THE LITTLE BOYS BACK. 
After a moment, the little boy stops crying and lays his head 
on his dads shoulder.

Mick watches the Young Father, then his gaze shifts to Graham 
who has witnessed the same thing. 

Grahams eyes shift to the ground.

             GRAHAM
      Maybe this is a stupid idea.


             MICK
      No. This is good...

             GRAHAM
      Its for little kids.

             MICK
      Its for everybody.

             GRAHAM
      Look around.

Mick glances around. They are standing in a SEA OF CHILDREN 
UNDER 10 years old.

             MICK
      Were here. Okay?

INT. MONTEREY AQUARIUM - MOMENTS LATER

The black, soulless eyes of a TEN-FOOT HAMMERHEAD SHARK 
cruise silently past Grahams face as he stares through the 
thick glass of the open sea exhibit. 

Standing in the darkness, Mick and Graham are illuminated by 
the blue green underwater world.

A magnificent kaleidoscope of deep sea FISH and SEA TURTLES 
swim in a continuous orbit past the 90 foot window. Towers of 
green sea kelp sway in the current, twisting toward the 
sunlit water surface above.

             GRAHAM
        (staring at the glass)
      I learned something the other day.

             MICK
      Whats that?

             GRAHAM
      That some species of unborn shark 
      pups actually kill each other 
      inside the mother. 

Graham reaches out, touching the glass.

             GRAHAM 
      Its like they know, before theyre 
      even born, the world theyre coming 
      into.

Mick looks at his son.

             MICK
      Graham...

             GRAHAM
        (cutting him off)
      This isnt going to work.

             MICK
      What isnt going to work?

             GRAHAM
      This. What youre doing. Its too 
      late.  

Mick reaches out, taking Grahams shoulders in hand, but 
Graham WINCES IN PAIN AND PULLS AWAY FROM HIS FATHER.

             MICK
      Whats wrong with your shoulder?

             GRAHAM
      Nothing.

             MICK
      Did you hurt it in the fight?

As Mick reaches out to inspect Grahams arm, Graham SHOVES AT 
HIS FATHER.

             GRAHAM
      Dont! Dont touch me!

BUT MICK, IN KNEE-JERK DEFENSE, SIDESTEPS GRAHAMS ADVANCE, 
VIOLENTLY TWISTS HIS ARM BEHIND HIS BACK AND DRIVES HIS SONS 
FACE HARD AGAINST THE GLASS WALL.

Pinned, Graham is helpless as Mick pulls up the arm of his 
sons long sleeve shirt revealing his BANDAGED shoulder.

MICK RIPS OFF THE GAUZE, REVEALING THE NEW, SWOLLEN, CRYING 
SKULL TATTOO WITH THE WORDS: WARLORDS M.C. BENEATH IT.

SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. MONTERREY BOARDWALK - SECONDS LATER

Cool wind blows in off Monterey Bay as Graham bursts out of 
an aquarium side exit and walks down the boardwalk. Mick 
follows a few steps behind...

             MICK
      Dont you walk away from me.

Graham stops and turns, facing his father. 

             GRAHAM
        (screaming)
      Or what! What are you gonna do?

Mick calmly registers the looks of the PASSING TOURISTS.

             MICK
      Son, whether you know it or not, 
      you need me right now.

             GRAHAM
      No. I dont. I dont need you. 
      Nobody here needs you. 

             MICK
      You think I dont know what that 
      ink on your shoulder means?

As Graham stares defiantly tears well in his eyes. 

             GRAHAM
      Youre supposed to be proud of me! 
      Im one of you, now. 

Mick stares at his son. 

             MICK
      I didnt want this for you. 

             GRAHAM
      Well what the fuck did you expect?

Mick stares at his son, not knowing what to say. 

             GRAHAM 
      Moms right about you. Youre so 
      full of shit.

             MICK
      Son...

             GRAHAM
      I hate you.

The salty wind blows Grahams bushy hair as his statement 
hangs in the air. A warm tear streaks down Grahams face.

Mick NODS.

             MICK
      I hate me, too.

There is a beat of silence as Mick looks into Grahams eyes. 

             MICK 
      I need to know what happened.

Graham SHAKES HIS HEAD like a shamed child.

             MICK 
      Tell me and Ill fix it.

Graham trembles with tears as he looks at his father.

             GRAHAM
      It cant be fixed.

EXT. PORCH - BUNGALOW - NIGHT

Mick sits alone on the porch staring out into the street. 
Hes clearly lost in thought.

After a moment, the headlights of Terris Honda pull up to 
the front of the house.

Terri gets out of the car, dressed in a tight miniskirt and a 
tank-top from her bar shift. She lights a cigarette, then 
smiles, seeing Mick.

             TERRI
      Hey you.

             MICK
      Are you drunk?

Terri steps up onto the porch.

             TERRI
      Thats kind of an asshole welcome 
      home wouldnt you say?

             MICK
      We need to talk. I need you sober 
      to do it. 

             TERRI
      Is Graham okay?

             MICK
      He is for the moment.

Terri pauses, not liking where the conversation is going.


             MICK 
      The other night when Angel took 
      Graham out. He must have called you 
      first. What did he say?

Terri drags on her cigarette.

             TERRI
      He said that it was Grahams 
      birthday and it was time for him to 
      become part of the organization. I 
      made him promise to make sure 
      Graham came home safe and he 
      promised. 

             MICK
      Thats all he said?

             TERRI
      Im paraphrasing, but yes.

             MICK
      Did the question ever occur to you 
      why he wanted to bring Graham into 
      the fold just two days before I 
      came home?

             TERRI
      He said that he wanted you to think 
      hed done a good job taking care of 
      Graham. He wanted him to be a man 
      when you saw him.

Mick rubs his forehead and stares into the darkness.

             MICK
      Its leverage, Terri. 

             TERRI
      What?

             MICK
      Hes got a noose around our sons 
      neck and all he has to do is pull 
      it. You really think Angel gives a 
      shit about being a good uncle? Hes 
      smart. Hes positioning himself. He 
      wanted leverage over me so when I 
      got out Id fall into line. 

             TERRI
      Well what else would you do? 

Mick pauses, looking at her.


             MICK
      We could leave. 

             TERRI
      Leave?

             MICK
      We owe it to Graham to get him 
      outta here. Its our life. Our 
      family. We could just disappear. 
      The three of us. Start over 
      somewhere else. 

             TERRI
      Start over with what? Do you have a 
      briefcase of money stashed away 
      somewhere?

             MICK
      No. 

             TERRI
      Then what the fuck are you talking 
      about?

             MICK
      Wed have each other.

             TERRI
      Oh shit, Mick, spare me. Youre a 
      felon. An ex-con. What kind of job 
      are you gonna get? 

             MICK
      One where I dont kill people.

Terri stares at him.

             TERRI
      You listen to me, Mick. I didnt 
      wait for you eight years so I could 
      struggle for thirty more. Angel has 
      big plans for us where we dont 
      have to live like this anymore. 
      (pause) So you take this heartfelt 
      moment youre having and you 
      fuckin swallow it. Just like I 
      swallowed all the hopes I had for 
      my life. Youre home now and you 
      need to do right by the wife and 
      son that stayed. And if that means 
      you spend the rest of your days 
      knee deep in blood then so be it. 

Without another word, Terri walks into the house and slams 
the door behind her.

QUICK CUT TO:

INT. GRAHAM BEDROOM - BUNGALOW - SAME MOMENT

Graham sits on his bed, staring at the Hammerhead pup 
circling in the too small tank. Graham has heard every word 
of his parents argument through the open window.

CUT BACK TO:

EXT. PORCH - BUNGALOW - SAME MOMENT

Mick sits in the darkness for another moment, then steps down 
from the porch and walks toward his van.

CUT TO:

INT. CHAIN SUPER STORE - MOMENTS LATER

Micks van pulls into a 24 hour Walmart-esque SUPERSTORE.

FADE TO:

EXT. MORRISON BUNGALOW - EARLY THE NEXT MORNING

The morning sun rises on the quiet neighborhood. The birds 
sing. The cleaned up yard and newly cut lawn looks good.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME MOMENT

As pale morning light diffuses through the curtains, Mick and 
Terri lie sleeping next to one another.

In the distance, there is a LOW, RUMBLING SOUND. Slowly the 
sound grows louder and into an THUNDERING ROAR...

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - SAME MOMENT

Shattering the peaceful morning, FIFTY ROARING, STRAIGHT PIPE 
HD CHOPPERS RIDE LIKE A SQUADRON of war machines down the 
quiet residential street.

EVERY RIDER is decked out in Warlord M.C. colors on the back 
of their vests. Leading the pack is Angel.

The motorcyclists pull up in formation in front of the 
bungalow. Their engines shut down in unison, creating a 
sudden silence.

Angel dismounts his motorcycle, removes his sunglasses, and 
looks at the house, noticing the improvements. 

A moment later the front door opens and Mick steps onto the 
porch in an unbuttoned flannel shirt, jeans, and boots. 

For a moment, the brothers just stare at each other, taking 
in the years.

QUICK CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - SECONDS LATER

Terri, standing in her bra and panties, parts the curtain and 
peers out the window. She watches MICK AND ANGEL EMBRACE EACH 
OTHER IN A HUG.

CUT BACK TO:

EXT. FRONT YARD - SAME MOMENT

Mick and Angel embrace.

             ANGEL
      Welcome home, little brother.

             MICK
      Good to see you, Angel.

Angel motions to the army of MOTORCYCLISTS in the street.

             ANGEL
      The boys wanted to come to show 
      their respect.

Mick looks over the HARDENED FACES OF FIFTY WARLORD BIKERS as 
they remove their sunglasses and nod to him. 

Mick nods back.

             ANGEL 
      We have things to talk about. Come 
      ride with us.

Angel glances around.

             ANGEL 
      Wheres your bike?



             MICK
      I sold it.

             ANGEL
      You sold your wide-glide? What the 
      fuck for?

             MICK
        (rhetorical)
      Why does anybody sell anything?

Angel pauses.

             ANGEL
      You dont need to worry about money 
      anymore. Well get you a new bike. 

Angel turns to the 50 men on their Choppers.

             ANGEL 
        (addressing the Warlords)
      My brother, fresh out of the joint, 
      is not going to ride on somebodys 
      bitch-pad. Who among you will let 
      him ride your machine?

Theres a moment of silence...THEN, AS A SIGN OF RESPECT, 
EVERY SINGLE MEMBER OF THE GANG DISMOUNTS THEIR BIKES, 
OFFERING THEIR MOTORCYCLE UP TO MICK. 

EXT. STREET - MOMENTS LATER

As Mick mounts a motorcycle they start their engines. The 
roar is ferocious.

As the bikers pull away into the street, Mick looks up at the 
house, catching a glimpse of Graham and Terri in the doorway. 
They watch Mick disappear at the front of the pack.

EXT. AERIAL SHOT - GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - MOMENTS LATER

The squadron of motorcycles cruise north in formation over 
the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE into Marin county.

EXT. FREEWAY - SAME MOMENT

Mick and Angel ride at the front of the formation with the 
wind on their faces. The raw exhilaration of riding again is 
evident in Mick.

EXT. ABANDONED MORRISON VINEYARD - MARIN COUNTY - LATER

As the rest of the gang linger in the distance, Mick and 
Angel walk the overgrown hills of their childhood - their 
long foreclosed family vineyard. 

The grape vines have grown wild covering the hillsides. 

Angel cracks open two cans of beer from a six pack and hands 
one to Mick. They CLANK their beer cans together.

             MICK
      I havent been here in years. Shit, 
      I havent been anywhere in years. 

             ANGEL
      You remember that Spanish girl who 
      lived down the road about a mile?

             MICK
      The one that showed everybody her 
      pussy?

             ANGEL
      The one and the same. 

             MICK
      What about her? 

             ANGEL
      Shes in politics now.

Mick laughs.

             ANGEL 
      Seriously. State Senate...or some 
      shit like that.

On a distant hillside, SERVICE VEHICLES mingle as a 
LANDSCAPING CREW sods the lawn of a NEWLY CUSTOM BUILT 
MISSION REVIVAL STYLE MANSION. It is a massive, beautiful 
home.

             MICK
      I wonder who owns that?



Mick looks at him.

    

             ANGEL
      I do.

             MICK
 	 What?

             ANGEL
        (smiling)
      Thats my house, motherfucker. Six 
      bedroom, eight bath. 6200 square 
      feet. Brazilian Cherry floors. 
      Cerrara marble. Four car garage 
      with a mechanics bay. I even had 
      them put in an fuckin escape 
      tunnel that comes out in the old 
      barn. 

Angel motions with his beer at the rolling hillsides.

             ANGEL 
      I bought it all back. All the 
      original property, plus the hundred 
      acres to the west so nobody can 
      build in my view of the sunset.

             MICK
      Shit...

INT. ANGELS MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

Mick and Angel step through the arched double doors of the 
luxury home.

             ANGEL
      Im still in the process of moving.

Mick gazes around at the open floor plan with light flooded 
rooms, Spanish tile fireplaces, and gleaming hardwood floors. 

Mick looks down at his muddy boots.

             MICK
      You want me to take my fuckin 
      boots off?

             ANGEL
      Damn right I do.

EXT. VERANDA - ANGELS MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

Barefoot, Angel and Mick stand on a second floor veranda 
looking out over the serene hills toward the west.

             ANGEL
      Times are a changin, brother. 
      Were moving to a new level. The 
      boys are loyal, but most of them 
      are just muscle. I need a partner. 
      Somebody as smart as I am. Somebody 
      I can trust. I need you. 

Mick looks at his older brother.

             ANGEL 
      Well get Terri and Graham out of 
      that shithole and move you up here. 
      You can build your own place. 
      Eventually, I want to get mom 
      outta that home and get her up 
      here too. She can have a live in 
      nurse or whatever.

Micks face grows pensive.

             MICK
      I need the whole picture, man.

Angel reads the skepticism in Micks face.

             ANGEL
      Ive got 17 million dollars worth 
      of uncut coke I need to move. Its 
      pure profit. We keep every dollar. 
      But I have to move it small amounts 
      over time so not to draw attention. 

             MICK
      Where did it come from? 

             ANGEL
      Does it matter?

             MICK
      Fuck yes, it does.

There a beat of silence.

             ANGEL
      This spring an opportunity 
      presented itself. I saw a weakness 
      and I exploited it.  

Mick stares at the horizon, his mind racing...

             MICK
      The cattle truck hit last May. It 
      was you.

             ANGEL
      You know about that in Colorado?


             MICK
      Federal prison, man. Half of D-
      block was Sinaloa Cartel. 

             ANGEL
      Well, therein lies my need for a 
      partner I can trust. 

             MICK
        (re: the bikers)
      How many of them know the truth 
      about where it came from?

             ANGEL
      Just Wade. There were three others 
      but...

             MICK
        (finishing his sentence)
      ...they met with an unexpected end.

             ANGEL
      Ugly car wreck. 

             MICK
        (with tone)
      How sad.

             ANGEL
      Very.

Mick takes slug of his beer.

             ANGEL 
      I need to move more weight faster. 

             MICK
      Then you need a new market.

             ANGEL
      Exactly. There are two specific 
      towns I want to expand into. But 
      both of those markets are presently 
      controlled by other groups. Groups 
      I consider vulnerable. 

Angel looks his brother in the eye.

             ANGEL 
      And thats where you come in. I 
      need your skill set, Mick. I need 
      you to create a vacuum for our 
      business to fill. 


             MICK
      You cant just cut the head off. 
      The local market will implode. You 
      need to replace the head in the 
      same motion. Who runs the new 
      territories?

             ANGEL
      You do. 

Mick looks out across the overgrown hills.

             ANGEL 
      So what do you say?

There is a beat of silence as he considers his answer.

             MICK
      I say we should start making wine 
      again.

             ANGEL
        (smiling)
      Wine?

             MICK
      Youre laundering the coke cash 
      through casinos in Reno?

             ANGEL
      Mostly.

             MICK
      The Feds will flag that eventually. 
      We need a legit business. Put the 
      boys on a payroll. Wine is a legit 
      business where we can lose our ass 
      year after year and it looks fine 
      on paper. 

Angel grins and puts his hand on Micks shoulder.

             ANGEL
      Welcome home, bud.

EXT. SUNSTONE ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY - OAKLAND - EVENING 

Micks van pulls into the parking lot of an upscale senior 
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY.


INT. RECEPTION DESK - ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY - SECONDS LATER
A YOUNG RECEPTIONIST (20s) with short bobbed hair smiles 
warmly as Mick approaches the reception desk.

             YOUNG RECEPTIONIST
      Hi. Can I help you?

             MICK
      Im looking for Elsa Morrison. 

             YOUNG RECEPTIONIST
      Well Im happy to give her a call 
      and see if shes up for a visitor. 
      Can I ask your name?

             MICK
      Mick. Im her son. 

INT. ELSA MORRISONS APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

A small apartment decorated with old family photographs and a 
collection of various unopened, VINTAGE BOTTLES OF WINE from 
the 1970s bearing the family label MORRISON VINEYARDS.

Micks mother, ELSA MORRISON, sits in an armchair chair 
drinking tea. She is a beautiful, silver-haired woman in her 
late seventies. Elsa is physically frail and legally blind.

As Mick enters, Elsa slowly rises. She looks toward Mick, her 
blue-eyed gaze slightly askew of Micks eye-line. 

             MICK
      Hi, Mom.

Elsa sets her tea on the table and makes her way to Mick. She 
reaches up, feeling her sons face.

             ELSA
      My baby boy. Youre home.

Mick gently hugs her fragile frame. 

             MICK
      I need to talk to you.

Elsa pats his back.

             ELSA
      Come sit with me.


INT. ELSA MORRISONS APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER
Mick and Elsa sit at the small table. Elsa holds Micks hand.

             ELSA
      Your family. Your children. There 
      is nothing more important in this 
      life.

             MICK
      Sometimes its not so simple.

             ELSA
      Youre not a simple person, so its 
      not going to be simple. I know you. 
      Since the moment you fought your 
      way into this world. Theres 
      something different about you.

             MICK
      Eight years in prison can change a 
      person. 

             ELSA
      It changed your father.

Elsa pauses, smoothing her frail hands on her dress.

             ELSA 
      It took the best part of him. It 
      took his soul. He was nothing but 
      an animal when he came out. A 
      beast. But you know that.

Mick nods, REMEMBERING HIS FATHER FOR A BITTER INSTANT.

             ELSA 
      Did you lose your soul in prison?

Mick looks into his mothers sightless blue eyes.

             MICK
      No...I found it.

INT. SHOWER - BUNGALOW BATHROOM - NIGHT

Terri stands naked in the shower. She leans her body against 
the tile wall and closes her eyes, letting the hot water run 
down her face.

INT. BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Terri dries her hair, wraps herself in a white towel, then 
leans down and picks up her clothes from the floor.

She steps into the bathroom closet and the lifts the lid for 
the LAUNDRY CHUTE leading to the basement...but as she lifts 
the lid, SHE HEARS SOMETHING...

She makes a face as she listens closer, recognizing what 
sounds like ANGELS VOICE DOWN IN THE BASEMENT.

INT. BASEMENT STAIRS - SECONDS LATER

Walking through the kitchen wrapped in her towel, Terri 
quietly opens the basement door. She steps silently down the 
first few stairs, then kneels down and peeks into the 
unfinished basement.

 SHIFT ANGLE TO:

TERRIS P.O.V.: Terri sees Mick, standing alone at the far 
end of the basement beside a workbench. UNAWARE HE IS BEING 
WATCHED, MICK REWINDS A PALM-SIZED DIGITAL AUDIO RECORDER and 
PRESSES PLAY...

             ANGELS VOICE ON RECORDING
      Ive got 17 million dollars worth 
      of uncut coke I need to move. Its 
      pure profit. We keep every dollar. 
      But I have to move it small amounts 
      over time so not to draw 
      attention... 

Mick is lost in thought as he listens to the recording.

Terri is STUNNED. SHE WATCHES FOR ANOTHER INSTANT, THEN 
SLOWLY RETREATS UP THE STAIRS UNNOTICED.

INT. BUNGALOW - MOMENTS LATER

Her mind racing, Terri pulls on her jeans and a shirt. She 
grabs her leather jacket and walks out into the hallway.

             MICK
      Where you going?

Terri turns, seeing Mick.

             TERRI
      To get a drink. 

Mick looks at her.

             MICK
      You want company?

             TERRI
      No. Im gonna go see Jen.

Terri grabs her purse from the hook beside the door.

             MICK
      I missed you, you know. Everyday.

             TERRI
      Did you?

             MICK
      Youre the love of my life.

She gives him a sad fleeting smile, then walks out.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - SECONDS LATER

As Terris Honda pulls away, we pause on A DARK ESCALADE 
parked down the block from the house. We PUSH IN TO REVEAL: 
Wade behind the wheel, watching the house in the darkness.

EXT. BLACKHEART BAR- LATER 

The mostly empty parking lot of the BLACKHEART BAR, a biker 
joint off the freeway. Terris car is parked under the trees.

INT. BLACKHEART BAR - MOMENTS LATER

The bar is dead. Neon hums as slow, electric-slide blues 
plays in the background. 

Terris bartender friend JEN, an early 40s ex-rocker with 
dyed hair scribbles a restocking list on the back of a 
coaster as she checks the beer coolers.

Terri sits staring into the mirror behind the bar as she 
stirs the ice in her empty glass. 

             JEN
      Hey Ter, I gotta go downstairs. You 
      want anything for last call? 

             TERRI
      Double Stoli.

Jen pours and sets the drink in front of Terri.

             JEN
      You alright, babe?

             TERRI
      I used to be pretty, Jen.

Jen makes a face.

             JEN
      What kinda talk is that? Youre 
      hot as shit. I wish I had your ass.

Terri smiles.

             JEN 
      Talk to me.

Terri shrugs.

             TERRI
      I dont know. Sometimes I feel like 
      it all turned on me, you know? When 
      youre young anything is possible. 
      And you have all the time in the 
      world to do it. 

Terri runs her finger along the rim of her glass.

             TERRI 
      And then theres this point where 
      it switches on you. You dont even 
      know it when it happens. But 
      suddenly, it goes from having all 
      the choices...to every single 
      choice you make, means never 
      choosing something else. And before 
      you know it, you realize youve 
      lost sight of whatever it was you 
      wanted in the first place.

Terri looks at Jen.

             TERRI 
      You ever feel like that?

Jen pauses, glancing around the empty, late night bar. 

             JEN
      Yeah. 


EXT. PARKING LOT - BLACKHEART BAR - LATER THAT NIGHT

Terri walks out of the bar. The night sky is dark and 
moonless. Somewhat intoxicated, she walks across the parking 
lot digging in her purse for her keys. 

             WADE 
      Hi, Terri.

Terri GASPS and turns, seeing Wade standing in the darkness.

             TERRI
      Jesus Christ, Wade! You scared the 
      shit out of me!

Wade smiles.

             WADE
      Sorry about that.

             TERRI
      What are you doing here?

             WADE
      Lookin for you.

She pauses.

             TERRI
      Me? Why?

             WADE
      Angel wants to talk to you.

Terri nervously pushes her hair back behind her ear.

             TERRI
      He wants to talk to me right now?

Wade nods.

             TERRI 
      Howd you know I was here?

             WADE
      Youre a creature of habit, Terri.

Terri looks at him.

             WADE 
      Come on. Ill drive. 

INT. GRAHAM BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Grahams bedroom is dark. 

Graham lies asleep in bed. His breathing is accelerated. His 
eyes frantically dart back and forth beneath his eyelids in 
REM stage as horrific images flash through is mind.

Suddenly Graham SCREAMS, LURCHING UPRIGHT OUT OF SLEEP.

A second later his door BURSTS OPEN and Mick rushes in.

             MICK
      Graham...whats wrong?

Graham sits on the edge of his bed in his boxers. He 
trembles, his eye fixed on the Hammerhead Pup relentlessly 
circling in the too-small tank.

             GRAHAM
      He was a cop.

Mick looks at him.

             MICK
      Who? Who was a cop?

             GRAHAM
      The man I buried in the woods.

Micks expression hardens.

             GRAHAM 
      I cant get his face out of my 
      head. 

There is a beat of silence as Mick stares down at his son.

             MICK
      Did you kill him?

Graham shakes his head.

Micks voice takes an edge...

             MICK 
      Answer me in words! Did you kill 
      him? Did you pull the trigger?

             GRAHAM
      No. (pause) Wade shot him in the 
      forehead. But I may as well have.

Graham looks up at his father with a lost expression.

             GRAHAM 
      Dad...he begged me to let him live.

Mick returns his sons gaze with cold detachment.

             MICK
      They all beg.

INT. LIVING ROOM - EARLY MORNING

Pale morning light filters through the drapes as Mick lays 
asleep on the living room couch. There is a slow, 
intermittent DRAGGING SOUND. 

Mick stirs from sleep. Half awake, he looks around the room.

             MICK
      Terri?

             GRAHAM
      I dont think shes here.

Mick turns and sees Graham down the hall SLOWLY DRAGGING THE 
FULL, FOUR FOOT SALTWATER FISH TANK ACROSS THE HARDWOOD FLOOR 
TOWARD THE DOOR. 

WATER SLOSHES BACK AND FORTH, SPILLING AS THE HAMMERHEAD PUP 
SWIMS INSIDE THE TANK.

             MICK
      What are you doing? The saltwater 
      is getting all over...

Its clear by Grahams appearance that hes had an 
emotionally brutal night and hasnt slept. 

             GRAHAM
      Dad, I have to set him free. 

Mick looks at his son. Tears are evident right beneath the 
surface of Grahams exhausted face.

             GRAHAM 
      I cant stand to watch him in there 
      anymore. Help me take him to the 
      ocean. Please...

EXT. PORCH - BUNGALOW - MOMENTS LATER

The early morning neighborhood is quiet.

The front door is propped open.

Graham has spread out the heavy 2 MIL PLASTIC DROP CLOTHS 
from their paint project across the living room floor and out 
onto the porch to catch the spilled saltwater.

Mick, his muscular back and arms straining, carefully carries 
the two-hundred and fifty pound fish tank. 

Straining to hold the heavy liquid weight, Mick inches his 
way out of the house door, then glances back at Graham inside 
the house.

             MICK
        (to Graham)
      Grab my keys will you...

Suddenly there is a HEART STOPPING SOUND OF A PUMP SHOTGUN 
ACTION RACKING A SHELL INTO THE CHAMBER.

AS IF IN SLOW MOTION, MICKS HEAD TURNS, looking down the 
porch steps as A BLACK-MASKED GUNMEN RUSHES UP ONTO THE LAWN.

             MICK 
      GRAHAM GET DOWN!!!

AS THE GUNMAN FIRES HIS WEAPON, MICK IN PURE REFLEX HEAVES 
THE HEAVY TANK AWAY FROM HIS BODY AND DIVES...

IN THE SAME INSTANT, THE GLASS TANK SHATTERS AS A LOAD OF 
BUCKSHOT STRIKES THE FISH TANK AS IT FALLS FROM MICKS ARMS. 

THE SALTWATER SLOWS AND RICOCHETS THE LETHAL TRAJECTORY OF 
THE LEAD SHOT.

AS MICK DIVES BACKWARD INTO THE DOORWAY A STRAY BUCKSHOT 
PELLET PUNCHES INTO HIS RIBS.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

SOAKED IN SALTWATER AND COVERED WITH SHATTERED GLASS, MICK 
HITS THE PLASTIC COVERED HARDWOOD FLOOR.

GRIPPING THE BLEEDING WOUND, HE SITS UP AS THE SOUND OF THE 
APPROACHING GUNMANS BOOTS ASCEND THE WOODEN PORCH STEPS.

THE GUNMAN RACKS IN A SECOND SHELL INTO THE CHAMBER OF HIS 
WEAPON AND RUSHES THROUGH THE FRONT DOOR...

BUT IN THE SAME INSTANT, MICK GRABS TWO FIST FULLS OF THE WET 
PLASTIC DROP CLOTH AND JERKS IT WITH ALL HIS MIGHT, LITERALLY 
PULLING THE FEET OUT FROM UNDER THE APPROACHING GUNMAN.

THE GUNMAN FLAILS BACKWARD, HITTING THE FLOOR HARD AND MICK 
IS ON HIM IN AN INSTANT. 

MICK SEIZES THE GUNMANS MASKED FACE IN HIS POWERFUL HANDS 
AND WITHOUT HESITATION OR MERCY, DRIVES HIS THUMBS INTO THE 
MANS EYE SOCKETS.

             MICK
      HOW MANY!

THE GUNMAN SCREAMS HORRIBLY, CLAWING AND CONVULSING AS MICKS 
THUMB NAILS PRESS DEEPER INTO HIS SKULL.

             MICK 
      HOW MANY ARE THERE!

             GUNMAN
      TWO! THERES TWO OF US...

MICK PLUNGES HIS THUMBS, REACHING THE GUNMANS OPTIC NERVE 
AND BEYOND...THEN SUDDENLY, LIKE A SWITCH TURNED OFF, THE 
GUNMANS KICKING BODY TURNS SLACK AND STILL.

MICK, OPERATING WITH A HORRIFIC CALMNESS, TURNS TO GRAHAM 
CROUCHED IN A CORNER NEARBY. 

GRAHAMS FACE IS SPEECHLESS AT THE PURE SAVAGERY HIS FATHER 
HAS JUST DISPLAYED.

MICK GRABS THE DEAD GUNMANS SHOTGUN.

             MICK
        (to Graham)
      Stay down. Dont make a sound. 

EXT. BACKYARD - BUNGALOW - SECONDS LATER

A SECOND MASKED GUNMAN, gripping a GLOCK 19 makes his way 
beneath the kitchen windows toward the rear door of the 
house...

EXT. GARAGE - SECONDS LATER

Shouldering the shotgun, Mick walks silently across the 
freshly cut grass around the side of the garage.

As he rounds the corner into the back yard he sees the Second 
Gunman entering the rear door of the bungalow.

Mick quickly and calmly closes the distance between them 
before the Second Gunman sees him...then MICK RAISES THE 
SHOTGUN AND AT LESS THAN A YARD AWAY, FIRES A SHELL INTO THE 
SECOND GUNMANS SPINE, NEARLY CUTTING HIM IN HALF AND KILLING 
HIM INSTANTLY. 

INT. BASEMENT - SECONDS LATER

A light bulb flickers as Mick staggers down the stairs into 
the bungalows unfinished basement with Graham close behind.

             MICK
      We have ten...twelve minutes max 
      before the uniforms get here...

Holding pressure against his wound, Mick crosses the basement 
to the large mechanics WORKBENCH pushed up against the wall. 

             MICK 
      Help me...

Graham runs to his side and together they drag the heavy 
workbench away from the wall exposing the dusty concrete 
floor beneath.

Mick glances at the small HAND TOOLS hanging on PEG BOARD. He 
keeps looking, then sees what hes looking for...Mick points 
to a COBWEB COVERED SLEDGE HAMMER leaning between the wall 
studs in the corner. 

             MICK 
      Grab that hammer.

As Graham grabs the heavy hammer, Mick eyes a particular spot 
in the floor where the BARELY VISIBLE INITIALS R.I.P. WERE 
ONCE MARKED INTO THE CONCRETE WHEN IT WAS WET. 

             MICK 
        (pointing)
      There.

GRAHAM RAISES THE HAMMER, AND WITH ALL HIS STRENGTH, BEGINS 
POUNDING THE FLOOR WITH THE SLEDGE.

             MICK 
      Harder!

GRAHAM HITS THE CONCRETE AGAIN.

             MICK 
      Harder!

GRAHAM HITS THE CONCRETE TIME AND TIME AGAIN UNTIL IT BEGINS 
TO CRACK, SCATTERING MORTAR FRAGMENTS ACROSS THE ROOM.

GRAHAM SWINGS AGAIN AND THE HAMMER BREAKS THROUGH, CREATING A 
12 INCH HOLE INTO A FALSE CAVITY BELOW THE SLAB.


Mick kneels down on his hands and knees and clears the rubble out of the opening. Then he reaches down into the darkness, 
and pulls out a large, dusty BLACK DUFFLE BAG.

Mick painfully shoulders the heavy black bag...


             GRAHAM
        (re: the bag)
      Whats in there?

Mick turns for the basement stairs.

             MICK
      Death.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - SECONDS LATER

Mick eyes the empty street in both directions as he staggers 
across the yard carrying the duffel.

As Graham climbs up into the vans passenger seat, Mick 
starts the engine and they pulls away.

INT. CVS PHARMACY - LATER

Graham walks frantically down the aisles of a CVS Pharmacy, 
throwing a SERIES OF ITEMS into his basket: A BOX CUTTER, 
BANDAGES, PACKING TAPE, PEROXIDE, A BOX OF TAMPONS, A PAIR OF 
STEEL HEMOSTATS, A BLACK TEE-SHIRT, A FLASHLIGHT, A MIRROR...

EXT. CVS PHARMACY PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER

At the far side of the parking lot, carrying a plastic bag of 
supplies, Graham slides open the side door of the van.

INT. VAN - CONTINUOUS

Graham gets inside the van and slides the door shut.

Micks face is glazed with sweat. He lays shirtless with his 
head elevated in the back of the van. In palpable pain, Mick 
holds pressure on his wounded side.

             MICK
      You get everything?

             GRAHAM
      They were out of surgical tape. I 
      got packing tape.

             MICK
      The clear stuff?

Graham nods.

             GRAHAM
      Thatll work.

INT. VAN - MOMENTS LATER

CLOSE UP ON: BLOOD RED FOAM RISES out of a buckshot hole in 
Micks side as he pours PEROXIDE on the wound. Graham holds 
the MIRROR and FLASHLIGHT for his father allowing him to see. 

Mick extends the razor blade on the cheap plastic BOX CUTTER 
and douses it with PEROXIDE.

             MICK
      You alright with blood?

             GRAHAM
      Im okay.

Without hesitation, Mick MAKES TWO SMALL CUTS, opening the 
entrance wound in his flesh another half inch on each side, 
then tosses the box cutter away.

Graham hands him the HEMOSTATS. 

Mick feels around under the skin and locating the BUCKSHOT 
PELLET embedded in his rib. 

He inserts the curved tip of the hemostat, grips the shot, 
exhales to maintain focus, and PULLS IT OUT. The lead pellet 
hits the floor of the van with a metallic PLINK sound.

Blood streaks down his ribs from the wound. Mick takes a 
breath as a wave of pain and nausea rushes through his body.

             MICK
      Gimme the tampon.

Graham hands him the unwrapped plastic TAMPON applicator.

Mick inserts the tip of the plastic applicator into the 
entrance hole and presses the plunger with his thumb, 
inserting the tampon into the wound. The cotton expands in 
the wound soaking up and stopping the blood flow.

             MICK 
      Bandage, then tape.

Graham hands him three 4x4 inch square BANDAGES sandwiched 
together. Mick covers the wound, then he leans forward.

             MICK 
      Wrap it. All the way around me.

Graham begins wrapping the clear packing tape around Micks 
chest, under his arms and back around, over and over, 
affixing the bandages in place.

Mick watches his son, impressed by his unflinching focus.

             MICK 
      Good enough. 

Graham cuts the tape with the bloody box cutter.

Mick looks at Graham, his hands bloody, fearlessly awaiting 
his next instruction. In spite of himself, there is a sense 
of paternal pride in Micks expression.

             MICK 
      Did you get me a shirt?

Graham reaches in the bag, pulls off the TAG, and hands Mick 
a BLACK SURFER TEE-SHIRT WITH THE RED GRAPHIC OF SHARK ON IT. 
Mick carefully pulls on the shirt.

             GRAHAM
      I need to call mom and make sure 
      shes okay.

             MICK
      We will. Lets just do one thing 
      first.

EXT. RED ROOF INN - MOMENTS LATER

Micks van pulls into the parking lot of a two story RED ROOF 
INN off the 5 freeway.

INT. LOBBY - RED ROOF INN - MOMENTS LATER

A disinterested YOUNG DESK CLERK looks up as Graham walks 
into the lobby of a Red Roof Inn...

INT. VAN - RED ROOF INN PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Graham gets back into the passenger seat of the idling van 
with a room key in his hand. Mick is behind the wheel.


             GRAHAM      Room 17, first floor, around the 
      side.


INT. VAN - SECONDS LATER

Mick pulls the van around the side of the hotel and parks in 
front of the room.

             MICK
      Give me the key.

Graham hands Mick the room key.

             MICK 
      Sit tight. Ill be back in minute.

Mick exits the van shouldering the dusty black duffel bag.

Graham watches through the windshield as Mick disappears into 
the hotel room.

INT. VAN - MOMENTS LATER

Moments later Mick gets back in the van and sets the duffel 
bag on the floor between the seats. He STARTS THE ENGINE.

             GRAHAM
      Arent we going in?

             MICK
      No.

EXT. PARKING LOT VANTAGE POINT - MOMENTS LATER

The van pulls into the rear parking lot of a FAMILY 
RESTAURANT on a hillside across the road from the hotel. They 
have a clear sight line to Room 17. 

             GRAHAM
      What happens now?

Mick motions to a PAYPHONE outside the restaurant.

             MICK
      You walk over to that phone and 
      call your mom... 

A dark detachment enters Micks voice.


             MICK       And this is what I want you to 
      say...

CUT TO:

INT. DINING ROOM - ANGELS MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

Sunlight floods through the beautiful dining room of Angels 
Marin County mansion. 

Terri slowly closes her cell phone, ending the call with 
Graham. She looks exhausted, wearing the same clothes she had 
on at the bar the night before.

Angel stands over her with a cold expression.

             ANGEL
      Tell me what he said. 

Terri looks at Angel. There is a sadness in her voice.

             ANGEL 
      Word for word. 

             TERRI
      Grahams okay. 

             ANGEL
      And Mick?

             TERRI
      Hes hurt bad. Shot. He cant stand 
      up. Graham wants to call him an 
      ambulance to take him to the 
      hospital but Mick refuses.

             ANGEL
      Where are they right now?

             TERRI
      Promise me you wont hurt Graham.

Angel looks at her.

             ANGEL
      I dont want him harmed. But the 
      longer you fuck around the more 
      volatile this is gonna get.

Terri looks at the morning sunlight reflecting on the table.

             TERRI
      Some hotel off the freeway. 

             ANGEL
      What hotel?

INT. VAN - PARKING LOT VANTAGE POINT - 30 MINUTES LATER

The van is parked in the rear parking lot of the hillside 
family restaurant. Clearly in pain, Mick stares through the 
windshield down at the hotel in the distance. 

             GRAHAM
      Why did you make me lie to mom?

Mick doesnt answer. His eyes are fixed down the hillside on 
the door of Room 17.

             GRAHAM 
      Dad? You gotta say something. I 
      dont understand. What are we 
      doing?

Suddenly, far down below, a BLACK ESCALADE enters the Red 
Roof Inn parking lot and circles the building.

Mick EYES THE VEHICLE...

EXT. RED ROOF INN PARKING LOT - SAME MOMENT

The black Escalade pulls up in front of Room 17. 

A second later ALL FOUR DOORS OPEN IN UNISON. Wade and THREE 
OTHER WARLORD BIKERS get out of the vehicle. 

Wade glances around the quiet, mostly empty parking lot. He 
notices several DROPS OF BLOOD on the pavement outside the 
door to Room 17.

Wade NODS to the others and the MEN PULL ON BLACK MASKS.

THE FIRST TWO WARLORDS DRAW MACHINE PISTOLS FROM INSIDE OF 
THE VEHICLE.

The THIRD WARLORD BIKER lifts a heavy, hand held, SWAT STYLE 
STEEL DOOR RAM from the back of the SUV. 

They take another look around the vacant lot, then the three 
advance on the hotel room as Wade watches the parking lot...

QUICK CUT TO:

INT. VAN - PARKING LOT VANTAGE POINT - SAME MOMENT

Mick and Graham watch from the hillside as...

CUT BACK TO:

EXT./INT. - ROOM 17 - A SECOND LATER

THE STEEL RAM SLAMS INTO THE HOTEL ROOM DOOR, RIPPING THE 
LOCK OUT OF THE DOOR FRAME.

AS THE DOOR HURLS OPEN, THE OTHER TWO WARLORDS RUSH INTO THE 
DARK HOTEL ROOM WITH THEIR WEAPONS RAISED AND OPEN FIRE, 
SHREDDING THE BEDS, MIRRORS, LAMPS, AND WALLS IN A FULLY 
AUTOMATIC BARRAGE... 

THE TWO MEN SHOOT UNTIL THEIR WEAPONS ARE EMPTY...then they 
pause, peering through the darkness.

The shooters RELOAD, stepping through the shell casings on 
the floor toward the heaped up bedspread...

INT. VAN - PARKING LOT VANTAGE POINT - SAME MOMENT

Graham stares wide eyed though the van windshield as Mick 
reaches into the duffel bag and withdraws a SMALL BLACK 
PLASTIC TRANSMITTER.

Graham looks at his father, unable to speak. Mick returns his 
sons gaze and NODS...

             MICK
      Now you understand.

Mick palms the transmitter, flips up a safety, and PRESSES...

SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. ROOM 17 - RED ROOF INN - SAME INSTANT

The front windows of the hotel room VIOLENTLY EXPLODE IN A 
SHOWER OF GLASS AND BURNING CURTAINS. 

THE FORCE OF THE BLAST WAVE COBWEBS THE WINDSHIELD OF THE 
ESCALADE PARKED IN FRONT OF THE ROOM.

One of the shooters, HIS BODY ENVELOPED IN FLAMES, STAGGERS 
OUT OF THE BURNING ROOM, HIS ARMS RAISED BEGGING FOR HELP 
FROM WADE. 

Behind the wheel of the Escalade, Wade starts the vehicle and 
PEELS AWAY, leaving the burning man on the concrete.

INT. VAN - SAME MOMENT

Watching the Escalade race out of the parking lot below, Mick 
starts the van and shifts into drive.

             MICK
      Keep your eye on that vehicle.

EXT. FREEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Driving north on the 5 Freeway, a dozen cars lengths behind, 
Mick and Graham follow Wades damaged Escalade.

After a moment the Escalade veers right, taking AN EXIT. 
Unnoticed, Mick and Graham follow him...

EXT. BOULEVARD - MOMENTS LATER

Up the block, Mick and Graham watch the Escalade pull off a 
busy boulevard into a shopping mall PARKING STRUCTURE.

Graham looks at his father.

             GRAHAM
      Wheres he going?

             MICK
      He cant afford to get pulled over 
      for that broken windshield. Hes 
      switching cars.

INT. UPPER FLOOR OF PARKING STRUCTURE - MOMENTS LATER

A dark, upper floor of a concrete parking structure.

Wade walks deliberately down a row of cars looking for the 
right car.

QUICK CUTAWAY TO:

CLOSE UP OF: THE GOOSENECK NOZZLE OF A SMALL PLASTIC GAS CAN 
SOAKS A MECHANICS RAG IN FUEL...

CUT BACK TO:


INT. UPPER FLOOR OF PARKING STRUCTURE - CONTINUOUS

Wade finds an early 90s PONTIAC that predates electronic 
chip-in-key security.

Wade approaches the car, glances both ways, then skillfully 
slides a thin steel SLIM-JIM down behind the rubber window 
guard into the door mechanics and TRIPS THE DOOR LOCK.

As he reaches for the door handle Wade senses something and 
SUDDENLY PAUSES.

Mick ENTERS THE FRAME behind him...

             MICK 
        (behind him)
      We need to have a little talk.

WADE PULLS FOR THE GLOCK 19 FROM HIS BELT AND SPINS...BUT 
MICK IS FASTER, SEIZING WADES OUTSTRETCHED GUN HAND. 

IN ONE FLUID MOTION MICK TWISTS WADES ARM, STRIPS THE GUN 
FROM HIS GRIP, AND POUNDS THE BACK OF WADES ELBOW WITH 
BRUTAL PRECISION, SHATTERING WADES ELBOW JOINT.

A SURGE OF PAIN OVERTAKES WADE, HE OPENS HIS MOUTH TO SCREAM, 
BUT MICK SMOTHERS HIS FACE WITH THE GASOLINE SOAKED RAG, 
HOLDING IT TIGHT TO WADES MOUTH AND NOSTRILS. 

             MICK 
        (gripping Wade)
      Breathe in, fucker.

CUT TO BLACKNESS...

FADE TO:

EXT. REDWOODS FOREST - LATE AFTERNOON

CLOSE UP ON: Wades cheeks and nostrils are swollen red with 
chemical burns. His mouth is wrapped in clear packing tape.

Drifting in and out of consciousness, Wade is dragged by his 
feet through the autumn leaves, deeper and deeper into a 
Redwood forest...

EXT. REDWOOD FOREST - MOMENTS LATER

As the last of the afternoon sunlight filters through the 
forest canopy, a MUFFLED WHIMPER drifts through the woods.


WADE, STRIPPED NAKED, HIS ELBOW BROKEN AND HIS HANDS BOUND, 
SLOUCHES AGAINST THE MASSIVE TRUNK OF A TOWERING, 200 FOOT 
REDWOOD TREE.

With his black duffel bag at his side, Mick kneels and rips 
the packing tape off Wades face. 

Wade looks at him with bitter spite and lets his head slump 
forward...

             MICK
      Keep your head up.

             WADE
      Fuck you.

Without another word, Mick fishes in his duffel bag and pulls 
out a CLAW HAMMER AND A HANDFUL OF NAILS.

Mick forces Wades head upright. 

Wade SCREAMS AS MICK POUNDS A 16d FRAMING NAIL THROUGH THE 
TOP OF WADES EAR INTO THE TREE, PINNING HIS HEAD UPRIGHT. 

A SICKENING WAVE OF PAIN PULSES THROUGH WADES BODY. WADE 
APPEARS DIZZY AND HIS EYES BEGIN TO LOSE THEIR FOCUS.

Mick fishes in his black duffel bag again and pulls out a 
PILL BOTTLE. Mick opens the bottle, retrieving one of several 
small POPPERS OF COMPRESSED SMELLING SALTS.

Mick BREAKS THE POPPER UNDER WADES NOSE. Inhaling the 
ammonium carbonate, WADE INSTANTLY HEAVES FOR BREATH AND GAGS 
LOUDLY. HIS EYES WIDEN...

             MICK
      Look at me, Wade. 

Wade looks as Mick RATTLES the contents of the small bottle.

             MICK 
      Blacking out is not going to help. 
      Ive got enough of these little 
      bastards to wake you up six or 
      seven more times.

With his ear nailed to the tree, Wades tearing eyes dart 
around the darkening woods.

             MICK 
        (off his glance)
      Are you looking for Graham? I left 
      him in the van back at the road. 


             MICK 
      I told him I needed him to be the 
      look-out. But theres nobody out 
      here. The truth is I just didnt 
      want him to see this part. I dont 
      want him to know what Im actually 
      capable of. 

Wade glances down at Micks black duffle bag. 

             MICK 
      Youve been around long enough to 
      know that people like you and 
      me...we dont get saved.  

             WADE
      Lets make a deal.

Mick smiles.

             MICK
      I dont think we have a deal to 
      make. Youre just fucked.

             WADE
      I know things.

             MICK
      Well, we all know things, Wade. For 
      instance, I know that you forced my 
      only son to participate in the 
      execution of an undercover police 
      officer.

Wade looks at Mick.

             MICK 
      Of course, if you were desperate, 
      which you are, you could tell me 
      that youd confess to the shooting. 
      But that doesnt really help my 
      sons situation because in the eyes 
      of the law hed still be an 
      accomplice. So what are my other 
      remaining options?

Mick pauses, looking up at the red sunlight in the trees.

             MICK 
      Oh yeah...I could eliminate the 
      only witness that can link my boy 
      to the crime. That seems like a 
      winner. 


Mick reaches into his duffel bag and pulls out a palm sized 
object wrapped in a black velvet pouch. He opens the pouch 
and withdraws an old school PEARL HANDLED STRAIGHT RAZOR. 

Mick folds open the razor. The mirror polished blade flashes 
in the late afternoon sun. 

             MICK 
        (admiring the razor)
      This was my Dads... 

Wades eyes fall on the wicked cutting instrument.

             MICK 
        (re: the razor)
      Between he and I, this unholy thing 
      has done some damage.

Mick holds the blade up to Wades face.

             WADE
      Wait. Just fuckin wait, man...

             MICK
      For what? What are you gonna tell 
      me? I already know everything. 
      Angel found out I was going to turn 
      his offer down and leave the life. 
      He decided he couldnt afford to 
      allow that. He wants me dead. Hes 
      got Terri for insurance.

Wade looks at Mick with spite, unable to stop himself from 
seizing an opportunity to take a shot at Mick...

             WADE
      You dumb fuck. He doesnt have 
      Terri for insurance. Shes his. 
      Hes been bangin your bitch for 
      years. Shit man, shes up there 
      with him in Marin right now 
      drinkin martinis. She sold you 
      out...said you had some tape of you 
      and Angel discussing business. And 
      that you were gonna use it against 
      him. Thats why he wants you dead. 

With a calm expression on his face, Mick nods.

             MICK
      I guess now you know the other 
      reason I didnt want Graham here.


Its clear that Mick already knew the reality of the 
situation and he was baiting Wade to confirm his suspicions. 
Wades face shifts...

             WADE
      You knew.

Mick raises the razor to Wades throat.

             WADE 
      Angels got a photograph...

             MICK
      Of what?

             WADE
      Graham. Standing over the NARC with 
      a .38. Both their faces are plain 
      as day. If the law gets a hold of 
      that picture your boy is done.

             MICK
      Youre lying.

             WADE
      It was part of his plan, Mick. I 
      took the photo for Christs sake. 
      You can check my phone.

             MICK
      The photo is on Angels computer?

             WADE
      No. I gave him a hard copy. But I 
      know right where he keeps it. You 
      let me live and Ill tell you.

Mick stares at him, considering. There is beat of silence as 
the last of the sunlight fades casting the woods in darkness. 

             WADE 
      Think about it, Mick. Hes got 
      forty men up in Marin. That place 
      is huge. Theyll tear you to shreds 
      before you...

Without another word, MICK MAKES ONE CLEAN CUT.

Wade STARES IN DISBELIEF AS BLOOD FLUSHES FROM BENEATH HIS 
CHIN. HE TRIES TO SPEAK, BUT HIS VOICE IS NOW SIMPLY A WET, 
SUCKING NOISE.

INT. VAN - NIGHT

As headlights pass, Mick drives in silence. Graham thumbs 
through the PHOTO ARCHIVES on Wades phone.

             MICK
      It is there?

Graham stops suddenly on a particular image... 

CLOSE UP ON WADES PHONE DISPLAY: AN INCRIMINATING DIGITAL 
PHOTO OF GRAHAM STANDING OVER THE BEATEN MAN WITH WEAPON 
RAISED. The photo was taken from a hidden vantage point.

Graham is clearly haunted by the face of the man.

             GRAHAM
      Yes.

             MICK
      Erase it. Then give me the phone.

Graham does as hes told.

             GRAHAM
      What do we do now, Dad?

Mick doesnt answer. His mind is clearly racing.

             GRAHAM 
      Dad?

Ahead the highway splits two directions. Suddenly Mick cuts 
across traffic, VEERING THE VAN TOWARD A SIGN FOR SFO 
AIRPORT... 

INT. AIRLINE TICKET COUNTER - SFO AIRPORT - NIGHT

Mick walks away from a ticket counter with a BOARDING PASS in 
his hand.

Graham sits by himself outside the security checkpoint.

Mick sits down beside him and hands Graham the boarding pass.

             MICK
        (re: Boarding pass)
      Take it.

             GRAHAM
      I dont want to take it. Why are 
      you trying to get rid of me? 


             MICK
      I just missed eight years with you, 
      Graham. The last thing I want to do 
      in this world is get rid of you.

             GRAHAM
      Then dont. We should stick 
      together. I mean, were partners... 

Mick smiles with a sad warmth.

             MICK
      No. Were not partners. Youre my 
      child. And Im your parent. And 
      right now my job is to get you on 
      that plane and fly you away to a 
      safe place where you can have a 
      shot at being a kid again.

             GRAHAM
      Well I wont go.

             MICK
      Yes, you will. You will if I have 
      to strap you in the seat myself. 
      You dont get a choice here. You do 
      as I say.

Graham looks down at the floor.

             GRAHAM
      Mom sold us out, didnt she?

There is an instant where Mick considers, then he looks his 
son in the eyes and calmly LIES...

             MICK
      No, she didnt. Wade told me your 
      mom had nothing to do with this. 
      This is about me and your uncle. 
      Thats it.   

             GRAHAM
      Then you have to save her.

             MICK
      Im gonna try.

A BOARDING CALL ECHOES THROUGH THE SECURITY AREA.

             MICK 
      You gotta go.


Again, Mick hands Graham the boarding pass. Graham hesitates, then TAKES IT. He glances at the flight destination...

CLOSE UP ON BOARDING PASS IT READS: PROVO, UTAH


             MICK 
      I called and spoke with them a few 
      minutes ago. Theyll meet you at 
      baggage claim. Ill be there as 
      soon as...

Graham suddenly REACHES OUT AND EMBRACES HIS FATHER.

Mick stops in mid-sentence, feeling his sons hug for the 
first time in many years. Graham holds his father tightly.

             GRAHAM
      I love you.

EXT. CELL PHONE LOT - SFO  AIRPORT - DAWN

As the first red hue of dawn breaks on the horizon, Mick 
stands alone watching the wing lights of Grahams flight 
disappear safely into the sky.

EXT. PACIFIC COASTAL HIGHWAY - COASTAL BEACH - MORNING

The van is pulled off the Pacific Coastal Highway. 

Wind blows as Mick sits on a high jagged bluff watching the 
waves break against the rock formations below him.  

The black duffel bag sits beside him.

Mick fishes in his pocket for something, pulling out a 
wrinkled ENVELOPE. He looks at the envelope for a second, 
then tears it open withdrawing THE LETTER he wrote to himself 
in prison. 

Mick reads the unseen promise he wrote to himself, then 
closes his eyes as if in prayer...then LETS GO OF THE LETTER.

The wind catches the letter and blows out over the water, 
floating down, landing in the waves below.

For another instant Mick stares at the ocean, then he picks 
up Wades cell phone and dials....

CUT TO:


INT. PRISON CELL - EASTERN COLORADO FEDERAL PEN- MOMENTS LATER
David, Micks former cell mate lays on the top bunk reading a 
paperback novel as a FEMALE C.O. approaches...


             FEMALE C.O.
      David Robins...

David sits up in his bunk.

             DAVID
        (southern accent)
      Yes, maam?

             FEMALE C.O.
      Phone call...

EXT. PACIFIC COASTAL HIGHWAY - COASTAL BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Mick stares at the ocean talking into the cellphone...

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION

             MICK 
      I want to call in that favor.

             DAVID 
      Well I owe you man. Whatever you 
      need...

             MICK 
      You know Diaz and Pill-Box and the 
      rest of the Sinaloa outfit in D-
      Block?

             DAVID 
      Course I do. I stay the hell away 
      from them boys...

             MICK 
      I want you to tell them some 
      information. 

             DAVID 
      Okay, I mean, whatever you say. 
      Ill tell em whatever you want me 
      to, but Im nobody in here. They 
      may not believe me...

V.O. OF THE PHONE CONVERSATION LAPSES IN...

CUT TO:


INT. PRISON CAFETERIA - LATER
David carefully approaches the racially divided, Northern 
Mexican section of the prison cafeteria.


             MICK 
      ...Theyll believe you. Because 
      youre going to tell them you 
      overheard me say it when I was your 
      cell mate. You understand me? I 
      want you to leak this to them as if 
      I dont know youre doing it. 
      Theyll ask you whats in it for 
      you. Tell them you want long term 
      protection in exchange for it...

As David nears, two intimidating Sinaloa SOLDIER INMATES stop 
him, wanting to know what he wants. 

             DAVID 
      Yes, sir. I understand. But what if 
      theyre not interested in what I 
      have to say?

David says something to the Soldiers that we dont hear. The 
Soldiers glance at each other, then escort David toward the 
ALPHA GANG MEMBERS...

             MICK  
      Trust me. Theyll be interested...

CUT TO:

EXT. AN AERIAL SHOT MEXICO CITY - AN HOUR LATER

An areial view of Mexico City, a tightly compressed, 
sprawling urban center of high rises and slum...

SUPER TITLE: MEXICO CITY - ONE HOUR LATER

WE HEAR A SOUND OF A RINGING SATELLITE PHONE...THEN THE MANS 
VOICE FROM THE OPENING PICKS UP THE CALL.

             VOICE ON SAT PHONE
        (in Spanish - Subtitled)
      Theres no forecast today. Clear 
      the line.

             MANS VOICE 
        (in Spanish - Subtitled)
      We have a location on the missing 
      herd.


There is a beat of silence.
             VOICE ON SAT PHONE 
        (in Spanish - Subtitled)
      How old is the information?

             MANS VOICE  
        (in Spanish - Subtitled)
      One hour...

CUT TO:

EXT. AN AREIAL SHOT OF LOS ANGELES - MOMENTS LATER

An areial view of the myriad of busy, super highways of L.A.

SUPER TITLE: SOUTH CENTRAL LOS ANGELES - MINUTES LATER

WE HEAR THE SOUND OF A VIBRATING CELL PHONE...

CUT TO:

EXT. 5 FREEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

AN AERIAL SHOT OF: A CONVOY OF SEVEN, IDENTICAL, BLACK 
LANDROVERS MERGE ONTO THE 5 FREEWAY HEADING NORTH.

EXT. ANGELS MANSION - MARIN COUNTY - SUNSET

The perimeter of Angels new home is surrounded by WARLORD 
BIKERS keeping watch.

INT. FINISHED BASEMENT - ANGELS MANSION - SAME MOMENT

Angels 3,000 square foot finished basement is set up as an 
impromptu drug lab.

Long tables are outfitted with RUBBER MIXING KNIVES, SIFTERS, 
AND DIGITAL SCALES.

Under the watchful eye of TWO HEAVILY-ARMED WARLORD BIKERS, A 
TEAM OF EIGHT FILIPINO WOMEN wearing white coveralls and 
respirators CUT 120 KILOS OF STOLEN PURE CARTEL COCAINE WITH 
INOSITOL AND PROCAINE POWDER. 

They repackage the diluted product into HUNDREDS OF SHRINK 
WRAPPED KILO BRICKS OF STREET GRADE BLOW.


Angel stands at the base of the stairs WEARING A SEMI-
AUTOMATIC PISTOL IN A SHOULDER HOLSTER. He watches them work, 
then lights a cigarette and walks upstairs...

INT. LIVING ROOM - ANGELS MANSION - SAME MOMENT

On the horizon, the setting sun floods through the twelve 
foot windows, bathing the beautiful room in rich red light.

Terri, looking more upscale in designer jeans and blouse, 
sits restlessly on a luxurious leather sofa. Her face is 
burdened with worry as she SNORTS A BUMP OF COCAINE, then 
washes down the bitter bite in the back of her throat with 
VODKA ON ICE.

Preoccupied, Angel enters the living room...

             TERRI
      Have you heard anything?

Angel ignores her.

             TERRI 
      Did Wade call?

Without answering, Angel stops at his recently finished 
MAHOGANY BAR and makes himself a drink.

Vodka in hand, Terri crosses the room toward him...

             TERRI 
      Answer me, Angel. We had an 
      agreement. Wheres my son...

Without a word, Angel turns and FIRES OUT A STIFF JAB INTO 
TERRIS TEETH.

TERRIS COCKTAIL GLASS SHATTERS AS HER BODY HITS THE FLOOR. 

STUNNED, SHE STARES UP AT ANGEL AS A LINE OF BLOOD STREAKS 
FROM HER UPPER LIP. 

             ANGEL
      Im sorry...did you say something?

Terris eyes water as she SLOWLY SHAKES HER HEAD.

             ANGEL 
      Thats what I thought. Now pick up 
      your fuckin tooth and make 
      yourself useful...

Terri, her eyes still dazed from the punch, glances at her 
LEFT FRONT TOOTH LAYING ON THE HARDWOOD FLOOR BESIDE HER.

             ANGEL 
      I got forty men who need to eat.

SUDDENLY ANGELS CELL PHONE RINGS. He checks the CALLER - IT 
IS WADES NUMBER. Angel answers the call...

BEGIN INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION

             ANGEL 
      Where the fuck are you, Wade?

CUT TO:

EXT. A P.O.V. SHOT THROUGH BINOCULARS - SAME MOMENT

Hidden in the grapevine brush on a distant hillside, Mick 
holds Wades cellphone to his ear as he eyes Angels house 
through a pair of Binoculars.

MAGNIFIED P.O.V. THROUGH BINOCULARS: Mick watches through the 
massive living room windows...

             MICK 
      Id imagine the coyotes have him 
      spread all over by now...

MAGNIFIED P.O.V. THROUGH BINOCULARS continued: Micks view 
SHIFTS, surveying the property, noting the strength and 
positions of the exterior WARLORD BIKERS standing guard.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. LIVING ROOM - ANGELS MANSION - SAME MOMENT

Anger fills his face as Angel grips the phone...

             ANGEL 
      Fuck you! I wanted to share this 
      with you! To build it together into 
      something huge. I offered you the 
      keys to an empire. And what did I 
      get in return? You make some 
      fuckin recording to use against 
      me?

Sitting up, wiping the blood from her face, Terri realizes 
her husband is still alive.

             MICK 
      Thats right. I recorded you just 
      like you photographed my son.

Angel falls silent.

             MICK 
      And now were gonna make a trade. 
      The photo for the tape. And then we 
      walk away and we never see each 
      other again.

There is a silence on the line.

             ANGEL 
      When and where?

             MICK 
      Your house in Marin. Ill be up 
      there sometime tonight. Be there in 
      person or the tape goes to the DEA. 

             ANGEL 
      Im supposed to believe you didnt 
      make a copy?

             MICK 
      Thats right. Same as me.

             ANGEL 
      What happened to you man? Youre my 
      brother for Christs sake...

             MICK 
      I was wondering which one of us was 
      gonna say that first.

Mick ends the call.

INT. LIVING ROOM - ANGELS MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

Angel paces the floor, seething with intensity as he 
addresses a roomful of FORTY ARMED WARLORD BIKERS.

             ANGEL
        (addressing his men)
      This is my fathers land. I was 
      raised right here. You men know me. 
      You know what loyalty means to me. 
      So I want to make this next point 
      abundantly clear... 

The Warlords listen intently...

             ANGEL 
      My own blood has betrayed me. He 
      has betrayed his family. And he has 
      betrayed his brotherhood with you.

Angel points out through the twelve foot living room windows 
at the darkness falling on the vast property. 

             ANGEL 
      Hes one man. Hell come before 
      dawn. And when he does, I want him 
      fucking dead. 

EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - SAME MOMENT

As the sun sinks over the San Francisco Bay, we see the 
CONVOY OF THE SEVEN BLACK LANDROVERS SPEEDING NORTH OVER THE 
GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE INTO MARIN COUNTY...

EXT. VINEYARD PROPERTY -  SEVERAL HOURS LATER

Moonlight falls on the property. A long row of HD Motorcycles 
are parked in formation in front of the house. Warlord Bikers 
mingle in the vast yard keeping watch.

EXT. MICKS HILLSIDE POSITION - SAME MOMENT

Micks breath is visible in the cold night air as he stares 
down at Angels lighted mansion. Wearing only a tee-shirt, 
Mick wraps his arms around himself as HE WAITS...

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - ANGELS MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

Terri sits alone on the edge of the king sized bed in the 
master bedroom. She holds a BAG OF ICE on her upper lip. 
Tears well in her eyes as she stares at PHOTOS OF GRAHAM on 
her cell phone...

EXT. MICKS HILLSIDE POSITION - AN HOUR LATER

The night wind has quickened and the clouds choke out the 
moon. The landscape is lost in a dark shroud. 

Exhausted and freezing, Mick stares as if in a trance down at 
the lighted house. His eyelids drift in and out...when 
SUDDENLY HE HEARS THE SOUND OF A NEARBY TWIG BREAKING.

MICK INSTANTLY FREEZES. His eyes scan the darkness. He hears 
VOICES WHISPERING IN SPANISH.

Mick doesnt move a muscle, holding his breath, not wanting 
to compromise his location.

Suddenly a SINALOA CARTEL DEATH SQUAD of 25 GUNMEN appear out 
of the dark vine rows. Armed with SOUND-SUPPRESSED SUBMACHINE 
GUNS, the assassins do not see Mick hidden in the brush.

WITHOUT A SOUND, THEY ADVANCE DOWN THE HILLSIDE. THEIR 
GHOSTLIKE SILHOUETTES MOVE AS A UNIT, BREAKING INTO HUNTER 
GROUPS, FLANKING THE HOUSE IN PARAMILITARY FASHION.

INT. DINING ROOM - ANGELS MANSION -  MOMENTS LATER

In front of a twelve foot living room window, the long dining 
table is set with an ELABORATE SPREAD OF HOMEMADE FOOD. 

Terri sets a tray of sandwiches on the table and heads back 
into the kitchen as a dozen armed Warlords fix their plates. 

Mook, the wiry Warlord who inked Grahams tattoo, approaches 
Angel with a SHOTGUN slung over his shoulder on a strap.

             MOOK
      You want some food, chief?

Preoccupied, Angel shakes his head NO and motions the men 
eating in the dining room.

             ANGEL
        (to Mook)
      Listen, have them take that shit 
      outside, and tell the boys out 
      there to come in.

             MOOK
      Yes, sir.

Carrying his plate Mook walks to the front door. As he opens 
the door, he FREEZES...

SHIFT TO:

MOOKS POV SHOT OUT THE DOOR:  The porch floor is POOLED WITH 
BLOOD. The lifeless bodies of TWO WARLORDS lay face down on 
the front steps.

His heartbeat quickening, Mook looks out into the darkness. 
TEN MORE DEAD WARLORDS LAY scattered across the front lawn. 

SUDDENLY A RED DOT APPEARS ON MOOKS CHEST.

             MOOK 

      Fuck me...

A SILENCED BURST OF ROUNDS RIP INTO MOOK, SHATTERING THE 
CHINA DINNER PLATE IN HIS HAND.

AS IF IN SLOW MOTION, ANGEL AND THE OTHER DOZEN BIKERS TURN 
TO THE SOUND OF MOOKS BODY HITTING THE FOYER FLOOR...

SUDDENLY FROM OUT IN THE DARKNESS, THE RED KILL-DOTS OF A 
DOZEN LASER SCOPES PROJECT THROUGH THE EXTERIOR GLASS WALL...

ANGEL INSTANTLY DIVES TO THE FLOOR AS THE WINDOWS EXPLODE 
WITH A BRUTAL BARRAGE OF AUTOMATIC WEAPON FIRE.

IN A CASCADE OF SHATTERED GLASS, WARLORDS ARE SHOT TO PIECES 
WITH FOOD STILL IN THEIR MOUTHS.

As bullets rip into the newly finished walls, Angel scrambles 
for the basement stairs.

In the same moment, EIGHT CARTEL GUNMAN WEARING MASKS storm 
through the front door, CUTTING DOWN ANYTHING THAT MOVES.

The Warlords raise their weapons and a DEVASTATING FIRE FIGHT 
BREAKS OUT between the Cartel and the Warlords...

INT. KITCHEN - SAME MOMENT

Terri SCREAMS, as the gunshots grow deafening. Keeping her 
head down, Terri crawls across the Spanish tile floor. She 
opens an empty kitchen cabinet and pulls herself inside.

INT. FINISHED BASEMENT - ANGELS MANSION - SECONDS LATER

Angel slams closed the dead-bolt on the reinforced basement 
door and runs down into the finished basement.

The room is a white sea of cocaine. Theyll never be able 
carry it all. The Filipino women in coveralls huddle in the 
corner as the two Armed Warlords guard over the coke. 

             ANGEL
        (to the two Warlords)
      Grab a brick and a gun. Douse the 
      rest in kerosene... 

INT. KITCHEN CABINET - CONTINUOUS

Terri, hiding like a child inside the floor cabinet, flinches 
as relentless gunshots echo through the house.

Suddenly the sound of HEAVY BOOTS STEPS enter the kitchen, 
sweeping from room to room. She HEARS THE PANTRY DOOR OPEN, 
THEN THE CABINET DOORS OPENING ONE BY ONE...

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

As the gunfight intensifies, TWO MASKED CARTEL GUNMAN search 
systematically for the stolen coke. Working their way through 
the kitchen, they near the cabinet where Terri is hiding...

INT. FINISHED BASEMENT - ANGELS MANSION - SAME MOMENT

HUNDREDS OF KILOS OF COCAINE ARE SLOSHED WITH KEROSENE FUEL 
AND IGNITED. THE FLAMES SPREAD INSTANTLY...

INT. KITCHEN CABINET - SAME MOMENT

Pressed inside the cabinet, Terri closes her eyes terrified 
as a GUNMAN BEGINS TO OPEN THE CABINET DOOR...when suddenly 
THE POWER GOES OUT, PLUNGING THE HOUSE INTO DARKNESS... 

EXT. UTILITY ELECTRICAL SERVICE PANEL - SAME MOMENT

Mick stands with a cable cutter over a sabotaged utility 
panel. He drops the cutters into the grass and reaches in his 
black duffle bag retrieving FOUR 9MM SEMI-AUTOMATIC PISTOLS. 

He slides a fully loaded magazine into each handgun and tucks 
two of the weapons into his jeans. He PALMS the other two in 
his hands.

For an instant, he pauses, thinking, listening to the SCREAMS 
AND WATCHING THE FULLY AUTOMATIC MUZZLE-FLASHES FLICKERING 
THROUGH THE DARK MANSION.

INT. MANSION - SECONDS LATER

Putrid black smoke fills the dark house. Glass windows 
explode as red laser scope beams cut through the darkness.

The primal chaos and fear grows as Cartel Gunmen and 
Warlords, choke on the air and shoot wildly in the dark. They 
cannot find their way out. LIKE ANIMALS TRAPPED INSIDE A CAGE 
TOO SMALL, THEY KILL EVERYTHING.

INT. UNDERGROUND ESCAPE TUNNEL - SECONDS LATER

On their hands and knees, Angel and the two other Warlords 
scramble down a 100 yard tunnel connecting the basement of 
the mansion with a vineyard barn.

INT. VINEYARD BARN - MOMENTS LATER

Angel and the two Warlords climb out of the tunnel where 
several HD Motorcycles lie waiting inside the barn. 

The three men tuck the coke bricks in their jackets and mount 
the motorcycles.

             ANGEL
      Well meet up in Eureka. Ride hard, 
      dont stop for anything.

They start the choppers and accelerate out of the barn, with 
Angel taking up the rear...

EXT. VINEYARD BARN - CONTINUOUS

As the three motorcycles race out of the building, the moon 
breaks out of the clouds, illuminating the two-track ahead...

WHERE MICK STANDS ALONE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ROAD. HE IS 
WAITING FOR THEM...

The lead bikers see him, but its too late...MICK RAISES SEMI-
AUTOMATIC PISTOLS IN EACH HAND AND OPENS FIRE, PUNCHING A 
HALF DOZEN ROUNDS INTO THE HEAD AND CHEST OF THE LEAD BIKERS.

BOTH MOTORCYCLES VEER WILDLY OFF THE ROAD. THE FIRST COLLIDES 
WITH A TREE. THE SECOND ROLLS BROADSIDE IN THE GRAVEL.

MICK SWINGS HIS PISTOLS TO ANGEL WHO SPEEDS TOWARD HIM...BUT 
ANGEL, HIS GUN ALREADY RAISED, HAS MICK ZEROED. 

BOTH BROTHERS FIRE IN THE SAME INSTANT.

ANGELS SHOT STRIKES MICK IN THE COLLARBONE. HIS BODY TWISTS 
VIOLENTLY BACKWARD ON TO THE GROUND.

MICKS BULLET HITS ANGEL IN THE NECK. BLOOD FLARES AS ANGELS 
BODY FALLS FORWARD ONTO THE HANDLEBARS OF THE SPEEDING 
CHOPPER BUT HE SOMEHOW KEEPS THE MACHINE UPRIGHT.

MICK, WOUNDED ON THE GROUND, LOOKS UP JUST AS ANGELS 
MOTORCYCLE RUNS OVER MICKS OUTSTRETCHED RIGHT LEG.

Mick SCREAMS in pain.

Angel, bleeding badly but still in control of the chopper, 
cranks the throttle trying to escape. 

Mick, on the ground, pulls one of the BACK-UP PISTOLS from 
his jeans, takes aim on the WARLORDS MC insignia on Angels 
back, and FIRES SIX MORE SHOTS.

CLOSE UP ON ANGEL: AS IF IN SLOW MOTION, BULLETS RIP THROUGH 
ANGELS WARLORDS LEATHER COLORS. 

THE CHOPPER VEERS OFF THE ROAD AND THE FRONT TIRE HITS A 
STUMP, STOPPING THE MACHINE SUDDENLY. ANGEL IS VIOLENTLY 
EJECTED AIRBORNE OVER THE HANDLEBARS AND INTO THE DITCH.

EXT. DITCH - MOMENTS LATER

Angel lies in the ditch bleeding out. Unable to move, he 
stares up at the hillside where HIS NEW MANSION BURNS ORANGE 
AND RED AGAINST THE DARK SKY.

The gunshots have stopped. Anyone still alive has run.

Mick, in terrible pain, drags his wounded body down in the 
ditch beside Angel. 

Micks look at his brother as he watches his new home burn. 
Angels voice is weak and quiet.

             ANGEL
      My vest...inside pocket...

Mick pauses, then reaches in Angels bloody inside pocket. He 
pulls out the INCRIMINATING PHOTOGRAPH OF GRAHAM.

Mick fishes the Zippo lighter from his brothers vest. He 
ignites the photo. The FLAME CURLS AND BUBBLES THE 
PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER, DESTROYING THE IMAGE.

Mick rests his head in the weeds beside his dying brother. 
For an instant they both stare up at the vast basin of 
constellations above them.

Barely audible, Angel begins to speak...

             ANGEL 
      Do you...you remember when we used 
      to sleep out here...

Angel stops speaking mid-sentence. His eyes fix in the 
distance. Mick knows his brother is gone. 

As Mick gazes up at the stars, he suddenly hears the APPROACH 
OF FOOTSTEPS in the gravel. IN A FLASH OF SPEED, MICK DRAWS 
THE LAST PISTOL FROM HIS BELT AND LEVELS IT AT...

TERRI...her face is bruised and dark from smoke. She sees 
that Angel is dead. 

Mick stares at Terri DOWN THE OPEN PISTOL SIGHT OF THE 9MM. 
She looks at him.

             TERRI
      Do it. (pause) I know I got it 
      comin. Just pull the trigger.

There is a beat of silence, then Mick LOWERS THE GUN.

             MICK
      Youre the mother of my son. 

Tears well in Terris eyes.

             TERRI
      Please tell me hes okay.

             MICK
      He will be. 

The sound of SIRENS RISE IN THE DISTANCE.

             TERRI
      Then baby, you gotta go. If you 
      dont run now the law is gonna get 
      you... 

             MICK
      I think a cage is where I belong.

Terri looks at him and shakes her head. 

             TERRI
      No. Youre a father. And he needs 
      you now more than ever... 

Terri OFFERS HER HAND to help get Mick to his feet...

             TERRI 
      ...So get up. 

Mick look at her, then he reaches for her hand...

EXT. VINEYARD ROAD - SECONDS LATER

Sirens grow closer as Terri helps Mick upright and mount one 
of the fallen Choppers. His body is bloody and broken. As he 
reaches for the ignition switch, Terri looks at him.

             TERRI
      Mick? Do you...do you think we were 
      special? I mean, back then?

Mick looks in her eyes.

             MICK
      I think our son is proof of that.

Terri SMILES as a tear streaks down her face. She kisses her 
finger, then touches it to Micks lips.

             TERRI
      Go.

As the police sirens near, Mick starts the Chopper. The V-
Twin engine ROARS TO LIFE. 

He looks at Terri one last time, then eases out the clutch 
and speeds away, DISAPPEARING INTO THE DARKNESS...

FADE TO BLACK:

We HEAR GRAHAMS VOICE...

             GRAHAM  
      I dont know how to pray. Nobody 
      ever taught me that...or if they 
      did, I never listened. But Ive 
      learned a lot of other things...

FADE TO:

EXT. MAUGHAN HOME - PROVO, UTAH - CHRISTMAS EVE

Snow falls from the night sky down on a quiet, residential 
neighborhood of new construction homes.

A SNOWMAN with stick arms and a hat has been built in the 
yard of Jessica and Brian Maughans home. Warm, welcoming 
interior light spills from the windows out into the darkness. 

             GRAHAM 
      Me...I like biology. Everything in 
      nature, has a nature. Some things 
      are predators. Some are prey. 


             GRAHAM       Some things get a century to live. 
      Some get one day... 

INT. LIVING ROOM - MAUGHAN HOME - CONTINUOUS

Inside, a lit Christmas tree is surrounded by presents. KIDS 
STOCKINGS are hung above the fireplace with names stitched on 
them that read: ELSA, ZOE, and GRAHAM.

We hear Grahams voice speaking in the dining room...

             GRAHAM 
      Some animals carry their babies on 
      their backs for years. Some abandon 
      their young at birth. Some, when 
      cornered, will give their lives to 
      protect their young. And some will 
      not...

INT. DINING ROOM - MAUGHAN HOME - CONTINUOUS

A dining room table set for a beautiful Christmas dinner. 
Brian, Jessica, and the two girls Elsa and Zoe sit around the 
dining room table. 

Graham, looking healthy, sits at the far end of the table 
leading grace for the first time...

             GRAHAM 
      What I learned is that my father, 
      for all his wickedness, and all the 
      violence he brought into this 
      world...loved me above all else. So 
      whereever he is tonight, this 
      prayer is for him.

FADE OUT.

THE END.

