             BEAUTIFUL CREATURES

             SCREENPLAY BY

             RICHARD LAGRAVENESE

             BASED ON THE NOVEL BY

             KAMI GARCIA & MARGARET STOHL

             ALL RIGHTS RESERVED              
             PROPERTY OF ALCON ENTERTAINMENT

             OCTOBER 21, 2011

EXT. WATE HOME - GATLIN, SOUTH CAROLINA - NIGHT

A street with Moss Covered Trees hanging over homes hundreds 
of years old. This is a small, Southern Gothic town, hiding 
from the world. Camera moves into the attic bedroom window of 
the Wate Home as WE HEAR ETHAN WATE’S SOUTH CAROLINA ACCENT:

                                      2.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Mark Twain wrote “Sanity and 
      happiness are an impossible 
      combination”. I bet ya anything he 
      was 17 when he figured that out.

INT. ETHAN WATE’S ATTIC BEDROOM - NIGHT

CU: We see a clock; 2:15am, on a desk piled high with 
infamous novels. Camera rises up to A WORLD MAP on the wall; 
cities pinned with Post-its of banned books that inspired a 
desire to visit them, i.e.; LONDON “A CLOCKWORK ORANGE”, NEW 
YORK, “AMERICAN PSYCHO”, PARIS “TROPIC OF CANCER”, BERLIN, 
“THE BERLIN STORIES”,  LA, NY, NEW MEXICO;“ON THE ROAD”.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Stuck in days of sanity that never 
      change. “Crazy” is the only choice 
      a teenager has. Who in their right 
      mind would choose to be a Junior in 
      high school?

CAMERA FINDS OUR HERO: ETHAN WATE, 17 - handsome, track star, 
exhausted, insomniac - reading “SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE”, in bed.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I wish I was like Billy Pilgrim - 
      “unstuck in time...in a constant 
      state of stage fright, never 
      knowing what part of my life I’d 
      have to act in next”...I wish I 
      could just close my eyes...
        (he closes them)
      And when I open them, I have no 
      idea where I am.

EXT. WATE HOME - GATLIN, SOUTH CAROLINA - NIGHT.

Ethan is taking a night run through Gatlin streets.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I have lived in America’s least 
      famous middle of nowhere all my 
      life. If you can call it living.

                                      3.

Ethan runs past a TOWN SIGN: “GATLIN, SOUTH CAROLINA. HOME OF 
THE WORLD’S BEST BUTTERMILK PIE”. POPULATION 379.

EXT. MAIN STREET - GATLIN - NIGHT.

Ethan runs by an empty Main Street. Four storefronts. 

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Nothing’s happened in this town 
      since the War of Northern 
      Aggression. Lord help ya if you 
      call it the Civil War. We’re too 
      small to have a Starbucks. How sick 
      is that? 

Ethan runs by a single movie theater.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      And by the time we get a new movie 
      it’s an old movie and the uni-plex 
      always gets the title wrong.

The Marquee says “INTERCEPTION” with LEO DECAPRIO.

EXT. GATLIN CHURCH - NIGHT

QUICK SHOTS: Ethan runs pasts churches with different 
denominations: FIRST BAPTIST, SECOND ADVENTIST, FAITH 
DELIVERANCE, PENTECOSTAL HOLINESS...the town LIBRARY.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      We have 12 churches and one library 
      with more empty shelves of banned 
      books than books to read. If God 
      only wanted us to read the Bible, 
      why did he invent Amazon.com?

Ethan continues his run. As he reaches the street, A 
SHERIFF’S car drives by and stops him.

             GATLIN SHERIFF
      Ethan Wate, what are you doing out 
      this hour, boy?

             ETHAN
      Just taking a run, Victor.

             GATLIN SHERIFF
      At this hour? Well, bless your 
      heart, son...(CONTINUES MOS.)

The Sheriff continues MOS, as we hear Ethan’s VO:

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      “Bless your heart” is polite 
      “Southern” for’; “The Lord loves 
      idiots too”. 

                                      4.

EXT. CHURCH OF CHRIST - CEMETERY - NIGHT

Ethan runs past a beautiful church into it’s cemetery.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Families been here for hundreds of 
      years. Mama used to say there were 
      two kinds of people in Gatlin; The 
      ones too stupid to leave and the 
      ones too stuck to move.

Ethan comes to a grave: LILA EVERS WATE. WIFE AND MOTHER. “AS 
ABOVE SO BELOW”  His expression is somber. Resentful of loss.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Mama died driving off a slippery 
      road last April. People said it was 
      God’s will. But I’m thinking maybe 
      it’s the only way anyone ever gets 
      out of this damned town.

Ethan runs off, his sneakers now caked with mud.

EXT. HONEY HILL - NIGHT

Ethan runs up a hill, passing A SIGN COMMEMORATING “THE 
BATTLE OF HONEY HILL 1864”. A CANNON sits atop the hill of 
the empty Battlefield, in silhouette against the moonlight.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Mama thought there was more to 
      Gatlin than meets the eye. She’d 
      tell me, around here, the veil 
      between this world and the next can 
      get pretty thin. She said some 
      people, like Amma, have the gift 
      for seeing through both worlds. I 
      keep trying, bless my heart. 

Ethan stops, catching his breath, closing his eyes.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Sometimes - sounds crazy - but 
      sometimes, I think I can hear it.

WE HEAR: ECHOES OF CANNON FIRE...CIVIL WAR SOLDIERS 
SHOUTINGy...THEN SUDDENLY, ONE VOICE SILENCES THE OTHERS:

                                      5.

             A GIRL’S VOICE
	(O.S.)
      EEETHAN.....EEETHAN....

Ethan opens his eyes. He really heard that Voice. He believes 
it came from the Woods. He investigates.

EXT. GREENBRIER WOODS/CEMETERY - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Ethan walks through the tall, mossy trees that seem to be in 
constant movement around him - gently swaying. Almost alive.

Ethan comes to a small, overgrown PRIVATE FAMILY CEMETERY - 
over 150 years old, with broken headstones and statues around 
THE RUINS OF A MAUSOLEUM, with the family name; DUCHANNES. 

As a cloud passes revealing the full moon, moonlight 
illuminates the property on the other side of the woods:

ETHAN’S POV: GREENBRIER PLANTATION - The ruins of a classic 
Federal style plantation, the empty shells of a mansion that 
burned down in the 19th Century. It seems to come alive in 
the moonlight. The trees rustle creating the Voice again: 

             TREES/GIRLS VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Eeetthan-----Eeeeeethan....

Ethan is about to call out again when the moon is covered by 
clouds and darkness covers Greenbrier in shadows again, 
returning it to an empty shell. Ethan feels silly.

Ethan turns back towards Honey Hill and is surprised to see:

THE FIGURE OF A GIRL, standing atop Honey Hill, silhouetted 
alongside the Civil War cannon. Her long hair blows, 
obscuring her face. The Girl extends her arms to Ethan. She 
needs him. Ethan feels compelled to run to her. But as he 
runs, the distance between them seems to grow. We hear:

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I don’t know her but it feels like 
      I can’t breath - I can’t live - 
      without her. And I have to save her 
      from something but I don’t know 
      what. 

Suddenly, the Girl is right before him. Ethan stops. Her wind 
blown hair obscures her face. They reach out to each 
other.....Their fingers touch.

EXTREME WIDE ANGLE OF HONEY HILL: Without warning, A GIANT 
BOLT OF LIGHTENING STRIKES ETHAN LIKE A BULLET SHOT.

                              SMASH CUT TO;

                                      6.

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC BEDROOM - NIGHT.

Ethan wakes up from his dream, twisting from the image, 
falling off the bed, along with his copy of VONNEGUT’S 
“SLAUGHTER HOUSE FIVE”. He catches his breath, rubbing his 
chest where “the lightening” hit him...

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I’ve had the exact same dream every 
      night for four months now. I never 
      save her. And I always die.

He stands up; wearing his running clothes and sneakers; His 
sneakers are caked with mud from his night run. It wasn’t all 
a dream. Ethan crosses to his desk to his open journal. He 
flips through the pages to drawings of “The Girl” from his 
dream, whose hair obscures her face. He writes:

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I don’t mind going insane. At least 
      it gets me out of the house. But 
      I’m writing down what’s left of my 
      mind before it’s gone completely 
      and I start drooling. My name is 
      Ethan Wate. This is my DIARY OF A 
      MAD TEENAGER. See, I love a girl 
      who doesn’t exist.
        (Looks to World Map)
      I’ve gotta get out of this town.

MOVE INTO C.U.: ETHAN’S DRAWING OF THE GIRL IN HIS DREAMS.

EXT. HONEY HILL - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

LONG SHOT: Atop Honey Hill, the Civil War cannon from Ethan’s 
dream is silhouetted by a shaft of moonlight. 

The GIRL from Ethan’s dream stands where she stood in the 
dream. We see her transform into A WOMAN WEARING A BLOOD 
STONE RING. She raises her hand and the Full Moon goes Dark.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. WATE HOME - FIRST FLOOR HALL/KITCHEN - MORNING

Ethan exits his attic room of his Victorian house. Exhausted, 
rings under his eyes. He comes down the narrow staircase and 
walks through the first floor hallway to the kitchen. He 
passes his Father’s closed Study door on his way to the 
kitchen. He asks AMMA, who is OS...

             ETHAN
      Did Dad come out of his room at 
      all?

AMMA - African American, stylishly dressed, educated, 
mystical, somewhat ageless - washing a cereal bowl.

                                      7.

             AMMA
      Looks like he had some cereal. 
      Is this what we’re wearing on our 
      first day of school?

             ETHAN
      I’m a Junior, Amma. If I dress like 
      I care, I lose credibility.

             AMMA
      Eat your breakfast.

Amma places eggs and bacon on the table for Ethan, 
disapproving of his sloppy T-shirt and jeans. Ethan obeys. 
She turns back to wash dishes, as Ethan eats his breakfast.

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      You look tired. Did you go running 
      last night?
        (Ethan nods)
      Did it help you sleep any?
        (Ethan shakes head NO)
      You’re just anxious that’s all.

Amma removes a HOMEMADE CHARM NECKLACE from her purse - 
colored string entwined with herbs wrapped in a cloth.

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Here, I made this for you. It’s 
      full of good luck.

             ETHAN
      It smells.

             AMMA
      So do you. Put it on. 

Ethan obeys Amma without question and reluctantly puts on the 
necklace. Amma turns back to the sink:

The study door opens. ETHAN’S DAD DANIEL WATE exits into the 
kitchen. In pajamas and slippers. Unshaven. A broken man 
since his wife died. He shuffles to get a box of cereal.

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Morning, Daniel. I made coffee.

                                      8.

             DAD
      Thank you, Amma. 

             AMMA
      May I go into the study? There are  
      still some books Lila borrowed I 
      have to get back to the library.

He nods. She exits. An awkward silence. Dad, is in his own 
world, fixing a bowl of cereal. Ethan tries to talk:

             ETHAN
      How’s the new book coming?

             DAD
      Fine. Fine. And uh, how are you?

Dad takes his coffee and begins walking back to the study as 
Ethan tries have a conversation with his Dad;

       		ETHAN
	Well, actually, I’ve been 
	having these dreams that so I 
	haven’t been sleeping much--

		DAD
	(walking away, overlaps)
	Huh-hu...yeah...Huh-
	hu..great. OK. Well, good for 
        you son. That’s great.

Dad enters the study and closes the door.

             ETHAN
        (mid-sentence switch)
      OK. Dad. See ya.

Ethan alone, no one to tell his troubles to.

EXT. GATLIN STREET - MORNING.

Ethan, with backpack, is walking two houses down to his best 
friend’s house. He looks through the pane window to see;

INT. LINK’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - MORNING

LINK, Ethan’s best friend, 17, also a track runner - is 
kneeling with his mother, MRS. LINCOLN - a Christian, Tea 
Party Conservative fanatic. She is praying from the Bible.

Link sees Ethan in the window and rolls his eyes. Mrs. 
Lincoln repeatedly kisses lightly with the Bible as she 
prays, then smacks Link in the head with it. Ethan stifles a 
laugh. Link and Mrs. Lincoln rise. Link exits.

OUTSIDE THE HOUSE: Link exits, meeting Ethan on his lawn. 
They move to Link’s car (All accents are Southern Carolina):

                                      9.

             LINK
      My mother has flown that extra 
      batshit mile since dad died. She 
      thinks the end of the world is 
      coming cause of all the earthquakes 
      in the news. Why does loving Jesus 
      makes that woman so crazy? She 
      damned Daddy to hell so many times, 
      I think he drank just so he’d get 
      there quicker.

             ETHAN
      Two more years brother and then 
      we’re out of here.

They get into Link’s beat up Lincoln, as they continue;

INT. LINK’S CAR - CONTINUOUS - MORNING

As Link starts the car and backs up, Ethan turns on the music 
as they drive off; 

             LINK
      I don’t know. The thought of 
      college, more school...Only way I’m 
      getting out of this town is to sign 
      up for whatever new war they’re 
      sellin’. Problem is, only people I 
      want to kill live here.

             ETHAN
      I’m not leaving you behind. I don’t 
      care about college. Let’s get jobs, 
      live on the road, go to Iceland.

             LINK
      What’s in Iceland?

             ETHAN
      No one from Gatlin.

             LINK
      I hear tell Emily’s spreading the 
      rumor you two are getting back 
      together this year.

             ETHAN
      AW NO! Damn, a girl lets you feel 
      her up and it’s a life sentence. 

                                      10.

             ETHAN
	(CONT'D)
      She gets her hooks in me, I’ll 
      never get out of here, Link.
        (quotes “ALIENS”)
      “I may be synthetic but I’m not 
      stupid”

Link answer’s his quote with another “ALIENS” quote:”

             LINK
        (little girl voice)
      “They mostly come at 
      night...mostly”

             ETHAN/LINK
      “GAME OVER MAN! GAME OVER...”!

SUDDENLY LINK SWERVES THE CAR TO AVOID: a 1956 BENTLEY 
CONTINENTAL; black, huge, elegant. It’s windows darkened.

             LINK
      Woah, that’s the Ravenwood Bentley. 
      I’ve never seen that car on the 
      road. !956 Continental. Beauty.

As the Bentley drives by, Ethan watches unable to look away.

Amma’s necklace itches his neck. Ethan scratches.

INT. HISTORY CLASS - JACKSON HIGH - MORNING

As everyone enters and takes a seat, Ethan sits in front of 
Link, reading his “SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE” paperback” .

EMILY ASHER - a blonde, short skirted, Paris Hilton wannabe - 
sits next to Ethan. She speaks with an old fashioned Southern 
belle flirtatious charm masking a devious, adolescent bitch. 

             EMILY
      How was your summer, sugar? 

             ETHAN
      Fine, Emily. And yours?

             EMILY
      Wonderful. We went to the Universal 
      Resort in Orlando. We go every year 
      and stay in the Italy park. It’s 
      just like being in Italy. I don’t 
      ever need to go to Europe for real. 
      At least in Orlando Italy, they 
      speak our language.
        (laughs, flirting)

                                      11.

             EMILY
	(CONT'D)
      I feel an awkwardness between us 
      Ethan so I just want you to know 
      now, so you don’t get your hopes 
      up, we are not getting back 
      together this year.

             ETHAN 
      Can I get that in writing?

             EMILY
      Don’t flirt, E. We can be friends. 
      Hey, let’s go to a movie. Just us. 
      Wouldn’t that just be heaven?

Ethan stares at her, knowing her manipulative ways. Emily 
smiles, exits OS. Ethan looks to Link mouths the words:

             ETHAN
	(MOUTHS) 
      Kill me.

             LINK
	(MOUTHS)
      OK. Later.

             MR. LEE
	(O.S.)
      Everyone take your seats.

On the blackboard: U.S.HISTORY...MR. LEE...”THE WAR OF 
NORTHERN AGGRESSION”. Mr. Lee is a Confederate loyalist with 
a glass left eye. All the students sit on the left side of 
the classroom, except for four nerdy students. 

             MR. LEE
	(CONT’D)
      As a requirement of this course, 
      you will participate in the annual 
      re-enactment of our glorious 
      victory, the Battle of Honey Hill. 
        (Everyone groans)
      Boys can sign up for Confederates 
      or for Northern infantry men who 
      outnumbered us 3 to one and were 
      slain by our heroes in grey. Girls 
      may be nurses or wives of men who 
      live or wives of...(CONTINUES O.S.)

During his speech, LENA DUCHANNES enters; Everyone is 
arrested by her appearance. Beautiful, dark haired girl in a 
long dress, under a track jacket with the word MUNICH sewn on 
it. A long silver chain around her neck from which dangle 
several odd looking charms including a soda bottle cap.

Ethan is immediately curious and captivated by Lena. 

SAVANNAH SNOW and the Cliches - the Paris Hilton wannabes of 
which Emily is the leader, who all have JOCK boyfriends like 
Billy and Earl They all sit near each other like a clique.

                                      12.

             SAVANNAH
        (whispers to Emily)
      Is that her? She looks like death 
      eating a cracker.

             EMILY
      Uglier than homemade sin.

             MR. LEE 
      Take any seat, Miss....

             EMILY
      Ravenwood, isn’t it?

Everyone feels the tension; Popular Mean Girl vs New Girl. 
But Lena is cool. Seeing the clique is on the right, Lena 
chooses to sit with the nerds on the left:

             LENA
      Actually it’s Duchannes.

             EMILY
        (smiling, polite)
      Well, now, that’s an out and out 
      lie. You are related to Old Man 
      Ravenwood, aren’t you?

Tense silence. Everyone, including Ethan, is interested in 
the Ravenwoods. Lena turns to face Emily, boldly mimicking 
her phony Southern manners;

             LENA
      “Old Man” Ravenwood? How “Scarlett 
      O’Hara-Scooby Doo” of you.

Oh-Oh! Ethan and Link hide their smiles. Emily is pissed;

             EMILY
      I happen to know for a fact you’re 
      Macon Ravenwood’s niece.

             LENA 
      Well, bless your heart, you must 
      have been first in your litter.

The class is shocked. Emily is being called an idiot in 
Southern code. Ethan and Link are impressed. 

                                      13.

             SAVANNAH
      My Mama says nobody’s seen Macon 
      Ravenwood leave that creepy house 
      in years cause he’s a Devil 
      worshipper and Devil Worshippers 
      hate fresh air. Makes’em choke.

             LINK
      Damn girl, you’re elevator just 
      don’t go to the top floor, does it?

             MR. LEE
      That’s enough Mr. Lincoln!

By not reprimanding the girls, Lena realizes Mr. Lee agrees 
with them. It upsets her. And Ethan notices.

             MR. LEE
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      The re-enactment will be held on 
      the day of the battle December 
      21st. Now even though that falls in 
      the middle of Christmas break, you 
      will be expected to..(CONTINUES OS)

Lena opens her notebook, dropping her copy of CHARLES 
BUKOWSKI’s “YOU GET SO ALONE SOMETIMES IT JUST MAKES SENSE”. 
Reaching for it, Ethan notices a TATTOO on her hand: The 
number 118.

A vindictive Emily notices Ethan’s interested look towards 
Lena. Emily is not pleased. We hear A CLAP THUNDER from 
outside the classroom.

EXT/INT. ETHAN’S CAR/ GATLIN COUNTRY ROAD - RAINY DAY.

Ethan drives with groceries in the back. It’s raining hard, 
difficult to see. His wind shield wipers barely work, making 
him frustrated. His radio is torn out, all wires, dead.

Suddenly; HIS BUSTED RADIO turns on by itself, blasting NEIL 
SEDAKA’S “YOU’RE SIXTEEN”. Ethan jumps and fiddles to turn it 
off. In that second, when he turns his view back to the road, 
he sees he is heading straight for:

AN LONE SHADOWY FEMALE FIGURE standing in the rain in the 
middle of the road, appearing suddenly as if out of nowhere.

Ethan quickly swerves the car away to avoid hitting the 
figure. His car tail spins until it comes to a full stop.

Ethan is panting, gripping the wheel. When the passenger door 
opens, he is startled - but pleased - to discover the lone 
figure in the road is an angry Lena:

                                      14.

             LENA
      Are you nuts? You almost killed me!

             ETHAN
      Well, what were you doing standing 
      in the damn road?

             LENA
      I need help, genius!

She points. Ethan sees; Her Bentley has skidded off the road 
into mud. Lena slams his door, walks away. Ethan gets out.

             ETHAN
      Wait! I’m sorry. Get in. Look, 
      nobody’s coming by this road. It’s 
      a short cut. You’ll drown. You can 
      call the gas station to pick it up.

Lena stands her ground, in the rain, sizing him up;

             LENA
      You’re one of the them aren’t you? 
      What are you: the football star 
      jock-prom king of the dumbasses? 

             ETHAN
      No...I’m the track star jock-prom 
      king of the dumbasses. But it’s my 
      day off. 

As Lena considers his offer, they are getting drenched. Ethan 
tries to make casual conversation.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Gettin’ a little TITANIC out 
      here...Ya know, I never could 
      figure why Leo had to die in the 
      end. Why couldn’t they take turns 
      floating on that wooden thing? She 
      was kind of selfish. Kept saying, 
      “I’ll never let you go” then she--”

             LENA
      If I get in the car, will there be 
      more of this fascinating 
      conversation ‘cause I’d rather 
      drown.

Ethan shakes NO. She accepts and gets into his car. As Ethan 
follows suit: Amma’s homemade necklace falls off his neck and 
lays in the rain. Ethan is unaware as they drive away.

                                      15.

INT. ETHAN’S FORD - CONTINUOUS - RAINY DAY.

Ethan and Lena in the car, soaking wet. Lena is cold. Ethan 
grabs a blanket from the back to warm her. 

             ETHAN
      Here. Put this over you.

Lena accepts the offer. They drive in silence for a beat. 

             LENA
      You know where you’re going?

             ETHAN
      Rarely.

Lena almost smiles. Their verbal exchange is fast and 
deadpan, immediately in sync with each, though Lena remains 
cautious. Ethan tries to charm:

             ETHAN
	(CONT'D) 
      Sorry about those Cliches in class. 

             LENA
      Cliches?

             ETHAN
      “Girls who once were human but for 
      whom absolute popularity has 
      corrupted absolutely”.

             LENA
      Bet you’re real proud of yourself, 
      thinking that one up. You probably 
      dated one of them.

She’s right. Ethan feels put in his place. But he likes it. 

             ETHAN
      You cut Emily like a surgeon.

             LENA
      Years of working with the bitch 
      virus. 

             ETHAN 
      No cure yet, huh?

             LENA
      We continue to research and hope.

             ETHAN
      Have you been to a lot of schools?

                                      16.

             LENA
      Yep.

             ETHAN
      Must be nice. I’ve only ever lived 
      here.

             LENA
      Must be nice.

             ETHAN
      I’m ready to shoot people from a 
      clock tower.

             LENA
      Will you drive me home first?

             ETHAN
      Yes Ma’am...
        (Lena smirks)
      So where ya’ll lived?

             LENA 
      Pretty much every state that 
      seceded from the Union. Moved 
      around since I was 2 after my 
      parents died. 

             ETHAN 
      I only have my dad. My mom died 
      last spring. 

Silent awkward pause. But it’s kind of funny. He laughs;

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Man, that was a dead end 
      conversation on a road going 
      nowhere. Guess I missed the exit to 
      “fascinating”.

Lena resists smiling but we sense the seeds of a connection. 
Ethan sees her Bukowski book beneath her charm necklace.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Bukowski? He any good?

             LENA
        (Beat, then:)
      Define “good”?

Ethan isn’t sure what she means. But he likes her.

                                      17.

EXT. RAVENWOOD PLANTATION ROAD - LATER - DAY.

Ethan turns down a eerie road that leads to a hill. Moss 
covered trees hang ominously above the driveway that leads to 
the house beyond RAVENWOOD MANOR GATE. The rain has stopped.

INT. ETHAN’S CAR - RAVENWOOD MANOR GATE - CONTINUOUS - DAY.

Ethan stops at the gate; “RAVENWOOD MANOR”.

             ETHAN
      I can drive you up to the house if-

             LENA
      Look, I thank you for the ride but 
      I’m not up for being the haunted 
      house attraction” today.

She opens the door and gets out but Ethan’s words stop her:

             ETHAN
      Now, that was fairly rude, Miss 
      Duchannes. And not true at all. 
        (Dripping charm)
      Maybe ‘cause we haven’t been 
      introduced. I’m Ethan Wate.

             LENA
        (excited teen girl)
      ETHAN WATE! OMG! YOU’RE NOT REALLY 
      ETHAN WATE. ETHAN WATE DROVE ME 
      HOME!?

             ETHAN
        (inflated)
      You’ve heard of me?

             LENA
      No.

Lena slams the door, heads for the gate. Ethan watches her go 
as he smiles;

             PRE-LAP ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      “Some people never go crazy...

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC BEDROOM - NIGHT

An AMAZON.COM BOX is opened, having delivered to Ethan the 
CHARLES BUKOWSKI book he is reading:

                                      18.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      “....What truly horrible lives they 
      must live...Boring damned people. 
      All over the earth. Propagating 
      more boring damned people. What a 
      horror show. The earth swarmed with 
      them...”

Ethan is overwhelmed. He pauses, saying to himself.

             ETHAN
      This man is a God.

He gets an idea: crossing to a locked desk drawer, he opens 
it to reveal his private collection of items;

ETHAN’S BOX OF PERSONAL MEMENTOS AND PHOTOS: Several photos 
of his late mother LILA: One photo of her and Ethan as a boy. 
Lila was beautiful Earth mother type with long, auburn 
tresses of hair. An antique, jeweled hair clip. Drawings made 
by is mother of Civil War women and their gowns... 

And A LOCKET: tarnished with age. It still has some dirt on 
it, which Ethan wipes. He opens the locket to read the 
inscription:  “ECW AND GKD”...DECEMBER 21ST, 1862.

Ethan’s cell phone rings. A TEXT FROM LINK READS: “YOU’RE NOT 
GOING TO BELIEVE THIS”.

EXT. HONEY HILL - SAME NIGHT

Ethan exits his car to see a CROWD GATHERED - Emily, 
Savannah, the Cliches and the Jocks - along with the Sheriff, 
Mrs. Lincoln, several women. They are all looking up at the 
top of Honey Hill as if waiting for something. 

Link waves Ethan over to him.

             ETHAN
      What’s going on?

             LINK
      Just wait for it.

He looks up to Honey Hill as does Ethan and the others.

The Teens waiting to record something with their cells. The 
Sheriff and his Deputy collect their cells as they protest.

ETHAN’S POV: A BOLT OF LIGHTENING HITS THE SAME SPOT ETHAN 
STOOD IN HIS DREAM. It startles Ethan. Some cheer. Others are 
concerned. 

                                      19.

             LINK
	(CONT’D)
      It’s been hitting the same spot 
      every night. 

             ETHAN
      Since when?

             LINK
      They say since Lena Duchannes came 
      to town.

Ethan is concerned as he sees Mrs. Lincoln and the others 
begin to pray, as if something threatening had occurred.

INT. MRS. HESTER’S ENGLISH CLASS - DAY

Link, Savannah, with the other Cliches and Jocks. Every kid 
has a copy of “TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD”. Lena’s row is closest 
to the wall of two story windows. Ethan, sitting diagonally 
behind Lena s trying to catch her eye and have her see his 
Bukoswki book, but he is blocked when a jealous, “concerned” 
Emily stands before him:

             EMILY
      I’m worried about you Ethan.
      I care about you as a friend. 
      Deeply. Deeply. Deeply.
        (Glancing at Lena)
      I pray that your hurt feelings for 
      me won’t lead you straight to hell.

             ETHAN
      Well, I wouldn’t go straight to 
      hell, Emily. I’d like to stop off 
      in NY first.

Insulted, Emily exits OS. MRS. HESTER turns from the 
blackboard after writing: “TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD” BY HARPER 
LEE with a BOOK QUOTE;

             MRS. HESTER
      OK, take your seats. You all should 
      have read this over the summer. 
      We’re going to begin by discussing 
      the character of Boo Radley. The 
      town shut-in with a mysterious past-

             EMILY
      My mother said we shouldn’t be 
      reading this book so I didn’t.

                                      20.

             SAVANNAH
      Me neither. This is one of those 
      banned books.

             MRS. HESTER
      Yes, but, in Gatlin so is the 
      dictionary. I got special 
      permission from the school board to 
      try it for one semester. You’re the 
      first class to read it in Gatlin. 

             EMILY
      I’m not reading anything that was 
      banned by our church.

             SAVANNAH
      Me neither.

The other girls of Emily’s entourage follow suit, close the 
books. Savannah eyes her boyfriend, Earl, who then signals 
the other Jocks who follow suit. 

Only Ethan, Link, Lena and the Nerds do not comply.

             MRS. HESTER
      Emily, I will not tolerate this.

             EMILY
      My mother says I shouldn’t be in 
      the same class as a Ravenwood 
      either. She says it’s ain’t right 
      they get to be with Christian kids.

             ETHAN
      Emily, shut-up!

Lena is impressed. Emily feels slapped in the face by Ethan, 
can see Lena is getting upset. 

             SAVANNAH
      My mama says the same thing, Ethan 
      Wate! 

             LINK
      Well just cause a cat had kittens 
      in the oven, don’t make’em 
      biscuits, ya dumb bitch.

             SAVANNAH
      My mama says her whole family’s 
      crazy. Says they’re Satanists. They 
      pray to Satan stark naked, with no 
      clothes on.

All Jock boys turn to gape at Lena, in sync, turned-on.

                                      21.

             EMILY
        (begins praying)
      Dear Lord, I humbly beg your pardon 
      and pray with all my-

             MRS. HESTER
      Emily, what are you doing?

             EMILY
      Praying.

             MRS. HESTER
      You can’t pray in class.

Emily pauses with a defiant stare, then continues:

             EMILY
      Dear Lord, I humbly pray, protect 
      us from evil... 

Savannah and the other girls follows Emily’s prayer;

             EMILY/ OTHER CLICHES
      ...There are Unnatural things among 
      us, like the Ravenwoods who are 
      clearly creatures of the Devil. Who 
      do not belong with Christian 
      believers who’s only desire is to 
      spread your word and fight for 
      Goodness and love...(CONTINUES MOS)

In MOS, Emily continues leading her Cliches in prayer. Their 
diatribe against Lena and the Ravenwoods, spewing hateful 
prejudices despite Mrs. Hesters protests to stop.

WE INTERCUT: ETHAN AND LENA, WHO IS BOILING WITH ANGER. 

Ethan sees Lena from the back. Her hands are gripping her 
desk, white-knuckling with anger. 

Outside, A HOWLING WIND BEGINS TO BLOW, KNOCKING TREES 
AGAINST WINDOWS...

But Emily and the girls, with their heads bowed and their 
eyes closed, continue praying with Emily.

Ethan then hears A CREAKING SOUND, starting slowly, building 
throughout Emily’s rant until it gets so loud, Emily and the 
others stop praying, not knowing where the sound if coming 
from. A beat of total Silence.

Ethan looks to Lena’s back, stiff with rage. SUDDENLY:

                                      22.

WIDE: GLASS BURSTS FROM ALL THE WINDOWS, FLYING INTO THE ROOM 
IN ALL DIRECTIONS. AS IF AN EXPLOSION OCCURRED. THE WINDOWS 
SHATTERS, TOP TO BOTTOM, ALL AT ONCE. 

Everyone panics! Screams! Students running to the doors. 

EMILY HAS A SHARD OF GLASS IN HER SHOULDER. SHE SCREAMS, 
FALLING TO THE FLOOR, BLEEDING. Mrs. Hester runs to her.

Ethan runs to Lena who suddenly looks freaked out. Vulnerable 
and frightened. He takes her hand, bleeding from cut glass. 

Scared, Lena bolts out of the room. Before Ethan can run 
after her, Link stops him, as the class erupts into 
accusations against Lena...

             EMILY/SAVANNAH/OTHERS
      Did you see that? She broke the 
      windows!...I saw her!..She brought 
      the Lightening too. That’s what 
      mama says..She’s the Devil’s bitch.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR GATE - RAVENWOOD MANOR - AFTERNOON

A concerned Ethan has driven to the eerie Ravenwood Manor. He 
walks to the gate and places his hand hesitantly on the 
mangled wrought iron. The gate creaks open. He enters.

EXT. RAVENWOOD DRIVE - RAVENWOOD MANOR - AFTERNOON

Ethan drives up the road to the plantation house. It is 
nearly a half-mile driveway to the house itself. The road is 
so covered by hanging moss from overhead trees, the sky is 
not visible. The road is overgrown with weeds and branches. 
Ethan parks and walks through to a clearing to see:

A Southern Gothic Mansion; Flanked by palmetto and cypress 
trees, Greek Revival. Huge white Doric pillars, paint 
peeling, a roof sloped too sharply to one side giving the 
impression that the house was leaning over. Thick ivy on 
exterior walls, covering the windows. As if the ground had 
swallowed up the house itself. Covered porch splintered, 
falling away from the house threatening to collapse if you 
stepped on it. It’s a creepy house.

Ethan walks up the creaky front steps, towards the front 
door. He takes a bracing breath as he reaches for the brass 
door knocker shaped as a CRESCENT MOON. He knocks. No answer. 
Suddenly, the door creaks open by itself...

                                      23.

INT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - AFTERNOON

Ethan steps inside the house, expecting to find an interior 
dilapidated and eerie as the exterior. He is shocked to see:

The Manor’s interior is a complete contradiction of it’s 
exterior: Sunlight flooded through the windows (odd, 
considering they are covered with dense ivy outside), a large 
staircase that spirals to the second floor overhanging the 
first floor, overstuffed couches & chairs, a glass-topped 
table with photo books and magazines like VANITY FAIR.

             ETHAN
      Mmm. Suburban chic. Go figure.
        (Louder)
      Hello? Is anyone here?

Ethan takes two steps up the staircase.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Hello?

No answer. As he turns back down the steps, he notices:

The tips of a MAN’S SHOES sticking out of the shadow behind 
the open front door. A MAN is hiding behind the door.

Ethan feels creepy. He must pass the door, and the Man, to 
get out. Slowly, cautiously, Ethan steps down the stairs when 
he hears a LOUD GROWLING FROM THE DARK AT THE TOP OF THE 
STAIRS. IT SOUNDS LIKE A LARGE DOG. Ethan exits the house.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

As Ethan exits, THE DOOR SLAMS SHUT, startling Ethan, who 
trips down the front stairs. He staggers towards a STONE WALL 
that separates Ravenwood Manor from Greenbrier. Leaning on 
the wall to regain composure, he peers over to see:

ETHAN’S POV: Lena, sitting alone, in the middle of the vast, 
overgrown property of Greenbrier Plantation. Ethan climbs 
over the wall and walks to her.

EXT. GREENBRIER PLANTATION - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

As Ethan walks towards Lena, he looks up the massive property 
at the ruins of Greenbrier, a line of trees/woods on both 
sides, (Ravenwood to the east, Honey Hill to the west). Ethan 
steps on rotted lemons fallen from rotted lemon trees that 
line the property up to burnt out plantation ruins. 

Lena sits in the overgrown grass, startled by Ethan.

                                      24.

             LENA 
      What are you doing here? 

             ETHAN
        (Motion to Ravenwood)
      I was just..uh...I just came to see 
      if you’re OK.

             LENA
      Why do you care?!

             ETHAN
      I don’t know.

             LENA
      Hit the road!

             ETHAN
      No, I want to make sure you’re OK.

             LENA
      Just leave me alone!

             ETHAN
      No.

             LENA
      You’re an arrogant ass!

             ETHAN
      My arrogance is just insecurity.

             LENA
      I hate when people make excuses for 
      being assholes by saying they’re 
      insecure. Why can’t they be self 
      conscious and neurotic like normal 
      insecure people?

             ETHAN
      Because they’re assholes.

Lena doesn’t know how to take Ethan. He is being so nice. 
Silent beat. Ethan tries;

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry about Emily. She’s just 
      meaner than chicken shit.

             LENA
      I never understood that saying.

             ETHAN
      Me neither.

                                      25.

             LENA
      I should know better by now. No 
      matter where I go, they always hate 
      me. 

             ETHAN
      They’re a mess of fools. Who cares?

             LENA
      I care! I want to fit in with 
      fools. You know what that makes me?

             ETHAN
      If I answer that, you’re gonna hit 
      me, I know it.

Lena almost laughs. Beat. Ethan tries a Bukowski quote:

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Wait, let me see if I can remember 
      this...“SOME LOSE ALL MIND AND 
      BECOME SOUL, INSANE...”

Lena recognizes what Ethan is quoting:

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      “...SOME LOSE ALL SOUL AND BECOME 
      MIND, INTELLECTUAL...AND
      SOME LOSE BOTH ... AND BECOME 
      ACCEPTED.”

Lena looks curiously at Ethan who beams his best smile:

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Bukowski is exceptional. Thanks.

             LENA
      You just drool charm, don’t you?

             ETHAN
        (Concerned, touches mouth)
      Am I drooling?

Lena smiles, shakes her head NO. She’s warming up to him.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Look, if it makes any difference, I 
      like you. 

The means a great deal to Lena but she is cautious.

             LENA
      You don’t know anything about me.

                                      26.

             ETHAN
      You say what you think. You act the 
      way you are. I like that.

             LENA
      You may not think so later. 

             ETHAN
      Come on. You can’t complain about 
      not having friends and then make a 
      guy work this hard trying to be 
      one....Unless, ya know, you really 
      think I’m a jerk...then I’ll go.

             LENA
        (knee-jerk remark)
      Go tell your friends about the 
      freak?

Ethan looks at her, genuinely, almost hurt:

             ETHAN
      You really think I’m that guy?

Lena doesn’t. She feels badly. She shakes her head NO.

             LENA
      I should get back.

Ethan helps her up. As they walk back towards Ravenwood:

             ETHAN
      I like that necklace. Those charms?

             LENA
        (relaxing more now)
      No, junk. This from the first can 
      of orange soda I ever drank. I 
      never lived the same house or the 
      same room for more than a year or 
      two. Sometimes I feel like the 
      pieces of me on this chain are all 
      I have. This is my Dad.
        (Small PHOTO/frame)
      This is my Mom...
        (Small PHOTO/oval frame)

We see LENA’S MOTHER AND FATHER - young, beautiful, happy.

             ETHAN
      She’s was beautiful. What’s this?

                                      27.

             LENA
      My Gramma gave me this when I came 
      home crying from school because 
      nobody put anything in my Valentine 
      box. Pathetic, right?

             ETHAN
      Uh-huh.
        (Lena punches his arm)
      OW. See! I was agreeing with you!

They’re playing with each other now, like friends. He helps 
her get over the wall onto Ravenwood property. 

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

Ethan and Lena are walking towards the steps. They stop.

             LENA
      Look, thanks for coming. It was 
      real nice of you, but my Uncle 
      doesn’t like people around the 
      house.

             ETHAN
      I know. I sort of went inside.

             LENA
      You went in the house!?

             ETHAN
      I didn’t mean to. But I get it - 
      people think he’s scary but he’s 
      just nervous and shy, right?

             LENA
        (Beat. Anxious)
      OK. Let’s go with that.

 Ethan pulls out the LOCKET, holding it before Lena’s eyes.

             ETHAN
      I brought you something. Kind of a 
      “Welcome to Suckass Gatlin” gift.
      I thought you could add it to your 
      charm chain. My Mom found it. She 
      wrote books about the Civil War. 

Lena is touched...but also self conscious. Awkward. She jokes 
by quoting from the movie “ALIENS”:

                                      28.

             LENA
      “This doesn’t mean we’re engaged or 
      anything”, does it?

             ETHAN
      Shut-up! You like ALIENS?

             LENA
      Is there any other perfect movie?

             ETHAN
      That’s a Sign, girl.  We’re meant 
      to be friends.

             LENA
      You believe in Signs?

Before Ethan can answer, The DOOR TO RAVENWOOD OPENS. A VOICE 
FROM WITHIN THE DARK DOORWAY:

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena? Do you have a guest?

Ethan looks to see: Emerging out of the darkness steps:

MACON RAVENWOOD: More Noel Coward than creepy town shut-in. 
Impeccably dressed. Distinguished.  His gentlemanly manner 
masks a man of enormous power. A dangerous man. He stands 
atop the front steps....Ethan calls out to him.

             ETHAN
      Hello sir. Pleasure to make your 
      acquaintance.

             MACON
      Manners. How retro. 

             ETHAN
        (a step forward)
      I’m Ethan Wate. I go to school with 
      Lena. 

CLOSE-UP; Macon’s expression and tone changes, sincere;

             MACON
      You’re Lila Evers boy?

             ETHAN
      Yes sir. You knew my mother?

Macon pauses before answering;

                                      29.

             MACON
      I knew Lila Evers. I did not know 
      Mrs. Wate...Lena, why don’t you 
      invite your friend in for tea.

             LENA 
        (whispers to Ethan)
      Tea?...Tell him you can’t stay.

             ETHAN 
        (to Macon)
      I’d love to. Thank you, sir.

             LENA
        (whispers)
      Dumbass.

As they walk to the steps up the porch, they whisper:

             ETHAN
      See, he’s not scary.

             LENA
      Remember that later when you’re 
      running away.

They enter the house.

INT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

Macon closes the door, when Ethan hears the GROWLING coming 
from the top of the stairs. He looks up. Expecting a Mastiff, 
Ethan sees a BLACK CAIRN TERRIER named BOO.

             MACON
      Boo, come. It’s all right.

             ETHAN
      Boo? Like Boo Radley?

             MACON
      Better him than me.

Macon smiles and enters the living room, followed by Boo. 
Lena begrudgingly escorts a confident Ethan inside.

INT. RAVENWOOD MANOR/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS/LATE AFTERNOON

The suburban chic decor has taken on a slightly darker, 
orange hue as it approaches late afternoon. 

Ethan, Lena and Macon sit in large chairs around the coffee 
table. A beat of awkward silence. An enormous antique PIANO 
sits in the room. Lena is on edge. Macon studies Ethan.

                                      30.

             ETHAN
      I’m sorry about walking in before.

             MACON
      That’s quite all right. We so 
      rarely get any visitors from our 
      beloved Gatlin.

             LENA
      Uncle, don’t be a snob. It’s not 
      their fault you never speak to any 
      of them.

             MACON
      And it’s not my fault I have a 
      penchant for good breeding, 
      reasonable intelligence and 
      passable personal hygiene, but 
      since my family founded this town, 
      I’m bound to call it home, so there 
      you are.

Ethan notices the unique piano.

             ETHAN
      Beautiful piano. Who plays?

             MACON
      Lena, myself. Lena, why don’t you 
      play something for your guest?

             LENA
      Because we’re not in a Jane Austen 
      novel? 

Macon and Lena exchange a challenging look.

             MACON
      Then why don’t you get the tea?

             LENA
      Again - wrong century.

             MACON
      Well, would anyone mind if I 
      played? It calms my nerves.

Macon sits at the piano, facing Ethan and Lena, who looks 
concerned. He begins to play. At first, it sounds like a 
beautiful classic piece. Lena begins to make small talk;

                                      31.

             LENA
      Uncle’s upset. The school called. 
      They put me on probation until the 
      window thing is investigated.

             ETHAN
      That’s crazy. It wasn’t your fault.

             MACON
      Ah, a voice of reason in a town of 
      buttermilk minds. I like this one, 
      Lena.

Lena wonders if that’s true. Macon plays piano thru-out;

             ETHAN
      It’s like blaming you for that 
      lightening on Honey Hill.

             MACON
      Yes, I heard about the Lightening. 
      That’s what happens when people 
      live in such small worlds. 
      Ignorance is intellect. The same 
      phenomenon occurred in Venezuela 
      for many years at Lake Maracaibo. 
      You can look it up on Google.

             LENA
      Uncle loves Google.

             MACON
      It’s just like magic. But no 
      worries.  I’ll set the record 
      straight with the school. I do 
      agree with your indignation, Ethan. 
      Probation! Fascinating. It implies 
      a source of authority. And from 
      whom? An overweight principal who 
      never finished college and a pack 
      of sexually frustrated housewives 
      with small minds and giant 
      backsides. There are only two kinds 
      of people in Gatlin; the ones too 
      stupid to leave and the ones too 
      stuck to move. 

             ETHAN
      Ha, ya know, my mother used to say 
      that exact same thing.

                                      32.

             MACON
      She was a charming woman. I read 
      everything she’d written on 
      Southern Plantations. And your 
      father’s a writer too. Horror, 
      isn’t it?

             ETHAN
      He had one short story collection 
      published. THE DEVIL’S DETAILS.

             MACON
      Catchy. Do you plan to be a writer?

             ETHAN
      I don’t know yet. Maybe.

             MACON
      Well, let’s say I had a magic 
      wand...

             LENA
        (worried, cautioning)
      Uncle Macon don’t...

             MACON
        (ignores her)
      ...And I could make you see your 
      whole future, what would you see? 
      Tell me in every...(CONTINUES MOS)

MACON DIALOGUE CONTINUES MOS BUT WE CAN STILL HEAR MACON 
PLAYING PIANO, AS A SECOND FACE OF MACON - AN INNER MACON - 
APPEARS, TRANSLUCENT, CONNECTED TO MACON BUT STARING AT 
ETHAN..STUDYING HIM. MENACING. Only Ethan sees it, spellbound 
by the frightening vision. Lena watches, unaware that Macon 
is spell casting Ethan his worst future - THE MUSIC HE PLAYS 
ON THE PIANO SOUNDS DARKER, MORE SYMPHONIC, IMPOSSIBLE THAT 
IT COULD BE CREATED BY A SINGLE PIANO....Boo sits right 
before Ethan, still, staring at him, like a human 
being...Ethan answers Macon, speaking normally, at first:

             ETHAN
      Well, sir, I don’t know for sure. 
      One thing I do know is college. I’m 
      definitely planning on going...

Ethan’s tone and manner start to change, spellbound by the 
second Macon’s power to tap into his greatest fear...

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      ...to some ... local college, ya 
      know, not too far, so I can stay at 
      home with Dad...and then, maybe,... 

                                      33.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      ...maybe get a teaching degree - 
      work at the high school...or maybe 
      the library...Maybe take over the 
      library from Amma...probably marry 
      Emily Asher, have kids...never make 
      enough money for her...Start 
      secretly drinking. Get arrested on 
      a DUI...Lose my job. Have an affair 
      with Savannah Snow when I’m 49...

Lena listens, knowing something is wrong with Ethan.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      ...My kids live with their mother 
      after we divorce. I have a heart 
      attack when I’m 53. Then another 
      one at 62...
        (Rubbing his chest)
      ...I move into a small apartment 
      above the Wayward Dog saloon, 
      helping them sweep up after hours 
      for free drinks....Then when I’m 
      64, I hang myself.

Macon stops playing piano. The Dark Symphonic Piano music 
abruptly stops. Macon says, upbeat and supportive;

             MACON
      Well, you’ve got it all planned 
      out. Good for you.

Everything returns to normal. Lena sees Ethan is so depressed 
and panicked, he looks sick...as if he’s lived this future.

             ETHAN
      You’ll uh..I..you have to forgive 
      me. I haven’t been sleeping well. 

             MACON
      Sleep is so important for a young 
      man still growing. Which I assume 
      is your intention...(CONTINUES MOS)

MACON CONTINUES MAKING SMALL TALK MOS, AS MACON’S SECOND 
MENACING FACE APPEARS AGAIN, WARNING ETHAN;

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      GET OUT AND NEVER COME BACK. STAY 
      AWAY FROM MY NIECE. NEVER SPEAK TO 
      HER OR COME INTO THIS HOUSE AGAIN. 

MACON’S SECOND FACE VANISHES as Macon ends his small talk;

                                      34.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      ...I’m sure it’s just pressure from 
      school. I wouldn’t be a teenager 
      again if you gave me immortality.

A confused, scared Ethan looks to Boo who is still staring at 
him, like a human being, then to Lena who is concerned;

             ETHAN
      I’m sorry. I’ve got to go. Goodbye.

Lena looks hurt. But she understands. She nods.

             MACON
      It’s a been a pleasure.

Lena waits until Ethan exits, then turns on Macon:

             LENA
      What did you do to him?

             MACON
      I agreed to let you attend school.
      But you are never to see that boy. 
      Do not invite him here again. 

             LENA
        (sadly)
      I didn’t invite him...But don’t 
      worry, I’m sure he won’t be back.
        (upset, rises)
      Excuse me.

             MACON
      Lena. That boy is a danger to you. 

Upset, she exits the dining room. Macon looks concerned.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR DRIVE - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON.

Ethan gets in his car and drives away from the plantation 
house. It starts to rain.  His windshield wipers aren’t 
working in sync. He presses the gas pedal, still panicky, 
when suddenly his broken radio turns on by itself, blasting 
NEIL SEDAKA’S “YOU’RE SIXTEEN”...

             ETHAN
      What the fu---!!

Startled, he swerves heading for a tree and slams on the 
breaks just short of hitting it. He bangs the radio, which 
shuts off the song.

                                      35.

Ethan catches his breath. But his expression tells us Macon’s 
spell has been broken. He’s Ethan again. And he’s confused. 
What happened? 

INT. LENA’S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER - EARLY EVENING.

CLOSE ON: Lena is laying on her bed (We don’t reveal her room 
yet). She suddenly gets an impulse to cross to her window. 
Camera follows her, close, as she looks out to see:

Ethan standing in the driveway looking up at her. He motions 
for her to meet him at Greenbrier. Lena, thrilled, nods.

EXT. GREENBRIER PLANTATION - MOMENTS LATER - EARLY EVENING.

Lena climbs over the wall and rushes to Ethan.

             LENA
      You came back.

             ETHAN
      Yeah, I’m sorry. I don’t know what 
      the hell happened to me in there.

             LENA
      It wasn’t your fault.

Awkward silence. Lena and Ethan are feeling the first throes 
of first attraction. Ethan suspects something about Lena... 

Ethan takes a clip out of Lena’s hair, allowing her hair to 
fall in front of her face, like the Girl in his dream.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      I’m not crazy about this look for 
      me.

It’s awkward but Ethan tries to explain; 

             ETHAN
      Look I hope this doesn’t sound too 
      creepy or weird but I think I’ve 
      been dreaming about you every night 
      for months.

Lena registers this with surprise and yet, she’s hiding 
something. Ethan feels like a complete idiot. Long beat.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      That didn’t sound as stupid before 
      I said it out loud. Can you 
      completely forget I just said that?

                                      36.

Lena nods, willingly. They shake off the weirdness. Ethan 
finds a way out of the awkwardness, Lena helps.

    		ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
	Your present! Right! I came 
	back to give you my present. 

		LENA
	Right! The present! Yes! 
	Good! Let’s do it!

Lena smiles, genuinely impressed by Ethan’s determination to 
be with her. Ethan pulls THE LOCKET out, opens it and reads 
the inscription with the date:

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Like I said, my Mom found it. It 
      has an inscription;
        (Opens it)
      “ECW AND GKD”...December 21, 1862.

Suddenly, Lena looks stricken. Fearful. 

             LENA
      December 21st?

             ETHAN
      Yeah. What’s the matter?

Ethan notices Lena suddenly looks stricken, frightened:

             LENA
      That’s my birthday. I’ll be 16.

             ETHAN
      Wow, that is wild. I mean, what are 
      the odds? You’re 15 and you’re a 
      Junior? You must be smart. You skip 
      a grade?
        (Lena nods, scared)
      Well, consider this an early Sweet 
      Sixteen present. 

The instant Ethan puts the Locket in her hand, everything 
changes; WHEN THE LOCKET IS HELD BY BOTH LENA AND ETHAN, 
EVERYTHING STARTS TO CHANGE: 

- The rotten lemons on the lemon trees start to grow in size 
and color. - The ground beneath them grows lush and healthy - 
The burnt out Greenbrier Plantation house restores itself to 
it’s original incarnation.

- SCARED, ETHAN LOOKS TO LENA - AS THEIR SURROUNDINGS 
TRANSFORMS BEFORE HIS EYES FROM DAY TO A NIGHT IN 1864.

             LENA
      Ethan...?

                                      37.

EXT. GREENBRIER PLANTATION - 1864 - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

ETHAN AND LENA, IN MODERN DRESS, STAND WITH THEIR HANDS 
JOINED AROUND THE LOCKET, AS THE SCENE BECOMES INHABITED BY 
THE TRANSLUCENT PRESENCES OF THE PAST - AS IF THE VEIL 
BETWEEN PAST AND PRESENT HAD BEEN LIFTED AND BOTH REALITIES 
ARE BEING PLAYED OUT AT THE SAME TIME. THE PRESENCES FROM THE 
PAST DO NOT SEE ETHAN AND LENA, MOVING AROUND THEM, SOMETIMES 
INCHES AWAY.

FIRST FLASHBACK....IT IS 1864 - GREENBRIER PLANTATION

(NOTE: The Flashback works with dream/nightmare logic. Time, 
Locations transform without linear segues. THE TRANSLUCENT 
PRESENCES SPEAK BUT WE ONLY HEAR SOUNDS, NOT WORDS, HOWEVER 
THE STORY IS CLEARLY CONVEYED THROUGH ACTION)

A WOMAN IN WHITE, runs to a CONFEDERATE SOLDIER; The 
Confederate Soldier is pulling the Young Woman towards the 
bushes, where they can be hidden. 

THEY KISS. AROUND HER NECK IS THE LOCKET. THEY ARE IN LOVE. 
THE WOMAN IS FRIGHTENED. SHE PULLS THE SOLDIER AWAY FROM THE 
HOUSE THROUGH THE WOODS...BUT SUDDENLY, A BOOMING SOUND STOPS 
THEM...THEY LOOK UP TO THE HOUSE...AS DO LENA AND ETHAN;

UNION SOLDIERS ARE RANSACKING THE MANSION, TORCHING IT.

WE SEE TWO WOMAN TRAPPED ON THE TOP FLOORS AS THE HOUSE 
BURNS, SCREAMING FOR THEIR LIVES.

THE CONFEDERATE WOMAN SCREAMS - THEY ARE HER FAMILY - SHE 
BREAKS FREE OF THE SOLIDER, WHO TRIES TO RESTRAIN HER. CAMERA 
TRACKS CONFEDERATE SOLDIER RUNNING AFTER THE WOMAN TOWARDS 
THE HOUSE...SUDDENLY WE HEAR GUNSHOTS, FOLLOWED BY A SCREAM:

             WOMAN’S VOICE
	(V.O.)
	EEETHAAAN!

 				BLACKOUT.

                              SMASH CUT TO;

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC BEDROOM - EARLY EVENING.

Ethan wakes up as if from a nightmare, the Bukowski book 
falling off his bed. Ethan is disoriented and confused.

INT. KITCHEN/WATE HOME - MOMENTS LATER - EARLY EVENING.

Ethan leaps down the attic stairs, into the kitchen to find 
Amma finishing up cleaning after making dinner, calmly;

                                      38.

             AMMA
      You ready to eat now?

             ETHAN
      What the...? How did I get home?

             AMMA
      What are you talking about? You 
      came home and went right to bed, 
      said you had to lay down a while.
        (lays down plate)
      I have greens or carrots, which do--

             ETHAN
      AMMA!

             AMMA
      What are you shouting about?

             ETHAN
        (Beat. Disoriented)
      Nothing. Just losing my mind.

He opens his clenched hand: the LOCKET. He puts it on the 
table as he sits. Amma is very disturbed when she sees it;

             AMMA
      Where did you get that?

             ETHAN
      It was in Mama’s things.

             AMMA
      Where’s that necklace I gave you?

             ETHAN
        (checks his neck)
      Sorry. Must have fallen off.
        (Amma looks worried.)
      What’s wrong?

Amma needs to leave...to do something. She excuses herself;

             AMMA
      Long day at the library. Just 
      tired. Eat your dinner. I’ll do the 
      dishes tomorrow.

             ETHAN
      No, I’ll do them...Amma, you don’t 
      have to come over every day after 
      work if you’re tired.

                                      39.

             AMMA
      I promised your mother I’d look 
      after you both. I want to.

Ethan can sense something is disturbing Amma as she kisses 
his head, then exits. Ethan looks at the Locket’s 
inscription: ECW AND GKD. December 21, 1862.

EXT. ROAD TO GATLIN - NIGHT

RED CONVERTIBLE SPORTS CAR SPEEDS down the road into Gatlin 
Main Street blasting TOM WAITS “HEART ATTACK AND VINE”.

Camera rises from the long shapely legs to reveal: RIDLEY. 
Blonde, white-cut off T-shirt revealing a black bra beneath, 
a pleated skirt, dark sunglasses. Sexy bad girl, sucking on a 
lollipop. (Ridley is a Dark Witch)

THE SHERIFF’S POLICE CAR is off road as Ridley speeds by. The 
Sheriff drives after her.

Ridley sees the colored siren in her rear view. She smiles. 
She presses harder on the gas.

The Sheriff is not used to people in Gatlin giving chase. He 
speeds up as well, not putting on the siren’s alarm.

As she drives, Ridley closes her eyes and incants a spell 
inaudibly. The car drives itself. The road curves. Ridley’s 
car disappears around the curve. 

SHERIFF’S POV: When The Sheriff’s car turns the curve, he is 
suddenly driving straight into a TSUNAMI WALL OF WATER COMING 
RIGHT AT HIM in the middle of a country road. The Sheriff 
screams as he turns hard right.

WIDE ANGLE: The Sheriff’s car turns off road and crashes 
straight into a tree. There is no TSUNAMI on the road. 
Everything is still and calm. The trees sway gently.

The Sheriff is unconscious and bloody at the steering wheel.

EXT. GATLIN ROAD TO HONEY HILL - NIGHT

Ridley sees Police Cars and a road block up ahead, preventing 
people from passing by Honey Hill to see or video the 
Lightening. Ridley turns off the main road.

                                      40.

EXT. GREENBRIER WOODS/CEMETERY - NIGHT

Ridley is casually walking through the woods, bypassing the 
road. She stops, hidden, when she sees:

LINK, also hidden in the woods, with a video camera. He too 
has found a way to by-pass the police. He is waiting to video 
the Lightening.

Ridley makes note of Link, then passes by unnoticed by him. 
We follow her to:

The RUINS OF THE DUCHANNES MAUSOLEUM. The entrance is open. A 
creepy darkness inside. She strolls into the Mausoleum, 
sucking her lollipop, disappearing into the dark. 

WE HEAR; WHISPERING. RIDLEY and SOMEONE INSIDE THE CRYPT.

                              CUT BACK TO:

LINK IN THE WOODS: 

POV: Through Link’s Video Camera WE SEE; THE BOLT OF 
LIGHTENING STRIKE that same spot on top of Honey Hill. 

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC BEDROOM/ LINK’S BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT.

INTERCUT ETHAN ON CELL PHONE TALKING TO LINK ON CELL PHONE.

             ETHAN
      Doesn’t make any sense. I don’t 
      remember coming home at all.

             LINK
      Well, I didn’t drive you. I was at 
      Honey Hill. They’ve got the road 
      blocked - they don’t want it 
      leaking out. God Forbid this town 
      ever gets on the Internet. But I 
      got through. I got it on video--

Link is distracted by Mrs. Lincoln, in the BG, sits at her 
phone with a note pad. She is speaking urgently. He whispers;

             LINK
	(CONT’D)
      Listen, my mother’s been calling 
      every parent in town to get Lena 
      Duchannes kicked outta school. Says 
      she was released from a mental 
      institution. Says Lena’s dangerous 
      and crazy.

                                      41.

             ETHAN
        (angry)
      BULLSHIT! Do you think Lena’s 
      dangerous?

             LINK
      I don’t see there’s anything wrong 
      for a woman with that body being 
      dangerous but that’s just me.

As Link was speaking, he looks out window and sees:

RIDLEY, seductive, a Siren. Link is immediately entranced: 
Ridley spell casts Link to say these words to Ethan;

             LINK
	(CONT’D)
      Ethan. Meet at Charon Swamp. I’ve 
      got to show you something. It’s 
      really important. Leave right now.

             ETHAN
      The swamp? Why, what’s...

Link’s phone clicks off. Ethan is curious.

EXT. GATLIN ROAD TO CHARON SWAMP - NIGHT

Ethan drives to the first right down the dirt road. At the 
turn there is a sign: CHARON SWAMP.

EXT.  CHARON SWAMP ROAD/CHARON SWAMP - NIGHT

Ethan sees no sign of Link as he slowly drives to parking lot 
for visitors of the swamp. He parks, gets out;

             ETHAN
      Link? 
        (to himself)
      Damn you, son, what am I doing-

Ethan then sees; Amma’s Silver Ford. Ethan is surprised:

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Amma?

Ethan looks around and sees no sign of Link or Amma. He steps 
to the edge of the swamp, lined with wooden rafts tied 
together with ropes, like a “raft taxi” waiting to carry 
people across the swamp. He hears something out in the swamp. 
Are his eyes playing tricks?:

                                      42.

ETHAN POV:  AMMA on a “raft taxi”, drifting deep into the 
swamp, using a long stick as an oar, disappearing from view. 
Ethan’s even more intrigued.

Ethan steps onto a “raft taxi” and unties it, pushing away 
from the dock with the oar, following Amma. He does not see:

IN CHARON SWAMP:

Ethan is pushing his raft with his oar, through the black 
water. Within the swamp are tiny islands upon which stand 
eerie statues; Children. Women as Goddesses. 

Ethan looks up ahead and has lost sight of Amma. He presses 
on. The oar brushes up against something hard, followed by a 
splash. Ethan looks down to see the splashes are ALLIGATOR 
HEADS AND TAILS, hitting the water as they swim beneath him. 
The muddy water slushes atop the water taxi, which topples 
but doesn’t turn over, wetting his jeans with slime.

Frightened, Ethan pushes forward through a maze of moss-
covered oaks through the black pond. A Mist comes off the 
water, like steam. He sees:

EXT. A SMALL CEMETERY - SWAMP - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Amma walking to a clearing, overhanging with weeping willows 
creating a canopy. She stops in the middle of a SMALL 
CEMETERY - aged headstones and tombs covered in moss.

Ethan shoves his raft taxi up towards the swamp’s muddy bank, 
out of sight but able to watch from a distance. He holds onto 
the “oar”, balancing his weight so the “taxi” is butted up 
against land. He crouches down, one foot on land the other 
foot on the “taxi” and listens.

Amma pulls items out of her bag: white vinegar, sage and 
candles, which she lights, placing them on grave sites. She 
spills out white vinegar as she calls without looking up;

             AMMA
      May as well show yourself. I know 
      you’re out there.

Ethan thinks he has been discovered...until he sees MACON 
RAVENWOOD appear out of the mist. Amma has been waiting for 
Macon. Ethan watches with stunned fascination; Macon appears 
in a white suit, smoking a thin cigar.

             AMMA
	(CONT'D)
      I don’t have all night. And keep 
      your distance.

                                      43.

             MACON
      Lovely to see you too, Amma. We’re 
      in trouble. I warned you to keep 
      him away from her.

             AMMA
      I made a charm to cut the 
      attraction but he lost it.

             MACON
      You might consider making him a 
      short leash. I found them both in 
      Greenbrier. Lena was too hysterical 
      to tell me what happened. Luckily, 
      the boy was unconscious so I sent 
      him home without a memory. 

Ethan hears this but doesn’t understand.

             AMMA
      Macon, Ethan has a Locket from the 
      Duchannes. I could feel a Dark 
      charm on it. 

             MACON
        (Angry)
      How could you let him--

             AMMA
      I didn’t! It was Lila’s.
        (Macon tries to figure it 
         out)
      Don’t you blame Ethan. Why did you 
      bring the girl here, anyway? 

             MACON
      Ravenwood was the only place left I 
      had the power to protect her.
        (Macon flicks his cigar.)

             AMMA
      Watch your ashes around my 
      Ancestors.

             MACON
      Damn my ashes! We running out of 
      time. We need to know what Sarafine 
      is planning.

             AMMA
      SHE’s already here?

                                      44.

             MACON
      She’s been following Lena for the 
      past year.  To every town. 

             AMMA
      Macon, your promised. If Lila’s boy 
      gets hurt...

             MACON
      SHE’s not after him. SHE wants 
      Lena, you know that. Help me, Amma.

             AMMA
        (”Saging”)
      This is our Great House, the house 
      of my family, you hear? You want 
      answers, you show some respect.

             MACON
      Well, if they’re so Great, why 
      didn’t they see this coming?!

Amma gives an offering in Tupperware to a Gravestone:

             AMMA
      Pay no attention to him, Uncle 
      Abner. I brought your favorite. 
      Shrimp ‘n grits and coconut pie.

             MACON
      Does he want white or red? Can we 
      get on with this, please!? 

Amma looks at Macon, waiting for an apology. Macon relents;

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      I am sorry.

             AMMA
      Did you bring Uncle Abner his 
      whiskey?

Macon takes out a bottle of whiskey, hands it to Amma who 
places it on the grave, arranging the bones around it. Amma 
pours a shot of whiskey into a shot glass and downs it.

Amma inhales the sage then blows her breath onto the candles 
flaring them up into sparks. She goes into a trance state, 
closing her eyes. The air around her seems to vibrate...

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Uncle Abner, we are in need of your 
      intercession. 

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Along with Aunt Ida and Auntie May. 
      I humbly call upon your Spirits to 
      this place.

Ethan watches, transfixed. Amma listens. Macon waits.

                                      45.

             MACON
      What are they saying?

             AMMA
      Nothing. Nothing clear yet... 

             MACON
      Ask them what SHE’s planning, how 
      can we stop HER?

             AMMA
        (eyes closed)
      “Some things can not be stopped”.

             MACON
      That’s not acceptable. Tell them, 
      we only have until the 21st of 
      December. Lena’s birthday...

With that, Amma’s body starts to shake. Ethan is frightened.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      Amma?

Amma suddenly looks at Macon, speaking with a man’s voice; 
(NOTE: SPANISH WORDS WILL BE TRANSLATED INTO YUCATEE MAYAN)

             AMMA
      EL CAMINO NEGRO. EL CAMINO NEGRO 
      ENCONTRARA LA LUZ Y TODO CAMBIARA. 

Macon is frozen still. Ethan is stunned.

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
        (ENGLISH)
      THE GIRL...SHE IS THE CURSED. 
        (Stares at Macon)
      SHE WILL BRING THE END TO YOUR 
      WORLD.

             MACON
      No.

Amma levitates up in seconds, grabbing Macon by the throat 
and pushing him down to the muddy ground, making Macon pay 
strict attention. His expression changes.

                                      46.

             AMMA
      SHE IS THE MOST POWERFUL. HER 
      CLAIMING WILL BRING ABOUT THE SHIFT 
      FOR LEGIONS OF THE DARK...

“Amma” releases Macon’s throat. They look into each other’s 
eyes. Amma collapses. Macon turns over and revives Amma.

             MACON
      Amma? Amma? 

Amma opens her eyes. She looks at Macon.

             AMMA
      Macon? What does it mean?

             MACON
      Are you all right?
        (Amma nods)
      Keep the boy away from Lena. Get 
      rid of that Locket. It’s all we can 
      do now. I’ll see you in the 
      Library. And give my thanks to your 
      Ancestors...although shoving me in 
      the mud was overdoing it a bit.

Ethan watches as Macon appears to disappear into the mist. 
Amma is stricken. Whatever was said, upset her. 

Ethan reaches into his Track Team Jacket pocket and pulls out 
the Locket. He feels compelled to see Lena.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR DRIVE/RAVENWOOD MANOR - NIGHT

Ethan is walking up the long private drive that leads to the 
house. The moss covered trees sway around him.

As Ethan walks, he feels as if he’s being watched..as if the 
Moss in the Trees were following him with their “eyes”.

Ethan begins to hear distinct Whispering. He speeds up his 
walk. The wind gets stronger, causing the Mossy Trees to sway 
as if they were alive, with the intent to block his path.

Ethan sees the circular driveway before the house and breaks 
into a run...but the Moss reacts to his actions, creating a 
blockade of Moss, blocking out the house entirely, enclosing 
Ethan in Moss to the front and back, whipping around each 
foot and each hand, like handcuffs.

                                      47.

Inside the Moss, Ethan can swear he sees ANCIENT FACES, 
staring at him...The Moss begins to encircle Ethan’s 
feet...his hands...and his throat. Ethan tries to scream but 
the Moss winds around his throat, choking him.

The Moss pulls Ethan from all his extremities, lifting him 
off the ground, as if he were a rag doll about to be pulled 
apart by his arms, legs and head. Ethan can’t breath. His 
vision begins to blur.

SUDDENLY, HE HEARS A VOICE CHANTING IN LATIN. THE SKIES OPEN 
WITH LIGHTENING AND THUNDER. HARD RAIN BEGINS TO FALL AS THE 
VOICE CONTINUES TO CHANT. 

THE RAIN OVERPOWERS THE MOSS, FORCING IT TO RELEASE ETHAN BY 
HIS LEGS, HANDS AND NECK. HE DROPS TO THE GROUND. THE RAIN 
FORCES THE MOSS TO PART, LIKE THE RED SEA, ALL THE WAY UP THE 
DRIVEWAY TO REVEAL TO ETHAN:

LENA, STANDING BEFORE HER HOUSE, HER ARMS RAISED, CAUSING THE 
STORM AS SHE INCANTS THE SPELL. SEEING ETHAN, SHE STOPS. THE 
RAIN STOPS. ETHAN CAN’T BELIEVE HIS EYES. 

Lena smiles weakly and subtly waves, like someone who’s been 
caught doing something naughty. Dazed, Ethan waves back. He 
then passes out cold.

INT. LENA’S ROOM - LATER - NIGHT

A cozy white walled room tucked under the eaves. In antique 
iron bed. Stacks of books. A curved window seat.

Ethan, amazed, dazed, somewhat in shock, a towel around him, 
drinking tea with Lena. (We jump into mid-conversation). 

             ETHAN
      You’re all witches?

             LENA
        (Defensive)
      That’s not what I said. Calling us 
      “witches” is like calling smart 
      kids “geeks” or “athletes”-

             ETHAN
      -Jocks? Sorry. What was the word 
      you used?

             LENA
      Casters. Some families are born 
      musical. Some are born geniuses.  
      We’re born Supernatural, it’s not 
      that big a deal. You want a cookie?

                                      48.

             ETHAN
      I’m a little nauseous.

             LENA
      That’s the spell. Sugar’ll help.

Ethan takes the cookie and eats.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      Macon had the house “bound”. It’s a 
      spell to protect me from people who 
      shouldn’t be here. It won’t work on 
      you anymore now, I promise.

             ETHAN
      The windows in class? 

             LENA
      I didn’t mean it. My powers are 
      getting stronger and when I get 
      certain feelings, I can’t always 
      control it.

Ethan holds out the Locket but Lena won’t touch it.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      That Locket; I think it has some 
      kind of spell on it. When we both 
      hold it, it must open a window into 
      this other time. I don’t know what 
      it means. My Aunt Del is the 
      Palimpsest.

             ETHAN
      The what?

             LENA
      She can read time. She says all 
      time is happening at the same time 
      all at once, only we can’t see it 
      but she can.

             ETHAN
      That must drive her nuts.
      What kind of Caster are you?

             LENA
      I’m a Natural. I have Powers over 
      the Five Elements. 

             ETHAN
      There are only four elements.

                                      49.

             LENA
      Not for us...There’s Earth, Air, 
      Water, Fire...and Ether. Energy. 
      All the stuff that’s in between.

             ETHAN
      OK. But just so I’m clear, Satan 
      has nothing to do with ya’ll?

             LENA
      That’s like believing in Santa 
      Clause. How could say that?

             ETHAN
      Sorry. It’s what I was taught. But 
      there is evil, Lena.

             LENA
        (Defiant)
      Yes. There are evil Casters, Ethan. 
      Are you going sit there and tell me 
      there are no evil Mortals? Only 
      difference is you all made up 
      somebody to blame for it.

Ethan sees her point.  She feels badly.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      I’m so sorry you got hurt. 

             ETHAN
      Don’t be. I’m not!

             LENA
      I’m not supposed to tell a Mortal 
      any of this. 

             ETHAN
      I’m glad you told me. I am. Honest.

             LENA
        (upset, tears)
      No, I shouldn’t have...I never had 
      any real close friends except this 
      cousin once but she’s gone...
        (Can’t explain now)
      I’m sorry. I wish I was a normal, 
      screwed up teenager. I wish I could 
      just fit in without causing a 
      natural disaster. 

             ETHAN
      It’s just teenage insanity. Makes 
      all of us do stupid things.

                                      50.

             LENA
      When was the last time you started 
      a hurricane?

Lena meant this to put Ethan off, but it only reminds Ethan 
how amazing she is. He beams a smile, loving her even more;

             ETHAN
      Damn, Lena. You’re...a miracle.

             LENA
        (moved, smiles)
      You’re not what I expected.

             ETHAN
      What do you mean?

             LENA
        (admits)
      I’ve dreamt about you too. But I 
      didn’t know you were real.

             ETHAN
      Why didn’t you tell me?

             LENA
        (cries)
      It scares me. Doesn’t it scare you?

Ethan shakes his head. He and Lena feel the intimacy between 
them. Ethan leans in. Lena lets him. 

Ethan and Lena kiss for the first time. 

LIGHTENING STRIKES, BREAKING A GLASS WINDOW IN HER ROOM. 
Ethan jumps.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry. That was my first kiss.

             ETHAN
      Bless my heart for thinking nothing 
      ever happens in Gatlin.

At that moment, they both hear Macon arriving home

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena! Are you home?

             LENA
      It’s Macon! You have to go!

             ETHAN
      Will you go out with me? 

Lena’s pushing Ethan towards the window;

                                      51.

             LENA
      Macon won’t let me. 

             ETHAN
      You want to be a normal teenager? 
      Lie to him!

             LENA
      It’s not that easy. Please go--

             ETHAN
      I’m not leaving unless you say yes.

             LENA
      Well, how do you mean go out? Like 
      a date?

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena?

             ETHAN
      Yeah. A normal, teenage, painfully 
      awkward first date.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena, are you in your room?

Lena “spells casts” locking her bedroom door, then to Ethan;

             LENA
      All right yes. Now get out!

Lena opens the unbroken window. Ethan puts one leg out, 
sitting on the sill, pocketing the Locket in his jacket.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      OH WAIT!

Lena leans out the window;

EXT. LENA’S WINDOW/RAVENWOOD - NIGHT

LENA CASTS A SPELL: manifesting a STURDY VINE that climbs up 
the side of the house to her window, so that Ethan, like 
Romeo, can safely climb down. He knocked out by powers:

             ETHAN
      Wow. Can you make anything grow?

             LENA
      Get out!

                                      52.

             ETHAN
        (Climbing down)
      So how about Friday? Movies? 

             LENA
      Next Friday? I can’t. It’s a 
      holiday. Hurry up.

             ETHAN
        (Climbing down)
      What holiday?

             LENA
        (Down playing it)
      It’s this ...harvest thing. I have 
      family coming from out of town. 

             ETHAN
      OK. Saturday. 

             LENA
      I don’t know.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena?

             ETHAN
        (climbing up, daring her)
      Say yes.

             LENA
      YES!

             ETHAN
        (Climbing down)
      Can I see you tomorrow?

             LENA
      I don’t know! Get out of here!
        (She stops him with;)
      Ethan? Promise me it’ll be a real 
      awkward normal teenage date.

             ETHAN
      I promise. I won’t even call you 
      after.

             LENA
      Dumbass prom king.

But Lena beams. By this point he is down the vine. He jumps 
to the ground, looking up to his Lena, like Romeo to his 
Juliet.  Ethan runs off into the dark.

Lena shuts the window. Alone, she is thrilled and scared.

                                      53.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena?

Lena hears him knock on her door.

             LENA
      Be right there.

Lena closes her eyes; SUDDENLY, ALL THE WALLS AND UPON EVERY 
WHITE SURFACE, THERE APPEARS WRITING; QUOTES FROM POETS, 
LENA’S OWN POETRY...

AND THE LINE: “HELP! I LOVE ETHAN WATE.”

INT. LINK’S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Mrs. Lincoln is asleep on the couch with her Bible.

Link sits at the computer. He has edited all the LIGHTENING 
BOLTS on his computer. First he watches them one by 
one...then decides to speed it up. He watches the Lightening 
Bolts flash one after the other. But Link sees something 
unusual. He repeats it. Link sees:

LINK’S POV: As the Lightening Bolts flash, Link thinks he 
sees: SHAPES OF “BEINGS” (DARK WITCHES) FLASH WITH EACH 
LIGHTENING BOLT. EACH BEING DIFFERENT. AS IF THE LIGHTENING 
BOLT MADE A TEAR IN THE VEIL BETWEEN WORLDS, THROUGH WHICH 
OTHER BEINGS MAY ENTER.

Link can’t believe his eyes. Suddenly, he hears TOM WAITS 
”TEMPTATION” blasting from outside.  He sees that his mother 
remains dead asleep - it’s impossible she can not hear it. 
Link looks out the window and sees:

POV THRU THE WINDOW: RIDLEY, SITTING ON HER RED CONVERTIBLE. 
She uses her Siren powers on Link.

Link returns to his computer. He freezes the images of the 
Lightening Bolts. He closes the file. HE DELETES ALL OF IT. 

Link exits OS. We stay on the window. We hear the front door 
open and close OS. We see through the window, Link walking to 
Ridley’s car. When he reaches her, they starting kissing.

Camera drifts back into the room, moving in on the sleeping 
Mrs. Lincoln until SHE OPENS HER EYES.   WE PRE-LAP: 

             MRS. LINCOLN
	(V.O.)
      ...I can already see the signs, the 
      signs of the Devil in Gatlin.

                                      54.

EXT. GATLIN CHURCH - DAY

Gatlin residents crowd the entrance in protest of Lena 
Duchannes enrollment. Carrying signs that demand her to be 
expelled. “NO RAVENWOODS WITH OUR KIDS”...”KEEP OUR CHILDREN 
SAFE FROM RAVENWOODS”....

             MRS. LINCOLN
	(V.O.)
      I can see a change in my own son 
      since that girl has moved here...

INT. CHURCH OF CHRIST - CONTINUOUS - DAY

A town meeting: the town’s MAYOR HOLLINGSWORTH, the school’s 
PRINCIPAL HARPER and the church’s REVEREND STEPHENS  sit in 
front of the altar. The audience is packed in the pews, 
including Amma, Link, Emily and her Cliches, their famlies. 
All are listening to MRS. LINCOLN speak from the aisle;

             MRS. LINCOLN
      My son has talked back to me. Stays 
      out late without telling me where 
      he’s going. Resists praying both 
      morning and evening.

             LINK
        (humiliated, murmurs)
      Batshit crazy bitch.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      And if you need further evidence, 
      just look at poor Emily Asher and 
      the other children.

Emily, Savannah, and the Cliches sit with their families. 
Emily’s shoulder in a sling. Others have scratches.

             MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      Or our Sheriff, nearly killed.

The Sheriff sits with his head bandaged from car accident.

             MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      In the past year, Lena Duchannes 
      has been in three different schools 
      in three different towns. I 
      checked. Every one of them had 
      accidents, unnatural weather, 
      deaths. Those school windows 
      withstood Hurricane Hugo. But the 
      children saw her break them with 
      the speed and power of the Devil 
      himself. 


                                      55.

             MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      We all know the Duchannes/Ravenwood 
      history. Who they worship. The 
      insanity, the destruction they 
      cause. We all know it was her own 
      mother who started the fire that 
      killed her husband.

             REVEREND STEPHENS
      Now, Martha, as I understand, 
      that’s never been proven.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      You’re new to this parish Reverend 
      Stephens. It has never been dis-
      proven.

EXT. GATLIN ROAD - COUNTY LINE - CONTINUOUS - SAME DAY

A two-lane road with woods on either side. The road seems to 
go on to infinity. A SIGN READS: YOU ARE LEAVING GATLIN, 
SOUTH CAROLINA. COME BACK SOON.

             LENA
	(O.S.)
      This is your favorite spot?

             ETHAN
	(O.S.)
      Isn’t that sign the most beautiful 
      thing you’ve ever seen?

Ethan and Lena, on the hood of his car, drinking orange soda.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      The only thing I ever wanted was to 
      get out of this town. Now we can go 
      together. We should go to the same 
      college.

             LENA
      I may not be able to go to college. 
      I won’t know til after my birthday.

             ETHAN
      What’s going to be so different 
      after your birthday? Worse thing 
      that can happen is you get your 
      first hangover.

             LENA
      I feel so guilty being with you.

             ETHAN
      Why?

                                      56.

             LENA
      ‘Cause it feels so good. And 
      because after I turn 16, I may not 
      even be here.

             ETHAN
      Why? Tell me.

Lena hesitates, then decides she must tell him.

             LENA
      When a female Caster turns 16, we 
      face what they call The Claiming-- 

             ETHAN
        (overlaps)
      --Claiming.

             LENA
      How did you know?

Ethan remembers Amma saying it to Macon at the swamp but 
doesn’t want to tell her.

             ETHAN
      I don’t remember. What does it 
      mean?

             LENA
      When a female Caster turns 16, her 
      powers are Claimed based on her 
      True Nature. See, there’s Light and 
      Dark power. All around. You can’t 
      have the Good without the Bad. But 
      they have to balanced or there’s 
      trouble.  On my 16th birthday, I’ll 
      be Claimed, either by the 
      Light...or by the Dark based on 
      whatever my True Nature 
      is...whatever I was destined to be. 

             ETHAN
      What’s Macon?

             LENA
      By his nature, he’s Dark but he’s 
      choosing to be Light for me.

             ETHAN
      He can choose? Why can’t you?

                                      57.

             LENA
      Female Casters don’t have a choice. 
      We have this connection to the Moon 
      thing. 

             ETHAN
      So, back up...you’re worried when 
      you turn 16 you’ll turn into a evil 
      bitch...witch?

             LENA
        (choking back tears)
      I don’t know what’ll I be. I don’t 
      know who I am, really, inside.

Ethan sees Lena is scared, fragile. He smiles, holds her.

             ETHAN
      Aw, baby girl...I do.

Lena kisses Ethan. As soon as they kiss, a TREE BRANCH CRACKS 
OFF AND FALLS. 

             LENA
      Sorry.

EXT. CHURCH OF CHRIST - CONTINUOUS - DAY

The crowd pushes forward to hear what’s being said. ONE 
GATLIN MOTHER is shoved aside, causing her to see something 
OS that makes her blood run cold. She quickly motions for the 
others to all turn around. They gasp at what they see O.S.

INT. CHURCH OF CHRIST - CONTINUOUS - DAY

As Mrs Lincoln continues, Link is mortified by her:

             MRS. LINCOLN
      I have a petition signed by over 
      300 Gatlin parents who demand that 
      Lena Duchannes be expelled, as well 
      as the Ravenwood property be re-
      zoned outside of Gatlin county so 
      that is it no longer apart of ---

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Excuse me for being late.

Everything stops. Everyone turns to see: MACON has arrived. 
No one has seen Macon in person in years. They are stunned. 
But Macon acts as if nothing is out of the ordinary as he 
enters to face Gatlin.

                                      58.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      Principal Harper...Mayor 
      Hollingsworth...Reverend Stephens.
        (to Mrs. Lincoln)
      Martha.

Dead silence. Everyone is speechless. And a little scared. 
Except for Amma. Macon’s manner is superior and calm....

             MRS. LINCOLN
      How dare you enter the Lord’s 
      house.

             MACON
      Well, since I own the property it’s 
      built on, I’m sure the Lord 
      welcomes landlords on occasion. I’m 
      sure everyone has better things to 
      do on such a fine day so I’ll make 
      this brief. The accusations against 
      my niece are lies.

             MRS. ASHER
      Is this a lie!? My daughter was 
      severely injured and traumatized.

             MACON
      My sincere sympathy for her injury 
      in this accident.

             MRS. ASHER
      It was no accident. Our children 
      saw your niece destroy those 
      windows.

             MACON
      How? 

Pause. Nobody dares say it out loud.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      Why can’t we say it? We’re in the 
      Lord’s house. We are protected.
        (to Macon)
      She used the Devil’s powers. 

             MACON
      Well, apparently the Devil works 
      for the Weather channel, because on 
      that day - and you can verify this - 
      there were unseasonably strong 
      winds from the East which resulted 
      in numerous destructive incidents 
      all along the South Carolina coast. 

                                      59.

             MACON
	(CONT'D)
      So, back to my point,  Lena will 
      attend this institution Gatlin 
      presumes to call “educational”. And 
      she will no longer be persecuted. 
      This is not a request. 

             MRS. LINCOLN
      You have no right to tell us what 
      to do, no matter how much money you 
      have. 

             MACON
      Martha, since you are being so 
      refreshingly frank, then allow me 
      to respond in kind. My money, I 
      agree, offers no advantage. 
      However, since my Ancestors founded 
      Gatlin, my property gives me some 
      leverage. For example, if I were to 
      donate the abandoned mill I own to 
      a worthy cause - say, to create a 
      Drug Rehabilitation Center?
        (GASPS FROM AUDIENCE)
      Wouldn’t that be a Christian 
      service to the community? I also 
      own the land upon which the 
      Southern Comfort Motel resides. 
      It’s closure would be most 
      inconvenient for you, Mr. Snow. 
      You’d have to drive out of town to 
      meet your lady friends, which  
      would make you late for supper.

Mr and Mrs Snow, and Savannah, blush with shame.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      And Mr. Lee, if I decided to stop 
      leasing the land to the Wayward 
      Dog, where will you spend your 
      evenings drinking when Mrs. Lee 
      thinks you’re at Civil War 
      meetings.

One eyed Mr. Lee is shocked. Mrs. Lee is angry. Beat.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      So the matter is settled.

As Macon turns to exit, Reverend Stephens stands, benignly;

             REVEREND STEPHENS
      Mr. Ravenwood, please understand, 
      we were only here to discuss in a 
      respectful and just manner--

                                      60.

             MACON
      “Just”? As another Reverend once 
      said, “Injustice anywhere is a 
      threat to justice everywhere”.

We can see from the Reverend’s face, he understands Macon.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      Sounds like some Socialist Democrat 
      double talk to me.

             MACON
      I believe Martin Luther King Jr. 
      was a Republican, Martha. And a 
      Baptist.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      I’m not afraid of you or your evil 
      kind. God our Creator will protect 
      us from the hellfire that created 
      you, along with terrorists, 
      homosexuals, atheists, Socialists, 
      Democrats and all unnatural 
      atrocities.

             MACON
      Well if I were you Martha, I’d 
      welcome any kind of fire. It would 
      give you an opportunity to burn 
      that hideous dress you’re wearing.

Mrs. Lincoln is speechless. Link stifles a laugh. 

CLOSE ON: Macon as he turns to exit, WE HEAR A WOMAN’S 
LAUGHTER...A laugh that causes Macon to freeze. 

In fact, everyone in the church has been FROZEN IN TIME. Only 
Macon and “Mrs. Lincoln” can talk or move.

Macon turns to face SARAFINE, the Woman who wears the 
Bloodstone ring. WE SEE HER AS MRS. LINCOLN.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      Sarafine. I wondered how long you’d 
      keep this up.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      Oh come on Macon, that was fuuuun! 
      And you’re right about the dress. 
      But after I spellcast Mrs. Lincoln, 
      I had little to choose from in her 
      closet. You’d think the woman 
      invented the housecoat. How did you 
      know?

             MACON
      You forgot the ring. The one my 
      brother gave you.

Sarafine looks at her Bloodstone ring.

                                      61.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      HA! Look at that? Well, we’re in a 
      church. They only see what they 
      want to see in here anyway. Oh, 
      Macon, how I’ve missed you.

             MACON
      You’re not capable.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      Oh, there you go..on and on about 
      the Darkness. But you’re wrong. We 
      have feelings. Look at yourself. 
      But no matter how hard you try for 
      that girl, Macon, you can’t change 
      who you are.

             MACON
      I will. I am.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      And it’s making you weak. I can 
      feel it. Going against your true 
      nature is the only true sin.

             MACON
      What are you planning to do?

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      I don’t have to do anything. Love 
      is ruthless. 

             MACON
      You have no memory of love.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      To be honest, no. But that’s the 
      best thing about love. Being 
      liberated from it. I never felt 
      such power as I did when ... 
      Whatshisname died...So will Lena.

             MACON
      Lena will never turn to hate like 
      you. 

                                      62.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      It’s obvious you’ve never been a 
      teenage girl. A first love, broken, 
      can turn any girl dark. Mortal or 
      Caster.

Macon is worried for the first time, understanding her plan. 

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, Macon, stop fighting this. 
      Lena’s birthday, her Claiming, 
      falls on the most powerful Solstice 
      in over 5000 years, when the Winter 
      Sun crosses the Dark Rift, the 
      Black Road, and more power will be 
      released than ever before and this 
      Earth Cycle will be over.  Light 
      and Dark Powers will finally merge 
      into one. And Lena will determine 
      which will dominate. It’s been 
      prophesied.

             MACON
      You’ve been reading too many Mayan 
      tabloid magazines. Those prophesies 
      have been disproved.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      By whom? Mortals? Oh yes, let’s 
      listen to beings who use less than 
      an 1/8 of their brains. Their time 
      is over. Why should the Inferior 
      dominate? I bet if you asked this 
      planet whether or not she wanted 
      them here, she’d shake’em off 
      faster than we would. No one will 
      miss them. They do nothing but 
      destroy and consume for their own 
      survival. They make up ideas like 
      God and love and righteousness to 
      kill anyone who disagrees with 
      them. They’re a species bred of 
      insanity and hypocrites. They pray 
      without true belief and then wonder 
      why their spells don’t work. They 
      never know the value, the power of 
      life until seconds before it’s 
      taken away from them. They’re just 
      parasites, Macon. And we can get 
      rid of them for good. You. And I. 
      And Lena. You can’t stop it. 
      Genevieve’s Curse has already 
      started.

                                      63.

             MACON
      That’s not true!

SUDDENLY, EVERYONE IN CHURCH COMES BACK TO LIFE. MACON IS 
CAUGHT. Sarafine hides as Mrs. Lincoln again.

             REVEREND STEPHENS
      What’s not true, Mr. Ravenwood?

Caught off guard, Macon pauses then;

             MACON
      My apologies...My niece will return 
      to school. And there will be no 
      more of this. 

Macon exits. The townspeople look intimidated. Except for 
Mrs. Lincoln and Amma, who stares at her sensing a presence.

EXT. TRACK FIELD - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON.

Link and Ethan, in track uniforms, after running the track. 

             LINK
      Wow, you and Lena Duchannes? 

             ETHAN
      Don’t tell anybody.

             LINK
      No way. HA! She’s gonna make Emily 
      shit nails.

             ETHAN
        (more to himself)
      I bet Lena can actually do that. 

They stop when they see Ridley walking towards them. She is a 
knock-out, as she struts across the field, sucking on a 
lollipop with pouty red lips. 

             LINK
      Uhhh...who is that?

Ridley’s Southern accent is sultry and hypnotic. Ethan and 
Link are hypnotized, mouths agape;

             RIDLEY
      Which one of you lucky boys is 
      Ethan Wate?

Emily’s looks make Ethan and Link speechless. Ridley has a 
strong power over men - mesmerizing them. She is a Siren.

                                      64.

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Well, let’s start with a simpler 
      question. Which one of you has the 
      power of tongue?

They point to each other.

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Lovely. Now, which of you is Ethan 
      Wate?

             ETHAN
      Me am. I am. Me Ethan.

             RIDLEY
      ETHAN!

Ridley flies her long legs over the car and prances to Ethan, 
throwing her arms around him. Link watches, mouth open.

             ETHAN
      Do I know you?

             RIDLEY
      Not a bit. I’m Ridley Duchannes. 
      Follow me.

Ridley starts to walk away. Ethan and Link follow as if it 
were not in their control.

             ETHAN
      Oh, the holiday thing. You’re one 
      of Lena’s relatives?

             RIDLEY
      Honey, you’re looking at THE 
      relative. 

             ETHAN
      This is my friend Link.

             RIDLEY
        (without looking back)
      A sincere pleasure Link.

Link acts as if he’s never met her. He mumbles in awe:

             LINK
      Mahummma.

Ridley reaches her car and opens the door.

             RIDLEY
      Hop in, we’re going to be late. 

                                      65.

             ETHAN
      Oh, I wasn’t invited. I don’t think 
      Macon would want...

             RIDLEY
      Trust me. The family is just dying 
      to meet you.

Ridley has a power over Ethan. He moves as if on command, in 
a daze, following her instructions. Ridley gets behind the 
wheel. Ethan sits and looks to Link, who waves weakly.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - TWILIGHT

Ridley and Ethan drive up the long road to the house, in mid-
conversation, though Ethan hasn’t said a word;

             RIDLEY
      Lena and I are more like sisters 
      than cousins. I’m surprised she 
      didn’t mention me. But then, I’m 
      sure I couldn’t count high enough 
      all the things Lena hasn’t 
      mentioned.

Ethan, is spellbound, as Ridley parks the car.

MACON’S SPELL BOND ON RAVENWOOD: THE TREES/THE MOSS REACT TO 
RIDLEY’S PRESENCE, BUT CAN’T STOP HER. THEY BEND AND BLOCK 
BUT SHE DRIVES RIGHT THROUGH...

Ridley stops and stares at Ethan thru her sunglasses. Ridley 
brushes Ethan’s hair out of his eyes.

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      You have such lovely eyes. You 
      shouldn’t hide them.
        (seductive)
      Lucky those lips are spoken for. 

Ridley and Ethan get out of the car. Ridley indicates she’d 
like to take Ethan’s arm;

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      May I?

Under a trance, Ethan nods. They walk...

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Tch. And such a gentleman too.

They reach the front door. The door slowly opens on it’s own. 

                                      66.

INT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - TWILIGHT

They enter, arm in arm.  The House has been re-decorated into 
a Autumnal Ritual Temple; an interior forest superimposed 
upon the suburban chic interior. 

Throughout the scene, Ethan watches like a trapped spectator, 
unable to speak or move or interact, under Ridley’s power.

             RIDLEY
      ‘Night Mother.

AUNT DEL -  middle aged, easily un-nerved, wearing a hundred 
year old dress, laying a gourd and golden leaves along the 
mantel - is startled. She drops a white pumpkin in surprise;

             AUNT DEL
      Ridley! What are you doing here!?

             RIDLEY
      Why, I wouldn’t miss the Holidays 
      with my family.

Macon appears; a debonair smile, masking his rage. 

             MACON
      Ridley, what an unpleasant 
      surprise. 

             RIDLEY
        (upbeat)
      Uncle Macon! How old and weak you 
      look!

Macon and Ridley keep their eyes on each other like two lions 
circling.

             MACON
      You know you shouldn’t be here.
      I’m sure you must be expected 
      elsewhere. A plague that needs a 
      cheerleader, perhaps?

             RIDLEY
      You’re a real stitch, Uncle. 

             MACON
        (Stares at Ethan)
      How did you get in?

But Macon stops - he can see something in Ethan that he 
recognizes as magic. Ridley’s magic. Ethan can’t seem to 
speak. His eyes are darting as if trapped inside himself.

                                      67.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      What have you done to him?

             RIDLEY
      Invited him to dinner with the 
      folks, is all.

Ethan can’t move or breath without Ridley. Macon accepts she 
has him in her power. He and Ridley exchange a look of mutual 
understanding: She can kill Ethan if she wanted.

             MACON
      Very well. Why don’t you show Ethan 
      into the dining room. I’m sure you 
      remember where it is.

Ridley takes Ethan’s arm and escorts him into the dining 
hall, as a panicked Aunt Del looks to Macon.

INT. DINING HALL/RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - TWILIGHT 

Ethan and Ridley enter the dining hall; Hundreds of black 
votive candles, strands of black glass beads hung from the 
chandelier, an enormous wreath made of black feathers on the 
kitchen door, the table set with silver and pearl-white 
plates. Trays of food cover the long table.

The kitchen door swings open as Lena enters carrying a tray. 
Lena wears a fitted floor length jacket cinched at the waist, 
looking beautiful. When she sees Ridley and Ethan, she drops 
the tray in shock;

             RIDLEY
      Hello Cuz. 

             LENA
      ETHAN! What is she doing here? 

             RIDLEY
      Well, I came to see my favorite 
      cousin. And I brought a date.

Ethan tries to protest but he can’t speak. He looks to Lena 
for help. Lena focuses all her attention on Ridley.

             MACON
      Everyone sit before the food gets 
      cold. 

             LENA
      Macon!

                                      68.

             MACON
      It’s all right. She can’t do any 
      harm in this house.

             RIDLEY
      You so sure about that, Uncle?
        (To Ethan)
      Here, sit near me, sugar.

Ethan obeys. As they sit, other family members enter and are 
seated as Ridley introduces them to Ethan;

             RIDLEY
	(CONT'D)
      Oh let me handle introductions. 
      You’ve already met my mother, 
      Delphine. This here is my brother 
      Larkin.

LARKIN - 18, in black jeans, faded black T-shirt and 
motorcycle boots. He smiles a bored smile.

Lena’s stare is growing increasingly intense. She sits.

GRAMMA; a striking, sculpted woman with gray/black hair pull 
back, strands of beads and ornate silver rings, enters;

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      And this is our dear, sweet Gramma 
      whom we all just love to death.

But tough Gramma is not shaken by Ridley in the least;

             GRAMMA
      We weren’t expecting you, child.
      Let me have a look at you.

Ridley, for the first time, seems uneasy. She pretends not to 
care as she rises before Gramma, who stares into her face 
behind the dark sunglasses.

             GRAMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Interestin’. Why is it, Ridley, 
      when I look in your eyes, all I can 
      see are Hers? You two are as thick 
      as thieves, aren’t you?

Gramma concentrates and flutters her hand before Ridley, who 
squirms like a pinned butterfly: Ridley struggles at Gramma’s 
power. Her face seems to blur and double as if another entity 
was within her. ANOTHER WOMAN’S FACE BRIEFLY BLURS INTO VIEW.

Cutting the tension, Macon claps his hands in frustration and 
everything returns to normal. 

                                      69.

             MACON
      It would be nice just once to have 
      a holiday meal we all survive. 

With everyone seated, Ridley is the only one who takes food 
and eats as the scene continues;

             RIDLEY
      Mmm, I just love sugar horses. 

             AUNT DEL
      Ridley, there’s nothing we can do 
      for you now. I’m so sorry. But you 
      can’t stay.

             RIDLEY
      No hard feelings, mama. But Lena’s 
      birthday’s coming up. I couldn’t 
      miss that. Such an important 
      birthday too. Lena’s becoming a 
      woman. How about that?

             MACON
      I don’t know how you broke the bond 
      getting into this house, but I’ll 
      make sure you won’t break it again.

             RIDLEY
      I didn’t break in. I was escorted, 
      on the arm of this handsome gent, 
      whom, I’m guessing, has been here 
      before since we didn’t have a bit 
      of trouble.

Macon looks to Lena, surprised. But Lena focuses in Ridley. 

             LENA
      Let him go.

             RIDLEY
      Don’t you think your beau deserves 
      to know what he’s in for? Or are we 
      playing the Love Conquers All game?

Ethan notices: THE TABLE BEGINS TO SHAKE, WINE IN THE GLASSES 
SLOSHING, AS RAIN IS HEARD FALLING ON THE ROOF. He looks to 
Lena, who is intensely focused on Ridley - her rage building. 
THE PLATES ON THE TABLE RATTLE WITH STRONGER FORCE. Ridley 
remains conversational, calm...to Macon, Gramma, Aunt Del;

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      You think you can keep Lena so 
      good, so innocent. 

                                      70.

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Wasn’t I the same before I was 
      Claimed? Wasn’t I a good girl?

Macon, Del and Gramma exchange glances.

             AUNT DEL
      Well, I did the best I could.

             MACON
      Ridley, who you are is who you’ve 
      been since the day you were born.

             RIDLEY
        (angry)
      THAT’S NOT TRUE! I WASN’T BORN LIKE 
      THIS!

Ridley pulls off her sunglasses. Ethan is shocked to see: 
RIDLEY’S EYES ARE LIKE CAT EYES; GLOWING GOLD, AS IF ON FIRE.

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s not fair what happened to me!

             GRAMMA
      Child, you’ve been given your place 
      in the Order of Things.

             RIDLEY
      That’s right Gramma. I’m just 
      trying to make a point. You think 
      Lena is a good girl now but it 
      won’t matter. The Curse will take 
      care of her.

             LENA
        (confused)
      Macon?

             MACON
      Don’t listen to her lies.

             RIDLEY
      You know it’s true!

Ethan looks to Lena - her expression is terrifying, focused. 
Ethan is paralyzed, unable to break free of Ridley’s grip. 

Ridley spellcasts Larkin for Ethan to see: LARKIN TRANSFORMS 
INTO ETHAN - WEARING A CONFEDERATE SOLDIER’S UNIFORM - AS 
BLOOD SPREADS ACROSS HIS STOMACH. DYING. ETHAN IS HORRIFIED 
BUT CAN NOT MOVE OR LOOK AWAY.

                                      71.

             AUNT DEL
      RIDLEY, STOP THAT! LET GO OF YOUR 
      BROTHER!

             GRAMMA
        (To Macon)
      The bond is breaking.

Macon takes action with Aunt Del and Gramma, forming a 
triangle from one end of the room to the other. They raise 
their hands and begin to chant in LATIN while Ridley calmly 
keeps eating.

             RIDLEY
      Your powers are getting weaker, 
      Uncle.

THEN THE HOUSE BEGINS TO SHAKE. CHANDELIERS SWING. LIGHTS 
FLICKERING. SHUTTERS BANG OPEN AND CLOSE AS IF IN A STORM. 
THE RAIN ON THE ROOF BATTERS LOUDER AND LOUDER.

             GRAMMA
      It’s not her.

Ridley looks up, surprised, along with Macon, Gramma and Del. 
They look to LENA - whose expression is dark and menacing, 
focused only on Ridley. Everyone realizes LENA IS CAUSING THE 
HOUSE TO SHAKE....

             RIDLEY
      Aww look, I’m upsetting cousin 
      Lena. Just another good girl gone 
      bad, I guess. 

             MACON
      Lena, don’t! 

             RIDLEY 
      See! She’s already closer to the 
      Dark than I was!  Breaking windows 
      on helpless, little mortals. Tch! 

Lena is in her own world of rage. Ridley grips Ethan’s arm 
and rises with him.  Ethan’s arm turns frozen cold, gripped 
by Ridley. The coldness spreads through his body, his throat, 
his legs. He can’t move or breath. He pants, like a drowning 
man. Lena can see the life draining out of him.

LIGHTENING AND THE CRASH OF A TREE BRANCH AGAINST A WINDOW. 
THE STORM FEELS AS IF IT IS RIGHT ABOVE THEM. AS LENA GETS 
ANGRIER, A STRONG WIND SHATTERS A WINDOW.

RAIN AND WIND COME POURING INTO THE DINING HALL, SENDING 
GLASSES AND PLATES CRASHING TO THE FLOOR.

A TORNADO APPEARS IN THE DINING HALL, WHIPPING EVERY PIECE OF 
FURNITURE AGAINST THE WALLS. BREAKING ALL THE GLASS...AND 
STANDING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE TORNADO, IS LENA - HER FOCUS 
SOLELY ON RIDLEY, who shouts to Macon;

                                      72.

             RIDLEY
	(CONT’D)
      YOU KNOW HOW SHE WILL BE CLAIMED!

             LENA 
      LET GO OF MY BOYFRIEND, WITCH!!

IN QUICK SUCCESSION:

- Ridley’s grip on Ethan loosens.

- Ethan’s legs buckle as he collapses to the floor

- Ridley is sucked out of the room and flung out the front 
door. The door slams shut.

- Larkin morphs back to himself and collapses unconscious. 
Del tends to him.

Lena runs to Ethan, laying on the floor, regaining his 
breath. She holds his head in her lap as Ethan manages to 
open his eyes long enough to say:

             ETHAN
      Your Boyfriend, huh?

Ethan smiles, then blacks out. Holding him, Lena, upset;

             LENA
      What Curse was she talking about?

             GRAMMA
      Nothing. Just her telling stories 
      to get your rage going, to lose 
      control. You mustn’t let her. 

             LENA
      I’ll be Claimed for Darkness, won’t 
      I? Just like Ridley.

             MACON
      NO! You have to trust me.

Lena cradles Ethan....Gramma stands beside Macon, whispers; 

             GRAMMA
      Do you see the way she looks at the 
      boy? There’s no getting between 
      them now.

                                      73.

Macon looks to Lena, conflicted. He sees it. He is worried.

             MACON
      Then it has begun.

Lena holds Ethan, clearly in love with him.

INT. LENA’S ROOM - LATER - NIGHT

Lying on the window seat, Ethan opens his eyes.

POV: Lena’s walls are covered with writing, as before. Lena 
sits on her bed, SPELLCASTING; HER THOUGHTS/POETRY WRITING 
THEMSELVES ON THE WALL...To Ethan it’s magical.

             ETHAN
      You’re a poet?

Lena, realizing he’s awake, waves her hand and her latest 
writing vanishes into air. She crosses to Ethan.

             LENA
      How do you feel?

             ETHAN
      Like I was just in a tornada inside 
      a dining room. No big deal.

             LENA
      You sure you still want to date me?

             ETHAN
      Yep.

             LENA
      I’m so sorry about Ridley. I didn’t 
      know she was back.

             ETHAN
      She’s kind of a bitch.

             LENA
      She’s a Siren. She can make 
      Mortals, especially men, think or 
      see or do whatever she wants.

             ETHAN
      Well, that’s kind of the definition 
      of a bitch, isn’t it?

                                      74.

             LENA
      She wasn’t always like that. She 
      was like my sister. We were so 
      close....

LENA’S FLASHBACK;

EXT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT - FLASHBACK.

A younger Ridley is running to a Train Depot alongside train 
tracks. Lena appears, running after her.

             LENA
	(V.O.)
      The night Ridley turned 16, she ran 
      away. But I followed her to the 
      train station. 

MOS: Ridley holds Lena’s shoulder and explains, teary eyed. 
We can sense Ridley is just a frightened 16 year old who 
loves Lena.

             LENA
	(V.O.)
      She said she could feel herself 
      turning Dark. She said she had to 
      get away before she hurt anybody 
      she loved. Before she hurt me. 

They embrace. Lena is frightened for Ridley. But Ridley 
pushes her away and runs out of sight, around the depot.

                                  CUT TO:

RIDLEY, leaning against the depot. Isolated. The full moon 
appears and shines a spotlight on her. Ridley’s body thrusts 
as if being hit with a surge of energy...almost orgasmic.

The Full Moon Spotlight fades away. RIDLEY IS NOW A DARK 
WITCH. She appears to us, more seductive, more sensual. She 
hears the sounds of Teenage Boys shouting, breaking bottles.

POV: On the other side of the tracks, THREE TEEN BOYS are 
drinking beers, tossing bottles, drunk, looking for trouble.

Ridley sets her sights on them. One by one, the drunk Teen 
Boys turn and meet her gaze. They’ve never see a girl look so 
sexy, so inviting. THE TRAIN IS COMING INTO THE STATION. 
Ridley’s Siren powers “beckons” them forward. In a trance 
like state, the Teen Boys walk towards her as the Train 
appears. One by one they step over the rails and onto the 
train tracks, oblivious to the coming train. The Train 
whistles it’s warning. But the Boys only respond to Ridley, 
who makes them stop on the tracks and the Train, unable to 
stop, kills all three.

FROM A HIDDEN SPOT: LENA HAS WITNESSED RIDLEY FIRST DARK 
DEED. She is horrified.

                              CUT BACK TO:

                                      75.

INT. LENA’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Lena and Ethan on the window seat. Ethan holds her.

             LENA
      She did love me before. I know it.
        (gets upset)
      She’s right. It’s not fair what 
      happened to her. And the same 
      thing’s could happen to me.

Ethan looks to Lena, concerned and loving.

             ETHAN
      It won’t. We just won’t let it 
      happen. There’s no such thing as 
      destiny. We make our own lives.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      I envy you.

They turn to see Macon standing in the doorway, overhearing;

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      Mortals. You think you can change 
      things. Control a universe. Undo 
      what was done long before you came 
      along. You can be such beautiful, 
      innocent creatures.

Lena and Ethan are surprised by Macon’s gentle tone.

             MACON
	(CONT’D)
      I think it’s time you went home, 
      young man, don’t you?

EXT. GATLIN MAIN STREET/ MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

ON THE MIS-SPELT MARQUEE: “ FINALE DESTINATION 6”. 

Ethan and Lena are walking to the theatre hand in hand, as 
other kids enter. Ethan is wearing his Track Team jacket. 
Lena is clearly thrilled to be with Ethan but pre-occupied.

Emily, Savannah and boyfriends, Earl and Billy walk by. They 
all stare at Lena with disgust as they pass. Savannah can’t 
help by make a comment;

                                      76.

             SAVANNAH
      I feel sorry for you Ethan Wate. 
        (to Lena)
      You’ll never be one of us.

             LENA
        (pissed off)
      You mean a head full of simple and 
      no taste in clothes? 

             BILLY
        (to Ethan)
      I thought you quit the team. You 
      got no right wearing that jacket.

Billy and Ethan stare each other down. Emily confronts her;

             EMILY
      Maybe you have Ethan fooled. But 
      not me. God will condemn you.

Lena’s gets angry. A DISTANT THUNDER CLAP IS HEARD. A WIND 
RISES. Ethan whispers to Lena;

             ETHAN
      Chill, girl, Chill.

Luckily, Link appears, cutting the tension.

             LINK
      Emily, don’t you have to go walk on 
      water somewhere?

             BILLY
      Son, don’t make me kick your ass up 
      to your shoulders.

Billy, Emily, Savannah and Earl enter the movie theater.Lena 
immediately likes Link. The Wind, and Lena, calms down.

             LINK
      Emily can’t really walk on water. 
      But her bullshit makes her float.
        (Sticks out his hand)
      We haven’t really met. I’m Link. 

Lena beams. Shakes his hand. Ethan’s proud of his friend.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

The theater is 3/4 full. Ethan and Lena are waiting for the 
movie to start. Ethan takes off his Track Team jacket, lays 
it on his lap as Lena looks around:

                                      77.

Emily, Savannah, Earl, Billy and the others are there. They 
are obviously gossiping, sneering, about Lena and Ethan.

Ethan notices Lena looks uncomfortable. So he moves to kiss 
her but she stops him, with a smile.

             LENA
      Not here. I might cave the roof in.
        (Ethan smiles)

INT. MOVIE THEATER LOBBY - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Link is paying for three Cokes and popcorn when he stops, 
feeling someone’s eyes on him. He turns to see:

POV: Through the glass entrance, Link can see RIDLEY STANDING 
ACROSS THE STREET, sucking her lollipop, staring at him.

Entranced, Link leaves his Cokes/popcorn and goes to Ridley.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The lights go down as previews begin.

             ETHAN
      I’ve got Milk Duds if you want. In 
      my pocket.

With his hand in her hand, he guides her into his Team Jacket 
pocket searching for loose Mild Duds. She laughs.

             LENA
      You poured them out of the box?

             ETHAN
      They’re easier to get at.

As they both reach inside the pocket, at that split second, 
the sounds of the theater go MOS. Lena and Ethan hear:

The sounds of gunshots...of a house on fire...the shouts of 
Union soldiers...the cries of the mortally wounded...

The actual Movie Screen expanding vertically, surrounding 
Ethan and Lena, inhabiting the entire theatre...translucent 
images, moving out of the screen and fill the theater like 
interactive 3-D, the theater itself grows grass and ground 
under the seats...the mossy trees above the rows. The other 
teenagers are unaware of the transformation or the Flashback. 
They watch the screen, as if nothing is strange.

                                      78.

Ethan and Lena remove their hands. THEY ARE HOLDING THE 
LOCKET. Ethan wants to pull away but Lena stops him.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      I forgot I had it. I’m sorry--

             LENA
      No. I want to see.

FLASHBACK TWO:

EXT. GREENBRIER PLANTATION - 1864 - NIGHT

A GUNSHOT BLAST...(continuing where Flashback One ended...) 
THE CONFEDERATE SOLDIER IS SHOT. THE WOMAN WITH THE LOCKET 
RUNS TO HIM.

             GENEVIEVE
      EEEETHAN!

ETHAN AND LENA ARE SHOCKED BEING ABLE TO HEAR AS WELL AS 
WITNESS, WATCHING IT LIKE A MOVIE THAT ENVELOPS THEM.

GREENBRIER HOUSE COLLAPSES IN FLAMES. GENEVIEVE HOLDS THE 
FALLEN ETHAN, HIS STOMACH BLEEDING FROM A GUNSHOT WOUND. 

             GENEVIEVE
	(CONT’D)
      NO! Please, Ethan. Hold on. 

Genevieve rocks the fallen Ethan in her arms. Ethan looks up 
to her. He is struggling for life. From the bushes, we hear:

THE UNION SOLDIERS AS THEY DISPERSE THROUGH THE THEATER. 
RUNNING FROM THE GROUNDS AND DISAPPEARING INTO THE WOODS 
TOWARDS HONEY HILL.

             GENEVIEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Ethan? Ethan, look at me...

Ethan opens his eyes. He loves her.

             GENEVIEVE
	(CONT’D)
      They’ve burned everything. Mother, 
      sister. Please, I can’t lose you 
      too. I won’t let you go.

She sees: Ethan’s eyes are fixed. Ethan is dead.

             GENEVIEVE
	(CONT’D)
      NOOOO! NOOOOOO!!
        (to the HEAVENS)
      DAMN YOU! DAMN YOU!

                                      79.

Enraged, Genevieve realizes what she can do. (And this 
decision decides her fate). She lays Ethan down, closes her 
eyes and with her hands over him, begins to cast a SPELL:

             GENEVIEVE
	(CONT’D)
      “CUROR PECTORIS MEI, TUTELA 
      EST...VITA VITAE MEAE, CORRIPIENS 
      TUAM CORRIPIENS MEAM(CONTINUES...)

GENEVIEVE CONTINUES AS THE ELEMENTS AROUND HER SEEM TO 
SATURATE WITH COLOR AND VIBRATE WITH ENERGY..

             GENEVIEVE
	(CONT’D)
      ...BODY OF MY BODY, MARROW AND 
      MIND...SOUL OF MY SOUL, TO OUR 
      SPIRIT BIND..BLOOD OF MY HEART, MY 
      TIDES, MY MOON...BLOOD OF MY HEART, 
      MY SALVATION, MY DOOM.

THUNDER AND LIGHTENING TEARS THE SKY. GENEVIEVE REMAINS WITH 
HER EYES CLOSED. 

At first Ethan (the Soldier) does not respond, but then his 
eyes flutter and his breathing begins. ETHAN COMES BACK TO 
LIFE.  Weak, slowly opening his eyes to Genevieve;

             ETHAN
      Genevieve...Genevieve, my love...

BUT GENEVIEVE HAS CHANGED. SHE OPENS HER EYES - THEY ARE ON 
FIRE. EVIL HAS TAKEN OVER GENEVIEVE - THE CURSE - GENEVIEVE 
TRANSFORMS PHYSICALLY; EXPANDING WITH POWER AND RAGE.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Genevieve....?

GENEVIEVE LOOKS TO ETHAN AS IF SHE DOESN’T KNOW HIM. SHE 
PLACES HER HAND ON HIS HEAD...ETHAN BEGINS TO SHRIEK IN PAIN 
AS HIS BODY BURNS FROM THE INSIDE OUT, UNTIL THERE IS NOTHING 
BUT ASHES. THE “DARK GENEVIEVE” HAS KILLED THE MAN SHE LOVED.

Genevieve hears the sounds of Battle coming from Honey Hill 
on the other side of the woods. She leaves Ethan’s side as if 
she didn’t know him. Genevieve’s moves through the woods.

Ethan and Lena, remaining still, experiencing the move as if 
they were the camera speeding forward onto the battlefield.

EXT. HONEY HILL BATTLEFIELD - 1864 - NIGHT

Union Soldiers at the bottom of the hill outnumber the 
Confederate Soldiers at the top of the hill, three to one. 

                                      80.

The Confederates are being slaughtered. The Cannon at the top 
of the hill is being loaded by wounded Confederate Soldiers. 

Genevieve enters the center of the battlefield, alone. The 
Union Soldiers stop firing on the orders of their Captain. 
There is an eerie silence on the battlefield.

             UNION CAPTAIN
      GET OUTTA THERE. I WILL NOT BE 
      RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR SAFETY.

Genevieve just stands there. Silent. Powerful. Unafraid.

The Confederates fire the Cannon, exploding beyond the Union 
line.

             UNION SOLDIER
      SHE’S A DECOY!

             UNION CAPTAIN
      AIM YOUR WEAPONS!

The Union Soldiers aim at Genevieve and the Confederates. 
Genevieve closes her eyes. RAISES HER HANDS, SPELLCASTING;

             UNION CAPTAIN
	(CONT’D)
      FIRE!

30 UNION SOLDIERS FIRE THEIR GUNS AND THEIR 30 RIFLES BLAST 
BACKWARDS, SHOOTING EVERY UNION SOLDIER DEAD IN THEIR HEADS. 
THE UNION CAPTAIN IS ASTOUNDED. HE RAISES HIS GUN. GENEVIEVE 
TURNS HER GAZE TO HIM. 

THE UNION CAPTAIN FIRES AND HE INSTANTLY BURSTS INTO FLAMES.

Ethan and Lena are horrified but can not look away. More 
terrifying, is Genevieve now turning her gaze to them, 
speaking directly to Lena:

             GENEVIEVE
      ONLY DARKNESS IS INFINITE. ONLY 
      DARKNESS SURVIVES. YOU WILL BE RE-
      BORN WHEN THE CLAIMING COMES. YOU 
      WILL BRING THE GREAT DARKNESS, LENA 
      DUCHANNES.  YOU WILL BRING THE END 
      TO THIS WORLD. BE CLAIMED....

Lena is horrified as Genevieve gets closer and closer, then 
morphs into SARAFINE - THE SAME WOMAN ON LENA’S CHARM CHAIN - 
THE SAME WOMAN WHO WEARS THE BLOODSTONE RING:

             SARAFINE
      ...MY CHILD. COME HOME TO ME...MY 
      DAUGHTER.

LENA SCREAMS. THE LOCKET FALLS TO THE FLOOR.

                                      81.

                                SMASH CUT:

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Lena is standing at her seat, screaming. Ethan tries to calm 
her. The other teenagers in the theater turn away from FINAL 
DESTINATION 6 to gawk and laugh at her.

             BILLY
      It’s not that scary.

             SAVANNAH
      I guess Satan hates sequels too.

Everyone start laughing at Savannah’s joke and at Lena.

Ethan retrieves the Locket, putting it in his jeans pocket, 
then puts his arms around Lena, calming her down and taking 
her out of the theater. Emily stops laughing, watching them 
with envy and hatred as they exit.

INT. KITCHEN - WATE HOME - NIGHT

Amma has made tea for Lena who sits at the kitchen table with 
Ethan. They are still trembling with shock.

             AMMA
      I felt something tonight. 

Amma takes the Locket and puts in Ethan’s hand, then takes 
Lena’s hand to cover. Lena pulls away.

             LENA
      No, I don’t want to see anymore.

Amma holds them together. Nothing happens.

             AMMA
      There is no more. It’s served her 
      purpose. She got to you through the 
      charm

             LENA
      Macon lied to me. My mother’s not 
      dead, is she? 

                                      82.

             AMMA
      You have to remember...our 
      language, our words - well, they’re 
      just not enough to explain all that 
      there is. There are all kinds of 
      ways someone can be dead.

             ETHAN
      Amma, she called him “Ethan”.

Amma decides she must explain this. She rises and leads them 
to Daniel’s study. She opens the door quietly.

INT. DANIEL WATE’S STUDY - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Upon entering Amma immediately searches for something. But 
Ethan and Lena are struck still by the sight of:

Ethan’s poor father Daniel passed out on a small sofa in a 
mess of papers, books, cereal bowls and whiskey bottles. 
Photos of his mother Lila fill the room. Ethan acts as if he 
hasn’t seen this room in this state before. It saddens him. 

             ETHAN
      Maybe you should do a spell or 
      something so we won’t wake him up.

             LENA
      He doesn’t want to wake up, Ethan.

On his father’s desk; piles of LEGAL PADS OF HANDWRITTEN 
PAGES. The top page reads: UNTITLED NOVEL:. Ethan and Lena 
look through the Pages as Lena approaches.

The pages are all LETTERS TO LILA. All beginning: “TO MY 
LILA, I MISS YOU EVERY DAY...” Ethan and Lena realizes his 
father isn’t writing a book, only letters to his dead wife. 
He looks his father, with empathy. Lena holds Ethan’s arm.

             AMMA
	(O.S.)
      Here it is.  Help me with this. 

They begin to remove large portfolios of the WATE FAMILY TREE 
with names, dates and photos, etc...

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Your Mama’s was working on your 
      family tree...

             LENA
      Ethan, there he is.

Lena discovers a FADED PHOTO of a CONFEDERATE SOLDIER - THE 
SAME SOLDIER FROM THE FLASHBACK. THEY READ HIS NAME:

                                      83.

             ETHAN
      ETHAN CARTER WATE...Born FEB 12, 
      1841. Died DEC. 21 ST 1864. 
        (opens Locket)
      ECW. Ethan Cart

             LENA
        (reading)
      Genevieve Katherine Duchannes. GKD.

             AMMA
        (to Ethan)
      Your mother loved a love story.

At that moment, they hear Macon enter the house.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena!

Lena, Ethan and Amma stop. WE JUMP CUT TO:

INT. WATE KITCHEN - LATER THAT NIGHT.

Macon is explaining to an angry Lena. Ethan and Amma listen.

Upon the kitchen table are: FADED PHOTOS, AGED LETTERS, AND 
FAMILY TREES DATING BACK TO THE CIVIL WAR - ALL OF LILA’S 
RESEARCH - ALL THE TRINKETS AND ARTIFACTS SHE DISCOVERED. 

             MACON
      We had to protect you.

             LENA
      What else did you lie about?
      Is my father alive?

             MACON
      No.

             LENA
      But my mother is.

CAMERA MOVES ACROSS THE PHOTOS OF THE PEOPLE FROM THE PAST 
MACON DESCRIBES;

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Your great-great-great-great 
      grandmother, Genevieve, fell in 
      love with a Mortal. Ethan Carter 
      Wate. He was killed. 

                                      84.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
	(CONT'D)
      And in her grief, her madness, 
      Genevieve incanted a Spell that is 
      forbidden for any Castor to reverse 
      death. The Darkness Spell known to 
      us. 

             LENA
      A spell that left a Curse.

Macon sees Lena is way ahead of him. Macon nods.

             ETHAN
      Why did she kill him?

             MACON
      The Curse is made of nothing but 
      Dark Power. It claimed Genevieve.

             AMMA
      In Darkness like that, there’s not 
      even the memory of love. There’s 
      only rage. Only power. Nothing 
      else.

CAMERA: PHOTOS OF OLDER GENEVIEVE, A DARKER EXPRESSION. 
BITTER, STANDING BESIDE HER RAVENWOOD HUSBAND...GENEVIEVE IN 
HER COFFIN, DEAD.

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Genevieve and the Curse became one 
      in life and in death. She roams now 
      like a Spirit, unable to find rest, 
      searching to find possession, until-

             LENA
      A Castor falls in love with a 
      Mortal.

             MACON
        (nods)
      And the Curse is revived.

             LENA
      But my mother married your 
      brother...

CAMERA: PHOTOS OF YOUNG SARAFINE ON HER WEDDING DAY, NOT 
SMILING, UNHAPPY...MACON’S BROTHER IS HER HUSBAND. 

             MACON
      She was forced to marry my brother. 
      But she was ... young. Times had 
      changed. And she fell in love with-

AMMA PULLS A PHOTO OUT FROM LILA’S THINGS; HER BROTHER JOHN.

                                      85.

             AMMA
      John. My brother. There was no else 
      but Sarafine for him. Including our 
      family. They kept it secret until 
      the Curse began to change her.

             LENA
      How?

             AMMA
      She wanted him all to herself. Her 
      possessiveness turned to jealousy, 
      jealousy turned to her to rage...

             ETHAN
      She killed him?

             AMMA
      He was found dead in the Greenbrier 
      woods. Shot through the stomach. No 
      one knows how it happened.

             LENA
      Did my mother...did she start the 
      fire that killed my father too?

             MACON
        (nods)
      Genevieve possessed your mother. 
      She wants every Female Castor who 
      dares love a Mortal to suffer what 
      she suffered. It makes her 
      stronger. It makes the Power of 
      that Darkness stronger. Don’t you 
      see? The two of you?  Lena, you 
      have to trust me. I know your True 
      Nature. The Curse is the only way 
      your mother can Claim you. I know 
      you think what you feel for Ethan 
      is real but it isn’t. You’re both 
      too young. You have be stronger 
      than your feelings. You can choose 
      not to love him. You can choose to 
      forget him.

When Lena hears this, inside she realizes Macon has no idea 
how love works. Ethan voices defiantly; 

             ETHAN
      Like hell she can! Lena’s the best 
      thing that ever happened to me. 

                                      86.

             ETHAN
	(CONT'D)
      And there’s no way what we feel can 
      turn into something...evil. Lena, 
      she’s...she’s a miracle. I love her 
      and no matter what you say, I’m not 
      going to stop loving her. It’s dead 
      simple.

Lena looks to Ethan. She couldn’t love him any stronger than 
she does in that moment.

             MACON
      Loving will cause nothing but pain. 

             ETHAN
      Well for Mortals that’s normal. 
      Didn’t you ever love someone?

Macon is stalled. He did. He can’t speak her name. 

             AMMA
	(O.S.)
      Macon’s just trying to do what’s 
      best for both of you. You don’t 
      understand the danger.

Lena looks to Ethan. Getting an idea! She knows what to do.

             LENA
      They’re right, Ethan. 

             ETHAN
      No, Lena, listen to me!!

             LENA
      I’m sorry. But they’re right. We 
      shouldn’t see each other anymore...

AS ETHAN LISTENS, LENA’S SPELLCASTS; WHAT SHE IS SPEAKING 
ALOUD IS MOS AS HER REAL THOUGHTS ARE HEARD BY ETHAN AND THE 
AUDIENCE:

  		LENA
	(MOS)
	(CONT’D)
	We should stop this before it 
	gets any worse. We have to 
	try to forget each other. I 
	don’t want to see anymore. I 
	want you to go.

		LENA
	(V.O.)
	THERE’S NO WAY I’M LETTING 
	YOU GO. DON’T SAY ANYTHING. 
	JUST PRETEND WE’RE BREAKING 
	UP. WRITE TO ME. I’LL WRITE 
	BACK. TRUST ME. NOW PRETEND 
        LIKE YOU’RE REALLY UPSET. I 
        LOVE YOU SO MUCH.

Ethan tries to hide his elation and confusion as Lena 
finishes aloud:

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      So that’s it. We’re breaking up!

                                      87.

             ETHAN 
        (Pretends to be hurt)
      Well...you go to..hell Lena.

             LENA
      Just go, Ethan!

Macon and Amma watch, cautiously. Ethan looks around, 
pretending to be upset. He is about to step away, when:

             ETHAN (VO IN HIS THOUGHTS)
      Lena, I live here.

             LENA (VO IN HER THOUGHTS)
      Oh right. Sorry.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      Goodbye Ethan.

She exits. Macon stares at Ethan as he passes him, wondering. 
Amma looks to Ethan who runs up to his room. 

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC ROOM - NIGHT

Ethan is writing in his journal.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Your Magic is about manipulating 
      the Elements. Like physics. And one 
      law of physics is for every action 
      there is an equal and opposite 
      reaction.

He sits back and waits for LENA’S WRITING TO APPEAR ON THE 
PAGE..FROM LENA:

             LENA WORDS ON PAPER
	(V.O.)
      WHICH MEANS WHAT?

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      THERE’S GOT TO BE A WAY TO BREAK 
      THE CURSE. 

             LENA WORDS ON PAPER
	(V.O.)
      HOW?

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      AMMA. I THINK SHE KNOWS MORE THAN 
      SHE’S SAYING.

                                      88.

EXT. GATLIN MAIN STREET - HALLOWEEN - DAY

Halloween decorations are all over town.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Lena and I kept pretending for 
      everybody the we broke up. 

EXT. JACKSON HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING

The students are all costumed for HALLOWEEN. Decorations and 
banners adorn the exterior of the school.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I even lied to Link. Felt bad about 
      that. But we couldn’t take any 
      chances. 

Billy and the Jocks are dressed in drag-as cheerleaders while 
EMILY, SAVANNAH and the cheerleaders are all dressed like 
WITCHES: tall black bent hats, ridiculously short black 
dresses, long black wigs and elaborate black make-up with 
fake noses and warts, carrying broomsticks. They are at their 
lockers, fixing their make-up, fake noses, etc...

Lena walks down the hallway, not in any costume, as the 
Cliches watch her with a sense of victory, making mean 
comments. Lena has a dark expression. Angry but in control.

Ethan sees her as he walks down the hall in the opposite 
direction. As he passes Lena, he sends his thoughts to her;

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Don’t let them get to you.

             LENA
	(V.O.)
        (Cool, calm)
      I’ve got it handled.

Ethan doesn’t know what she means. Suddenly, Ethan hears 
shrieking from the Cliches;

ETHAN POV: EMILY, SAVANNAH AND THE CHEERLEADERS SUDDENLY 
UNABLE TO REMOVE THEIR FAKE NOSES OR BLACK MAKE-UP. THEY 
START TO SCREAM, CAUSING THE STUDENTS AND TEACHERS TO GATHER.

Ethan looks down the hallway and sees the back of Lena, the 
only student not responding to the girls screaming, as she 
walks away. 

Ethan looks concerned that Lena spellcasted Emily and her 
mean girls.

                                      89.

EXT. EMILY ASHER’S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Ethan stands by a tree on the curb. Emily exits her house, 
still wearing part of the fake nose, but the other make-up is 
starting to fade. She’s slightly green. The Wart is still 
there. She walks to Ethan, stiffly;

             EMILY
      What are you doing here?

             ETHAN
      Wanted to see if you’re OK.

             EMILY
      Do I look OK? I don’t know how, but 
      I know this was Lena. And my mother 
      is calling the Mayor about getting 
      her kicked out of town.

             ETHAN
      Emily, I’m sorry. Maybe it’s not 
      all Lena’s fault.

             EMILY
      You’re still standing up for her.

             ETHAN
      It’s not that. We broke up. I 
      swear. 

             EMILY
      Prove it.

Ethan wants to prove it. He steps forward. He touches Emily’s 
face. He leans in and kisses her, ugly make-up and all.

As they kiss, WE SEE: THE RAVENWOOD BENTLEY DRIVING BY THE 
STREET, UNSEEN BY ETHAN AND EMILY KISSING. IT PASSES OS.

Emily and Ethan separate. Emily is surprised, but pleased.

             EMILY
	(CONT’D)
        (softens)
      I knew you’d come back to me. I 
      prayed on it. 

She smiles and rushes back into the house as Camera stays 
behind Ethan. As Camera tracks around the tree to the front 
of Ethan we see:

RIDLEY. IT WAS NOT ETHAN. SHE SMILES, PULLING OUT A LOLLIPOP.

EXT. WATE HOME - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

It’s late Halloween night. The streets are seeing the last of 
the costumed kids going door to door for candy.

                                      90.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Lena says Halloween is one of the 
      Casters Highest Holy Days. When the 
      veil between worlds is the absolute 
      thinnest. A time when anything, 
      good or bad, can get through.

INT. WATE HOME - NIGHT

In the den, Ethan is writing his journal. THE HAUNTING (1963) 
plays on TV.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Lena thinks it’s insane for Mortals 
      to choose this one night to open 
      our doors to strangers and give 
      them food.

Ethan smiles. A KNOCK ON THE DOOR startles Ethan.

             ETHAN
      Hello?

NO ANSWER. ANOTHER KNOCK. The den is dark except for the TV 
light. Ethan rises and steps into the long hall that leads to 
the front door, which is opened. THE SCREEN DOOR is closed.

Ethan’s POV: A FIGURE STANDS ON THE FRONT PORCH. A WOMAN. In 
the darkness, the face is unrecognizable.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Hello? Who is it?

No answer. The Figure just stands there. Eerie.

Ethan moves to the front door and flicks on the porch light 
illuminating: MRS. LINCOLN, holding a plate of brownies.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Oh. Just a minute Mrs. Lincoln.

Ethan unbolts the screen door but when he tries to open it, 
the door jams. Ethan unbolts the door again and pulls, but 
the door won’t open.

             ETHAN
	(CONT'D)
      I’m sorry, the door seems to be 
      stuck.

Ethan rattles the door with his body. But it won’t open. 
Ethan unbolts the door again but it remains locked. He 
unbolts it again...and again...but it remains locked.

                                      91.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      These old houses. Such a nuisance.

             ETHAN
      Yes ma’am. Link’s not here.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      I know. He’s at Savannah Snow’s 
      party. Which is where all the kids 
      are. It’s THE social event of the 
      Autumn calendar. It took quite a 
      number of phone calls on my part to 
      get him an invitation because of 
      his friendship with you.

             ETHAN
      Ma’am?

Mrs. Lincoln’s steps forward, thrusting out her brownies;

             MRS. LINCOLN
      I made you brownies. I thought I 
      could come in and we could talk. My 
      fight’s not with you, son. It’s 
      that girl. You should be at that 
      party with your friends. With the 
      kids who belong in this town.

             ETHAN
      Oh but, didn’t you hear? Lena and I 
      broke up.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      You’re lying, son. But it’s that 
      girl and her evil ways. Let me in. 
      I want to help before it’s too 
      late....May I come in?

Ethan stares at her. Suddenly disturbed. Ethan has a bad 
feeling about Mrs. Lincoln. Ethan can’t move. An overpowering 
feeling of fear and protection. He doesn’t trust her.

             ETHAN
      No, ma’am. I don’t think so.

             MRS. LINCOLN
      Ethan?

             ETHAN
      No. Ma’am. You may not come in.

                                      92.

Mrs. Lincoln looks agitated. Her eyes narrow. She pushes the 
plate of brownies towards Ethan but:

THE PLATE REACTS AS IF IT HITS AN INVISIBLE WALL BETWEEN 
ETHAN AND MRS. LINCOLN. IT TUMBLES TO THE PORCH, SHATTERING 
INTO PIECES.

Ethan looks at Mrs. Lincoln whose expression is blank and 
dark, but smiling. She now behaves like SARAFINE;

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      They bound your house Ethan. As if.

Sarafine/Mrs. Lincoln walks through the VEIL OF THE BONDING 
SPELL, entering the house. Ethan, terrified, backs away.

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      You’re a handsome boy up close. You 
      remind me of someone. Now who is 
      it?

ETHAN SEES MRS. LINCOLN FACE BECOME TRANSLUCENT, MORPHING IN 
AND OUT...MORPHING INTO SARAFINE’S FACE...

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t tell me. I’ll get it.

SHE BACKS ETHAN UP...TERRIFIED, ETHAN SEES THE YOUNG FACE OF 
GENEVIEVE IN MRS. LINCOLN.... 

             GENEVIEVE/MRS. LINCOLN
      Someone. Someone I once...

THEY STOP. AS ETHAN AWAITS THE NEXT WORD, THE FACE MORPHS  
INTO THE OLD, DEATH MASK FACE OF GENEVIEVE... 

             GENEVIEVE/MRS. LINCOLN
	(CONT’D)
      Killed.

ETHAN MAKES HIS MOVE. HE RUNS OUT OF THE KITCHEN DOOR.

EXT. WATE HOME - CONTINUOUS - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

ETHAN RUSHES TO HIS CAR, FIDDLING FOR HIS KEYS. HE SEES:

“MRS. LINCOLN” ON HIS PORCH WATCHING HIM.

ETHAN GET IN HIS CAR AND RACES AWAY.

                                      93.

EXT. GATLIN ROAD - MINUTES LATER - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

ETHAN IS PANICKED AS HE SPEEDS TO RAVENWOOD. THROUGHOUT THIS 
SEQUENCE; WE INTERCUT EXTERIOR ROAD SHOTS WITH INTERIOR CAR.

INT. ETHAN’S FORD - CONTINUOUS - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

SUDDENLY, HIS RADIO BLASTS NEIL SEDAKA’S “YOU’RE 
SIXTEEN”...HE HITS IT.

             ETHAN
      SHUT THE FUCK UP NEIL SEDAKA!

BUT THE SONG KEEPS PLAYING LOUDER AND LOUDER, POUNDING 
ETHAN’S EARS, DISTRACTING HIM AS THE STEERING WHEEL BEGINS TO 
STEER ITSELF, CAUSING ETHAN TO ZIGZAG ACROSS THE ROAD.

EXT. HONEY HILL - NIGHT

Ethan’s Ford busts through a barricade, passing Honey Hill.

THE LIGHTENING BOLT STRIKES AS IT DOES EVERY NIGHT, BUT THIS 
TIME, IT’S AN EXPLOSION THAT KNOCKS THE POLICE OFF THEIR FEET 
AND CREATES A CHASM IN THE EARTH OF HONEY HILL.

THE LIGHTENING BOLT CREATES A TEAR IN THE ATMOSPHERE AND FOR 
A BRIEF MOMENT, WE CAN SEE HUNDREDS OF DARK WITCHES AWAITING 
ENTRY INTO OUR WORLD...like a light blinking on briefly in a 
darkened hallway filled with Beings waiting on line.

INT. ETHAN’S FORD - CONTINUOUS - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

Ethan drives, suddenly shocked to hear Sarafine/Mrs. Lincoln 
in the back seat. THE STEERING WHEEL STARTS DRIVING ITSELF;

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
      You drive just like your mother.

Angry, Ethan struggles to control the steering wheel. He 
purposely bangs the side rear of the car as if to knock 
Sarafine/Mrs. Lincoln out of the car. She vanishes.

Ethan speeds up to ANOTHER CAR AHEAD OF HIM. SOMETHING ABOUT 
IT DISTURBS HIM. 

Ethan drives up alongside SEEING INTO THE SECOND CAR;

ETHAN’S POV: IT IS LILA, HIS MOTHER, ALSO STRUGGLING WITH HER 
CAR, ABOUT TO CRASH...ETHAN IS SEEING HIS MOTHER THE NIGHT 
SHE DIED.

                                      94.

             ETHAN
      MOM! MOM!

LILA CAN NOT HEAR OR SEE HIM. SHE LOOKS FRIGHTENED. ETHAN IS 
SEEING A TIME THAT IS PAST.  HE HEARS:

             SARAFINE/MRS. LINCOLN
	(V.O.)
      NO CASTER MAY LOVE A MORTAL.

ETHAN WATCHES AS HIS MOTHER’S CAR AIMS STRAIGHT FOR A TREE, 
BUT VANISHES UPON IMPACT like a puff of smoke. 

             ETHAN
      MOOOOOM!!

Ethan stops his car. He gets out. 

EXT. GATLIN ROAD - SITE OF LILA’S CAR CRASH - HALLOWEEN NIGHT

Ethan looks around. There is nothing. But he recognizes: This 
is the same spot he met Lena when her car was in the mud.

             ETHAN
      Lena?

THUNDER. A RAIN STORM BEGINS AS ETHAN GETS INTO HIS CAR.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - LATER THAT NIGHT.

A RAGING STORM IS RAGING ON RAVENWOOD. Ethan drives the car 
to a screeching halt. He hops out and runs towards the front 
door. He leaps up the porch stairs as the door swings open;

INT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

RAVENSWOOD’S INTERIOR HAS TRANSFORMED ITSELF INTO AN ANCIENT 
CASTLE. IT LOOKS AS IF SOMEONE HAD GONE ON A VIOLENT RAGE, 
BREAKING MIRRORS, FURNITURE, CRACKS IN THE WALLS, ETC...

STRONG WINDS FLICKER CANDELABRAS THAT CAST BRIEF 
SHADOWS/GLIMPSES OF SPECTERS/BEINGS  LIGHT/DARK CAUGHT IN 
BETWEEN THE THIN VEIL OF NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL WORLDS. 
THEY ARE TERRIFYING TO SEE....

ETHAN HEARS LENA’S SCREAMING VIOLENTLY FROM UPSTAIRS. ETHAN 
SEES BOO, THE DOG. HE LOOKS INTO IT’S EYES;

             ETHAN
      BOO, WHERE IS SHE!?

                                      95.

BOO TURNS AND RUNS. ETHAN FOLLOWS, RUNNING AFTER HIM UP THE 
SPIRALING STONE STAIRS. 

AT THE LANDING, BOO WAITS FOR ETHAN TO CATCH UP THEN RUNS 
TOWARDS A DARK ROOM AT THE END OF THE HALL. HE BARKS AT TWO 
MASSIVE WOODEN DOORS, WHICH GROAN OPEN BY THEMSELVES.

INT. MAIN CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

ETHAN ENTERS. THE WALLS ARE COLD AND MOSSY. THE LIGHTS ARE 
TORCHES IN THE WALLS. THERE IS NO CEILING. THE ROOF OPENS TO 
THE HEAVENS WHERE THE SKY IS BLACK. THE STORM SWIRLS AROUND 
THEM, AS IF THE ROOM WERE IN THE EPICENTER OF THE STORM.

ETHAN FINDS MACON, AUNT DEL, GRAMMA AND LARKIN HOLDINF HANDS 
FORMING A CIRCLE. THEIR EYES ARE OPEN BUT THEY ARE IN A 
TRANCE, RECITING IN LATIN, TO THE CENTER OF THE CIRCLE.

ETHAN MOVES CLOSER TO SEE THE CENTER OF THE CIRCLE;

LENA IN A VIOLENT RAGE OF ENORMOUS POWER CONSUMING HER...SHE 
IS THE SOURCE OF THE DESTRUCTION.

             ETHAN
      LENA! LENA!

LENA FOCUSES ON ETHAN - HER EYES ARE ON FIRE.

             LENA
      AAAHHH!!

LENA STRIKES OUT, HER POWERS BREAK THROUGH THE CIRCLE, 
HITTING ETHAN AND SENDING HIM FLYING AGAINST THE WALL.

MACON AND THE OTHERS RE-GATHER, HOLDING THE CIRCLE AGAIN. 

             MACON
      GET OUT OF HERE! 

             ETHAN
      WHAT HAPPENED?

LENA RAGES WITH JEALOUSY...

             LENA
      I SAW YOU WITH HER! KISSING HER!

             ETHAN
      NO!

LENA STRIKES WITH HER POWER AT ETHAN AGAIN. ETHAN IS KNOCKED 
ACROSS THE ROOM.

                                      96.

             MACON
        (TO Del and others)
      KEEP CHANTING. KEEP HER BOUND.

LENA WANTS TO GET OUT OF THE CIRCLE TO ATTACK ETHAN.

             ETHAN
      IT WASN’T ME. LENA, YOU KNOW ME. 

LENA STRIKES HIM AGAIN, KNOCKING HIM DOWN.

             GRAMMA
      PLEASE SON, FOR YOUR OWN GOOD.

NOW, ETHAN IS MAD. HE WON’T LEAVE. IN FACT, HE PUSHES HIMSELF 
THROUGH THE CIRCLE CREATED BY MACON AND THE WITCHES.

LENA IS ENRAGED. ETHAN GRABS HER. LENA CAUSES ETHAN PAIN BUT 
HE WON’T LET HER GO, IN SPIRE OF HER POWER OVER HIM;

             ETHAN
      LISTEN TO ME...LISTEN TO MY 
      THOUGHTS. MY MEMORIES. YOU KNOW ME. 
      IT WASN’T ME. I LOVE YOU. BELIEVE 
      ME, LENA! BELIEVE ME!!!!

LENA THRASHES A BIT AS HER DARK ENERGY SWIRLS...BUT ETHAN 
FORCES HER TO LOOK INTO HIS EYES...LENA CAN READ HIS 
THOUGHTS...HIS MEMORIES..LENA STARTS TO SOFTEN...

             LENA
      It wasn’t you.

Lena realizes he’s telling the truth. LENA’S EYES RETURN TO 
NORMAL. Ethan kisses her as they embrace. Lena collapses.

ABRUPTLY, IT ENDS. ALL IS SILENT. CALM. The Castle dissolves 
back into Ravenwood Manor with windows and a roof. Lena and 
Ethan lay on the floor. Ethan whispers to Lena;

             ETHAN
      Lena...Lena, open your eyes.

Lena suddenly catches her breath. She opens her eyes. She 
sees Ethan and embraces him as the others watch silently.

             MACON
        (Shocked)
      He’s a Mortal. How could he break 
      our Sanguinis Circle?

             GRAMMA
      It’s not us who protect her 
      anymore.  It’s the boy.

EXT. GATLIN LIBRARY - NIGHT

Ethan and Lena, holding hands. LENA’ TATTOO READS; 51. Their 
expressions, determined and united as Amma opens the door.

                                      97.

             ETHAN
      We’re running out of time. We need 
      help. 

Amma steps out, closes the door and locks it.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Amma, please, we need your--

             AMMA
        (interrupts)
      This isn’t the place you’re gonna 
      find anything you need.

Amma leads them around to the back of the library.

EXT. GROUNDS BEHIND THE LIBRARY - NIGHT

Amma leads Ethan and Lena to the back entrance. The building 
is hundreds of years old, solid stone. There are large IRON 
RINGS imbedded in the building. The hang like adornments on 
either side of the back door. Amma pulls out one IRON RING 
with one hinged side. Amma deftly twists the hinge until, 
what looked like solid stone, morphs into A HIDDEN KEYHOLE in 
the shape of a CRESCENT MOON. Amma pulls a chain up from 
around her neck revealing A CRESCENT SHAPE KEY. She pushes 
the key into the foundation at the back of the building. 

A LARGE STONE ARCHWAY outlines itself within the building. 
Amma pushes at the Archway. It opens, revealing; A STONE 
STAIRCASE leading down into darkness. She rotates the key 
left and suddenly, a ROW OF TORCHES LIGHT THEMSELVES along 
the sides of the staircase wall. 

             LENA
      This is a Caster Library.

Amma smiles at Lena. She likes her.

WIDE ANGLE: As they enter, the Archway closes and morphs back 
into the foundation of the building, vanishing the entrance.

                                      98.

INT. CASTER LIBRARY STAIRCASE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Amma leads Lena and Ethan down a stone staircase that appears 
to be breathing, as if they were entering a living being: 
carvings and faces blend in and out of the wall as they 
pass...faces that have a bad reaction to Ethan’s presence.

             AMMA
      They don’t want s Mortal here. Hold 
      onto Lena. 

Lena takes Ethan’s hand and they continue.

INT. CASTER LIBRARY - MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Amma, Ethan and Lena reach the bottom. Amma takes her key 
and, once again, inserts it into a moon-shaped keyhole.

TORCHES ALONG THE WALLS LIGHT THEMSELVES - REVEALING AN 
INFINITE SERIES OF TUNNELS, COLUMNS AND SHELVES ON BOOKS THAT 
SEEM TO GO ON FOREVER...TABLES AND CHAIRS FOR READING.

Lena’s hair and skin begin to move, as if the LIBRARY WERE 
RESPONDING TO HER.

             AMMA
      It knows a Caster is here.

             ETHAN
      This must go under the whole town.

             AMMA
      Into other states too. Gatlin is 
      what you might call the capital of 
      Caster USA. 

Lena feels welcomed. As they walk, they pass INFINITELY TALL 
COLUMNS WITH CARVED SYMBOLS; HAWKS, LIONS, FACES OF WITCHES, 
CREATURES THAT PEER AT THEM LIKE PREDATORS.

Amma then leads them to a separate room:

INT. CASTER LIBRARY SANCTUARY READING ROOM - NIGHT

A circular room with floor to ceiling books. A reading table 
and chair in the center with a lamp.

             AMMA
      Macon was here every night looking 
      through every book he could, to 
      find the Cursed spell for a way to 
      reverse it. He never found it.

             AMMA
	(CONT'D)
        (to Lena)
      Think clearly what you’re looking 
      for.

                                      99.

Lena stops. She closes her eyes. Ethan and Amma watch as Lena 
calls forth a LARGE BOOK out. It floats onto the table.  
Amma’s expression tell us it’s an important book. They gather 
round as she reads the title:

             LENA
      “The Sacred Book of Moons”.

THE BOOK OF MOONS GENTLY EXPANDS AND CONTRACTS - AS IF IT 
WERE BREATHING. Ethan moves to touch it but Amma warns:

             AMMA
      Don’t touch it. Use only your 
      powers. You’re looking at the most 
      powerful Book from the Otherworld. 
      It’s as alive as you or me. The 
      strongest of every spell, good and 
      bad.

             LENA
      Did Uncle Macon look through it?

             AMMA
      Yes, but this Book chooses what it 
      will reveal and to whom. It’s Law 
      is “Like attracts Like”.

             LENA
        (realizing)
      Only the Cursed shall find the 
      Curse.

Amma feels for her. Lena frightened but determined. But Ethan 
can tell she is scared. 

             ETHAN
      Don’t worry. You’ll find it. Just 
      look under; “HOW TO STOP FROM  
      TURNING INTO YOUR MOTHER”.

Lena almost laughs. Ethan kisses her for good luck. THE BOOK 
OF MOONS SUDDENLY BURSTS OPEN TO TWO BLANK PAGES MAKING A 
BANGING SOUND. All three heads turn to it:

Lena sits before it. She waits: SLOWLY, LATIN WRITING BEGINS 
TO APPEAR, WORD BY WORD, UPON THE PAGES AS LENA READS THE 
FIRST PAGE.

Amma escorts Ethan out, closing the door, leaving Lena is 
alone with the Book of Moons. 

INT. CASTER LIBRARY - MAIN ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT.

While waiting, Amma sits reading while Ethan browses along 
the books. He sees one entitled; CASTERS OF THE CIVIL WAR. 
His hand touches it, when it gives him a shock!

                                     100.

             ETHAN
      OW!

             AMMA
      What part of “you can’t touch it if 
      you’re not a Caster” are you not 
      getting?

             ETHAN
      There were Casters in the Civil 
      War?

             AMMA
      Casters been fighting along side 
      Mortals for centuries. Every war on 
      every side.

             ETHAN
      Mom came here, didn’t she?
        (Amma nods)
      With Macon?

Amma knows what’s coming. She handles it calmly;

             AMMA
      Yes. Many times. Macon enjoyed 
      teaching her about his world. Your 
      mother loved that.

             ETHAN
      Did Macon love my mother? Is that 
      why Sarafine killed my mother.

             AMMA
      I don’t know what Sarafine did or 
      didn’t do. But yes, Macon loved 
      Lila. And Lila loved your father. 
      Your mother might have died for 
      reasons most people die. God’s 
      reasons.

             ETHAN
      I don’t know how you can believe in 
      all this then go to church and 
      believe in God at the same time.

                                     101.

             AMMA
      To my thinking, God created all 
      things. It’s only men who decide 
      which things are mistakes.

EXT. CHARON SWAMP - NIGHT

Link and Ridley are on a raft, laying together, kissing. Link 
is completely under her spell - mentally and sexually.

             RIDLEY
      You can’t tell anyone. Promise me. 
      You won’t tell a living soul.

             LINK
        (spellcast)
      I won’t. I swear it.

             RIDLEY
      Remember; YOU SEE BLANK, YOU GO 
      BLANK. Say it so I know you got it.

             LINK
      I see Blank I go Blank.

             RIDLEY
      Aw sugar...You know how much I love 
      you right now?

Link nods. Ridley begins to make out with Link. They’re 
bodies intertwine as they got at it with a passion. 

CAMERA RISES ABOVE: THEIR RAFT IS TURNING COUNTER 
CLOCKWISE...BECAUSE ALLIGATORS ARE CIRCLING IN FORMATION, 
CAUSING THE WATER TO SPIN THE RAFT.

EXT. GATLIN - DAY

Shots on Gatlin in November/December as the weeks pass.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      I’ve been taking Lena to the Caster 
      Library for weeks now.

EXT. JACKSON HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Ethan and Lena stop walking when they see the school’s 
entrance is blocked by a mob of protesters:

                                     102.

POV: MRS. LINCOLN and other mothers protesting with signs, 
handing out fliers, demanding “EXPULSION FOR LENA DUCHANNES 
AND ETHAN WATE”...”ZERO TOLERANCE FOR LENA DUCHANNES AND 
ETHAN WATE” “ETHAN WATE SERVES THE DEVIL”...

ANGLE ON: Emily looks to Ethan and Lena in a jealous rage.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      Things are back to normal at 
      school. We figured it’s safer to be 
      out in the open, holding onto each 
      other. Making sure no one gets in 
      between us again.

INT. CASTOR LIBRARY - SANCTUARY READING ROOM - NIGHT

Lena is reading and reading the Book of Moons. She looks 
tired and upset.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      But Lena’s getting discouraged. 
      She’s not finding anything. 

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC ROOM - NIGHT

Ethan writes in his journal. Ethan looks worried.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      And we’re running out of time. 

EXT. GATLIN ROAD - COUNTY LINE - DAY

Lena’s hand tatoo reads: 12...She and Ethan sit on Ethan’s 
car. His favorite Sign: “YOU ARE LEAVING GATLIN ...” before 
them. Lena is a dark mood. Ethan tries cheer her out of it. 

             ETHAN
      Want to go a movie tonight? Blow 
      off the library.
        (Lena shakes her head)
      Want to go to Charleston? Have a 
      nice dinner.

             LENA
      No. We don’t have the time.

             ETHAN
      You can take one night off. It 
      won’t-

             LENA
      WILL YOU SHUT UP! You don’t know 
      what you’re talking about.

Lena hops off the car. Ethan is surprised.

                                     103.

             ETHAN
      Lean, we’ll find a way--

             LENA
      How do you know!? You’re just a 
      Mortal. You don’t know anything!

             ETHAN
        (trying to joke)
      Hey, I can make wind. May not be a 
      hurricane, but it can be powerful.

             LENA
      Why don’t we just admit it!

             ETHAN
      Admit what?

             LENA
      It’s already started. I’m becoming 
      a Dark bitch, I can feel it. 

             ETHAN
      No, you’re not. You’re just--

             LENA
      You’re too stupid to see you’re 
      going wind up dead being around me! 
      So why don’t you just stay away. 
      GET LOST BEFORE SOMEBODY DROPS A 
      HOUSE ON YOU. 

             ETHAN
      OK, now you’re a bitch. 

Insulted and hurt, Lene spellcasts: A RAINSTORM THAT POURS 
ONLY ON ETHAN.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Really? I’m agreeing with you. Is 
      this necessary?

Lena is hurt, upset, walking away. Ethan follows, the rain 
falling only on him;

             ETHAN
	(CONT'D)
      Lena, you’re just feeling sorry for 
      yourself.  You’re scared. 

                                     104.

             ETHAN
	(CONT'D)
      We both are. But you can’t let it 
      take over you. Everybody’s has to 
      face shit in their lives. You can 
      control your feelings if you just--

LENA SCREAMS. A BRANCH FALLS FROM THE TREE. 

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Or you can let’em out. Could you 
      please stop raining on me?

Lena acquiesces. The rain on Ethan stops. He’s soaking. Lena 
starts to cry. Ethan takes her in his arms.

             LENA
      I am scared. I’m scared I’m going 
      to hurt you.

             ETHAN
      Well, love’s a risk. 

             LENA
      I mean “kill you” hurt you. 

             ETHAN
      Go ahead. Kill me.

Ethan kisses her. MORE BRANCHES BREAK. Ethan and Lena begin 
to make out on the grass below the “YOU ARE LEAVING GATLIN” 
SIGN. They are more passionate, unlike anything we’ve seen 
them do before...these are two teenagers in lust with each 
other.

SMOKE BEGINS TO BURN AROUND THEM. THE SIGN “YOU ARE LEAVING 
GATLIN, COME BACK SOON” BEGINS TO CATCH FIRE...SINGEING THE 
EDGES OF THE SIGN, MOVING TOWARDS THE CENTER.

ETHAN AND LENA DON’T NOTICE. THEY DON’T CARE. 

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. SANCTUARY READING ROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Lena reads. Using her magic, she turns to another blank page; 
A PARAGRAPH WRITES ITSELF WITH FIRE BURNING EACH WORD ONTO 
THE PAGE. IT IS THE FORBIDDEN SPELL AND IT’S ANTIDOTE;

CLOSE-UP: Lena as she reads. Slowly, her expression changes 
to fear and sadness. Her eyes fill with tears. 

                                     105.

             LENA
	(V.O.)
      WHOEVER BREATH THE SPELL OF LIFE 
      OVER DEATH, FORBIDDEN TO US, IS 
      THUS CURSED. REMEMBERTH IT’S 
      INCARNATION. THE FORBIDDEN WAS CAST 
      FOR THE LOVE OF A MORTAL AND THUSLY 
      THY POWERS WERE DAMNED TO DARKNESS. 
      TO RESTORE BALANCE OF LIGHT UNTO 
      DARKNESS, THE CURSED MUST LET THY 
      MORTAL LOVE DIE. 

She has found the answer and it breaks her heart. She covers 
her mouth so her cries can not be heard. What can she do?

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. HONEY HILL - DAYS LATER.

Ethan and Lena are walking up the hill towards the cannon. 

             ETHAN
      So, what did the spell say?

             LENA
        (lies)
      To reverse the Curse, all it said 
      was, I have to do these certain 
      rituals every day and night right 
      up until the Claiming.

             ETHAN
      And then you’ll be all right?

             LENA
        (lies)
      Well, we’ll be protected from the 
      Curse. I still could be Claimed 
      either way. But you’ll be safe.

             ETHAN
      But now the Claiming’s back to 
      being your True Nature, right? And 
      we know that’s going to be fine.

             LENA
      Yeah, I’m not scared anymore. I’ve 
      got it under control. See?

They kiss. No branches fall. No earth shaking. Ethan looks at 
her curiously. She smiles;

             ETHAN
      I kinda miss the earthquakes.

                                     106.

             LENA
      I still feel them.
        (holding onto him)
      Ethan, listen. I don’t want to 
      spend every day up til my birthday 
      thinking about this. 
        (shows hand)
      Look, no more tattoos. Whatever’s 
      going to happen--

             ETHAN
      We know what’s going to happen.

             LENA
      I know, I know but whatever...I 
      want you to do something for me.
      Between now and my birthday, I just 
      want to be with you. I want to have 
      memories of us that have nothing to 
      do with this. Just normal boyfriend 
      girlfriend stuff.  Can we do that? 
      It could be your birthday present 
      to me. 

             ETHAN
      OK. Great...Want to be my date for 
      the Winter Dance? I mean, it’s 
      enormously lame. Everybody gets 
      dressed up. They have chaperones 
      guarding the make-out stairs and 
      piss punch, it’s God awful.

             LENA
      Sounds perfect.

They kiss again. Then Lena continues:

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      I had this idea of a Christmas 
      present for your Dad but I wouldn’t 
      do it without your permission.

             ETHAN
      A Spell?

             LENA
      To let go of your mom. Not to 
      forget her just to help him move 
      on. It’s a very gentle spell. But 
      if you don’t want me to, I won’t.

             ETHAN
      No, go ahead. It’s OK. Thanks.

                                     107.

             LENA
      I didn’t know what to get you. We 
      don’t celebrate Christmas. What do 
      you wish for every year that you 
      never get?

Ethan thinks...Then laughs...Lena laughs too.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      What? Tell me.

             ETHAN
      Ha, ha, man, this is so Disney 
      channel...
        (Confesses)
      Snow...Yeah, I’ve always wanted one 
      of those White movie Christmases. I 
      mean look around? Does it look 
      Christmas here? Pathetic, right?

       		LENA
	That set-up’s too easy.

		ETHAN
	I know, I know.

             LENA
      Well, if that’s what you want...

             ETHAN
      What?

LENA SPELLCASTS: SHE MAKES IT SNOW. ETHAN IS ASTONISHED.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Lord. How am I going survive a 
      lifetime of you surprising me?

They kiss. Honey Hill is covered in white as snow gently 
falls. Lena watches Ethan take it all in, loving how overcome 
he is by the gift.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Hear how quiet it is? Thank you.

             LENA
      You’re welcome.

Lena is thrilled to make him so happy. But she acts as if she 
is hiding something from him...something inevitable.

Ethan takes her in his arms. They kiss. WHAT WE DON’T REALIZE 
AT FIRST, IS THAT LENA IS CASTING A SPELL ON ETHAN.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      There’s a part of me that wishes 
      we’d never met.

                                     108.

             ETHAN
      Why?
        (Lena shrugs)
      You’re never going to lose me, 
      girl. As soon as we graduate, we’re 
      outta here. Together. Right?

             LENA
      Anywhere you want to go.

They kiss. Lena puts on a brave front, smiling through tears;

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      I think I’ve loved you longer than 
      I’ve known you. Thank you for that.

             ETHAN
      You’re welcome. Would you be into 
      going to Iceland?

SHE LAUGHS. THEY HOLD EACH OTHER AS WE SLOWLY BEGIN TO HEAR: 
LENA’S THOUGHTS RECITING LATIN PHRASES, CONJURING A 
SPELL...Tears in her eyes, she whispers in his ear, as she 
holds him tight;

             LENA
	(V.O.)
      Goodbye Ethan.

- AS IN HIS DREAMS, LENA IS SUDDENLY FURTHER AWAY FROM 
HIM...STANDING BY THE CANNON...ETHAN FAR DOWN HONEY HILL. HE 
REACHES OUT HIS ARMS TO HER...SHE RAISES HERS TO HIM...

                                WHITEOUT:

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC BEDROOM - MORNING

Ethan wakes up as if from his first good night’s sleep. On 
his stomach lays a copy of the novel “INFINITE JEST”.  He 
gets out of bed and looks out the window: There is no snow on 
the ground. It is a grey December day.

Ethan crosses to his World Map, looking at all the places he 
wants to go. He exits OS, passing his desk.

CAMERA ON ETHAN’S JOURNAL: The book opens page by page as all 
of Ethan’s writings and drawings vanish with Lena’s spell.

INT. WATE HOME - KITCHEN - MORNING

Amma is cooking breakfast when the front door opens: DANIEL 
WATE enters carrying a Xmas Tree. He is dressed, shaved, 
looking clear headed and upbeat. Amma is surprised, pleased;

                                     109.

             DANIEL
      Amma! I had to carry this damn tree 
      ten blocks. Is that son of mine 
      still sleeping? All he ever does.

             AMMA
      Daniel! You ... you look fine.

             DANIEL
      I feel fine. 
        (looks at the tree)
      I got the kind Lila liked. It’s our 
      first one without her, so...
        (Resists sadness)
      Gonna get the decorations out of 
      the garage.
        (exits out)
      Get that Boy up. I’m hungry.

Amma can’t believe it. She crosses to Daniel’s study and 
opens the door; Everything has been cleaned. No liquor 
bottles. Everything in it’s place. Amma is stunned. 

Ethan comes down the stairs passing Amma to the kitchen. 

             AMMA
      You see this?

Ethan looks inside the study and he too is surprised.

             ETHAN
      I don’t believe it. Where he is?

             AMMA
      In the garage getting decorations.

             ETHAN
      That’s fine. That’s just fine.

Ethan opens up the refrigerator as Amma returns to cooking.

             AMMA
      You get home late? 

             ETHAN
      I uh...I don’t remember. I must 
      have been tired. But I slept good. 
      For first time in a long time.

             AMMA
      I thought it would be nice to 
      invite Lena over for dinner.

             ETHAN
      Lena?

Amma stops and looks at Ethan, who looks back confused.

                                     110.

             AMMA
      Yes, Lena Duchannes.

             ETHAN
      Lena Duchannes? Why would I invite 
      Lena Duchannes to dinner? I barely 
      know her. She doesn’t talk to 
      anybody at school. Do you know her?

Amma is confused. She shakes her head. Ethan exits, saying;

             ETHAN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT'D)
      Except for that damn Civil War 
      thing for school, I am going to 
      spend this entire winter break in 
      bed. Call me for meals. 

Amma stands still, confused...until she realizes what Lena 
must have done: Lena made Ethan forget her. Amma turns back 
to the sink, tears in her eyes, knowing what Lena has 
sacrificed.

INT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - NIGHT

Lena exits her room and walks down the staircase. The house 
has been transformed one last time: IT LOOKS LIKE A PRISON IN 
LOCK DOWN. GREY CONCRETE WALLS. WINDOWS BLOCKED WITH BARS 
CHARMS & SYMBOLS COVERING FLOOR, CEILING AND WALL.

Lena reaches the main room where there is one area, of color 
and beauty, in front of a fire place. Like a small cottage 
that fell inside the prison walls. Two large Chesterfield 
chairs. Footstools. Tiffany floor lamps. A circular rug with 
a large five pointed star as it’s central design. Lena sits 
with Gramma to hear;

Macon playing the piano; a bluesy song. Camera pans the room 
to reveal Larkin playing the bass...Camera continues panning 
to reveal Aunt Del, who surprisingly lifts up a trumpet and 
plays like Miles Davis. 

Lena watches the fire as they play. WE PRE-LAP.

             REVEREND STEPHENS
	(V.O.)
      Sacrifice. It’s not what I’d call a 
      modern word.

                                     111.

EXT. CHURCH OF CHRIST  - MORNING

The Church has a Christmas Tree and a Nativity scene.

             REVEREND STEPHENS
      People hear the word Sacrifice and 
      become afraid something will be 
      taken away from them.

INT. CHURCH OF CHRIST  - CONTINUOUS - MORNING

The church is filled with Gatlin townspeople. A shaky Mrs. 
Lincoln sits alone, listening to the Homily, with Link. Ethan 
sitting beside Amma as Reverend Stephens gives a sermon.

             REVEREND STEPHENS
      Or they must give up something they 
      can’t live without. Sacrifice, to 
      them, means loss in a world telling 
      us we can have it all. So sacrifice 
      isn’t necessary. It’s old 
      fashioned. But I believe true 
      sacrifice is a victory and we’re 
      missing something in our lives 
      without it...It’s a victory over 
      the darkness inside of us that 
      tells us we are alone, we are 
      unloved and we are undeserving. 
      Things we all feel at times, if 
      we’re honest with ourselves. I 
      believe Sacrifice is the greatest 
      act of love because it requires our 
      free will. We must choose to 
      Sacrifice. To give up something or 
      someone you love, for something or 
      someone you love more than 
      yourself. It’s a gamble. But to 
      experience that is to experience 
      love at it’s most powerful.

Amma looks to Ethan.

INT. LENA’S ROOM - NIGHT

Lena is using “magic” to vanish all the writing on her walls. 

             REVEREND STEPHENS
	(V.O.)
      I won’t lie to you - Sacrifice 
      won’t take away the pain of loss. 
      But it wins the battle against 
      bitterness. 

             REVEREND STEPHENS
	(V.O.)
	(CONT'D)
      The bitterness that dims the light 
      on all that is of true value in our 
      lives.

                                     112.

Lena sits before her white wall when Gramma enters. She sits 
beside Lena, embracing her in her arms. She whispers to her;

             GRAMMA
      I’m so sorry, child. Sometimes 
      growing up doesn’t come in stages. 
      Sometimes it happens all at once.

EXT. HONEY HILL- CIVIL WAR SITE - DECEMBER 21ST - AFTERNOON

WE SEE: SEVERAL SHOTS OF GATLIN PEOPLE SETTING UP FOR THE 
CIVIL WAR RE-ENACTMENT; Cannons being moved into 
place...People putting on uniforms and period clothes...

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC BEDROOM - AFTERNOON.

Ethan is dressing in a CIVIL WAR CONFEDERATE UNIFORM. (He 
looks like ETHAN CARTER WATE FROM THE FLASHBACKS). He checks 
himself out in the mirror. He’s not too pleased he has to 
participate in this re-enactment but knows he has no choice. 
His cell phone vibrates with a text from Link: YOU READY?

EXT. LINK’S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Ethan walks to Link’s house as Link exits. Link is dressed in 
as a UNION SOLDIER.

             ETHAN
      They made you a Yankee?

             LINK
      I get to die and go home early.

A CANNON FIRES OFF CAMERA as they get into Link’s car.

             LINK
	(CONT’D)
      Shit, we’re late for the war.

INT. LENA’S ROOM - TWILIGHT

Lena is dressed in ceremonial clothes - looking beautiful, 
but frightened. Her door opens. It is Del;

             AUNT DEL
      It’s time to begin, sweetheart.

                                     113.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - BACK PROPERTY - TWILIGHT

We follow Lena and Aunt Del exiting as CAMERA CRANES OUT AND 
WIDENS TO REVEAL:

Macon and Gramma are waiting, in ceremonial robes, around a 
massive circle lined all around with LIVING TREES - WHOSE 
BRANCHES AND MOSS ARE FILLED WITH FACES AND SPARKS OF 
SPIRITUAL BEINGS, ALL GATHERED FOR THE CLAIMING.

WE HEAR THE SOUNDS OF BATTLE FROM NEARBY HONEY HILL. CAMERA 
CONTINUES CRANES OVER TO THE GREENBRIER HILL BATTLE IN 
PROGRESS: Soldiers dressed in both Blue and Gray battle for 
dominance of the hill. Mobs of spectators watch from behind 
barricades, many holding up video cameras or cell phones.

EXT. WOODS LEADING TO HONEY HILL - CONTINUOUS - TWILIGHT

Mr. Lee, dressed as a Confederate General, has a clip board, 
as he organizes the “players”. Ethan and Link arrive.

             MR. LEE 
        (to Ethan)
      Get up the hill, your late. Ask 
      Scottie for your gun and ammo. 
        (to Link)
      You, take one of those rifles and 
      load. I’m putting you in as one of 
      the thirty dead.

Ethan and Link part ways. Link crosses to an area where: LINK 
IS HANDED A RIFLE. HE IS HANDED A BOX OF BLANK CARTRIDGES. 

LINK READS THE WORD “BLANK”. HIS MIND GOES BLANK. HE FINDS A 
PRIVATE SPOT TO LOAD HIS GUN. HE PUTS DOWN THE BOX OF BLANK 
CARTRIDGES. LINK PULLS OUT A BOX OF REAL BULLETS FROM HIS 
POCKET AND BEGINS TO LOAD HIS RIFLE, AS IF NOTHING WAS OUT OF 
THE ORDINARY. (HE IS UNDER A RIDLEY SPELL)

EXT. HONEY HILL - NIGHT

Ethan, in his Confederate Uniform, makes his way up the woods 
with his rifle to take his position. 

THE BATTLE FOR HONEY HILL IS IN FULL PROGRESS. UNION AND 
CONFEDERATE SOLDIERS ARE BLASTING RIFLES, FIRING CANNONS. 
“PLAYERS” ARE DYING ON THE FIELD AS SPECTATORS RECORD IT.

                                     114.

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - BACK PROPERTY - NIGHT

Lena stands in the middle of the circular arbor of living 
trees, as their whispers and chants - along with Macon, 
Gramma and the others - begin to fill the air with sound. A 
coven. The sky above stirs with movement and thunder.

Lena stands bravely, apart from the others.

The Living Trees begin to move counter-clockwise around Lena 
in the center...Lena looks to the sky. THE MOON APPEARS FULL.

             AUNT DEL 
      THE ANCIENTS HAVE FORETOLD THIS 
      TIME. AND THE NATURAL WHO WILL BE 
      CLAIMED. ALL FORETOLD. FOR IT IS 
      PRE-DESTINED BY THE FIVE ELEMENTS, 
      THAT UPON THIS NIGHT..THE 21ST 
      NIGHT OF THE 12TH MONTH IN THE 12TH 
      YEAR OF THE 21ST CENTURY...THAT THE 
      POWERS OF LIGHT AND DARK WILL 
      MERGE. AND THAT UPON THIS CHILD WHO 
      BECOMES A WOMAN, LENA DUCHANNES, 
      HER TRUE NATURE WILL REVEAL THE 
      TRUE NATURE OF ALL POWER FOR THE 
      NEW CYCLE...

Lena, Macon, Gramma, Del etc...look up to the night sky and 
see: A CONSTELLATION IS FORMED THAT LOOKS LIKE A ORNATE MAYAN 
CROSS AMONG THE STARS...ALL CLOSE THEIR EYES AS THE NIGHT SKY 
BRIGHTENS LIKE A SPOTLIGHT FROM THE MOON. THE SPOTLIGHT FINDS 
LENA.

EXT. HONEY HILL - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Ethan is in the woods, stalking Union Soldiers, bored out of 
his mind. Suddenly, he comes upon LINK.

             ETHAN
      This is so stupid. Why don’t we 
      just kill each other so we can both 
      get outta here. You want come over 
      and watch a movie?

             LINK
      ALIENS?

             ETHAN
      Great. On three...one, two...three--

Ethan and Link shoot each other. Link, of course, is 
unharmed. 

                                     115.

But Ethan feels a terrible pain in his gut. He looks down. 
His stomach begins to bleed from a real gunshot wound. He is 
terrified, looking at Link in utter confusion. Ethan falls to 
the ground. Link stands, holding the rifle, spellbound.

                              SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. RAVENWOOD MANOR - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

LENA OPENS HER EYES, KNOWING ETHAN HAS BEEN SHOT.

             LENA
        (growls)
      ETHAN...EEEETHAANNN!!

MACON, GRAMMA AND DEL OPEN THEIR EYES. SOMETHING HAS GONE 
WRONG AS LENA RUNS FROM THE CIRCLE. CAMERA FOLLOWS HER.

EXT. GREENBRIER WOODS - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

CAMERA FOLLOWS LENA RUNNING PAST THE DUCHANNES MAUSOLEUM TO 
HONEY HILL. AS SHE PASSES, WE SEE:

FROM OUT OF THE MAUSOLEUM, APPEAR THE SPECTRES OF THE DARK 
WITCHES THAT HAVE ARRIVED FROM THE LIGHTENING BOLTS.

EXT. HONEY HILL BATTLEFIELD - NIGHT

LENA RUNS ACROSS THE BATTLEFIELD DURING THE RE-ENACTMENT, AS 
THE CONFEDERATE AND UNION LINE SHOOT BLANKS AT EACH OTHER. 
MR. LEE SHOUTS FROM THE SIDELINES:

             MR. LEE 
      HEY! WHAT THE HELL IS SHE DOING? 
      GET THAT GIRL OUTTA THERE!

EXT. WOODS ON HONEY HILL - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Lena runs to the fallen Ethan, bleeding, near death. She 
kneels to him. He looks to her...

             ETHAN
      Lena...don’t...

             LENA
      Ethan! ETHAN!!

But he can’t finish, gurgling blood. ETHAN PASSES OUT. LENA 
BELIEVES HE IS DEAD.

                                     116.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      ETHAN! ETHAN NO...NOOOOOOO!!

LENA TURNS TO RAGE, CAUSING THE SKIES ABOVE TO FORM A 
SUPERCELL STORM - WAVES OF STORM CLOUDS GATHERING IN SECONDS, 
COVERING THE ENTIRE SKY ALONG WITH GREAT WINDS, THUNDER AND 
LIGHTENING MORE POWERFUL THAN ANY WE’VE SEEN.

EXT. HONEY HILL - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

In eerie silence, The Soldiers and Spectators stop all action 
to gaze up at the enormous storm gathering. All we hear is 
the gathering storm.

EXT. WOODS ON HONEY HILL - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

LENA SEEMS TO EXPAND WITH POWER AND HATRED. SARAFINE APPEARS 
BEFORE HER. SHE SMILES.

             SARAFINE
      LISTEN TO MOTHER. ALL LOVE DIES. 
      ONLY DARKNESS IS INFINITE. CLAIM 
      YOUR SELF FOR THE TRUE POWER.

LENA TAKES SARAFINE’S HAND AND SUDDENLY THE SUPERCELL STORM 
ERUPTS;

MONTAGE: INTERCUT SHOTS OF GATLIN BEING DESTROYED BY LENA’S 
SUPERCELL STORM/HURRICANE/EARTHQUAKE...

- HOUSES AND TREES BEING PULLED INTO THE SKIES. 

- STREETS CRACKING, ENFOLDING BUILDINGS. RAIN FLOODING. THE 
SKIES BURSTING WITH DESTRUCTIVE POWER.

- SOLDIERS AND SPECTATORS BEING BLOWN, TOSSED, RUNNING FROM 
THE DESTRUCTION TO FIND NO SAFE HAVEN.

- MACON, GRAMMA, DEL RUNNING THROUGH THE GREENBRIER WOODS TO 
THE HONEY HILL BATTLEFIELD, WHERE SARAFINE’S DARK WITCHES ARE 
WAITING FOR THEM, OUTNUMBERING THEM 3 TO 1. 

- A SUPERNATURAL BATTLE ENSUES AS MACON AND HIS FORCES OF 
LIGHT FIGHT THE DARK WITCHES, EACH SIDE USING THEIR POWERS OF 
ENERGY, SHOOTING BANDS OF ENERGY THROUGH THE ETHER LIKE 
COMETS THAT DISINTEGRATE THEIR TARGETS ON CONTACT.

- RIDLEY APPEARS TO LINK, WHO HAS STOOD STOCK STILL HOLDING 
HIS RIFLE, SINCE SHOOTING ETHAN. SHE BEGINS TO TURN THE RIFLE 
AROUND SO THAT IT IS POINTING UNDER LINK’S CHIN, PREPARING TO 
KILL HIM AS IF BY HIS OWN HAND. LINK IS UNDER A TRANCE, 
UNABLE TO RESIST HER.

                                     117.

- LENA’S RAGE, AND POWER, ARE BUILDING. SARAFINE IS FEELING 
MORE POWERFUL....UNTIL WE HEAR:

             MACON
	(O.S.)
      Lena...Lena....

LENA LOOKS DOWN TO THE FALLEN ETHAN AND IS SHOCKED TO SEE:

IT IS MACON WHO IS SHOT, DYING.

Confused, shocked, Lena kneels to him;

             LENA
      Macon?

SARAFINE SEES WHAT HAS HAPPENED AND TIGHTENS HER GRIP ON HER 
DAUGHTER’S HAND. LENA WANTS TO GO TO MACON BUT SARAFINE WON’T 
LET HER.

             SARAFINE
      IT’S A TRICK. STAY WITH ME.

BUT LENA IS MORE POWERFUL. SHE TURNS TO HER MOTHER AND TRIES 
TO PULL HER HAND AWAY. SARAFINE LOCKS GAZES WITH HER. HOLDING 
TIGHT. MOTHER AND DAUGHTER, LOCKED IN A STRUGGLE FOR POWER.

SARAFINE AND GENEVIEVE’S IMAGE MORPH IN AND OUT:

             SARAFINE/GENEVIEVE
      STAY WITH US. IN THE DARK. WE ARE 
      THE SAME. WE ARE THE POWER. THE 
      DARK AGE OF OUR RULE HAS COME!

LENA LOOKS AT HER MOTHER, ENRAGED;

             LENA
      OH SHUT-UP, MOTHER.

...AND WITH HER GREATER POWER, LENA YANKS HER HAND AWAY AND 
SENDS SARAFINE FLYING WITH THE FORCE OF A TORNADO INTO THE 
ETHERS. 

- RIDLEY SEES THIS AND FREEZES. HER SPELL BREAKS. LINK’S 
RIFLE FALLS TO THE GROUND. 

- AT THE SAME TIME, ON THE HONEY HILL BATTLEFIELD, THE DARK 
WITCHES POWERS WEAKEN. MACON, GRAMMA AND THE OTHERS BLAST 
THEM INTO OBLIVION...

- LINK AWAKENS FROM THE BROKEN SPELL, SHOCKED AND SCARED.

             LINK
      WHAT HAPPENED?!

                                     118.

RIDLEY KISSES HIM AS THE STORM SWIRLS AROUND THEM, THEN:

             RIDLEY
      BYE SUGAR. GOTTA RUN.

AND WITH THAT RIDLEY DE-MATERIALIZES THROUGH THE WOODS.

Lena, kneeling to Macon, realizes he is dying;

             LENA
      Macon? Is it really you?

             MACON
      I promised...his mother. 

             LENA
        (crying, angry)
      No! Please, Macon, no, don’t go.

             MACON
      Don’t Lena...It’s...my choice...

His hand grips Lena’s...as MACON DIES.

Lena is heartbroken. The Storm passes, but the Rain 
continues. Lena looks up at Gramma, Aunt Del and...

MACON, WHO TRANSFORMS INTO HIS REAL IDENTITY; LARKIN. Gramma, 
explains, sadly:

             GRAMMA
      Macon insisted, child. It was the 
      only way to protect you both.

Lena cries over Macon’s body as THE FULL MOON GLOWS.

INT. ETHAN’S ATTIC ROOM - CONTINUOUS - SAME NIGHT.

Camera pans to find Ethan, safe and alive, asleep in his bed, 
in his Confederate Uniform, a copy of INFINITE JEST on his 
chest. 

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. GATLIN LIBRARY - TWILIGHT

Ethan’s car pulls up to the curb. It’s backseat is filled 
with his and Ethan’s luggage/belongings. Ethan jumps out and 
runs into the library.

WE SUPER:  18 MONTHS LATER.

INT. GATLIN LIBRARY - TWILIGHT

Ethan, now 19, enters the library full of excitement and 
energy. He finds Amma, who beams when she sees him.

                                     119.

             AMMA
      You all set?

             ETHAN
      Got everything in the car. Dad and 
      Link are going to leave tomorrow 
      with the truck and the big stuff. 
      There’s probably room if you want 
      to drive up with them? See my dorm?

Amma shakes her head, not wanting to cry.

             AMMA
      I got things I have to do. 

They don’t know how to say goodbye. Amma tears up. 

             AMMA
	(CONT’D)
      Come here. A college boy isn’t too 
      big for my arms. Give me sugar.

They embrace, holding each other.

             ETHAN
      I’ll call you as soon as I get 
      settled.

             AMMA
      You call whenever you can.

She touches his face gently. Ethan smiles and turns to exit.

As he exits, Ethan sees Lena reading at a library table. He 
stops to watch her for a moment. Something makes him go to 
her. Lena, looking beautiful, mature, looks up from her book.

             ETHAN
      Hi...Lena, right?

             LENA
      Yeah. Hi. Ethan, is it?

             ETHAN
      Yeah. Sorry we never really got to 
      hang. But I..I always wanted tell 
      you, I thought your poems in 
      creative writing were really good.

                                     120.

             LENA
      That’s nice of you to say. You 
      leaving?

             ETHAN
      NYU. Me and my friend Link.

Lena smiles. There is an awkward silence between them. Ethan 
feels something. Ethan notices a BUKOWSKI book on the table 
called WHAT MATTERS MOST IS HOW WELL YOU WALK THROUGH FIRE.

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      Great title. Bukowski? He any good?

             LENA
        (Beat)
      Define good.

Ethan laughs. Lena smiles.

             LENA
	(CONT’D)
      Take it. A getting-out-of-Gatlin- 
      present.

Ethan is charmed by her. He takes the book.

             ETHAN
      Thanks.

Awkward silence. They look at each other. Lena maintains a 
sweet smile, betraying nothing. There is something between 
them but Ethan can’t figure it out. 

             ETHAN
	(CONT’D)
      See ya.

             LENA
      See ya.

Ethan exits. Lena looks to Amma, who knows how much Lena is 
hurting. Amma goes to the door, watching Ethan get into 
Link’s car and drive away. She pulls down the CLOSED SIGN.

INT./EXT.  ETHAN’S CAR/ GATLIN ROAD - DAY

Ethan sits behind the wheel. Before he drives, he opens the 
Bukowski book and reads the first poem he finds:

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      THERE IS A PLACE IN THE HEART THAT 
      WILL NEVER BE FILLED... 

INT. CASTOR LIBRARY - SANCTUARY READING ROOM - DAY

Amma has set up Lena, who is studying the Caster books. 
Before she can, she must remove her Contact Lens.

                                     121.

             ETHAN
	(V.O.)
      A SPACE ... AND EVEN DURING THE 
      BEST MOMENTS AND THE GREATEST 
      TIMES...WE WILL KNOW IT...WE WILL 
      KNOW IT MORE THAN EVER...THERE IS A 
      PLACE IN THE HEART THAT WILL NEVER 
      BE FILLED AND  WE WILL WAIT AND 
      WAIT ... IN THAT SPACE.

LENA REMOVES HER CONTACT LENS TO REVEAL SHE HAS ONE NORMAL 
EYE AND ONE EYE THAT IS ON FIRE - SHE IS BOTH LIGHT AND DARK. 

She puts on her reading glasses and begins to study.

EXT. GATLIN ROAD OUT OF TOWN - DAY

As Ethan drives past the remains of the burnt sign: “YOU ARE 
LEAVING GATLIN, SOUTH CAROLINA. COME BACK SOON”.

INT. ETHAN’S FORD - CONTINUOUS - DAY

Ethan sees the SIGN. Something in his expression tells us 
this has meaning for him. Something stirs in him. He says out 
loud, to himself;

             ETHAN
      Do you believe in signs?

EXT. GATLIN ROAD OUT OF TOWN - CONTINUOUS - DAY

WIDE ANGLE: WE SEE ETHAN’S FORD DRIVING AWAY...UNTIL:

ETHAN’S CAR STOPS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE EMPTY ROAD. 

FROM FAR AWAY, ETHAN GETS OUT OF THE CAR, LOOKING BACK TO 
GATLIN. Has he remembered?

BLACKOUT.

             THE END

