            BROKEN  COVE
               Written 

                 by

             Declan O'Dwyer

ENERGY/Brooklyn Weaver                                                                 03/03/13

EXT. BROKEN COVE – NIGHT

High winds and torrential rain bombard the ruinous IRISH 
FISHING VILLAGE of BROKEN COVE into submission. 

Under the cover of a dripping awning, an UNIDENTIFIED FIGURE 
draws deeply on the last, pathetic remnants of cigarette - 
before flicking the butt away, instantly igniting another. 
Waiting, watching.

EXT. BROKEN COVE. JETTY - CONTINUOUS

A FISHING BOAT battles violent seas to find safe haven in the 
harbour. Weathered men skillfully fight to secure a line.

A battered kit-bag is thrown from the boat. A man leaps 
across, finds his footing on the concrete jetty. Scuffed 
shoes, a threadbare overcoat, a battered TRILBY, this is 
SMITH. Intelligent eyes and a tired kilowatt smile contradict 
a predilection for violence. 

Smith peers through the billowing spray to see the 
UNIDENTIFIED FIGURE approaching; REVEAL: the formidable 
INSPECTOR AMBROSE.

             AMBROSE
      I’ve got two of those hats. One to 
      shit in and one to cover it up 
      with.

Smith hoists his kit bag onto his shoulder. Awkward stand 
off. 

             AMBROSE 
      Really sorry about --

             SMITH
      -- I know. 

Smith looks past Ambrose further down the Jetty – to see two 
GARDA (IRISH POLICE), JOSEPH AMBROSE and ALFRED MAHONEY – 
keeping a respectable distance - but still a visible 
presence. Joseph, handsome, dapper even, has a PENNY TIN 
WHISTLE in his hand. 

             AMBROSE
      Don’t want no trouble. What 
      happened - well, what happened was 
      a feckin’ -- 

             SMITH
      -- I’m here to bury my brother and 
      bury the hatchet.

             AMBROSE
      That’s what worries me.

             SMITH
      Are we done - Inspector?

Ambrose steps aside and Smith eases past and along the jetty 
– past the two Constables. Smith nods his head, a subtle 
greeting.

 

     	  	ALFRED
     		Joe, Alf. 

             SMITH 
		Smith.


		JOSEPH
		Smithy.

Joseph, choked - braves it out but can’t find the words. 
Smith acknowledges the condolences. Looks Joseph up and down - 

             SMITH 
      Uniform suits you. Chip off the old 
      block.

Joseph forces a hollow smile. Smith moves out --

EXT. BROKEN COVE. PORT ROAD - CONTINUOUS 

-- into the main road, kicking through the mud as he crosses 
to the BUS STOP.

The pseudo-sinister shape of an aged RANGE ROVER cuts a path 
through the rain. Inside; TWO inbred thugs, PATRICK KELLY and 
his heinously disfigured brother LINUS. 

They step from the vehicle, striding over to Smith, ready to 
rumble. 

             PATRICK
      Monaghan’s want a word?

             SMITH
      They can have two; fuck off!

             PATRICK
      Said we were to insist.

             SMITH
      Tell the Monaghan’s if they’re 
      involved, I’ll get to see them. 

Linus threateningly grabs Smith’s sleeve --

             LINUS
      They said...

Smith lashes out with devastating ferocity. Brutal and 
efficient; flooring Linus. 

Patrick lurches forward to attack - BUT; Ambrose appears, 
cigarette still hanging from his lip, viciously forcing a 
thumb into Patrick’s eye socket, throwing him to the ground. 

             AMBROSE 
      Now ladies. Play nice.

Behind Ambrose, Alfred and Joseph - a subtle threat - 
although not ultimately convincing. Joseph awkwardly wields 
his WOODEN POLICE TRUNCHEON.

             AMBROSE 
      Don’t be drinking the water, Linus - 
      fish fuck in it. 

Linus climbs to his feet - nursing a broken nose. 

Ambrose grabs Patrick, lifting him by his collar. 

             AMBROSE 
      You’re making the place look 
      untidy. Go home boys. Count your 
      chickens. 

As Patrick Kelly breaks free he stumbles into Joseph. Joseph 
wavers - his apprehension manifesting in fear - which people 
like the Kelly’s can sense - like pack animals. 

Patrick snatches the truncheon from a petrified Joseph. BUT 
instantly, Ambrose calmly steps in ramming a finger into 
Patrick’s already gouged eye. Patrick screams - drops the 
truncheon and scrambles clear.

Ambrose picks up the truncheon, hands it back to a shell-
shocked and embarrassed Joseph. 

The Kelly brothers get back into the Range Rover, watching 
Smith all the way. They wheel-spin off into town. 

             AMBROSE 
      You remember the Kelly Brothers?

Smith nods. Picks his sodden Trilby from the mud.

             AMBROSE 
      Be friendly to the natives. 

Ambrose gestures to his POLICE CRUISER.

             AMBROSE 
      Can we give you lift somewhere?

Smith shakes his head. The knackered, decrepit BUS arrives - 
and Smith steps on.  

Ambrose, Alfred and Joseph watch him take a seat as the bus 
pull away, towards town. Joseph starts nervously playing the 
tin-whistle - almost like a comfort blanket.

             AMBROSE 
      There goes the neighbourhood. 

Ambrose puts a reassuring hand on Joseph’s shoulder - before 
heading to the car. 

INT/EXT. BUS - CONTINUOUS

Smith looks out of the dirty, broken rear window, 
metaphorically and physically moving out of the reach of the 
law. 

CUT TO:

EXT. NEW TOWN BRIDGE - LATER 

The bus limps over the NEW TOWN BRIDGE, a rusty industrial 
relic to a more prosperous time. Below, an Ionized, rocky 
river-bed - and a watery tomb to several smashed vehicles, 
jutting from the rocks.  

INT. BUS / NEW TOWN BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS

Smith takes in the view; fights the bittersweet nostalgia 
rush.

CUT TO:

EXT. NEW TOWN - LATER STILL 

A desolate hick-town in the arse-hole of nowhere.

The bus pulls up, Smith steps down. It’s familiar territory, 
but it’s been a while. 

Across the road; GOLIGHTLY’S BED AND BREAKFAST. 

CUT TO:

INT. GOLIGHTLY’S BED & BREAKFAST - CONTINUOUS 

Smith walks in, it’s a well worn drinking hole masquerading 
as a B&B - but it’s been years since anyone has paid to stay 
the night. 

He takes a seat at the bar - absorbing the lack of 
atmosphere, the nicotine stained walls, the worn varnish on 
the bar. All familiar - all comforting. 

OLD MAN GOLIGHTLY, old fart, appears, carrying a stack of 
PINT GLASSES - see’s Smith, it jolts him - he drops the 
glasses.

             MARY 
      Clumsy bastard!!!!

             SMITH
      What’s wrong old man, you look like 
      you’ve seen a Ghost?

Slowly, the briefest glimpse of a smile creeps onto 
Golightly’s seasoned face. 

             GOLIGHTLY
        (at the top of his voice)
      Mary!!!! Mary!! Put your draws on 
      woman, we got ourselves an 
      Epiphany!

             MARY 
      What! What you jawing about now you 
      old flaccid --

MARY GOLIGHTLY, navvy landlady, steps from out-back. She 
recognizes Smith.

             MARY 
      -- well, sling a saddle on my back 
      and ride me till I fart!

She scurries over and throws her arms around him. Genuinely 
pleased to see him. 

             MARY 
      Look at you, with the city boy hat. 

She looks Smith in the eyes - remembering. 

             MARY 
      Wish I could say it’s good to see 
      you, Smithy, under the 
      circumstances n’all -- 

Mary doesn’t let go of his gaze until she’s satisfied - she’s not fooled.

             MARY 
      -- and I’ve seen that look before. 
      Didn’t suit you back then neither. 
      A man can’t hide vengeance in his 
      eye.

She snaps out of her troubled reverie.

             MARY 
      You been up to the house yet?

             SMITH
        (shakes his head, no)
      Just off the bus.

Golightly dangles a RABBIT FOOT KEY-RING. 

             GOLIGHTLY
      Suppose you’ll be wanting the old 
      bulldog again then? 

             MARY
      Listen to you, like that Noah and 
      his boat thing.

             GOLIGHTLY
      Ark. 

             MARY
      Ark my hole! What do the Hebrews 
      know about Arks? It was a feckin’ 
      boat. 

CUT TO:

EXT. GOLIGHTLY’S GARAGE - NIGHT  

Golightly opens the garage door, hits the light. And there, 
before them, a mid-seventies old-school WHITE 5.3 Litre V12 
JAGUAR XJ-S - bruised with the dust and detritus of years in 
storage - but still magnificent. Smith can’t hide his smile. 

             MARY
      The only thing that still gets his 
      dick hard. 

Golightly throws Smith the keys.

             GOLIGHTLY
      Still turns over well enough. Just 
      sitting here rusting --

             MARY
      -- like the rest of us in Broken 
      Cove. 

CUT TO:

EXT. NEW TOWN. HIGH ROAD - NIGHT   

The XJ-S purrs through town - every mile a memory.  

I/E. JAGUAR XJ-S - CONTINUOUS

-- the harsh, picturesque landscape roll by.

EXT. COAST ROAD - NIGHT

The Jaguar races down the rocky coast road --

EXT. T-JUNCTION - CONTINUOUS 

-- and hammers to a muddy intersection. Smith hits the 
peddle, right fork, inland, towards The Drift. 

CUT TO:

EXT. THE DRIFT - NIGHT 

The Jaguar rumbles into the ramshackle, downtrodden mining 
town, populated with the dregs of humanity, the full gamut, 
the unemployed and the unemployable. 

He cruises through the social wasteland; until he stops at a 
row of unsavoury cottages. 

Smith climbs out of the ride, scans his surroundings before 
proceeding to the door of COTTAGE SIX.

But; from next-door, (COTTAGE FOUR) a brittle, skeletal man, 
ED CONWAY, scurries away. Smith watches him for a moment, 
recognizing him from a bygone time. Ed Conway doesn’t see the 
shadowy figure of Smith, too caught up in his own myopic 
world. 

Smith peers through the dirty window of COTTAGE SIX, then, 
instinctively reaches to the gutter above the window - 
retrieving a key - unlocks the door. 

Behind him; DAPHNE D’MARCO, Venezuelan, slut-sexy, stoned and 
pregnant, steps out of COTTAGE FOUR - instantly recognizes 
him. 

             DAPHNE
      Well, looky what the cat sicked up?

Smith recognizes her too.  

             SMITH
      Daphne D’Marco. Still a Fiver-a-
      fuck?

She sucks her teeth, all attitude. 

             DAPHNE
      -- half-price on Wednesday, uncle 
      bitch. 

Smith opens the door and tentatively enters, Daphne follows 
into -- 

INT. JIMMY’S BUNGALOW - CONTINUOUS

-- the dark hallway. A crucifix hangs crooked on the wall - 
Daphne straightens it. 

             DAPHNE
      I’d offer my condolences, but I 
      don’t like you.

The repugnant atmosphere of stagnant damp air assaults the 
senses as they move through the unkempt bungalow. 

             DAPHNE 
      You back to kill people, right? 

Smith doesn’t answer. They move into the lived-in living 
area. Despite the wasteland of fast-food containers and empty 
beer bottles - it’s obvious the joint has been ransacked - 
with a shattered rear window the point of entry.  

             DAPHNE 
      Your brother, he killed by Anheuser-
      Busch, no? 

Smith throws her a daggered look.

             DAPHNE 
      Ok, inappropriate. 

             SMITH
      Jimmy have enemies?

             DAPHNE
        (shrugs)
      Just himself. 

Smith flicks clutter from the table - finds nothing. He 
continues searching the room.

             DAPHNE 
      If you looking for nothing, then I 
      guess you found it, eh?

Daphne joins the search, boredom creeping in.

Smith moves the bedroom door open with his foot and peers 
inside, also ransacked.  

She holds up a DVD ‘Double Anal’.

             DAPHNE 
      I borrow this? 

He looks back at Daphne, nods. Satisfied, Daphne heads 
outside.  

Smith notices something on the floor - he crosses, kicks 
other crud out of the way - to reveal a crudely handmade 
WOODEN MODEL SAILING SHIP, mast broken.

EXT. THE DRIFT - CONTINUOUS

Smith steps out of the bungalow, broken WOODEN SAILING SHIP 
in hand - only to find Daphne waiting at the door. She 
gestures down the road - to a black FORD EXPLORER - with TWO 
figures silhouetted inside. 

             DAPHNE 
      Friends of yours?

Smith gets into the Jaguar, dumps WOODEN SAILING SHIP on the 
passenger seat and guns the engine. 

Rear view mirror; where the EXPLORER indiscreetly follow. 

Smith slows, turns off, the tail the still with him.

EXT. T-JUNCTION - CONTINUOUS

The XJ-S hammers through the junction. 

CUT TO:

EXT. COAST ROAD - NIGHT

Smith floors the accelerator - the 5.3 litre V12 engine roars 
and ferociously lurches forward - vomiting mud behind.

The Ford Explorer begins to fall behind.

Suddenly; Smith skids to a halt and reverses --

EXT. DIRT TRACK - CONTINUOUS

-- slamming the Jaguar neatly down a dirt track. 

Smith checks his mirror and see’s the Ford lumber past. 

CUT TO:

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - NIGHT 

The XJ-S spits up a shit-storm of mud on the track up to the 
homestead. 

The farmhouse nestles amongst derelict barns and stables. 

ANNIE SMITH, a true frontiers-woman, strong in spirit, 
intimidating, kicks the door open and steps out onto the 
front porch - wielding an archaic 12 GAUGE SHOTGUN.  

The Jaguar pulls up, Smith climbs out - leaves the engine 
running.

             SMITH
      Ma.

Annie looks at him; it’s a hard gaze. Only the love a Mother 
could have and only the hurt a family can hide. 

             ANNIE 
      Is that a London hat? 

The silence is uncomfortable - she de-cocks both barrels of 
the 12 gauge. 

             ANNIE 
      You staying for supper?

Smith shakes his head. She so desperately wants him to - but 
wont ask again. 

Smith steps onto the porch.  

             SMITH
      I’m gonna kill who did this to 
      Jimmy.

Annie is a strong woman - but the heartbreak is impossible to 
hide. 

             ANNIE
      I know.

She hugs him - holds him so tight. 

             ANNIE 
      Don’t make me bury another son.

Annie pulls away, regains her composure.

             ANNIE 
      Home-brew still make you retarded?

Smith, nods, forever a child in his Mothers eyes. She 
gestures to the car.

             ANNIE 
      Thought I’d seen the back of that 
      thing. Turn it off, it’s running 
      rich. 

Smith clicks off the engine - starts to head to the house - 
but deviates towards the barn. 

             ANNIE 
      Nothing in there - already looked. 

He keeps walking. Annie heads inside eyeing him all the way.

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Smith slips the latch, lets himself in. 

He fires up a PARAFFIN LANTERN - and instantly moves for an 
old wood-wormed DRESSER, tucked away rotting in the corner. A 
disturbed pattern of dust shows recent activity. Regardless, 
Smith prises the door open, cajoles an awkward panel from the 
floor, to REVEAL; a hidden compartment -- 

-- he forces his hand inside - and pulls out nothing, nothing  
but a dirty, broken TERRACOTTA TILE FRAGMENT. 

Smith eyes instantly dart over to an archaic LOG BURNER 
nearby. He climbs to his feet, clearing the clutter away. To 
REVEAL; the hearth under the Log Burner is made from the 
EXACT SAME dirty terracotta tiles - complete with missing 
fragment. Smith grabs a rusty scythe from a nearby heap of 
tools and uses it to sweep under the burner - eventually 
hooking out a CANVAS BAG. 

             AMBROSE 
      You looking for something? 

Smith spins to see Ambrose. 

             AMBROSE 
      Been into see her?

Smith nods. Ambrose eyes the canvas bag. 

             AMBROSE 
      She still trying to peddle that 
      poison she calls home-brew?
        (smirk)
      Stuff rots my guts, gives me the 
      screaming trots.   

They share a moment - an awkward sombre moment - and Ambrose 
chooses that silence to address an unresolved issue.

             AMBROSE 
      About me and your Ma -- 

Ambrose, stares at his feet - searching for the words. 

             AMBROSE 
      -- it just happened, you know. When 
      our Glynis went, we just -- it 
      happened. 

He finally looks up to see Smith shrug, half smile. It’s cool 
with him. 

Smith starts undoing the canvas bag - removes an ADDRESS 
BOOK.  

             SMITH 
      How did Jimmy die?

Ambrose clears his throat, choked. 

             AMBROSE
      Slowly. 

Smith’s cold, hardening gaze forces Ambrose to continue. 

             AMBROSE 
      Doc said someone tied him to a 
      chair, beat him, broke shins - 
      fingers, hands. Then put a Paraffin 
      soaked rag in his mouth and set 
      light to it. 

             SMITH
      Can I see the body?

Ambroses’ silence is enough to tell him there’s nothing left 
to see. Smith fights his anger - instead turns his focus to 
the contents of the book - general scribbles and day-to-day 
stuff - the back of the book contains a list of SIX names. 

             AMBROSE
      What you got there?

             SMITH
      Dunno. When we were kids me and 
      Jimmy always hid shit n’stuff in 
      here, so if anything hap --

Smith doesn’t bother to finish his sentence. He scours the 
list: 

             SMITH 
      Monaghan, I know. Caroll and 
      Conway, that’s it. 

             AMBROSE
      Johnny Caroll? That drunken ejit 
      died a day or two before Jimmy. Had 
      a skinful, car went off the road, 
      down by the bridge. Face became an 
      integral part of his arse. Bag of 
      weed in the glove-box. 

Smith hands the list over to Ambrose. 

             SMITH 
      Recognise any of the others?

Ambrose scans the list - and nods.

             AMBROSE
      The usual, apart from Cathleen 
      Hennessy, name don’t ring no bells 
      with me. But I can make some 
      enquiries tomorrow, see what we 
      get. 

He hands the book back to Smith - it’s another uncomfortable 
silence. 

             AMBROSE 
      Beds made up.

Smith, throws him a look. 

             AMBROSE 
      Been made up a week. She’d -- we’d, 
      like it if you stayed. Even just 
      for the night. 

Smith, indecisive. 

CUT TO:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - NIGHT 

The ‘family’ table. A stilted atmosphere. Supper is finished - 
Annie is clearing the table. 

             SMITH
      I’m thinking of heading into town, 
      it’s been a while. 

             ANNIE
      Don’t go causing no trouble, 
      raising hell, not tonight. Already 
      got one funeral tomorrow. 

The words just slip out - the meaning has a delayed emotional 
aftershock for Annie. Smith remains silent but she can read 
him like an open book. 

             ANNIE 
      You’re going to see her, the 
      protestant tramp? 

Smith speaks volumes by not answering. 

             ANNIE 
      Never had the sense you were born 
      with. 

Smith attempts to protest, but thinks better of it. 

             ANNIE 
      That harlot broke this family up. 
      Put that stupid rift between you 
      and James. 

Annie fights back the emotion. Anger and grief fuel her 
venom. Ambrose places a comforting, calming hand on top of 
Annie’s hand - but she snaps it away. 

             ANNIE 
      He’s barely cold in the ground and 
      your sniffing round her - like a 
      fly to shit!

She’s got a point, Smith knows it. 

             ANNIE 
      If she hadn’t done what she done - 
      you’d never have gone away, and 
      Jimmy would still be --

She cuts off and walks from the kitchen. Ambrose throws his 
napkin down and leans across the table.  

             AMBROSE
        (sotto)
      You’ll find her working at The Full 
      Moon, down by Longacre. 

Smith acknowledges the tip off - he knows where it is. 

             AMBROSE 
      Watch your back, you hear. You’re a 
      fist full of trouble to these 
      people and every inbred with a 
      blade and a pulse knows you’re in 
      town - and why you’re here. 

Ambrose heads off to comfort Annie. 

CUT TO:

INT. THE FULL MOON - NIGHT

Smith eases into the bar. A haven for societies undesirables. 
The TOPLESS WAITRESSES apply their trade - numb to the 
lecherous looks from the punters. These are not nubile young 
beauties - these are hardened working women with real time-
worn bodies.   

As Smith sidles to the bar he notices a familiar face - this 
is PASCAL, a tired looking and jaded drunk. The briefest of 
acknowledgements before Pascal is lured back into his drunken 
lechery. Smith gets THE BARMAN’S attention. 

             SMITH
      Looking for Moira Cowley?

Before THE BARMAN can answer, the owner of the joint appears, 
JOAN BRANNIGAN, seen it all, done it all, twice. 

             JOAN
      If it’s not the Prodigal Son --

             SMITH
      -- said the devil’s whore.

             JOAN
      I’m my own whore, Smithy, the devil 
      don’t get a look in. 

She points off into a murky corner of the bar - and there she 
is, MOIRA COWLEY - remarkably unremarkable - serving, 
topless. 

             JOAN 
      Beauty’s only skin deep, ugly goes 
      through to the bone. 

Joan peels off leaving Smith watching Moira work the prosaic 
punters. Eventually Moira sees him, ashen. She reigns her 
shock back in. He makes his way over. 

             MOIRA
      What do you want Smithy, eh? Jim 
      needed you when he was alive, not 
      now. So piss off back to whatever 
      trouble you’ve crawled from. 

             SMITH
      Can’t do that.

             MOIRA
      Don’t start spouting that blood is 
      thicker than water shit! It’s too 
      late for that. 

Smith gets Jimmy’s book out - tries to show it to her. 

             SMITH
      Jimmy had a list. Names. Some I 
      recognise, some I don’t. 

She’s not listening. 

             MOIRA
       Fuck off, Smithy. 

Smith grabs her arm, roughly. 

             SMITH
      I need --

A BOUNCER walks over.


             BOUNCER
      Moira?

Smith lets go. 

             MOIRA
      He’s just leaving. 

             BOUNCER
      You heard the lady.

The BOUNCER grabs Smith’s shoulder - but instantly, Smith 
clutches the bouncers hand, twisting it - sending him 
crashing to the floor - unable to move for pain.  

             SMITH
        (calmly to Moira)
      I need your help. 

             MOIRA
      And I said fuck off!

Smith lets go of the Bouncers arm and walks out.  

Moira watches him go - walking out of her life, again. 

EXT. THE FULL MOON - CONTINUOUS

Smith crosses to his car. Two burly thugs, KEOGH and GARRICK, 
climb from the black FORD EXPLORER, swiftly moving towards 
him, intent. 

As Smith unlocks the car door - Garrick slams a hessian sack 
over his head - whist Keogh hammers a pulverising blow into 
Smith’s kidneys sending him crashing to the ground. 

Smith claws the sack from his head - arms blocking searching 
kicks from his aggressors. 

Unexpectedly, Keogh is brutally clobbered across the head 
with a Whiskey bottle.

Before Garrick has chance to react, Click! The hammer cocking 
on a REVOLVER echoes at his temple.  

Finally, reveal; Joan, waving the REVOLVER and holding the 
neck of the broken whiskey bottle. 

Suddenly; WHOOP! WHOOP!! The Klaxon and headlights of a GARDA 
(POLICE) CAR exposes the guilty. Joan drops the bottle, 
pockets the revolver and Keogh and Garrick scurry away like 
cockroaches. 


Bruised, Smith leans himself up against his car.

             JOAN
      Now we’re even. 

And Joan moves back inside. A moment later TORCHES blind 
Smith. 

             JOSEPH
      Smithy?

Smith squints past the blinding torchlight to see Joseph and 
Alfred.

             SMITH
      Joe, Alfie. 

             JOSEPH
      My old man told us you’d be heading 
      this way. Said keep an eye on you. 

Smith drags himself up.

             SMITH
      Grateful you showed up when you 
      did. I promised my Ma I wouldn’t 
      get into trouble. 

             ALFRED
      I won’t tell her if you don’t. 

             SMITH
      I’d appreciate that.
        (beat)
      You wouldn’t happen to know who 
      those two bollocks were would you?

             JOSEPH
      One was William Keogh, for sure. We 
      arrested the gob-sheen last year, 
      drink-driving, I think. The other 
      one is called Garrick. Pretty sure 
      they both work for Red Jack’s 
      outfit. 

Alfred looks at Joseph, dumbfounded he proffered the 
information.

             ALFRED
      Why don’t you just go right ahead 
      and give the man their dates of 
      birth, Joseph. 

             JOSEPH
      I don’t know their dates off the 
      top of my head --

Slowly, it dawns on Joseph he may have been slightly loose 
tongued. 

             JOSEPH 
        (to Alfred, unsure)
      He ain’t gonna do nothing...
        (to Smith, nervously)
      You ain’t gonna do nothing, are you 
      Smithy?

Smith shakes his head. Alfred nudges Joseph - they’d best be 
off. 

             ALFRED
      Smithy. 

             JOSEPH
      Night Smithy. 

Smith waves them off - and drops into the drivers seat of the 
Jaguar - he starts the engine - but as he looks over his 
shoulder to reverse; he see’s Moira crossing the car park and 
climbing into her TOYOTA HILUX PICK-UP jalopy.

Moira; starts the Hilux and begins to reverse. 

Suddenly; she see’s Smith in the rear-view mirror and nearly 
shit’s herself. She slams on the breaks - and she’s out of 
the cab.

             MOIRA
      You bastard! If I’d been wearing 
      knickers I’d have shit them for 
      sure! 

Smith is silent, Moira calms, slightly. 

             MOIRA 
      Thought I told you to fuck off? 

             SMITH
      You did. I recall.

             MOIRA
      So what you doing here Smithy? 
      Really? Looking for the people that 
      did this to Jimmy? Revenge? Is that 
      it, like it was with your Pa? Same 
      shit, different decade.  

Smith, emotionless.

             SMITH 
      Have you finished?

Moira is caught off-guard;

             MOIRA
      What?

             SMITH
      Have you finished? 

             MOIRA
      No Smithy, I am far from finished. 

             SMITH
      Well let me know when you are.

He waits - patiently. 

             MOIRA
        (incredulous)
      I am... I am... I am...

But he’s taken the wind out of her sails.

             MOIRA 
      I am... I am finished. Fuck you and 
      the horse you came in on! Yeah, I’m 
      finished. 

             SMITH
      Jimmy had a list. 

             MOIRA
      You said. 
        (beat)
      I don’t know nothing about any 
      list.

             SMITH
      I just thought --

             MOIRA
      Well you thought wrong.

Silence. Moira softens, her emotional side, long buried, 
starts to seep out. 

             MOIRA 
      Jim and me broke up, a year or so 
      back. 

This is news to Smith - BIG news, on a personal level. 

             SMITH
      I didn’t know.

             MOIRA
      Why would you? 

Silence again, both carrying too much baggage to think 
straight. Finally;

             MOIRA 
      Listen, if you’re in town for a 
      spell, you know, before you get 
      yourself killed, or go a murdering, 
      maybe we could; get drunk, fuck or 
      something? Maybe?

It’s a hard offer to refuse. Moira takes it as a ‘yes’. 

             MOIRA 
      On split shifts for the rest of the 
      week, finish at ten. 

She nods a farewell and climbs back in the cab - neither of 
them really aware of what they are doing. 

She drives out of the car-park, leaving him standing, alone. 

CUT TO:

EXT. COAST ROAD - NIGHT

The Jaguar XJ-S blasts along the coast road -- 

EXT. CRAGGY BAY - CONTINUOUS

-- gliding to a halt in a secluded bay. The angry sea 
ravaging the craggy coast line.

Smith grabs the WOODEN SAILING SHIP and climbs out. The crisp 
ocean air, like daggers on his skin. 

He walks down to the waters edge and sets the model ship to  
sail. At first the vessel struggles with the tide, battered 
and tormented. But, finally it breaks free and embarks on its 
maiden voyage. 

Smith washes blood from his hands. Waves smash onto the rocks 
- the sea breeze whipping his face. Undaunted, Smith moves 
further out into the water - letting the fierce waves break 
cathartically against his body. 


Behind Smith, high, back on the road - a SHADOWY FIGURE 
watches - before driving off. 

CUT TO:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. SMITH’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Smith, asleep. Wet shoes and trousers strewn across the 
floor. The door slowly opens and Annie walks in quietly. She 
carries a black suit with a starch pressed white shirt and 
hangs it on the wardrobe. 

             ANNIE
        (sotto)
      One of your old man’s suits, you’re 
      near as damnation the same size. 
      Can’t have you going to your 
      brothers funeral looking like a Rag 
      and Bone man.  

She quietly picks up Smith’s shoes - puts them upright, tidy. 
Folds his trousers and shirt - lays them on the back of the 
chair. 

Finally, she looks down at her son. Peaceful. His upper torso 
exposed - a battle weary body - scars from as many victories 
as defeats. 

             ANNIE 
        (sotto)
      Just like your father. Promises 
      like pie-crusts, made to be broken. 

She covers him with a blanket - finds herself staring.

             ANNIE 
        (sotto)
      You’re so much like him. Always 
      have been. Strong, proud. Stubborn. 
      But stop trying to be him. Your 
      father was a self-made bastard. A 
      murdering, lying, cheating, 
      fornicating bastard. 

She composes herself - leans over and kisses Smith on the 
forehead and moves back to the door. 

             ANNIE 
        (normal volume)
      Good night, son.  

             SMITH
      Night Ma.

The door shuts. 

DISSOLVE:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - DAY  

Annie takes a large boiling pan of water from the stove and 
carries it upstairs.

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Smith enters the bathroom, carrying a small polished wooden 
box, he places it next to the sink. Turns the light on - 
catches his own reflection in the old, cracked bathroom 
mirror. He studies himself - but this isn’t vanity - he’s 
looking at himself, what he is - what he’s become. The 
torment. 

Annie enters with the boiling pan - snapping him from his 
soul-searching. 

             ANNIE
      You won’t find nothing in there -- 
      nothing but the truth. 

She pours the scalding water into the basin. As she is about 
to leave she sees the small wooden box by the sink - stops, 
stung. She opens the lid to reveal; 

A bone handled CUT-THROAT RAZOR, a matching bone handled 
SHAVING BRUSH, cracked, dried-up soap bar, and a worn strop 
of seasoned leather (for sharpening the razor).

The sight of the blade obviously triggers a bygone memory - 
she softens for the briefest moment.

             ANNIE 
      Wondered where it had gone. 

             SMITH
      Only thing the old bastard left me. 

Annie’s austere mask reappears - she viciously slaps Smith 
around the face. Smith recoils, glares at her, insolent. She 
slaps him again across the other cheek. 

             ANNIE
      Only I get to call him a bastard. I 
      earned it.

Smith’s demeanour proffers an unspoken apology. Annie shuts 
the lid of the box - leaves the bathroom.  

Smith wipes the steam from the bathroom-mirror and continues 
his soul searching. 

CUT TO:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - LATER

Ambrose is heating shoe polish on the stove - working hard to 
get a deep shine into his already spotless shoes. He puts the 
hot polish down on the table - but a sudden glare from Annie 
makes him think twice - like a chastised child.  

Smith steps down the stairs - Annie and Ambrose stop what 
they are doing to look at him. He’s wearing his father’s 
suit, it’s slightly too tight for him. His face has several 
shaving nicks and he feels as uncomfortable as all hell.

             AMBROSE
      You look like an Englishman.

Ma slaps Ambrose - admires Smith, sadly. 

             ANNIE
      Handsome. You’re the spit of your 
      Pa, devil rest his soul. But you 
      need to lay off the pies. 

Then she looks down at his dirty WET shoes.

             ANNIE 
      You can take the boy out of the 
      country but you can’t take the 
      country out of the boy.

Satisfied, Annie fills the kettle. 

             ANNIE   
      Drink? Calm the nerves.

Ambrose shakes his head (don’t do it).

             SMITH
      No, thanks Ma.

             ANNIE
      And don’t be thinking I can’t see 
      you Clarence Ambrose.

That rapidly wipes the smile from Ambrose face. 

CUT TO:


EXT. HILL CEMETERY -- DAY 

An intimate gathering. Annie, Ambrose, Mary, Old man 
Golightly and Smith.  

Reveal; the jaded drunk, Pascal, a haunted man of the cloth - 
performs the service.

In amongst other stragglers paying their respects are 
Constables Joseph and Alfred.

Away, back, behind the graves - Moira loiters by an old burnt 
out shell of a tree. 

Smith’s attention drifts from the sermon, first eyeing Moira - 
then beyond her; to a distinguished and tailored stranger, 
RED JACKS. 

Annie, follows Smith’s gaze - but she only gets as far as 
Moira. Annie throws her a withering look; a look that would 
turn Medusa to stone. 

DISSOLVE:

The funeral finishes: The gathering dissolve away - dwelling 
in their own moments of grief. 

THOMAS; a brutal looking BODYGUARD, ushers Red Jacks into a 
waiting BENTLEY MULSANNE; his hardened stare catches Smith’s 
momentarily. 

Smith is more interested in watching Moira leave. Pascal 
moves up beside him - taking a swig from his hip flask.

             FATHER PASCAL
      In the name of the father, son and 
      holy-fucking-spirit. 

Smith turns - he doesn’t smile - but his eyes betray he is 
genuinely happy to see Pascal. There is obviously a bond 
between these two. 

             SMITH
      So, did ‘they’ come looking then?

             FATHER PASCAL
        (nods)
      Told them we had another cause to 
      believe in. 

A comfortable silence.

             FATHER PASCAL 
      Guess suits fit just that bit 
      snugger in the city these days, 
      huh?

Amused, Pascal takes another swig from his hip flask. 

             FATHER PASCAL 
      I’m sorry about Jimbo, I really am. 

Smith nods subtly, acknowledging Pascal’s condolences. 

             FATHER PASCAL 
      How long you back for?

             SMITH
      Until things get sorted. Not long. 

             FATHER PASCAL
      Sorted? Not long? Sorted and Not 
      Long have sent a lot of business 
      through this parish.

             SMITH
      This time won’t be any different. 

             FATHER PASCAL
      Well, when you find the cunt that 
      did it - the best place to hide the 
      body is in a graveyard.   

Pascal takes another swig.

             FATHER PASCAL 
      Saw you last night, King Cnut. Bit 
      late in the day for a baptism. 

Smith shrugs - mildly embarrassed. 

             FATHER PASCAL 
      There is no penance for us, Smithy.

             SMITH
      You still play roulette?

             FATHER PASCAL
      Every god-forsaken night.
        (beat)
      My conscience is my executioner.
        (beat)
      You going back to the house?

Smith shakes his head. 

             FATHER PASCAL 
      Don’t blame you. Can’t think of 
      anything fucking worse. But duty 
      calls n’all that. 

Smith smiles; then gestures in the direction of RED JACKS’ 
vehicle. 

             SMITH
      Who’s that?

             FATHER PASCAL
      Red Jacks, runs handful of nudie 
      gaffs outta the old Go Inn, out 
      Lassiter way. Overpaid and over 
      here.

             SMITH
      He’s a Yank?

             FATHER PASCAL
      Someone has to be. General, 
      apparently. Stationed in 
      Londonderry during the troubles. 
      Married Leonard Sturriges widow. 
      She died a year or so back he’s 
      been dying of a broken heart ever 
      since. 

Smith takes the list from his pocket - third name down: RED 
JACKS. 

             SMITH
      Jimmy work for him?

             FATHER PASCAL
      Probably. Half the people in the 
      Cove have worked for Red at some 
      point - me included. 

Smith eyes Pascal.

             FATHER PASCAL 
      Don’t be eyeing me like that. I’m 
      on God’s payroll nowadays not Red 
      Jacks. He has his fingers in a lot 
      of pies around here... and I like 
      pies. Friends in low places. 

             SMITH
      You said half the people work for 
      him - who’d the other half work 
      for, Monaghan?

Pascal nods. 

             FATHER PASCAL
      Simple folk, simple rules. That’s 
      why I like this god forsaken town.

Smith’s attention is drawn back to Moira climbing into her 
Hilux Pick-Up - her gaze momentarily meets his, the briefest 
of acknowledgements.   

CUT TO:

EXT. RED JACKS HOUSE. MAIN GATE - DAY  

Smith’s Jaguar purrs past the wrought iron gates of Red Jacks 
handsome home.  

Smith cruises the twelve foot perimeter wall - off the main 
drag - and onto a dirt track.

EXT. RED JACKS HOUSE. PERIMETER WALL - CONTINUOUS

Smith continues to case the wall - when he’s satisfied he 
manoeuvres the Jaguar as close to the stonework as possible - 
and clambers onto the roof - and deftly transfers himself to 
the wall, and over -- 

EXT. RED JACKS HOUSE. GROUNDS - CONTINUOUS

-- where Smith lands, heavier than expected, losing his 
footing and his Trilby. He picks himself up, mildly annoyed - 
dusts his knees off. A final adjustment of his shirt, and 
hat, and he moves onwards -- 

INT. RED JACKS HOUSE. HOUSEKEEPING - CONTINUOUS

-- into the staff quarters. 

Smith moves past a door; inside several GOONS are smoking, 
drinking - he slides the door shut - tying the handles 
together with a wire coat hanger from a rail nearby. 

He swiftly passes through the quarters into --

EXT. RED JACKS HOUSE. ORNATE COURTYARD - CONTINUOUS

Red Jacks passes through the far side of the courtyard, 
accompanied by JULIUS MAYPOTHER, a weasly, unwashed, shit-
stain of a man and Patrick Kelly. 

With them, HANDSOME BASTARD, a dapper, dangerous-looking man 
in his late-thirties. 

Smith slips into cover, waiting, just out of earshot of an 
animated discussion between Red, Handsome Bastard and 
Maypother.  

Thomas appears, whispers in Reds ear - which draws the 
conversation to an abrupt close. 

Handsome Bastard, Maypother and Patrick Kelly leave. Thomas 
escorts Red back inside. 

INT. RED JACKS HOUSE. STAIRCASE - CONTINUOUS

Smith edges inside; to find Red ascending the ridiculously 
ostentatious stair case. The absence of Thomas is a growing 
concern when -- CLICK!

Smith freezes, feeling the pressure of a .45 pressed hard 
into his temple. 

             SMITH
      You’re light on your feet for a big 
      salad dodging fella? 

             THOMAS
      I could make this look like 
      suicide.   

Suddenly; Smith elbows Thomas across the jaw, the impact 
sending the .45 spinning across the floor. 

Smith lashes out - a devastatingly accurate kick - making 
full contact with Thomas’ knee-cap - sending him crashing 
down. Smith grabs Thomas by the throat - fingers tightening. 
Thomas fights back, but Smith’s grip holds true - nullifying 
any resistance. 

Smith forces Thomas’ head down - before delivering several 
vicious RABBIT PUNCHES to the back of his neck - 
incapacitating him, indefinitely. 

Smith drags himself to his feet, once again adjusts his 
shirt, adorns his hat -- strips the fallen .45 and discards 
it.

INT. RED JACKS HOUSE. STUDY - CONTINUOUS

Red Jacks pours himself a 40 Year Old BRUICHLADDICH WHISKEY - 
he hears a noise behind - doesn’t look around. 

             RED JACKS
      You must be Smith, James’ kin?

Slowly he turns - to face Smith. 

             RED JACKS 
      You wearing that hat for a bet?

He offers Smith a drink, who declines.

             RED JACKS 

      Thomas?

             SMITH
      He’ll live. May need a couple of 
      days off. 

             RED JACKS
      I’ll send him and his overweight 
      children to Florida, they can swim 
      with Dolphins and consume 
      carbohydrates. 

Red swallows a gulp of whiskey. 

             RED JACKS 
      You invited yourself into my house -
      I assume some notion of revenge is 
      on the agenda? 
        (beat)
      Killing is your profession, am I 
      right?

Smith doesn’t answer - watching. 

             RED JACKS 
      -- so if you are indeed 
      contemplating killing me, 
      mistakenly I hasten to add; please 
      water the plants. The hydrangea was 
      a present from my wife. God rest 
      her soul.

             SMITH 
      You were at my brothers funeral? 

             RED JACKS
        (interjecting)
      What, no courteous introduction?

             SMITH
      Not my style.

             RED JACKS
      By your attire, style isn’t 
      something you are familiar with.
        (beat)
      Yes, I was at your brothers 
      funeral. Don’t confuse my civility 
      with caring.     

             SMITH
      Why? Jimmy and you friends?

             RED JACKS
      Friends, no. Nothing so quaint. As 
      to why? 411 days ago, my wife was 
      taken from us, from me, by 
      Sclerosis. An unholy, protracted, 
      fucking illness that caused her 
      great suffering -- 

Another slug of whiskey - another failed attempt at sobriety. 

             RED JACKS 
      -- your James, kindly supplied her 
      with medication... substances, that 
      made her more... comfortable, in 
      her final months. For that, I will 
      be eternally grateful. Hence my 
      civility. 

             SMITH
      Did my brother work for you? 

             RED JACKS
      Everybody works for someone Mister 
      Smith. 

             SMITH
    Even you?

             RED JACKS
      Even me. 

Smith opens an ORNATE HUMIDOR - filled with expensive looking 
cigars. He picks one up, sniffs it. Red actually looks 
nervous.

             RED JACKS 
      Please don’t infuse my cigars with 
      your unwashed proletariat fingers. 
      Do you have any idea what that is?

             SMITH
      Looks like a rolled shit.


             RED JACKS
      Ignorance is such an uncouth 
      dialect. 

He crosses, snatches the cigar from Smith - places it back in 
the humidor. Takes out his silk Monogrammed handkerchief and 
wipes the humidor. He discards the handkerchief. 

             RED JACKS 
      That is a $750 Gurkha.

Means nothing to Smith - now playing with a CIGAR LIGHTER.

             RED JACKS 
      His Majesty’s Reserve. Once rolled, 
      these cigars undergo an infusion 
      process that uses a whole bottle of 
      Loius XIII Cognac. 

Smith, fully, totally, unimpressed. Jacks, smiles uneasily - 
returns to his drink. 

             RED JACKS 
      Yes, James worked for me, 
      indirectly. 

             SMITH
      -- and what profession are you in 
      Mister Jacks?

             RED JACKS
        (matter-of-fact)
      Pornography, mainly. There’s big 
      money in vagina. Always has been, 
      always will be. The Cove was built 
      on it. Fishing and fucking. Just 
      ask your Ma, from what I hear she 
      knows the history of this town 
      better than most - had to marry an 
      English soldier didn’t she? 

Smith doesn’t rise to the bait.

             SMITH
      And how was Jimmy involved?

             RED JACKS
      We use novice girls, Mister Smith, 
      young girls - to make video-tapes. 
      Nasty ones. Gang-bangs, etcetera. 
      Consensual not coerced. 

             SMITH
      What’s the difference?

             RED JACKS
      Eighty Dollars a disc. 
        (afterthought)
      That’s nearly sixty Euro’s to the 
      uneducated. Not my personal taste. 
      Ungodly.

His words hang in the air - then; 

             RED JACKS 
      Sometimes these young ladies would 
      need a little something to ease 
      their nerves, overcome their 
      shyness --  

             SMITH
      -- and that’s where Jimmy came in? 

             RED JACKS
      As I understand it, yes.

The words strike a sickening chord with Smith. 

             SMITH
      Was Cathleen Hennessy one of these 
      girls?

Jacks shrugs.

             RED JACKS
      Who?

             SMITH
      Cathleen Hennessy?

             RED JACKS
      You asking me, or telling me Mister 
      Smith? Don’t know the name. Should 
      I?

             SMITH 
      Jimmy had a list, her name was on 
      it.  

             RED JACKS 
      Don’t know anything about Ms 
      Hennessy or no list. Should I?

             SMITH
      Your name was also on his list. Why 
      would that be? 

             RED
      Maybe it was his Christmas card 
      list?

Red shakes his head - gulps at his drink - empties the glass.


             SMITH 
      So, where do these girls come from? 

             RED JACKS
      Never asked. That troglodyte, 
      Julius Maypother rounds them up. 
      Paid well for it too. Hitchhikers, 
      students, tourists, immigrants. 
      Anybody willing to sell their holes 
      for a few dollars a piece.

Smith stirs - uncomfortable. 

             RED JACKS 
      I may be guilty of many things 
      Mister Smith, but your brothers 
      murder isn’t one of them, no Sir.  
      Don’t know anything. Don’t want to 
      know. None of my fucking business. 
      It’s a shame, what happened to 
      James, I almost liked him -- for a 
      drug dealer. 

It’s an ugly truth. 

             SMITH
      I appreciate your honesty, Mister 
      Jacks. 

Red turns for a refill.

             RED JACKS
      Honesty? You’re in the wrong town 
      for honesty. I know what you’re 
      thinking. Don’t judge me. Not in 
      that hat. I know who you are; what 
      you are. What you’ve done. What 
      your Pa...

Red waits - but nothing - he turns, to find Smith gone - 
suddenly the door bursts open and several burly henchmen 
arrive - Thomas limps in after them, still struggling for 
breath.  

Red, undeterred sips at the fresh glass of Bourbon. 

CUT TO:

I/E. JAGUAR XJ-S - DAY   

Smith drives - smoking a $750 Gurkha HMR. In the passenger 
seat; three more STOLEN CIGARS, the LIGHTER and MONOGRAMMED 
HANDKERCHIEF. 

Suddenly; the Jaguar skids 20ft on the dirt road - reverses 
to a junction and deviates down the right-hand fork.

Reveal signpost: LASSITER VILLAGE

CUT TO:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - DAY  

Jimmy’s wake is still in progress - mourners occupy the 
house. Annie pours Pascal a cup of tea he quickly loads it 
with a shot of brandy from his hip-flask. Ambrose attempts to 
comfort Annie - but she awkwardly avoids contact. The phone 
rings; Ambrose, thankful for the interruption, drags himself 
away and answers it.

             AMBROSE
      Ambrose. 

INT. GARDA STATION - CONTINUOUS

The station house is quiet - as usual. Joseph is sat on the 
other end of the telephone, feet up in front of the fire - 
stirring a mug of tea with his TIN WHISTLE.

             JOSEPH
      Dad - 

             AMBROSE 
      You been sniffing the paraffin 
      again? I’m at a fucking wake.

             JOSEPH
      You said call if I --

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose, pulls a door up - blocking out the incessant chatter 
from the mourners. 

             AMBROSE
      Have you blocked the crapper again? 

INT. GARDA STATION 

Joseph uses the TIN WHISTLE as a straw - siphoning the tea 
from his mug into his mouth.  

             JOSEPH 
        (without missing a beat)
      No. No. Not today. Alfie found 
      Cathleen Hennessy. 

CUT TO:

EXT. LASSITER VILLAGE -- DAY

The XJ-S enters the village in a blazing trail of spray. 

CUT TO:

EXT. GO INN -- DAY

The Jaguar purrs up to a closed down, low rent club. Smith 
gets out clocks the black Ford EXPLORER from the night before 
parked amongst several other vehicles.  

Smith moves to the main door of the GO INN - but it’s locked. 
He moves around to the rear--

EXT. GO INN. REAR 

-- where he finds the door ajar. He enters, carefully. 

INT. GO INN. CORRIDORS - CONTINUOUS

Smith moves through a darkened brick labyrinth - steadily 
weaving towards the light - and the sounds of a woman in 
pain.  

INT. GO INN. ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Smith slows, edges into the room.

REVEAL: a hard-core gang-bang; rough, nasty sex - videoed. 
It’s a well lubricated machine (literally) girls, guys and 
bored technicians. 

Smith stays concealed - unintentionally voyeuristic - before 
his attention his drawn to the two thugs; Keogh and Garrick 
(from the brawl outside THE FULL MOON).

Smith scours the floor - finds a pile of bricks, picks one. 
He gauges the weight, the grip, as he blatantly, fearlessly 
walks towards Keogh and Garrick. 

Smith swings, the sickening thud of brick making contact with 
flesh and bone - Keogh hits the ground hard - incapacitated.  

Smith reaches inside Keogh’s jacket finds a 9mm and as 
Garrick realises just what is going on, Smith just, plain and 
simple shoots him in the thigh. As Garrick drops, Smith 
shoots him again - in the same leg.

The gang-bang stops, frightened chaos ensues. Smith ignores 
it - utilising the fear. He bends down next to a screaming 
Garrick.

             SMITH
      And you must be Garrick, right?

Garrick can’t answer for the pain.

             SMITH 
      Not been shot before?

Garrick whimpers - Smith takes that as a ‘no’. 

             SMITH 
      Breathe through it, nothing vital 
      is hit. Just nod or shake your 
      head.

Garrick nods his head. Smith procures Garrick’s REVOLVER - 
removes the bullets - and throws them across the floor.

             SMITH 
        (controlled, simmering)
      You knew my brother, James Smith? 
      Jimmy Smith?

Garrick nods.

             SMITH 
      Who killed him?

Garrick shakes his head - he doesn’t know. Suddenly; Smith 
explodes like a pressure cooker - viciously grabbing 
Garrick’s head, slamming it hard into the wall, Smith’s 
thumbs tearing at Garrick’s face. Smith stares deep into his 
pained eyes - searching for the truth. 

             SMITH 
      I find acute pain and fear are the 
      best cure for amnesia. 

Again, Smith explodes - grinding Garricks head against the 
wall - scrapping the dermis away.

             SMITH 
      Who and why?

Garrick shakes his head desperately - he doesn’t fucking 
know!!!! He pisses himself in undiluted fear. Smith releases 
him. 

             SMITH 
      You work for Jacks - he sent you to 
      kill me? 

Garrick shakes his head.

             SMITH 
      Then what, a heavy handed hello? 
      Warn me off?

Garrick nods. 

             SMITH 
      Why?

Garrick shrugs helplessly. 

             SMITH 
      From what? From who? 

Garrick looks blank - he honestly doesn’t know anything. 
Smith satisfied. 

             SMITH 
      If I find you’re lying, I will find 
      you, I will murder you and all you 
      hold dear. Do you understand?

Garrick nods - petrified. 

             SMITH 
      Sorry it had to come to this, I 
      truly am. This finishes here. 
      Agreed? 

Garrick nods again, concedes. Smith gestures to the bullet 
holes in his leg. 

             SMITH 
      Apply pressure, when William comes 
      ‘round, get him to sort you out, 
      okay. 

Garrick tries to breathe through the pain. 


             SMITH 
      Okay? You listening?

Garrick’s forced to nod. 

             SMITH 
      Make sure you change the dressing 
      twice a day. Stave off any 
      infection.

Smith gets up and calmly leaves the club.

EXT. GO INN - CONTINUOUS

As Smith walks to the Jaguar he strips Keogh’s 9mm and throws 
the mag and shells across the car-park - before speeding off. 

CUT TO:

INT. THE FULL MOON - NIGHT

Every piece of dog-shit, arse-hole that ever graced the face 
of the earth has found sanctuary in here tonight. 

Joan, a strangled cigarette on her lip, hacks at a block of 
ice with an ice-pick, splintering shards into a whiskey glass 
- then pouring herself a generous glass of hard liquor.

Moira, waiting tables - her usual routine, brutally 
efficient, semi-polite. She approaches the bar with an empty 
tray, scouting for the next thirsty punter.  

The door swings open and in steps Julius Maypother. Joan 
clocks him, necks her drink - finds it bitter - nudges Moira. 

             JOAN
      Julius Maypother, never fucked with 
      a girl he wasn’t related too.

Moira braces herself.

             MOIRA
        (to herself)
      Shit! 

Maypother arrives at the bar, snake-like, obscenely 
lecherous. 

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
        (laughing)
      Didn’t you used to be Moira Cowley? 

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER 
      Recognise those shitty titty’s 
      anywhere. 

             MOIRA
      Come to pay your respects, Julius? 
      Buried Jimmy Smith today. 

Maypother flips two pennies at Moira.

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER 
      Go buy yourself something pretty.

             MOIRA
      Guess not. What do you want? 

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER 
      I’m hearing Red Jacks fellas 
      talking, Jimmy had a list?

             MOIRA
      Did he? 

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
      I need to know where it is, what’s 
      on it.

             MOIRA
      Don’t know nothing about no list?

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
      Course you do. 
        (threatening)
      You gonna make me jog your memory? 

             MOIRA
      Are you deaf as well as stupid - I 
      said; don’t know what you’re 
      talking about. 

Maypother moves in closer, grabs her arm.

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
      I wanna know what Jimmy was doing 
      behind my back! 

             MOIRA 
      Then dig him up and ask him your 
      yourself!

He bends her arm to the point of breaking - before pushing 
her across the floor.

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
      Christ, almighty, I hate smart 
      mouthed sluts. 

Joan interjects. 

             JOAN
      You wouldn’t know a smart mouth if 
      it was sucking your Mothers dick! 
      Leave her be Julius. 

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
      Go fuck yourself Grandma, this 
      don’t concern you. 

Joan necks a second glass - it’s still leaving a bitter taste 
in her mouth. Maypother turns his attention back to Moira.

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER 
      Tell me about the list or you’re 
      gonna get yourself raped - again!

SUDDENLY; Joan slams the ice-pick - into Maypother’s hand - 
pinning it to the bar.

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER 
        (screaming)
      BIIIITCH!!!!!!!!!!!

             MOIRA
      That’s Grandma Bitch to you, 
      Julius. Said leave her be. 

Moira climbs to her feet - approaches the squealing 
Maypother. Joan slides the bottle of bitter liquor across the 
bar. 

             JOAN
      Shit ain’t worth drinking.

Moira swings the bottle of bitter liquor and cracks it across 
Maypother’s face. The bottle doesn’t break! Moira looks at 
the bottle, slightly surprised.

             JOAN 
      A bit harder Sweetheart.

Moira hits him again - this time it breaks. 

Joan pulls the ice-pick from his hand - allowing a bloodied 
Maypother to scurry towards the door - spiting a string of 
inaudible threats and obscenities - Moira follows.

EXT. THE FULL MOON - CONTINUOUS

Smith’s Jaguar rolls up as Maypother staggers out of the door 
- pursued by Moira, shattered bottle in hand. 

Smith watches the proceedings as he climbs from the car. 

Maypother starts his FLATBED FORD TRANSIT - the STARTER MOTOR 
squeals as the engine grumbles to life. The Ford lurches out 
of the car-park, passes Smith --  

Maypother fleetingly meets his gaze - but is visibly 
unnerved.  

Smith crosses and they both watch Maypother careering off in 
the distance. 

             MOIRA
      I’m off in ten minutes. You’re 
      buying me pie. 

Moira heads back inside, Joan appears - gestures to the 
speeding flatbed.  

             JOAN
      Julius Maypother. Obviously a 
      friend of the family. 

The name ‘Maypother’ strikes a cord with Smith.  

             JOAN 
      Your vengeance wont come cheap, 
      Smithy, not for the folks of Broken 
      Cove. 

Joan heads back inside. 

CUT TO:

EXT. GOLIGHTLY’S B&B - NIGHT  

The Hilux Pick-Up pulls up - with the XJ-S close behind. 
Moira and Smith decant and enter the B&B. 

Moira looks different now, face not so hard, every bit the 
woman-next-door. 

INT. GOLIGHTLY’S B&B - CONTINUOUS

Old man Golightly looks up - double takes when he see’s Moira 
and Smith. 

             GOLIGHTLY
        (laughing to himself)
      Had a feeling you’d be stopping by. 

The place is empty - Moira and Smith take a booth.

             MOIRA
      Some things never change. 

Golightly shouts over.

              GOLIGHTLY
      Inspector Ambrose rang for you 
      earlier, Smithy, said could you 
      give him a call at the house. 

Smith moves to the bar. Golightly slides him the pay-phone - 
tosses him some coins from the till. Smith throws Moira a 
lingering look as he dials.  

             SMITH
      It’s me. How is she?

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 

Ambrose, sat with feet up reading the paper. Glasses perched 
on the end of his nose. 

             AMBROSE
      Sleeping. 

             SMITH
      Good. You left a message for me to 
      call?

             AMBROSE
      Cathleen Hennessy. 17 year old, 
      from Kerry. 

             SMITH
      And?

             AMBROSE
      And nothing. She’s very much dead, 
      Smithy. Washed up in Lassiter Damn. 
      Been there a while they reckon - 
      wildlife had themselves a picnic. 
      County Morgue was next to fecking 
      useless. No medical report drawn up 
      because she was so badly 
      decomposed. No toxicology. 


             SMITH
      Next of kin?

             AMBROSE
      Not yet. But we will. She had a 
      juvenile arrest sheet as long as an 
      orangutans dick. Mainly drugs 
      related. Possession. In 2011 she 
      was pulled down Killarney way - 
      nabbed for Lude conduct, caught 
      giving some punter a hand job in a 
      fucking McDonalds --

INT. GOLIGHTLY’S B&B - CONTINUOUS 

Mary finds Moira sat in the booth - delivers the drinks. 

             MARY
      Been a while, Moira. Missed you up 
      at the house. 

             MOIRA
      Had stuff to be doing, you know.

Mary gestures over to Smith on the phone.

             MARY
      Bet you did. 

Moira and Mary share a look. Smith finishes the call - and 
makes his way back over to the booth. 

             MARY 
      Any-roads, that Pochine his Ma 
      makes has given me the raging 
      squirts. Just shouldn’t do that to 
      a girl. 

Mary passes Smith as he arrives back at the booth.  

             SMITH
      Ambrose found Cathleen Hennessy. 
      Washed up in Lassiter a few weeks 
      back.  

Moira shrugs. 

             MOIRA
      Who?

             SMITH
      Cathleen Hennessy. Names top of 
      Jimmy’s list.

Moira holds her hand out and impatiently beckons.

             SMITH 
      What?

             MOIRA
      Pull the rabbit out your arse -  
      The list. 

Smith hands her the list; Cathleen Hennessy. Julius 
Maypother. Red Jacks. Sean Monaghan. John Caroll. Ed Conway. 

             MOIRA 
      Caroll died in a car prang, week or 
      so ago. Pissed up, stoned.

             SMITH
      Yeah, I heard. He and Jimmy 
      friends? 

             MOIRA
      Not really. Caroll is... was, one 
      of Ed Conways’ lackeys. 
        (beat)
      Back in the day me and Jim used to 
      get our gear from him. A bit of pot 
      n’shit.

             SMITH
      N’shit?

             MOIRA
      Occasionally. 

             SMITH
      And Jimmy?

Moira nods, acknowledging Jimmy’s drug use. 

             MOIRA
      Toked more than he ever sold.

             SMITH
      Coincidence, Caroll and Jimmy in 
      the same week?

Moira shrugs.

             MOIRA
      Maybe. But that bridge claims damn 
      near one a week, two in winter. 

Smith wallows in the thought. 

             SMITH
      Where can I find Ed Conway?

             MOIRA
      Dunno, used to have a place out 
      Longacre. Daphne still gets her 
      draw from him, I’ll ask. Who you 
      been to see so far?

             SMITH
      Red Jacks. 

             MOIRA 
      And? 

             SMITH
      And nothing. Don’t trust him as far 
      as I could kick him. Sent some 
      fellas to rough me up...

             MOIRA
      So somethings’ got him spooked?

Smith shrugs.

             SMITH
      Maybe. Maybe, he’s just doing what 
      he’s told. Maypother’s next. What’d 
      he want with you?

             MOIRA
      Wanted to know who’s on Jimmy’s 
      list. Told him I didn’t know what 
      he was blabbing about. 

Moira reaches and takes Smith’s pint - starts necking it. 

             SMITH
      First thing in the morning, gonna 
      pay Maypother a visit. 

She’s still drinking, until she’s finished the pint - 
slamming the empty down on the counter.

             MOIRA
      First thing? Smithy, I’ve got a 
      hangover booked for the morning.

Mary reappears see’s the list on the counter - picks it up, 
reads the names. 

             MARY 
      Any list with the name Monaghan on 
      it, can only mean bad news. 

She hands the list back to Smith - deadly serious - all 
playfulness gone. 

             MARY 
      Boom and bust, that’s what we are 
      here, Smithy. Fishing ain’t worth 
      shit nowadays. With the mines gone 
      the banks foreclosed, Old Man 
      Monaghan stepped in, picked up 
      everyone’s mortgages. Took on the 
      debt. Never claimed a penny in 
      rent, no sir. He bought loyalty. 
      Now to some the Monaghan’s may be 
      the devil incarnate, evil through 
      to the core - but to others they 
      are Mister Jesus-Fucking-Christ and 
      Mrs Virgin-fucking-Mary rolled into 
      one.

        (shouting to Golightly)
      Golightly, you slow old bastard, 
      where’s Smithy’s drink? ‘Stepping 
      Out’ is thirsty work! 
        (beat)
      Now, I’ve said my piece, I need to 
      visit the ladies, your Ma’s home-
      brew is a ripping me a new arse, so 
      it is. 

Golightly, over at the counter. 

             GOLIGHTLY
      Sounds like you’re already talking 
      through it woman. 

Mary winks at Moira. 

             MARY
      Leave you two love birds at it. 

Mary leaves - Golightly arrives deposits Smith’s replacement 
pint - he also holds a glass of whiskey for himself. He 
salutes. 

             GOLIGHTLY
      To absent friends. 

They salute, then drink. Smith downs his pint in one long 
swig. Golightly smiles sadly and slips away. Moira and Smith 
sit in silence for far too long. Eventually;

             MOIRA
      So.

             SMITH
      So.

             MOIRA
      Where you been Smithy? 

             SMITH
      Around. 

             MOIRA
      Around? Umpteen years away - and 
      you’ve been, around? 

He’s not really proffering anymore information. 

             MOIRA 
      Working? 

             SMITH
        (nods, reluctantly)
      A bit. Here, there. 

             MOIRA
      Guess there’s always a need for 
      someone with your particular -- 
      skill-set.

Long silence. Moira accepts he’s not giving anything away. 

             MOIRA 
      You know, after your Pa... ‘they’ 
      came looking for you -- 

Smith nods - he knew ‘they’ would. 

             SMITH
      And?

             MOIRA
      They found me. 

Silence. Smith, sickened to his core. Moira, painfully stoic, 
refusing to let emotion in.  

             MOIRA 
      Pascal -- he came got me. Found 
      them. 
        (beat)
      Jimmy picked up the pieces. 

Smith says ‘sorry’ with a look - words are useless, 
pointless. Moira digs deep, recovers - looks to change the 
subject.

             MOIRA 
      My old man passed, six years this 
      December. The drink got him.

Smith, still numb. 

             SMITH
      And the farm?

Moira shakes her head.

             MOIRA
      The Monaghan’s stepped in - but by 
      the time the bank had finished it 
      wasn’t worth a shovel of shit. 

A long, long, comfortable silence.

             MOIRA 
      Do you wanna come back to my place 
      for a cup of tea?

             SMITH
      I don’t drink tea.

             MOIRA
      I ain’t got none. 

DISSOLVE:

INT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - NIGHT

Rain plays tricks on the windows - casting jumping shadows on 
the two entwined bodies of Smith and Moira in the climatic 
vinegar strokes of passionate sex.

EXT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS

A VAN draws near, parking barely out of earshot - the engine 
cuts. A dog, several CARAVANS down, barks like it’s had it’s 
nuts cut off. 

The door of the Van swings open and a FIGURE climbs down from 
the cab - reaches into the back and grabs a JERRY CAN 
containing fuel. 

The FIGURE moves around the back of the caravan.

PROPANE GAS BOTTLES from the kitchenette sit just below the 
window. 

The gas pipes are cut - the valve wedged open - pumping out 
gas.

The Propane bottle is rolled under the trailer.

INT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS

Smith and Moira relax in the post-coital haze. 

EXT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS

The FIGURE makes a trail of gasoline back to the van - 
throwing the Jerry Can into the back. 

INT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN -- CONTINUOUS

Moira gets up - pulling on Smith’s shirt. He tries to pull 
her back to bed. 

             MOIRA
      My pelvic floor is not what it was, 
      Smithy. I’m gonna have a piss and 
      kick that fucking dog.

EXT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS 

The FIGURE climbs into the truck and starts the engine: The 
starter motor squeals: REVEAL; Julius Maypother. 

INT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS

The whining of the starter motor on Maypother’s TRANSIT 
FLATBED – alerts Moira. 

             MOIRA
      What’s Maypother doing here?

Smith slides his trousers on as Moira looks out of the window 
- she can see the shadow of the flatbed - then a light, a 
match - briefly illuminates Maypother’s face. Smith moves to 
the kitchenette...

EXT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS 

As Maypother drives away - he drops the match - and a trail 
of flame shoots towards the trailer -- 

INT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS 

-- a vacuous detonation - a momentary implosion - followed a 
gaseous explosion; decimating the kitchenette.

Moira dives over the bed - pulling the mattress over herself 
as she falls.

Smith turns, the door becomes a makeshift shield - but he’s 
caught by the blast and catapulted through the plywood and 
aluminium wall --

EXT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - CONTINUOUS

-- and lands; smashing into the windscreen of Moira’s Hilux. 

Moira appears; staggers through the rain - her eyes land on 
Smith’s body embedded in her windscreen. 

Flames, rain - chaos. Moira staggers towards Smith - dragging 
him free from her windscreen. 

Another gas canister ignites - disintegrating the remaining 
burning caravan - exploding like a malevolent confetti cannon 
- knocking them both to the ground. 

Moira crawls over to Smith - who is bleeding heavily from 
shrapnel in his back and shoulder. She drags his body onto 
the back of her Hilux. She climbs into the cab - flips the 
visor, the keys drop - she reverses the vehicle over the 
burning remnants of her caravan and heads off into the night. 

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. ANNIE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A loud knocking wakes Ambrose and Annie. 

             AMBROSE
      What in Christ’s name is --

             ANNIE 
      Don’t blaspheme Clarence.

CUT TO:

CUT TO:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose heads down stairs - Annie follows. He opens the front 
door to reveal; a drenched Moira.

             MOIRA
      It’s Smithy!

She heads back to the van, Ambrose automatically follows. 
Annie is frozen to the stairs, her heart can’t take anymore.

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose and Moira lift a battered and bleeding Smith from the 
van and move him to the house --  

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

-- where Annie watches from the stairs as Smith is laid on 
the KITCHEN TABLE, writhing in pain. 

             AMBROSE
      He needs a doctor?

             MOIRA         
      Nearest Doctor is in Lassiter. 

Annie snaps out of her stupor. She’s in business mode.

             ANNIE
      Call Pascal - he can sort this.

Ambrose hesitates, momentarily. 

             ANNIE 
        (stern - but controlled)
      Now, Clarence, please. 

Ambrose ducks away to make the call. Annie drops into action - 
a calm head - it’s been a few years.  

Smith and Annie’s eye’s meet, her smile works better than any 
painkiller. 

             ANNIE 
        (to herself)
      I need water. Hot water! 
      Hotter the better!
        (to Moira)
      Sheets. Airing cupboard, top of the 
      stairs.

Moira dashes upstairs - whilst Annie grabs a bottle of her 
home-brew and empties it over Smith shoulder - then takes a 
gulp herself. 

CUT TO:


INT. FATHER PASCAL’S HOUSE - NIGHT  

A soulless abode for a man of the cloth - barren and lonely. 
The phone rings, annoyingly. A naked and tearful Pascal sits 
in and drab armchair in front of the outdated wireless - 
playing RUSSIAN ROULETTE with his REVOLVER. Through the tears 
and torment he raises the revolver to his head - and pulls 
the trigger -- 

Click! 

Empty!

He opens the barrel to reveal where the bullet actually is - 
only one chamber away.  

Finally, he answers the phone. 

CUT TO:

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - NIGHT

Moira, a solitary figure huddled on the porch, staring in 
through the window at Annie attending Smith’s wounds. 

Behind her - down the track - distant headlights approaching.

The door creeks open and Ambrose steps out. He drops an 
oversized POLICE OVERCOAT on her shoulders. 

             MOIRA
      We were - at my place. I heard 
      someone outside. Smithy went to 
      have a look --

             AMBROSE
      Did you see anyone?

             MOIRA
      No. 

             AMBROSE
      Any idea who it could have been?

             MOIRA
      No. 

He knows she’s lying - but his attention is drawn to the 
diarrhoea brown AUSTIN PRINCESS that pulls up. Pascal climbs 
out. Ambrose leads him into the house. Pascal and Moira share 
a silence.  

Moira watches through the window as Pascal sets to work 
patching Smith up. Annie stares at Moira before crossing to 
the window and pulling the curtains shut. 

Moira sits down on the stoop - transfixed by the rain, 
waiting. 

DISSOLVE:

EXT. MOIRA’S CARAVAN - DAWN 

The watery sunrise throws it’s diluted rays onto the burning 
embers of the trailer. 

Alfred and Joseph cordon off the area - behind them Ambrose 
pulls up in his POLICE CAR. He lethargically decants and 
approaches.

             JOSEPH
      -- well that’s because you had my 
      tin whistle stuck in your arse.

             ALFRED
      It wasn’t ‘in’ my arse, Joey.

             JOSEPH
      Looked like it was ‘in’ your arse, 
      Alfie! 

             ALFRED
      What were you doing looking at my 
      arse?

             JOSEPH
      I was looking at my tin whistle! 

Ambrose arrives.

             AMBROSE
        (to Joseph)
      Can’t believe you came from my 
      loins. 

Ambrose ducks under the tape and crosses to where Moira is 
sorting through the carnage. She’s still wearing his POLICE 
OVERCOAT - but now also wearing a pair of his oversized 
trousers - she finds the Jaguar Rabbit Foot key-ring.

             AMBROSE 
      Mary Golightly says you can stay 
      there till we sort this shit out.

             MOIRA
      It’s okay, I’m gonna stay with 
      Daphne. She could do with the 
      company. 

Ambrose takes a roll of cash from his pocket and offers it to 
her.

             AMBROSE 
      Here. Ain’t much. Just till you get 
      back on your feet. 

Moira looks at it - refuses.

             MOIRA
      Thank you. But I don’t need 
      charity. 

She finds Smith’s hat - straightens it. Finds Smith’s shoe,  
then the other - throws them in the back of her Hilux.  

             MOIRA 
      Truth is, this done me a favour.  

She climbs into her van and drives off - leaving Ambrose 
stood in the middle of the burnt out caravan. 

CUT TO:

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. SMITH’S BEDROOM -- DAY  

Smith lays in bed, bandaged. The door open and Annie enters 
with a cup of SOMETHING.

             ANNIE
      How you feeling?

             SMITH
      Been better.

             ANNIE
      That’s what happens when you go get 
      yourself all ‘blowed’ up. 

Smith tries to get up.

             ANNIE 
      Where do you think you’re going?

             SMITH
      Gotta a score to settle. 

Annie pushes Smith back to the bed.  

             ANNIE
      No you don’t, not today. The score 
      will still be there tomorrow. You 
      need time to heal. We all need time 
      to heal. 

Annie hands him the cup of SOMETHING. 

             ANNIE 
      Drink this. Tastes like shit. 

             SMITH
      What is it? 

Annie, purposefully doesn’t answer, just tips it into Smith’s 
mouth - holds his nose, like a child taking medicine. 

             ANNIE 
      Medicinal Moonshine. Pascal says 
      your kidneys are pretty banged up, 
      so you may be pissing blood a while 
      anyways.   

             SMITH
        (incredulous)
      You just drugged me? 

             ANNIE
      Used to do it to your Pa all the 
      time.

Annie looks out of the window - to see the Toyota Hilux and 
the Jaguar XJ-S racing up the dirt road to the house. 

             ANNIE 
      Now rest.  

Smith lays back down - to weak, and too wise, to argue. 

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - CONTINUOUS

Moira get’s out of her van, Daphne climbs from the XJ-S hands 
the Rabbit Foot key-ring to Moira as she takes Smith’s shoes 
and hat from the back. Daphne gets into the passenger seat of 
the van and waits as Moira dumps the shoes, hat and keys on 
the porch. 

Moira spots Annie looking at her through the window, stoney 
faced. She walks away, climbs back into the Hilux and drives 
off. 

The van bounces down the track - but as it leaves the gate, 
turning onto the main road - TWO expensive RANGE ROVERS blast 
past, heading towards the house.

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Annie watches the RANGE ROVERS approach and pull up outside.

Heavyweight GOONS climb out of the vehicles - including Linus 
and Patrick Kelly. Then, out steps; GRACE MONAGHAN, a 
graceful matriarch - a beautiful bitch with an assassins 
smile. She removes her sunglasses - drawing attention to a 
heinous crescent scar across her cheek and eye - long since 
healed. 

Annie reaches down by the door for the 12 Gauge shotgun - she 
kicks the door open -- 

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - CONTINUOUS

-- and steps out onto the porch, levelling the shotgun at 
Monaghan.

             ANNIE
      Won’t be no lynching today Grace 
      Monaghan, not unless I say so. 

             MONAGHAN
      Annie -- 

             ANNIE
      Say your piece and be on your way.

             MONAGHAN
      Firstly, I offer my sincere 
      condolences for the recent 
      travesties bestowed upon your 
      family.

The GOONS attempt to spread out - tactically re-positioning 
themselves - but Annie halts them with a wave of the 12 
gauge.  

             ANNIE
      I may be old - but I will cut that 
      bitch in half if any of you move 
      again.

The GOONS back down. 

             ANNIE 
        (to Monaghan)
      I’m listening.

             MONAGHAN
      I’m not here to cause trouble, 
      quite the opposite. I heard what 
      happened to your boy last night --

             ANNIE
      Bad news travels fast in Broken 
      Cove, don’t it? 

             MONAGHAN
      But I swear to you, on my sons 
      life, I had nothing to do with it. 

             ANNIE
      Then why you here?

             MONAGHAN
      Out of respect for you, your 
      family. 

             ANNIE
      Your kind know nothing of respect. 
      Those fancy clothes don’t hide what 
      you are. A brazen harlot. Always 
      was, always will be. 

             MONAGHAN
        (ignores the provocation)
      I don’t want to be on the wrong 
      side of a man blinded by grief, 
      driven by revenge, it’s bad for my 
      health --
        (beat)
      -- and it’s bad for business. 
        (beat)
      Certain business associates, have 
      expressed concerns - they don’t 
      appreciate the kind of heat that 
      someone like your boy generates. A 
      dog off the lead makes them 
      nervous. Makes them dangerous. 

Annie’s eyes give nothing away. 

             ANNIE
      Dangerous? Let me tell you about 
      dangerous Grace Monaghan. 

             ANNIE 
      If I find out you, or any of your 
      ‘business associates’ had anything 
      to do with what happened to either 
      of my boys, as God is my witness, I 
      will finish what I started. I will 
      come for you, in this life or the 
      next.

Monaghan, dignified, calm. 

             MONAGHAN
      Annie --

             ANNIE
      Don’t fucking ‘Annie’ me. Be on 
      your way --

             MONAGHAN
      Don’t let what happened between us 
      cloud your -- 

Annie aims the shotgun - clearly with every intention of 
using it. 

             ANNIE
      I said be on your way.

Resigned, Monaghan slides her shades back on and climbs back 
into the vehicle. The GOONS disperse, mount up. The RANGE 
ROVERS roll away down the track - Monaghan watches Annie. 

Annie, turns, picks Smith’s belongings off the porch and 
steps back inside -- 

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

-- and closes the door - de-cocking the 12 gauge and dumping 
the shoes, hat and key-ring on the floor. 

             ANNIE 
        (quietly)
      Did you get all that?

Reveal; Smith, propped up against the kitchen window.

             SMITH
      Uh, huh. 

Annie walks off into the kitchen without looking at him.

             ANNIE 
      Sleep while you can, there’s no 
      rest for the wicked. 

DISSOLVE:

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - DAWN  

A beautiful picturesque sunrise - shattered by the growl of 
the Jaguars V12 engine kicking to life.

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. ANNIE’S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose looks out of the bedroom window to see Smith driving 
off. 

             AMBROSE
      There’s a storm brewing, heading 
      into town. 

             ANNIE 
      Uh, huh. 

CUT TO:

EXT. JM AUTOMOBILES - DAY 

Julius Maypother unlocks the doors to a ‘working garage’ and 
enters.

Across the road, Smith gets out of the Jaguar and crosses to 
Maypother’s flatbed - he leans in through the passenger 
window and places one of Red Jacks stolen CIGARS under the 
seat. He moves to the back and removes the JERRY CAN of 
PETROL. He flips the seal - leaving a trail of spilt fuel in 
his wake. He follows Maypother into the workshop. 

INT. JM AUTOMOBILES. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Maypother unlocks the office door - hits the lights - barely 
illuminating the ramshackle hovel. 

             SMITH 
      Hello Julius.

Maypother looks up, double takes, shocked to see Smith. He 
reaches under the counter but Smith stamps on his hand. His 
heel inflicting agony on Maypother’s wrist. 


             SMITH 
      Surprised to see me? Moira Cowley 
      sends her condolences. 

Maypother writhes in agony. Smith reaches under the counter 
and removes a sawn-off shotgun - releases Maypother. 

             SMITH 
      She tells me you want to know 
      what’s on Jimmy’s list?

Smith stamps on Maypother’s fingers again - then smothers the 
scream. 

             SMITH 
      Why, Julius? 

He releases Maypother - but Julius spits on him, a string of 
blood and spittle hanging from his defiant traumatised face. 

Smith waits for a reply - none is forthcoming. Two, sharp, 
short, tooth-loosening punches rock Maypothers head back. 

             SMITH 
      Your names on the list. Conway. 
      Jacks. Monaghan -- 

Smith pulls the list from his pocket.

             SMITH 
      Catheen Hennessy. Top of the list. 
      You know her? Jimmy know her? 

Maypother, defiant, shakes his head. Smith studies his face, 
his eyes. Suddenly, Smith grabs him by the hair - drags him 
across the desk and slams him into his office chair.

             SMITH 
      She one of Red Jacks girls? You 
      find her - is that it? 

Julius musters a pittance of resistance.

             JULIUS MAYPOTHER
      Fuck you Smith! You inbred bastard! 
      They’ve got you now! THEY’VE 
      FUCKING GOT YOU NOW!

Smith rapidly ties Maypother to the chair suppressing any 
resistance with short, sharp punches to the sternum.

             SMITH
      Who?



Punch.

Punch. 

             SMITH 
      Who!?

             SMITH 
      WHO!!!?

Punch. Punch!!

             SMITH 
      Who are ‘they’ Julius?  

Maypother, defiant. 

Smith, takes RED JACKS MONOGRAMMED HANDKERCHIEF from his 
pocket - he pours petrol on it - and discards the JERRY CAN.  

             SMITH 
      According to the County Doc, Jimmy 
      had a rag forced into his mouth - 
      soaked in paraffin.
        (beat)
      Then someone set light to the rag.
        (beat)
      My Pa only ever gave me two bits of 
      advice; Don’t wash your dick in 
      another mans sink, and  --  

Smith forces Maypother’s head back and stuffs the 
handkerchief into his mouth. Smith snaps open a Red Jacks 
LIGHTER and ignites it. 

             SMITH 
      -- if you build a man a fire, he'll 
      stay warm for a day. If you set a 
      man on fire, he'll be warm for the 
      rest of his life.

Smith sets light to the rag. It burns slowly - frightening 
the living shit out of Maypother. The flame approaches his 
mouth.

             SMITH 
      What kind of person would do that, 
      Julius? 

Smith just exits --


EXT. JM AUTOMOBILES - CONTINUOUS

-- crossing to the XJ-S, carrying Maypother’s sawn-off 
shotgun.  As he pulls away, Smith flips Red Jacks LIGHTER 
from the window - igniting the trail of petrol. 

The Jaguar snakes away - as behind, JM Automobiles goes out 
of business in a squall of flame. 

CUT TO:

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY

The Triumph weaves through the desolate country roads at 
speed - flying past a shotgun ridden sign for: THE DRIFT.

CUT TO:

EXT. THE DRIFT - LATER   

The XJ-S rolls down the street and stops outside NUMBER FOUR 
(D’Marco’s cottage). 

Smith reaches for Maypother’s shotgun and climbs out. As he 
approaches the door he can hear a RADIO - turned up 
annoyingly loud. The door is ajar, so he enters -- 

INT. D’MARCO COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS

-- carefully, he moves through the hall, towards the music. 
He pushes the door to the room open with the muzzle of the 
shotgun to reveal:

Daphne, rolling the biggest REEFER she can handle. She looks 
up at him, utterly stoned. 

             DAPHNE
      Nice hat. Did your Momma make it?

She amuses herself - then she’s back to her reefer.

             DAPHNE 
      Moira not home, she down at 
      Golightly’s. Pissed-on at seeing 
      you again.
        (she looks at him)
      Bet you get that a lot, eh?

             SMITH 
      Ed Conway?

             DAPHNE
      Eddie Bad breath?

She smiles internally to herself - not letting Smith in on 
her own joke. 

             SMITH
      You get your shit from him?

She nods.

             DAPHNE
      His breath smell bad. Uses shit 
      from dog for tooth-of-paste. 

             SMITH 
      Where can I find him?

             DAPHNE
      Any gutter.

Daphne amuses herself again. 

             DAPHNE 
      Why you wanna talk to Eddie Tooth-
      of-paste? Same reason you talked to 
      Maypother?

Smith doesn’t answer. Daphne gestures to the POLICE SHORT 
WAVE RADIO dumped in the corner. 

             DAPHNE 
      Heard about his garage on the radio 
      - that you making toast?

She looks at him - he’s not giving anything away - but she 
don’t really give a shit anyhow.  

             DAPHNE 
      Ed’s got bone‘n a rag yard in 
      Longacre. It’s a one legged donkey 
      town, shouldn’t be hard to find. 

She looks around again - Smith has gone, but he’s left 
MAYPOTHER’S SHOTGUN propped on the settee. 

             DAPHNE 
      Hakuna Matata, uncle fucker.

CUT TO:


EXT. THE DRIFT - CONTINUOUS 

From a parked vehicle down the street; SOMEONE watches as 
Smith exits NUMBER FOUR, climbs into the XJ-S and drives off.  

CUT TO:

EXT. JM AUTOMOBILES - DAY 

A smouldering crime scene. Police vehicles and personnel 
litter the area. 

INT. JM AUTOMOBILES - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose looks at the charred remains of Julius Maypother. 

CUT TO:

I/E. ED CONWAY’S RAG N’BONE YARD -- DAY

Smith, seated in the Jaguar - watches Ed Conway, on his cell-
phone, pacing the yard - under a ramshackle lean-to of a 
WORKSHOP. As Smith climbs from the car he slides his TRILBY 
onto his head. 

INT. ED CONWAY’S RAG N’BONE YARD - CONTINUOUS

Ed catches sight of Smith across the street, heading into the 
yard - but is so wrapped up in his telephone conversation he 
pays no more than a passing glance.

Smith continues his approach, head down - surreptitiously 
scanning the yard for other people. As Ed finishes his call 
his attention is now slowly being drawn to the figure 
splashing through the rain towards him.  

             ED
      Can I help you, fella?

Smith slowly raises his head - rain pouring from the rim of 
the TRILBY; Ed rides a wave of panic as he recognizes Smith.

             ED 
      Smithy? B..b...been a long time. 
      Sorry to hear about Jimmy. He was 
      like a brother to me.

             SMITH
      Me to.

Ed, jarred.

             SMITH 
      You supplying Jimmy with gear for 
      Jacks girls? 

             ED
      Not me, Smithy, Johhny Caroll. I 
      don’t do that stuff anymore mate -- 

             SMITH 
      You’re lying Ed!

             ED
      What makes you say that?

             SMITH
      Your lips are moving. 

Smith erupts - pummelling punches into Ed. It’s an horrific 
sight as Smith systematically takes him apart. 

Ed crawls across the wet floor - crying.

             ED
        (screaming)
      I d..d..don’t know anything!!!!!

             SMITH
      I don’t believe you Edward!

Smith stamps down on ED’S testicles - twisting his heel, 
crushing.

             ED
      STOP!!! PLEASSSSE!!!

Ed lay breathing heavily in the mud - praying for the 
violence to stop. Smith, momentarily relents.

             SMITH
      Who killed Jimmy and why?

             ED
        (crying)
      I.... I... don’t know...

Again, Smith stamps on Ed’s testicles. Ed screams, Smith 
calmly waits, until the wailing subsides. 

             ED 
        (screaming)
      They’ll kill me!

             SMITH
      I’m gonna kill you Ed.

Smith reaches down and remorselessly drags a screaming Ed by 
the hair into -- 

INT. ED CONWAY’S RAG N’BONE YARD. WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

-- the broken down workshop. He slams him into the wall.  

Ignoring the screaming; Smith grabs a discarded screwdriver 
and thunders it into Ed’s knee - holding his free hand over 
his mouth, smothering the scream. 

             SMITH
      It’s going to worse for you. Much, 
      much worse. 

Smith turns the screwdriver slowly. ED drools uncontrollably - 
unable to speak - shock taking over. 

             SMITH 
      Who killed Jimmy Ed? 

             ED
      You did!! You Did!!

Smith stands; looks around, eyes the weapon of choice, a CLAW 
HAMMER - and crosses to the bench --

BAM!!! The door crashes open and the hulking silhouette of 
Patrick Kelly fills the doorway.  

He tackles Smith, body-checking him hard, hoisting him into 
the air and smashing him into the workbench - wrestling him 
to the ground. 

It’s an ugly scuffle - fast and nasty. Smith reaches up to 
the bench - gripping the hammer - embedding it onto Patrick 
Cole’s hand, splintering the bones. As Patrick recoils, Smith 
swings the hammer - burying it deep in his shoulder. 

SUDDENLY; A shadow falls across Smith, before he can 
extricate himself from Patrick - a SYRINGE is ploughed into 
his back. 

Smith spins to see Linus Kelly towering over him - instantly 
delivering a gruesome kick to Smith’s face, sending him to 
the dirt. Smith fights to get to his feet, but as the drug 
takes effect he becomes still.

CUT TO:

INT. OLD MILL - DAY

Smith is slumped in a chair in the derelict mill. His hands 
bound behind his back - his feet to the chair legs. 

Muffled sounds jolt him from his stupor - his world slowly 
crawls into focus - the fuzzy shapes of several bodies moving 
about. 

Suddenly, a bucket of water is thrown over him - snapping his 
senses back to:

One eyed Patrick Kelly drops the bucket. 

Smith forces himself to focus - recognizing Ed Conway, beaten 
and bandaged, necking aspirin and downing whiskey from the 
bottle. 

The door grinds open and HANDSOME BASTARD enters - he’s a 
well groomed and educated sociopath.

             HANDSOME BASTARD 
      Thought they’d overcooked it on the 
      happy juice. 

He looks at Smith, coldly. Studying him. Smith spits blood 
onto the expensive shoes.

The Handsome Bastard doesn’t react. He picks up Smith’s hat 
and tries it on. Smith squints - blood stinging his eyes. 

             HANDSOME BASTARD 
      Was going to get me one of these - 
      but they’re hard to find in this 
      neck of the woods. 

He throws the hat back down - back to business. 

             HANDSOME BASTARD 
      You are more of a pain in the arse 
      than colon cancer. 

Handsome Bastard hammers a punch into Smith’s solar plexus.

             SMITH
        (sputtering)
      Are you flirting with me? Mister?

Handsome Bastard, amused. 

             HANDSOME BASTARD/SEAN
      Monaghan. Sean Monaghan. 

             SMITH
        (penny drops)
      Monaghan? Junior. 

             SEAN
      What do you think you know Mister 
      Smith? 

Smith scans the room - it’s a lose, lose situation - shakes 
his head, implying he knows nothing. 

             SEAN 
      Enjoy the in-flight entertainment. 

Sean gestures towards Linus and Patrick Kelly, who stand, 
eager to inflict untold misery on Smith. 

Smith braces himself for impact --

-- as Linus kicks him full in the face - knocking the chair 
over - even Ed Conway looks away, revulsed by the impact. 

Patrick Kelly picks the chair up - propping Smith back onto 
it. Blood freely pouring from the fresh gash across Smith 
nose. 

Patrick Kelly punches Smith - exposing Smith’s cheekbone. The 
chair and Smith crash to the floor once more.

Sean halts the attack, leans over to Smith. 

             SEAN 
      I don’t like to repeat myself.

             SMITH
      What?

             SEAN
      I said I don’t like to --

He realises Smith is winding him up - but fails to see the 
joke and gestures for the brothers to continue.

Patrick Kelly wraps a rope around Smith’s neck and drags him 
across the floor. Reveal: Linus Kelly holding a thin WOOD 
CHISEL and MALLET. 

They grapple Smith’s hand - force it open on the floor. Linus 
Kelly lines up the chisel and strikes it forcefully with the 
mallet - driving it through Smith’s palm. 

Smith barely suppresses the scream. As the pain rides through 
him - he nods, conceding. 

Sean gestures for Linus and Patrick Kelly to pick Smith up. 
They hoist the chair and drag Smith back onto it. 

             SMITH
        (laboured)
      Julius Maypother, pulled girls for 
      Red Jacks skin flicks -- 

Smith struggles, fighting the coursing pain surging through 
his body.

             SMITH 
      -- Jimmy, Jimmy, made a bit on the 
      side pumping ‘em full of Caroll’s 
      shit, right Ed? 

Everyone looks to Ed - perfectly dropped in the shit. 

             SMITH 
      Cathleen Hennessy was one of the 
      girls. Got high, gang-bang got 
      Roman, she ended up floating in 
      Lassiter -- 

Smith eyes the guilty faces. 

             SMITH 
      You all had a go, maybe -- ?

Patrick Kelly throws a look to an impassive Sean - but’s it’s 
enough for Smith. 

             SMITH 
      -- filmed it even? 
        (beat)
      Jimmy knew, or found out, sold you, 
      one of your boys down the river, 
      threatened to go to the Garda? 
      Blackmail?  

Sean and Smith exchange poker faces - Sean lets his ‘tell’ 
slip first. 

             SEAN
      Inaccurate -- 

Smith spits blood onto the floor. 

             SMITH
      -- but close enough?

Sean stares at Smith, trying to read him, then --


             SEAN
        (to the Kelly brothers)
      Bring me that Cowley whore. 

Undiluted rage rides through Smith - he strains at his 
bindings with such blood-vessel popping ferocity Sean 
actually steps back. 

Linus drives an horrific punch into Smith’s temple and 
quashes the threat - sending Smith crashing to the dirt.

             PATRICK KELLY
      What about his old lady?

Sean shrugs it off. Too much hassle? Or Conscience pang?

             SEAN
      Out of bounds. Leave her be. 

Linus and Patrick Kelly leave.

Smith watches them depart - but he’s slipping into 
unconsciousness. 

             SEAN 
        (to Ed)
      Take him over to the Go Inn - till 
      it’s time to chop him up and feed 
      him to the crabs. 

Sean leaves. Ed hobbles to his feet, picks up Smith’s TRILBY 
HAT as the two remaining GOONS untie Smith and carry him 
outside --

EXT. OLD MILL - CONTINUOUS

-- and dump him in the boot of a VAUXHALL VAN. Ed deposits 
Smith’s hat on top of him before slamming the tailgate.   

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. NEW TOWN. TRACK - MOMENTS LATER

The Vauxhall bullets down the track, bouncing on the uneven 
terrain, tires barely finding purchase. 

CUT TO:

EXT. NEW TOWN BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS

On the bridge, ticking over, a diarrhoea brown Austin 
Princess at the wheel: Father Pascal.

Pascal takes a swig from his hip flask, watching as the 
Vauxhall Van arrives at the bridge - travelling towards him.

Pascal hits the accelerator and the Austin lurches forward, 
speeding across the bridge.

Then; Pascal swerves, drastically, into the path of the 
oncoming Vauxhall.  

A nanosecond before impact; Pascal makes the sign of the 
cross -- 

The two vehicles collide head-on in a sickening crunch!! 

The Vauxhall Van is shunted into the bridge - punching a hole 
through the crude crash barrier. 

Finally, the door of the Austin Princess swings open and 
Pascal falls out. Bloodied, he staggers towards the Vauxhall, 
revolver in hand.   

Ed and the GOON attempt to crawl out from the twisted van. 
Pascal raises the gun and clinically discharges two rounds - 
one each in the head. 

He blesses both of the bodies before reaching in and removing 
the keys from the ignition - cutting the screaming engine. 

He unlocks the boot - inside a drugged, bruised, Smith. 

Pascal lifts him out - and drags him back to the Austin. It 
starts, just. 

Pascal wedges the car in gear - rolls forward - pushing into 
the beleaguered Vauxhall - nudging it further through the 
barrier - until, finally it plummets over the edge into the 
rocky river below. 

Revving hard, Pascal forces the Austin Princess to limp back 
towards town. 

CUT TO:

EXT. THE DRIFT - DAY  

The Kelly brothers Range Rover rolls to a stop opposite 
COTTAGE FOUR (belongs to Daphne D’Marco). 

Linus doesn’t seem convinced.

             LINUS KELLY
      She ain’t here, Patrick. 

             PATRICK KELLY
      Impatient bastard. Ed sells his 
      skunk to that D’Marco tramp, she 
      told him Cowley was staying with 
      her. We wait. 

             LINUS KELLY
      Ed is a shit-for-brains waste of 
      fucking space, Monaghan should have 
      chopped his sack off and stuffed it 
      in --  

             PATRICK KELLY
        (interrupting)
      What does she drive?

             LINUS KELLY
      What?
        (bored)
      Dunno, some kinda of shitty pick-
      up, I think. 

Patrick Kelly gestures outside...

             PATRICK KELLY
      Like that shitty pick-up?

             LINUS KELLY 
      Just like that shitty pick-up. 

Moira pulls up. They watch, as she grabs a small bag of 
groceries off the seat and enters number four. 

Linus and Patrick Kelly climb from the Range Rover and cross 
the road - drawing weapons. Patrick Kelly listens at the door 
- the radio is switched on. 

INT. D’MARCO COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS

BAM!!!! The door is kicked open and Linus and Patrick burst 
in - Daphne is stood in the hallway in her bra and knickers, 
JOINT hanging from her mouth, Maypother’s sawn-off shotgun 
resting on her hip - levelled at the intruders.

             DAPHNE
      Knocky. Knock!

She fires: Linus Kelly catches the blast full in the stomach, 
virtually cutting him in half - lifting him back through the 
door and dumping the two pieces of him unceremoniously in the 
street. She makes the sign of the cross.

Patrick Kelly ducks for cover as Daphne fires again, blasting 
a hole in the wall. 

Patrick Kelly stares at the bloodied body of his dead brother 
- desperately trying and failing to assimilate his emotions. 
He creeps forward along the hall - gun held ready to shoot. 
He moves into the kitchen where he can see a reflection of 
Daphne - he slams his body into where she is hiding - 
managing to grab the shotgun. He raises his .45 to Daphne’s 
head - but from nowhere, Moira appears, slamming a rusty meat 
cleaver down on his wrist - severing his hand. 

Patrick Kelly screams - heading for the door clutching his 
bloodied stump - dragging Julius Maypother’s sawn-off shotgun 
with him. 

Daphne and Moira both look down at the severed hand - still 
holding the .45. Daphne hands the REEFER to Moira - who takes 
a deep toke.

             DAPHNE 
      Are you gonna ring the Policia 
      mans’ or am I? 

CUT TO:

INT. GARDA STATION - DAY     

Ambrose is sat at his desk examining TWO clear EVIDENCE BAGS - 
one containing a CIGAR and the other containing a LIGHTER. 

In the main office; Alfred is Googleling ‘KLINGON SWEAR 
WORDS’ and Joseph is rummaging in draws - looking for 
something.  

In the background - Ambrose answers his cell-phone. 

The main office telephone rings and Alfred leans back in his 
chair - stretching past Joseph for the receiver. 

             ALFRED
        (lazily)
      Yeah, hello.
        (not really paying 
         attention)
      You got who come in?
        (suddenly listening)

             ALFRED 
      Patrick Kelly... right... and he’s 
      missing a what? 

Alfred leaps to his feet 

             ALFRED 
        (shouting)
      INSPECTOR!!!!!

But; Ambrose bursts out of his office - on a mission of his 
own.

             AMBROSE
      There’s a Linus Kelly hole in the 
      world. Intestines spread all over 
      The Drift. 

             ALFRED 
      Patrick Kelly is at a 
      veterinarian’s on the outskirts of 
      Longacre, minus a hand. 

Joseph leaps up - lost ‘tin whistle’ in hand - he sniffs it - 
pulls his head away sharply.  

             JOSEPH
      Arh! You dirty-arsed bastard! 
      You’ve done it again. 

Ambrose and Alfred just ignore him. 

             AMBROSE
      Did you say minus a hand?
        (beat)
      Careless.

             JOSEPH
        (confused)
      Why, what’s going on?

             AMBROSE
      You two get down to Longacre, I’m 
      heading out to The Drift.

Ambrose hands a scribbled note to Alfred. 

             AMBROSE 
      The address. Get some lads in hats 
      to meet me down there. 

Just as Alfred and Joseph head out the door. Ambrose grabs 
Joseph by the scruff of the neck.

             AMBROSE 
      Don’t go and get yourself killed, 
      you hear me.  

Joseph nods. It’s a heartfelt moment. Ambrose straightens his 
sons uniform - then Ambrose is out the door --

EXT. GARDA STATION - CONTINUOUS

-- and striding to his car - dials his cell.

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Annie answers the phone. 

             ANNIE
      Hello?

EXT. GARDA STATION - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose reaches the car - climbs in. 

             AMBROSE
      Have you heard from him? 

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Annie looks straight at Smith, being sutured by Pascal.

             ANNIE
      No, why?

EXT. GARDA STATION - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose starts the car - reverses out of his parking space. 

             AMBROSE
      All is not well in Denmark! 
      Maypother this morning, now Moira 
      Cowley and the D’Marco girl just 
      had a run in with the Kelly 
      brothers. Linus came off second 
      best in an argument with a shotgun. 
      I’m heading over there now, if you 
      hear from him, tell him to keep his 
      head down. Let me deal with it. 

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 

Smith is coming around - fast.  

             ANNIE
      I will - be careful Clarence. 

Annie puts the phone down and crosses to Smith - sutures 
weave across the wounds on his face. 

Desperately Smith fights his nausea and delirium. 

             SMITH
        (urgent, desperate)
      Monaghan’s snatched Moira --

             ANNIE 
        (calmly)
      The slut is safe. Clarence is on 
      his way there now. Linus Kelly 
      won’t be no bother to anyone again. 

Smith absorbs the information. Still trying to clear his 
head. Pascal throws him a bottle of generic pain-killers, 
Smith swallows a handful. 

             SMITH
      How did you know where I was?

             FATHER PASCAL
      Your Ma asked me to keep an eye on 
      you - sorry I didn’t get you out 
      sooner. 

Smith gets up - catches a glimpse of himself in the mirror - 
the sight of the network of sutures weaving across his 
bloodied face.

             FATHER PASCAL 
      You may not be as pretty, but 
      you’ll live.

             ANNIE  
      Did you find what you were looking 
      for?

Smith nods. Annie looks out the kitchen window - not wanting 
to hear.

             ANNIE 
      Jimmy involved? 

Smith lies.

             SMITH
      No. 

Annie knows he’s lying - finally acknowledging the fact that 
Jimmy was really a bastard. 

             ANNIE
      Monaghan’s protecting her son. The 
      curse of being a parent.

Smith starts to get dressed, pulling on his bloodied shirt.

             ANNIE 
      What do you think you are doing?

Smith is about to protest - when Annie hands him a fresh, 
ironed shirt. 

             ANNIE 
      No son of mine is going to get 
      himself killed in an un-starched 
      shirt. It ain’t Christian.

             FATHER PASCAL
      I’ll wait in the car. 

Pascal leaves. Smith hugs his Annie - she holds him tight. He 
breaks to the door. 

             ANNIE
      Caleb.

Smith stops, silhouetted in the doorway - looks back at her. 

             ANNIE 
      Caleb, you don’t need to do this.

They look at each other, both resolutely strong - yet 
screaming inside. Annie’s giving him a way out -- will he 
take it?

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - CONTINUOUS

Smith walks to the waiting car. Pascal drives them away. 

INT. SMITH HOMESTEAD. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Finally, Annie allows herself to grieve.

CUT TO:

EXT. THE DRIFT - DAY  

The street is cordoned off and the full Garda (Police) circus 
is in town. 

Ambrose is staring at Linus Kelly’s corpse - it has an effect 
on him - but he shuts it out. A Garda approaches and speaks 
to Ambrose, just out of earshot - before he moves on. 

INT. D’MARCO COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Ambrose enters COTTAGE FOUR - can smell the marijuana. He 
pushes past the plethora of procedural personnel. He 
registers the blood splatter on the walls, floor and door. 

He enters the crowded kitchen - where Patrick Kelly’s hand is 
bagged and tagged.

He moves to the living room - where Moira and Daphne are sat 
on the settee, flanked by a couple of no-nonsense Constables.  

             AMBROSE
      Ladies.

             DAPHNE
      Inspector. 

             MOIRA
      Inspector de Policia.

             AMBROSE
        (rhetorically)
      Break-in and Entering? Self-
      Defence? 

Moira and Daphne, both stoned, look at each other and nod. 
Ambrose acknowledges it - but doesn’t believe it.

             AMBROSE 
      I’ve just about had it up to my 
      tired old testicles today, 
      seriously. If it wasn’t for the 
      paperwork, and my lack of valid 
      firearms license, I’m this close to 
      shooting you two fragrant 
      miscreants myself. And I’ve just 
      been told Ed Conway has decorated 
      the inside of his van, with the 
      shit that passed for his brains - 
      and the fat arse he was with - by 
      driving of that bastard bridge. 

             AMBROSE 
      The very same parent-less bridge 
      that drunken buffoon, John Caroll, 
      took a flying lesson off last week. 
      I got that dead Hennessy girl 
      washed up in the damn. Jimmy Smith 
      and Julius Maypother having a 
      barbecue competition. Patrick Kelly 
      is gonna come last in a county 
      clapping contest and Linus, poor, 
      retarded, Linus Kelly, inside-out 
      in the fucking street! And the Pope 
      only knows what other carnage 
      awaits - before the sun sets in 
      this parish of the dammed. I swear 
      to my God, your God, Allah, Buddha, 
      Bono and Elvis Aaron Presley, I am 
      going to retire, take up knitting -- 

             DAPHNE
      Knit yourself a bag for your tired 
      testicles? 

Both Daphne and Moira try not to laugh - chastised by 
Ambrose’ withering stare. But; somehow, Ambrose seems to have 
purged himself, he wipes his brow again - reigning it back 
in. 

             AMBROSE
      Break-in and Entering? Self 
      defence?

Moira and Daphne nod again. 

             AMBROSE 
      First things first, where is Smith?

CUT TO:

I/E. THE DRIFT. PASCAL’S AUSTIN - DAY  

Smith and Pascal sit silently - as the Austin Princess 
cruises through the muddy roads. 

CUT TO:

EXT. ED BRYNE’S RAG N’BONE YARD - DAY   

The Austin pulls up next to Smith’s XJ-S. As Smith gets out 
Pascal hands him his REVOLVER.

             FATHER PASCAL 
      I decided to give up gambling.

There’s nothing more to be said. Smith crosses to the Jaguar, 
starts her up and they head back the way they came. 

CUT TO:

EXT. LONGACRE VETERINARY CLINIC - DAY    

Alfred and Joseph duck down, coming under fire from the 
window of the Veterinary Clinic. The lunacy of WOODEN POLICE 
TRUNCHEONS versus SAWN-OFF SHOTGUN blatantly obvious. 

             ALFRED 
      Patrick, put your hands up and --

             JOSEPH
        (corrective whisper)
      Hand, hand. 

             ALFRED
      Put your ‘hand’ up and step out 
      where we can see you clearly. 

BAM! The windscreen of the Police Car is shot out - spraying 
Alfred and Joseph in glass.

             ALFRED 
      Khest!

Joseph looks over to him.

             JOSEPH
      Did you just swear in Klingon? 

Alfred nods, embarrassed. 

Suddenly; another blast rings out, tearing the wing mirror 
from the car - peppering Alfred’s shoulder with molten shot - 
spinning him to the ground. 

Joseph grabs hold of the fallen Alfred and pulls him into 
cover. 

             ALFRED
      I’m alright. I’m alright!!!

The door of the clinic is kicked open and Patrick staggers 
out - wielding Julius Maypother’s shotgun.  

             PATRICK KELLY
      I will fucking kill you!!! Kill you 
      all! Bastards!!!!

Joseph stands, fearless. His mind-set changed. Albert can see 
what he is going to do.

             ALFRED
      Joey, don’t! Don’t!

But, Joseph turns and marches toward the screaming Patrick 
Kelly. Patrick levels the shotgun -- 

-- Joseph hesitates, seemingly once again paralysed by fear.

But as Patrick Kelly’s finger tightens on the trigger Joseph 
explodes and smashes his wooden police truncheon into Patrick 
Kelly’s head. Cracking it like an egg. Patrick’s body falls 
lifeless to the ground. 

Joseph, in a state of shock, stares Patrick’s corpse, the 
reality sinking in. Sickened to his soul with what he’s just 
done.   

His knees buckle - unable to hold back the tears. Alfred 
appears beside him. Joseph takes out the PENNY TIN WHISTLE 
and begins to play.  

EXT. MONAGHAN HOUSE - DAY 

Smith pulls up outside Monaghan’s House - although as grand 
as Red Jacks - this place is the epitome of class. 

Thomas is stood on the other side of the gate. Smith sighs, 
bracing himself for the inevitable pain a battle with Thomas 
will bring. 

Smith gets out; REVOLVER in hand, hanging by his side.

             SMITH
      How’s the knee, Thomas?

Thomas is also holding a gun, also hanging by his side. 
Neither man adopting a threatening posture. 

             THOMAS
      Bit sore.

             SMITH
      Arnica liniment, three times a day. 

Thomas nods his thank you.

             SMITH 
      Changing sides? Red not paying 
      enough?

             THOMAS
      It’s a free market economy Mister 
      Smith. A man’s got to keep his 
      employment options open. 

             SMITH
      Guess so. 
        (beat)
      So, how’s this gonna play out Tom? 
      Can I call you Tom?

             THOMAS
      I prefer Thomas -- but Tom’s fine.

             SMITH
      This ain’t your fight, Thomas. I 
      ain’t got grief with you. Think 
      about it - we don’t need to do 
      this. Go home, kiss your kids good-
      night. Live to fight another day.

             THOMAS
      Kids are in Florida --

             SMITH

      Dolphins?

             THOMAS
      Dolphins.   

             SMITH
      That’s nice.

Thomas thinks about it - drops the counter-lever - and the 
gates swing open. 

They exchange subtle acknowledgements of respectful 
gratitude, Smith gets back in the Jaguar and drives in. 

CUT TO:

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE - LATER      

Smith walks through the house, no staff, no henchmen - makes 
him nervous. He follows the sound of Holst’s The Planet 
Suite: ‘Mars’ echoing through the house -- 

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE. GRAND HALL - CONTINUOUS

-- into a hall - where he finds Grace Monaghan, waiting for 
him. 

             MONAGHAN
      Welcome to my humble abode.

Monaghan walks off, Smith tentatively follows into --

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

-- the office. Beautifully simple, classic, expensive. 

Monaghan crosses to her desk - turns the music down, 
slightly. 

             MONAGHAN
      Gustav Theodore Holst. Mars; The 
      Bringer of War. Clears the cobwebs, 
      helps me think.  

             SMITH
      Big house, must get lonely since 
      your old man died? 

Monaghan, stung, covers. 

             MONAGHAN
      Yes it does. 

             SMITH
      And Sean Junior?

             MONAGHAN
      Sent him out of town. 

             SMITH
      Out of harms way? 

             MONAGHAN
      Something like that. 

             SMITH 
      How long you known?

             MONAGHAN
      About the girl? Couple of days. But 
      it’s not what you think, Smith. 
      You’re believing in the wrong 
      truth.

             SMITH
      He over stepped the mark - coming 
      after my family, Jimmy was my 
      blood. 

             MONAGHAN
      As Sean is mine. 
        (beat)
      There are no innocents in this. 
      We’re all guilty to a greater or 
      lesser extent. 

Monaghan dials-in the combination for the wall-safe.

             MONAGHAN 
      Our families go back a long way. 
      Your father and --

             SMITH
      You destroyed my Pa -- 

             MONAGHAN
      Your father destroyed your father! 
      Not romanticising about the hero of 
      your childhood? Let’s not dress 
      this up. Womanising, gambling and 
      murdering, only three things he was 
      good at. 

Monaghan opens the wall safe - takes out a handful of old 
papers and dumps them on the desk.

             MONAGHAN 
      Take them. Keys to this town. Every 
      deed I hold. Make you a rich man. 
      Let my boy be, walk away from this. 

Monaghan rummages through the papers until she finds three 
specific ones. 

             MONAGHAN 
      Old man Cowley’s farm. Golightly’s 
      hovel, your Ma’s place - need I go 
      on? 

Smith stares at the papers - thinking through his options. 
Monaghan opens the desk draw and takes out a piece of paper - 
signs it.

             MONAGHAN 
      All legal and binding. 

She watches as Smith weighs up the options.


             MONAGHAN 
      Like father like son.

That cuts Smith. Makes his mind up for him. He shakes his 
head. 

             SMITH
      You think this can be settled with 
      money? 

Monaghan smirks, drops the deeds on the table. 

             MONAGHAN
      Money is just Alka-Seltzar for the 
      soul. Living with pain makes us who 
      we are Smith. How we handle grief 
      defines us.

Smith aims Pascal’s REVOLVER at Monaghan, who doesn’t flinch.

             MONAGHAN 
      You’re not the first man to aim a 
      gun at me. 

             SMITH
      But I may be the last. 
        (beat)
      What’s to stop me from killing you 
      and taking the deeds anyway?

             SEAN 
      Me!

Reveal; Sean pressing a .45 muzzle into Smith’s temple. 

             SMITH
      Like Mother like son. 

Sean prises the revolver from Smith’s fingers and deposits it 
on the desk.

             MONAGHAN
      For what it’s worth, I’m genuinely 
      sorry about your brother. But what 
      had to be done, had to be done. 

Smith stares at her coldly - so much so it unnerves her. 

             MONAGHAN 
      Don’t shoot him in here, that rug 
      is a genuine Persian, gift from 
      Red, imported from Iran, just as 
      the Tsar was overthrown, 
      apparently.

Sean forces Smith out of the office -- 

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE. GRAND HALL - CONTINUOUS 

-- into the hall. 

             SEAN
      Predicable bog-jockey - I knew you 
      wouldn’t let it lie. 

             SMITH
      Cheap words - for such an expensive 
      education. 

Sean slaps the butt of the pistol across Smith’s neck - 
pushing him forward. Smith’s TRILBY sent to the floor. 

Smith seizes the moment and aggressively manhandles Sean over 
the balcony; sending both men crashing onto --

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE. STAIRCASE - CONTINUOUS

-- the staircase; falling 10 feet - SMACK!!!! - onto the 
steps.

The brutalizing impact takes more out of Smith than it does 
Sean, who recovers and drives a solid jab into Smith’s face, 
following through with a vicious kick. 

Smith scrambles to get up - backing onto the landing - but 
Sean is on him - jack-hammering blows into kidneys and ribs.

They have the blood lust now - blunt force trauma. Both men 
intent on inflicting mortal damage on each other. It’s ugly 
and raw, a dirty blood-fest.

The two titans battle like erupting volcanoes. Eventually, 
amidst the brutality, Sean connects with a punishing, jaw 
shuddering, teeth shattering hook, dropping Smith.

             SMITH
        (spitting blood)
      Must have really made your Mother 
      proud with the Hennessy girl --

Sean kicks Smith viciously - a driving, penetrating blow.

             SEAN
      The girl was an accident. Got out 
      of control. Fucking OD’d on us.

Sean retrieves the fallen .45.

             SMITH
      And Jimmy? Was he an accident? 

             SEAN
      No. He was very fucking intentional 
      Smith. Been a long time coming. 

The fire re-ignites in Smiths eyes. 

             SEAN 
      I wanted to kill that little fucker 
      myself, make no mistake -- 

Smith, recoils -- did he hear that right?

             SEAN 
      -- but Johnny Caroll got to him 
      first. 

Smith, stunned, confused. Struggling to assimilate. 

             SEAN 
      Jimmy panicked, tried to take her 
      to hospital in Longacre -- 

             SMITH
      -- Caroll? No. Caroll was already 
      dead... he was already dead when 
      Jimmy -- 

Sean shakes his head. 

             SEAN
      -- Caroll put his car off the town 
      bridge a couple of days before the 
      Garda found Jimmy’s body, that’s 
      all it was. Happenstance. 

As the words cut through Smith like a rapier - Sean fires; 
BAM! Smith is catapulted across the floor, his left shoulder 
erupting, ragged by the .45 slug. 

Sean; a cat playing with a wounded mouse. 

             SEAN 
      You’ve been elusive, hard man to 
      track down, Smith. Tried, after you 
      shot my Pa up. Hired a couple of 
      nasty pieces of work, from the 
      smoke, work over the Cowley girl, 
      real bad, figured atrocities 
      carried out against the ones you 
      love - would bring you back. 
        (beat)
             SEAN 
      Never underestimate a priest with a 
      gun. Never did find the bodies. 

Smith forces his fingers into the bullet wound - an agonising 
attempt to stem the flow of blood.

             SEAN 
      My father, made me swear, on his 
      deathbed; that your Ma and Jimmy 
      were beyond reproach. On his 
      fucking deathbed Smith - you were 
      on his mind. Not me, his son, not 
      his wife of thirty fucking years. 
      You! 
        (beat)
      He feared you. Told me to fear you. 
      Why?

             SMITH
        (agonised, breathless)
      I... let him live --

Smith fights to control his breathing - forces himself to his 
knees. 

             SMITH 
      Let you live. He gave me his word. 
      No harm would come to my kin. 

             SEAN
      His word? Tell you what his word 
      gave you - after, Caroll caved your 
      brothers skull in, I got Jimmy’s 
      body, tied it up, burnt it.
        (beat)
      Couldn’t take any chances - had to 
      make sure you’d come back, Smith.

Sean watches as tears finally stain Smith’s face - his spirit 
crushed.

             SEAN 
      I kept my oath to my Pa - when I 
      killed your brother, he was already 
      dead. 

Sean puts the .45 into the base of Smith’s skull.

             SEAN 
      Look at you now. Broken, like the 
      rest of this fucking Cove.

             SMITH
      Your Pa - would be turning in his - 
      grave, if he could see what you 
      are, what you’ve done to this town.

             SEAN
      My father OWNED THIS FUCKING TOWN! 
      Left it to me! Your bastard Pa left 
      you nothing, nothing but an English 
      name, Smith - and that ain’t worth 
      shit.

Sean’s fingers tighten on the trigger until -- 

-- SUDDENLY; Smith lashes out -- 

-- BAM!!! Sean fires -- 

-- The bullet ripping a chuck of marble from the floor.

Sean; nothing at first - no sign of contact; but gradually 
delayed shock registers on Sean’s face - then, slowly, ever-
so-slowly a thin CRESCENT shaped trace of blood opens up 
across his neck, cheek and eye. 

In Smith’s bloodied, bandaged hand; his fathers BONE HANDLED 
CUT THROAT RAZOR.

             SMITH
      Only I get to call him a bastard. I 
      earned it.

Sean’s wound opens further - to reveal a hideous slash across 
his face. Smith watches the pained desperation in Sean’s eyes 
- the true fear of certain death. He staggers back on the 
stairs - topples - crash landing, at the bottom.

Smith stares down at his beleaguered nemesis, numb, his fist 
still clenched, almost ringing blood from his bandaged hand. 

Smith turns, heavily, heading back up the stairs to confront 
Grace Monaghan.

SUDDENLY; BAM! The lower left side of Smith’s abdomen 
explodes - .45 exit wound. 

From the bottom of the stairs; Sean fires again - second 
round hits Smith in the back.

He hits the ground - lungs screaming for air.

Slowly Sean climbs the stairs, blood freely pumping from his 
neck.  
He finds Smith bleeding out, but desperately trying to crawl 
for cover. He aims the .45 and squeezes the trigger - the gun 
jams! Sean discards it, annoyed. 

Smith grips a table barely able to drag himself to his feet. 
He makes it to knees, glazed eyed and helpless, all motor and 
cognitive function gone.

Sean steps back and lashes out with a skull cracking kick. 

Smith’s face absorbs the full impact of the deathly blow - 
head bouncing like a rag-doll - before hitting the floor with 
a sickening thud.

Smith’s body is still - bloodshot eyes fixed in a deathly 
stare - a dark halo of blood seeps from his skull. 

Sean looks down at the body - picks the limp carcass up by 
the hair and drags him -- 

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE. HALL - CONTINUOUS 

-- through the hall - leaving a trail of blood. 

Sean pick’s up Smith’s TRILBY, dusts it off and puts it on 
before he rounds the corner into the office.

INT. MONAGHAN HOUSE. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS  

Monaghan registers the silhouette of Sean dragging Smith’s 
body through the glass panelled wall. 

             MONAGHAN
      I said not in here - it’ll ruin the 
      Persian --  

BUT; as Sean steps into view; Monaghan only recognizing 
Smith’s HAT - grabs the REVOLVER off the desk and fires.

THUD!!! Sean is hit in the chest! THUD!!! A second shot hits 
him in the neck - sending Sean’s dead body to the ground in a 
tsunami of blood - the TRILBY spinning across the floor. 

Suddenly: Monaghan is hit with the reality of the situation - 
can see she’s just shot Sean - SHE’S JUST MURDERED HER OWN 
SON!!!!

Horrified; she slumps into her chair - overcome by grief she 
screams - it’s involuntary, guttural - primeval. 

She places the barrel of the revolver in her mouth and pulls 
the trigger, BLAM!!! Her last, embittered thought, wallpapers 
the office wall -- just as Ambrose arrives. 

DISSOLVE:

EXT. HILL CEMETERY - DAY   

Father Pascal performs Smith’s funeral - to a small 
congregation made up of the usual suspects; Annie, Ambrose, 
Mary, Golightly, Alfred and Joseph - and a few stragglers. 

Moira and Daphne loiter at the back - by ‘lightning strike’ 
tree. 

Annie’s hand reaches out, by her side, searching - finds 
Ambrose hand. Clasp’s it tight. 

Annie see’s Moira - their gaze holds. Moira half hoping to 
find an allie, two women united in grief. Annie smiles, it’s 
only the briefest glimmer of a smile - but it’s there.

Suddenly, the truth dawns on Moira and she runs from the 
cemetery.

CUT TO:

EXT. SMITH HOMESTEAD - DAY  

Smith appears on the porch, he looks an utter mess, kit bag 
slung over his shoulder. 

His attention drawn to a familiar Hilux tearing up the dirt 
track towards the house. 

He limps crosses the yard to the XJ-S. The pick-up skids to a 
halt nearby, and Moira steps out.

             MOIRA
      You never were great at goodbyes.

Smith dumps his kit-bag in the boot of the Jaguar.

             SMITH
      How did you know?

             MOIRA
      Your Ma smiled at me. She’s never 
      smiled at me.  

Smith smiles - that sounds like Annie. 

             MOIRA 
      Why, Smithy?

             SMITH
      Even the Monaghan’s owe someone - 
      maybe ’they’ won’t come looking for 
      a dead man. 

He slams the boot of the Triumph. 

             MOIRA
      Where are you going to go?

             SMITH
      Somewhere. Anywhere.

             MOIRA
      D’you need some company?

He SERIOUSLY considers it - for a heartbeat. He looks at her, 
through her, cold. 

             SMITH
      No. 

She’s stung - accepts this truth. 

             MOIRA
      Ambrose gave me the deeds to my old 
      mans place. Said Monaghan released 
      them apparently, before she shot 
      herself. So, I’m a landowner now. 
      Guess you made me all respectable. 

             SMITH  
      Guess so. 

             MOIRA
      Mary and Old Man Golightly too.   

Smith eases his broken body into the car, fires up the 
engine. 

             MOIRA 
      Will you be coming back?

             SMITH
      Maybe. 

Smith pulls away. In the rear view mirror - Moira still 
looking. 

Is he going to stop?

No.

He hits the accelerator - and the Jaguar kicks up a trail of 
dirt as he heads somewhere, anywhere. The solitary image of 
Moira diminishing in the rear-view mirror. 

The End

