              BURN SITE
               Written By

               Doug Simon

Verve
(310) 558-2424

Generate 
Chris Pollack
(310) 255-0460


DAWN...
A BLACK HORSE sprints through frozen neck high grass in the 
dead of winter, breath shooting out like steam.

The tall greenery thwacks the steed in the snout as it 
charges out of the field and onto...

A residential street dominated by foreclosed, boarded up 
homes on one side and a vacant lot of overgrown grass that 
the horse just exited on the other side.

SERIES OF SHOTS of the loose animal as it continues a journey 
through a picturesque wasteland of economic meltdown... 

Past vacant auto plant after vacant auto plant... past a 
burnt out and abandoned Elementary School... 

Welcome to present day DETROIT.

As the sun rises, the exhausted animal finds itself on the 
shoulder of 8 mile road where it wanders into the street...

A casino bus PLOWS into the horse -- Head meets windshield 
with a BLOOD SPLATTERING CRACK as we --

The SOUND of metal SCREECHING against metal takes us to...

CUT TO BLACK:

EXT. WALKER SCRAP METAL/THE YARD - MORNING

A MAN drags a metal pasture gate off the bed of his rusted 
pickup. Painted on one of the bars is, Bloomfield Ranch.  

The Man, hoodie underneath a tattered winter jacket, bad 
skin, worse teeth, places the gate on a scale to be weighed. 

REMY HARRIS (30s), a beast of a man, shaved head, and Yard 
Foreman of this colossal scrap metal yard -- one of Detroits 
few thriving industries -- inspects the gate. 

One look at this Man and Remy knows its stolen. But that 
doesnt make a bit of difference. Remy scribbles the weight 
on a receipt, rips it off, and shoves it in the mans hand. 

ACROSS THE YARD --

JACOB RILEY (late 30s), his lean and solid frame the product 
of relentless self-discipline. He wields a blowtorch, slices 
a fifty foot metal beam in half with speed and precision. 

His walkie talkie CRACKLES. He unhooks it from his belt. 

INT. WALKER SCRAP METAL/BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob splashes water on his face. Removes the grime. Combs 
his hair. Dusts off his coveralls. He looks in the mirror. A 
spider web tattoo on his neck peaks out above his collar.

             WALKER 
      A man who gives others hope, no 
      matter how desperate the situation, 
      is a true leader.

Jacob adjusts his collar to hide the remnants of a past life.

INT. WALKER SCRAP METAL/WALKERS OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

SYDNEY WALKER (mid 40s), hefty, denim button-down, worn 
jeans. He may not dress like a millionaire, but he is. He 
sits behind a vast metal desk, exuding power and authority.

             WALKER
      Jacob? Do you agree?

Jacob nods.

             WALKER 
      Then be a leader. For your family.

Jacob looks at a framed photo on Walkers desk: A FAMILY 
PORTRAIT of Walker and his beautiful wife and daughter. 

             JACOB
      Mr. Walker... My family cant take 
      nother pay cut. 

             WALKER
      I know you werent expecting this.

Jacob attempts to remain calm and measured.  

             JACOB
      With respect... this aint right. I 
      show up early, I leave late--

             WALKER
      You certainly act like you give a 
      shit, which is more than I can say 
      for much of my staff.

             JACOB
      Not an act, sir. 

             WALKER
      Which is why much of my staff wont 
      be here on Monday... and you will. 
      Try complaining to them about a pay 
      cut.

             JACOB
      Not complaining. Jus--

             WALKER
      Youve been here a long while, 
      which is why Im allowing you this 
      conversation. But think carefully 
      before saying another word.
        (beat)
      Youre one of the lucky ones. You 
      still got a job. Dont you agree?

Seething inside, Jacob wants to protest, but instead finds 
himself nodding in agreement. 

EXT. WALKER SCRAP METAL/PARKING LOT - LATER

Jacob sits in his Ford Pickup Truck scrolling through his 
phone, stopping at: DIANA. His thumb hovers over the TALK 
button... He cant press it. He PUNCHES the steering wheel.

INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

DIANA RILEY (late 30s) delicate and beautiful, works the 
register at the 10 ITEMS OR LESS CHECKOUT LANE. 

She rubs her aching shoulder. Looks at the conveyor belt. A 
case of BUD LIGHT. The customer, a pimply teenage KID.

             KID
      Oh. Almost forgot.

He hands her an ID. Diana doesnt even give it a glance. 

             DIANA
      Whats your name? 

             KID
      St-- 
        (remembers his fake ID)
      Eric.

             DIANA
      Well, Steric, do you know how many 
      drunk driving accidents there are a 
      year involving minors?

             KID
      Cmon. Its New Years Eve. Cant 
      you just help me out? 

Diana snatches the fake ID out of the kids hand. 

             DIANA
      Leave now and I wont call your 
      parents. That enough help? 

EXT. GROCERY STORE/PARKING LOT - LATER

Diana jogs through the lot, taking off her apron as she goes. 
She gets in a rundown Ford Taurus. 

EXT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/PARKING LOT - LATER

Dianas car pulls into a STAFF ONLY parking spot. 

INT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/LOCKER ROOM- LATER

Physically worn-out, Diana changes into scrubs.

INT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/EMERGENCY ROOM - LATER

Diana yawns as she takes her seat at the Admissions Desk. The 
moment her butt hits the chair -- SCREAMING

A MAN in a gas station attendants uniform frantically 
hobbles into the ER. His right foot is MANGLED and BLOODY.

             MAN
      ONE OF THOSE FUCKIN DOGS!

ER WORKERS usher the Man back into the ER. 

             MAN 
      THERES A WHOLE PACK OF EM ACROSS 
      THE STREET!

OUTSIDE, a pack of feral dogs roam around a gas station. 

Horrified, Diana eyes the dogs as we PRELAP:

             LEON 
      A man who gives others hope, no 
      matter how desperate the situation, 
      is a true leader.

INT. COSTELLOS BAR - NIGHT

Detroit sports memorabilia haphazardly decorate this dump. A 
handful of regulars toss back whatever is cheapest on tap. 

At the bar, Jacob sits with his heavily intoxicated and 
bellicose friend from work, LEON ARCHER (40s). 

             LEON
      ...then he fuckin fired me. 

Leon takes a long sip of beer. Jacob eyes Leons drink with a 
combination of desire and disgust. He looks to the bartender.

             JACOB
      Nother diet here.

ESPN plays on a mounted TV. A shot of the Detroit Lions 
Calvin Johnson dropping a pass. 

             LEON
      Dude gets 134 mil for catchin -- 
      no -- droppin a fuckin ball while 
      the rest of us take it in the ass 
      for 9.25 an hour. Fuck im.

Jacobs cell RINGS. CALLER ID: DIANA. He stares at the phone.

EXT. COSTELLOS BAR - MOMENTS LATER

A desolate stretch of road. Jacob paces back and forth, on 
his cell. Light SOBS are heard on the other end. 

As Jacob thinks of what to say, he clocks a couple of DEALERS 
(18) peddling CRANK in front of a convenience store. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Baby, it could be worse. 

             DIANA/PHONE
      I dont see how. 

Jacob looks inside the bar at Leon who is now drunkenly 
MUMBLING to himself. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      I do. 

             DIANA/PHONE
      500 bucks a month just vanished. 
      Gone. How do we live like that? I 
      mean, did you even put up a fight? 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Stuff like this happens. We deal 
      with it, alright?

             DIANA/PHONE
      Stuff like this keeps happening. 

He eats the jab. Decides whether or not to fire back. Then -- 

             JACOB/PHONE 
      Whats Sandra doin tonight?

INT. BMW (MOVING) - THAT MOMENT

The RADIO BLASTS. SANDRA RILEY (18), cute, rides passenger. 
CHRISTINA WALKER (18), sassy, drives. We recognize Christina 
as Sydney Walkers daughter from the photo on his desk. 

             SANDRA
      This car is sick.

             CHRISTINA
      Speakers were just put in. 

Sandra feels her cell phone VIBRATING. CALLER ID: MOM.

             CHRISTINA 
      Dont do it. Not if you wanna have 
      fun tonight. 

             SANDRA
      Shes just gonna keep calling.

Sandra lowers the music and answers.

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Hey mom. 

             DIANA/PHONE
      Honey, where are you?  

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Just driving around with Christina. 
      Her new car is awesome.    

             DIANA/PHONE
      Do me a favor? Tell Christina that 
      her fathers a real asshole. 

Mortified, Sandra cups the phone and looks over at Christina. 
Did she hear? But Christinas eyes are dead set on the road.


                                      7.
             JACOB/PHONE
      Diana. Leave it alone. 

EXT. COSTELLOS BAR  - THAT MOMENT

Phone to ear, Jacob hugs himself against the cold. He has 
been on the line the whole time.  

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Dad? Whats going on?

             JACOB/PHONE
      Nothin. Whats your deal tonight?

             SANDRA/PHONE
      The deal is Christina and I were 
      planning on going to this party--

             DIANA/PHONE
      You know how I feel about parties.

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Mom! Its New Years Eve! 

             CHRISTINA
      Told you not to pick up. 

Sandra shoots Christina a look. 

             DIANA/PHONE
      Last year you came home so drunk. I 
      wont have it. Spend tonight with 
      your parents.

             SANDRA/PHONE
      This is so unfair. 

             DIANA/PHONE
      I know, your mothers so unfair to 
      wanna celebrate New Years with her 
      daughter. 

             SANDRA/PHONE
      You know thats not what I meant. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Sandra, please, listen to mom. 

             SANDRA/PHONE
      ...Whatever. Fine. Bye.   

Diana and Sandra hang up on each other at the same time. 
Jacob exhales, rubs his forehead.


INT. BMW (MOVING) - THAT MOMENT
Sandra sulks in the passenger seat. Her phone VIBRATES. She 
sees its her dad and picks up. 

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Why am I never allowed out?

             JACOB/PHONE
      Im lettin you go, alright? Jus 
      give mom a break.

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Whys she so pissed off this time?

             JACOB/PHONE
      Nothin. Everythings fine.  

             SANDRA/PHONE
      Youre such a bad liar, dad. What 
      happened?

When Jacob wont answer, Sandra starts to piece it together. 
She turns away from Christina and cups the phone. 

             SANDRA/PHONE 
      Im sorry... Ill come home. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      No. This aint your problem. 

             SANDRA/PHONE
      You sure? I dont wanna add to the 
      insanity. 

Jacob eyes the two Drug Dealers across the street.

             JACOB/PHONE
      Trust me. If theres one thing that 
      keeps me sane, its you. 

No words have been more true. Sandra smiles, touched. 

             JACOB/PHONE 
      Love ya, sweetie. 

             DIANA/PHONE
      You too.

Sandra hangs up, sits quietly, her sadness lingering.

             CHRISTINA
      What happened with your dad?

             SANDRA 
        (beat)
      Nothing. Everythings fine.

             CHRISTINA
      And you think your dads a bad 
      liar?

Christina smirks, turns up the music and SPEEDS off.

EXT. COSTELLOS BAR - NIGHT

Jacob pockets his phone just as Leon comes barrelling out of 
the bar. He runs past Jacob, into an alley, and VOMITS.

Leon starts to cry. Jacob rubs his friends back, trying to 
console him. Leon spits, wipes his mouth, and stands.

             JACOB
      Im sorry. 

             LEON
      Right. Im sure you are. You still 
      got a job. 

             JACOB
      ...Im drivin you home. 

Jacob puts his arm around Leon and guides him towards the 
parking lot. Leon violently swings Jacobs arm off. 

             LEON
      FUCK YOU! I aint goin home yet!

Leon stumbles back from Jacob and wobbles down the street. 

             JACOB
      Leon! Dont be like this!

Leon doesnt respond as he disappears down a dark alley. 

Jacob opens his hand revealing a SET OF CAR KEYS. Leons car 
keys that he lifted from Leons pocket before being pushed. 
He goes back into the bar, tosses the keys to the bartender.

             JACOB 
      Make sure he dont drive.

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - LATER

A working class neighborhood hanging on by a thread. Diana 
drives pass boarded up homes. She pulls into their driveway.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Diana enters, drags herself to the finish line. She flips the 
light switch. No light, but --

A light flickering from the kitchen. She rounds the corner to 
see Jacob, holding flowers, and a candlelit dinner prepared. 

             JACOB
        (re: the light switch)
      There was some confusion with the 
      payment. I took care of it. Well 
      be back on soon. 

Jacob helps Diana out of her coat as she realizes -- 

             DIANA
      Wheres Sandra? 

             JACOB
      Its you and me tonight. 

             DIANA
      Jacob -- Whatd I say?

             JACOB
      Diana...

             DIANA
      You always gotta be the good one, 
      dont ya? Its not right. 

Diana takes out her cell. Jacob swipes it, holds it out of 
reach from Diana. He looks her in the eye, very serious. 

             JACOB
      Baby... ygot no idea how 
      embarrassin it is standin in line 
      with only candles and flowers.

Diana laughs, softens. Jacob pulls a chair out for her. She 
looks at the dinner, then back at her husband. 

INT. HOUSE PARTY/LIVING ROOM - LATER

HIP HOP MUSIC BLARES. The house is packed with out of 
control, drunk teenagers. Somewhere, SOME KID SHOUTS --

             SOME KID
      10 MINUTES TILL NEW YEARS!

INT. HOUSE PARTY/BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

An extremely drunk Sandra vomits into the toilet while kids 
BANG on the door.

             PARTIER 
      You takin a shit in there?!

Sandra flushes the toilet. She goes to the sink, splashes 
water on her face, rinses her mouth out. She looks in the 
mirror, eyes barely able to focus, anger suddenly creeps in.

BANG-BANG-BANG -- Sandra swings the door open, BUMPS into the 
PARTIER as she brushes past him. 

She wobbles downstairs. Scans the room. Finds Christina 
making out with a BOY (18, skateboarder type). Sandra pulls 
the Boy off. Christina looks at Sandra, What the fuck?  

Sandra SHOUTS something into Christinas ear. The MUSIC is 
LOUD and we couldnt HEAR what Sandra just said. But from the 
look on Christinas face, it wasnt something pleasant. 

Sandra backs up and stares down a now pissed off Christina.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob and Diana eat by candle light. 

             JACOB 
      Howre you gonna feed a dog when 
      you cant put food on the table?

             DIANA
      Its cruel, abandoning a dog like 
      that. Now theyre running around, 
      breeding, attacking people.

Diana stops eating, lays down her fork. 

             DIANA 
      I want out of here. 

             JACOB
      I wanna get us outta here. 

             DIANA
      Sandra deserves better. 

             JACOB
      Ill get us outta here. 

Jacob gets up, kneels in front of her, looks her in the eye.

             JACOB 
      You and Sandra changed my life. I 
      owe it to you... You took a chance 
      on me and Im gonna show you that 
      you didnt make the wrong choice. 

             DIANA
      I dont ever think I made the wrong 
      choice. 

Diana kisses him as Jacobs watch starts to BEEP repeatedly.

             JACOB
      Happy new year. I promise. 

Jacob picks up Diana and carries her into the bedroom.

OUTSIDE, its beginning to snow. We look up at the pitch 
black sky as specks of white fall directly at us. 

FADE TO WHITE:

EXT. RIVER ROUGE - NEW YEARS DAY - MORNING

The ground is blanketed in 3 feet of glistening snow. A small 
abandoned shack sits along the bank of the frozen river. 

A YOUNG GIRL (10) in a pink snowsuit runs into FRAME and 
takes cover behind the shack. An OLDER GIRL (13) chases her 
with a snowball. 

The Older Girl creeps up alongside the shack as the Young 
Girl hears the footsteps and slowly backs away.

The Young Girl packs a snowball of her own when she catches a 
glimpse of something odd on the shoreline of the river. She 
squints, trying to make out what it is.

The Older Girl is right at the edge of the shack. 

The Young Girl steps closer and thats when it becomes clear. 

Along the shoreline, caught on a low hanging tree branch, 
motionless and protruding halfway out of the iced over river 
is a dead female body. 

Paralyzed by fear, the Young Girl simply stares at the body. 

INT. CADENS APARTMENT/LIVING ROOM - MORNING

A quaint upper-middle class apartment. Moving boxes line the 
walls. Some have been unpacked. Most have not. 

Sitting on the couch, straining to hear something, is ROSS 
CADEN (mid 30s). Athletic build, wears a sweat-stained 
Detroit Tigers baseball cap, T-shirt and pajama pants. 

ANNE CADEN (mid 30s, Hispanic) walks in tying on a bathrobe. 
She just woke up ten seconds ago, but judging from her looks 
youd never guess it. Caden doesnt acknowledge her entrance. 

             ANNE
      Um... whatre you doing?

             CADEN
      That buzz. 

             ANNE
      That what?

             CADEN
      Ive checked the heater, the 
      fridge, the TV. Ive got no idea 
      where its coming from. 

Anne looks at him like he is crazy, but plays along and gives 
a listen. When she does, an annoying constant BZZZZ is heard.

             CADEN 
      Was it here when we looked at the 
      place? 

             ANNE
      That cant be a serious question. 

Anne laughs. Which makes Ross have to laugh. 

             CADEN
      Im not crazy. 

             ANNE
      Thats what all the crazies say.

Ross grabs Anne from behind and starts BZZZing in her ear. 

             ANNE 
        (laughs)
      Get off, crazy.

A baby CRIES from the bedroom. Caden lets go of Anne. Without 
missing a beat they do ROCK-PAPER-SCISSOR and -- Caden loses. 

             ANNE 
      Ha. Ha. 

Cadens cell RINGS. He checks the CALLER ID. He turns 
serious, looks back at Anne. She knows this look and sighs.

             CADEN
      Ill get him next time... Unless 
      you wanna go solve a crime.  
        (picks up the phone)
      This is Detective Caden. 

EXT. RIVER ROUGE - MORNING

Helicopters circle. News vans, camera crews, and onlookers  
stand behind yellow police tape. An overly done-up FEMALE 
REPORTER talks into a camera.   

             FEMALE REPORTER
      This marks Detroits first reported 
      murder of the New Year. Last year, 
      Detroits murder rate ranked among 
      the highest in the country...

The two young girls sit in a state of shock in the back of a 
police cruiser. A FEMALE OFFICER attempts to get information.

Down by the river, CRIME SCENE TECHS chisel away at the ice, 
working to unearth the girls bottom half from the river.

A black Chevy Impala pulls up. Caden gets out.

One of the CRIME SCENE TECHS (late 50s), an old hand at his 
job, notices the fresh-faced detective and approaches. 

             CRIME SCENE TECH
      Happy New Year, Detective...?

             CADEN
      Caden. Good to meet you.   

Caden breezes pass the TECH. Makes a bee-line for the river. 
The TECH jogs to catch up as Caden spots a lone EVIDENCE 
MARKER next to a soggy mess of colorful half-digested cereal. 

             CRIME SCENE TECH
      Pink snowsuit in the cruiser had 
      Fruit Loops for breakfast.  

             CADEN 
      We ID the girl in the river?

             CRIME SCENE TECH
      Not yet. But shes mid to late 
      teens. She was beaten pretty badly 
      and has a severe stab wound along 
      her face and neck.


The Crime Scene Techs get the girl loose and place her on a body bag. A CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPHER SNAPS SHOTS.

             CRIME SCENE TECH 
      Snows making it a challenge to 
      find anything right now.

             CADEN 
      Well, good work on the Fruit Loops.

             CRIME SCENE TECH

        (dick)
      Nice to meet you. 

Caden starts the trek over to the body. 

             FEMALE OFFICER 
      Detective...? 

             CADEN 
      Caden. Good to meet you.  

Caden turns around to see the Female Officer who was 
questioning the two young girls. 

             FEMALE OFFICER
      One of the girls in the car thinks 
      she knows her.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BEDROOM - MORNING

Jacob and Diana lay asleep under two thick wool blankets. 
Theres a KNOCK at the door. Diana stirs and nudges Jacob.  

             JACOB
      Sandrall get it. 

             DIANA
      Not if shes the one knocking. 

More KNOCKING. Jacob opens his eyes. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob, wrapped in a blanket, opens the door. He is thrown to 
see a stranger on his porch: Detective Caden.

             JACOB
        (shivering)
      Help you? 

             CADEN
      Morning. Jacob Riley?

             JACOB
      Yeah.  

             CADEN
      Are you the father of Sandra Riley? 

             JACOB
      Yes... Why? Is everything okay?

Caden holds out his badge. 

             CADEN
      Im detective Ross Caden. May I 
      come in, please?

             JACOB
      Is everything okay? 

             CADEN
      If youd allow me in, Id be--

             JACOB
      Yeah, come in, but--

             CADEN
        (as Caden steps in)
      Is Mrs. Riley home? Id like her to 
      join us.    

Jacob puts a hand on Cadens chest, stopping him. Caden looks 
down at it. Jacob quickly removes it. 

             JACOB
        (beat)
      Why cant you tell me everythings 
      okay? 

Jacob stares at Caden, desperate. Caden cant prolong this 
anymore. He swallows, readies himself to deliver the news.

             CADEN
      Im sorry to have to tell you this, 
      but early this morning a body was 
      discovered in River Rouge that we 
      believe to be your daughters. 

Stunned silence. 

             CADEN 
      Im very sorry, Mr.-- 


             JACOB
      No no no. The hell you talkin 
      about? Shes fine -- Shes home --

             CADEN
      Maybe we should sit down and--

Jacob storms down the hallway. BARGES into Sandras room. Her 
empty bed sends a chill through his body.   

             DIANA 
      Who are you? Whats going on here?

Jacob rushes back into the living room. Diana stands in front 
of Caden, waiting for an answer. Caden looks to Jacob, 
offering him a chance to explain. When Jacob doesnt speak --

             CADEN
      Mrs. Riley, Im Detective Ross--

Jacob steps in between Diana and Caden, shielding her. 

             JACOB
      You said you thought it was her.

             DIANA
      Somebody talk to me! What the 
      hells going on? Wheres Sandra? 

Jacob turns to Diana. His face. His silence. It tells her 
everything. Dianas knees buckle. 

             DIANA 
      Oh my God -- Oh God no --

             JACOB
        (to Caden, pleading)
      You dont know. You dont know.

Caden takes out an evidence bag containing a set of keys. 

             CADEN
      We found these in her pocket. Did 
      these belong to your daughter?

Diana takes one look at Sandras house keys and pitches 
forward, holding her stomach. She runs to the bathroom. 

INT. MORGUE - DAY

Jacob stands over Sandras body which lies on a metal table. 
She has several BLACK BRUISES on her face. 


And a 6 INCH GASH along the right side of her head, beginning at her temple and ending at her throat. 


             JACOB
      Was she...? Did anything else 
      happen to her?

             CADEN
      A full examination will be done 
      shortly.   

Jacobs face hardens as his sadness morphs into rage. Caden 
clocks this, and drapes the sheet back over Sandra. 

             CADEN 
      When did you last speak to Sandra?

INT. MORGUE/CAFETERIA - DAY

Jacob, trying to be strong, sits next to a nearly catatonic 
Diana. Caden sits opposite them. A COP in uniform, NOWLES 
(mid 20s) hangs back in a doorway fifteen feet away. 

             JACOB
      ...Last night... round 7, I think. 
      She was goin to this party with a 
      friend. Christina Walker...

Caden writes, PARTY - FRIEND - CHRISTINA WALKER.

             JACOB 
      ...Next thing I know, youre 
      knockin at my door.

Diana MUMBLES something inaudibly.

             CADEN
      Im sorry, Mrs. Riley?

             DIANA
      Whyd you call her back?

Jacob cringes, the guilt-ridden pain stabbing his stomach. 

             JACOB
      Im sorry. 

Jacob grips Dianas hand. She pulls it away and retreats back 
into a comatose state.

             JACOB 
        (to Caden)
      I let her go out last night.


Caden nods, empathizes with Jacob, pushes forward.
             CADEN
      Um... Do you know of anyone who 
      Sandra may have been fighting with 
      or not getting along with?  

             JACOB
      Everyone loved her. 

             CADEN
      Was Sandra dating anyone?

             JACOB
      No -- Not that we know of. 

             CADEN
      And youre Sandras stepfather? 

Jacob nods, yes.

             CADEN 
      And youre her biological mother?

Jacob nods for Diana. 

             CADEN 
      Wheres Sandras biological father?

             JACOB
      Dead. Diana was married, but he 
      died of cancer before she was born.

Caden takes out a folder. 

             CADEN
      As I said before, this process 
      wont be easy. So what Im about to 
      ask might be difficult to discuss. 
      But Id like to get it out of the 
      way now and cross it off my list.

Jacob nods. He knows exactly where Caden is headed. Caden 
opens the folder and flips to a page.

             CADEN 
      When I ran your name, Mr. Riley, I 
      saw we had a file on you. You were 
      arrested twice for intoxication. 
      Three times on narcotics 
      possession. In all instances you 
      had alcohol, methamphetamine or 
      OxyContin in your system.  


Jacob shifts in his chair. Like a reflex, he adjusts his 
shirt collar to hide his neck tattoo.  

             JACOB
      I did a lotta stupid things.

             CADEN
      Then theres this assault charge. 

EXT. DIVE BAR - NIGHT - TEN YEARS AGO

Jacob, in his early 30s, stumbles out of a bar. He is drunk 
and stoned. Not the Jacob weve come to know. He accidentally 
bumps into THREE MEN (30s) drinking on the sidewalk. 

Jacob staggers off and BAM -- A beer bottle hits him in the 
back of the head. It lands on the sidewalk, doesnt break. 
Jacob bleeds as he turns around and stares down the group.

One MAN takes this as an invitation and approaches. Jacob 
picks up the beer bottle and CLOCKS the Man in the face. The 
Man hits the ground, his friends run to help. 

Jacob shoves the bottleneck of the beer bottle down the Mans 
throat. Jacob stands, fire in his eyes, and raises his boot 
over the bottle that sticks out of the Mans mouth, ready to 
crush it through the Mans head when he is suddenly tackled. 

INT. MORGUE/CAFETERIA - END FLASHBACK

Jacob lowers his head, not proud. Caden sizes up the reformed 
man who was once capable of such ferocity. 

             CADEN
      In regards to your past, is there 
      anything else I should know? 
      Fights? Drugs? Anything?

Jacob looks to Diana for help. Shes totally checked out. 
Jacob stands and grabs Dianas purse. 

             JACOB
      Gotta get my wife home. 

             CADEN
      Mr. Riley, I understand this is--  

Jacob turns violently to Caden.

             JACOB
      You dont understand a fuckin 
      thing. 

             JACOB 
      I havent raised a hand, touched a 
      drug, or had a drink in ten years. 
      Since the day Diana and Sandra 
      accepted me into their lives. They 
      turned that part of my brain off, 
      so understand that before you 
      accuse me of anything. 

Jacob helps Diana to her feet and leads her to the exit. 

             CADEN
      Mr. Riley, hang on a second. 

Jacob stops. Turns around. Faces Caden.  

             CADEN 
      All Im trying to do is get the big 
      picture. We do that and work from 
      there.

Caden holds out his BUSINESS CARD. 

             CADEN 
      I need you to trust me.   

Jacob takes the business card and heads to the door. Caden 
watches Jacob like a hawk, trying to get a read on the man. 

INT. POLICE STATION/BULLPEN - NIGHT

Overworked DETECTIVES pour over paperwork. Plenty of desks 
with RINGING phones and no one in the chairs to answer them. 

INT. POLICE STATION/CAPTAINS OFFICE - NIGHT

The constant phone RINGING from the bullpen filters in 
through the open door. Caden sits opposite CAPTAIN TERRY 
(50s). A commanding presence. Grey crew cut, thin mustache. 

             CADEN
      Coroner report came back. No signs 
      of sexual assault. 

             TERRY
      Theft? 

             CADEN
      Doubtful. Found her purse an hour 
      ago. Frozen in the river not far 
      from her body. Thirty-five bucks 
      inside. Not a lot. But enough if 
      that was the plan. 

             TERRY
      And no murder weapon?  

Caden shakes his head. Terry sits back, exhales, displeased. 

             TERRY 
      The medias gonna be all over this. 
      They dont like dead teenage white 
      girls.  

Caden peers through the blinds. NEWS VANS, CAMERA CREWS, and 
REPORTERS pack the lot.

             CADEN
      Wrong. They love em.   

             TERRY
      Which is why Id like you to hand  
      this off to a more senior person. 

Caden looks at Terry, You cant be serious. 

             TERRY 
      Shut the door.

Caden does as he is asked. 

             TERRY 
      You havent been here five minutes 
      and youre already being thrown 
      into the spotlight.  

             CADEN
      Thanks for the confidence. 

             TERRY
      You can open the door now.
        (re: the ringing phones)
      Goddamnit! Someone either pick em 
      up or unplug em. 

             CADEN
      Look, I grew up here. Its not like 
      I dont know my way around town. 
      Besides, I didnt move back here to 
      shy away from the spotlight. 

             TERRY
      Since you brought it up, why did 
      you move back here? 

             CADEN
      Maybe because I got tired of seeing 
      everyone do the opposite. 


Terry gives a halfhearted chuckle. Caden, dead serious says --
             CADEN 
      You keep me on, Ill find who did 
      it. 

             TERRY
        (mulls it over)
      Fuck it then. Lets start the New 
      Year off on the right foot. 

Caden nods. He opens the door. 

             TERRY 
      Before you go, you said this Riley 
      has a bit of a temper. You 
      anticipate a problem there? 

Caden ponders the question. 

             CADEN
      No.

EXT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

A police cruiser pulls to the curb. An OFFICER gets out and 
opens the back door for Jacob and Diana.      

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob leads Diana inside. He takes her coat off, sits her on 
the couch, and takes a seat next to her. Both look totaled. 

Diana abruptly gets up and disappears into the kitchen. 

Jacob startles when he HEARS the CLANGING of pots and pans. 
He walks in the kitchen to find Diana on her knees, digging 
deep inside a cabinet, pulling out a bottle of whiskey. 

             JACOB
      How longs that been there?

Diana pours herself a drink. Downs it. Pours another. She 
takes her drink and the bottle into the living room and sits.

             DIANA
      Sometimes I need a drink.

Diana takes another sip. Jacob aches for a taste. Forces 
himself to look away.

DIANA THROWS THE GLASS ACROSS THE ROOM, HYSTERICALLY CRYING. 

             DIANA 
      WHYD YOU LET HER GO OUT!? 

             JACOB
      Diana!

             DIANA
      YOU ALWAYS GOTTA BE THE GOOD ONE. 

             JACOB
      Im warnin you.

             DIANA
      God forbid you stand up to ANYONE!

DIANA THROWS THE BOTTLE. IT EXPLODES AGAINST THE WALL, INCHES 
ABOVE JACOBS HEAD. Glass and whiskey rain down on him. 

Jacob grabs Diana by the shoulders, SHOVES her down on the 
couch. Anger builds, will he actually do something?

Diana stares up at him. She is somewhere between hating him 
and needing him. 

Jacob pushes the rage down. Wont let himself go there. He 
lets go of Diana and starts picking up the broken glass. 

INT. THE BAILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - THE NEXT DAY - MORNING

The most religious home in Detroit. Every room contains a 
small reminder that this is a Christian household.  

SETH BAILEY (18), the boy Christina Walker was hooking up 
with at the party, sits at his kitchen table. Caden is across 
from him. Seths PARENTS stand off to the side. 

             CADEN
      Sandra and Christina got into a 
      fight? 

             SETH
      Yeah. But theres no way Christina 
      did it. She couldnt have. I was 
      with her the whole night. 

             MRS. BAILEY
      The whole night?

             SETH
        (busted)
      Shit...

Seth looks over his shoulder at his disapproving parents, 
then back at Caden. Seth smirks uncomfortably. 

             CADEN 
      Right... So you can vouch for 
      Christinas whereabouts between the 
      hours of midnight and...? 

Seth braces himself before answering.

             SETH
      Bout 6.   

His mother SWATS the back of his head. 

             MRS. BAILEY 
      Awful. Just awful. 

             CADEN
      Why were they fighting?

             SETH
      Sandra was upset because her dad 
      didnt get a raise or something 
      from Christinas dad. 

             CADEN
      Howd the fight start? 

             SETH
      Christina and I were...

Seth stops himself --

INT. THE HOUSE PARTY - FLASHBACK

Seth and Christina are making out HARD, his hand runs up 
under the front of her shirt.   

INT. THE BAILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - PRESENT

             SETH
      ...talking. And then Sandra comes 
      stumbling up, smelling like puke...

INT. THE HOUSE PARTY - FLASHBACK

Sandra pulls Christina off Seth, leans in to Christinas ear.

             SETH 
      ...and calls Christinas dad an 
      asshole. Right to Christinas face. 

INT. THE BAILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - PRESENT

             SETH
      Both were super wasted, so I wasnt 
      surprised when it happened...

INT. THE HOUSE PARTY - FLASHBACK

Sandra and Christina shout at each other and CRACK! Sandra 
punches Christina in the jaw. Christina stumbles back, 
stunned, before BAM! Christina punches Sandra.   

Sandra tackles Christina. Both HIT the floor. They PUNCH and 
CLAW at each other until Seth and other partiers break it up. 

INT. THE BAILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - PRESENT

             SETH
      Then Sandra stormed out. 

             CADEN
      Why didnt you go after Sandra? 
      Werent you worried about her?

             SETH
      Yeah but, I was with Christina. 

             CADEN
      Right. And you wanted to spend the 
      whole night with her. I remember. 

EXT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE - DAY

Two NEIGHBORHOOD BOYS (12), shovel the Rileys driveway. One 
stops and gawks at the three NEWS VANS across the street as 
well as a CAMERAMAN shooting B-ROLL of the street.  

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Diana sits at the table, eyes bloodshot. Jacob cooks 
scrambled eggs. The mood is cold. 

Jacob places a plate of food in front of Diana. She stares at 
it as the SCRAPE-SCRAPE-SCRAPE of shovel hitting gravel 
grates on her nerves.

             JACOB
      You need to eat.

Diana doesnt answer. She just looks away from the food.

A KNOCK at the door that Diana doesnt register. Jacob goes 
to the door, opens it. Its Leon, holding a casserole pot. 

             LEON
      Alice didnt want you worryin 
      bout food.   

Theres an awkwardness between the two, emotions still raw 
from the night outside the bar. 

             JACOB
      Come in. Just havin breakfast. 

Leon enters. When they look inside the kitchen, Diana isnt 
there. Her plate of food is untouched. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob dumps the eggs into the trash, immediately starts 
washing the mound of dishes. Leon sits at the kitchen table. 

             LEON
      Yneed anything, me and Alice are 
      here. Jus pick up the phone and 
      one of usll be here before you 
      hang up. Okay? 

Jacob doesnt respond. Leon might as well be talking to 
himself. But theres something weighing on Leons mind.

             LEON 
      Police talked to me today. Wanted 
      to know where I went after I left 
      you at the bar.

Leon gets up, starts pacing the kitchen. 

             LEON 
      I shoulda jus let you take me home 
      cuz all I did was walk round the 
      block, spend the night puking 
      before goin back to Costellos. 
      Nice work liftin my keys.

             JACOB 
      You really come here to proclaim 
      your innocence?

             LEON
      No, I dunno. I jus, I thought 
      youd like to know the police are 
      actually doin their fuckin jobs. 

Jacobs blood pressure spikes. He turns around.

             JACOB
      Know what I heard the other day? 
      Seventy percent of murders in this 
      fuckin city go unsolved.

Leon searches for a consoling response. Doesnt find one.

             JACOB 
      Seventy.

The thought pains Jacob, a hopelessness in his eyes. He turns 
around, goes back to washing the dishes. 

OUTSIDE, the kids can still be HEARD shoveling the driveway. 
Jacob closes his eyes, trying to block them out and --

EXT. PALMER WOODS, THE WALKERS HOUSE - DAY

WHOOSH -- A snow plow clears a path up a long and winding 
driveway. 

INT. THE WALKERS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

High ceilings. Expensive furniture. A stark contrast to every 
other house weve been in. 

Christina sits on the couch, crying. A pile of crumpled 
tissues beside her. She has a BLACK-AND-BLUE BRUISE on her 
jaw where Sandra punched her. 

Walker sits next to his daughter. Caden sits opposite them.  

             CHRISTINA
      I told you, I was drunk. All I 
      remember is Sandra calling my dad 
      an asshole and then punching me.   
        (trying to recall)
      I know I hit her back, but after 
      that... I dont know. 

Christina wipes her eyes.

             CHRISTINA 
      She started it though. I was just 
      defending myself. 

             CADEN
      And defending your father? 

             CHRISTINA
      My dad is not... an asshole. He 
      gives work to hundreds of people. 
      But all anyone cares about is when 
      someone gets fired. Its other 
      people who are the assholes.  

Caden notices the anger in her voice. And so does Walker. 

             WALKER
      She just lost her best friend. 

Caden turns back to Christina. 

             CHRISTINA
      I know what youre thinking. But I 
      would never hurt one of my friends. 

             CADEN
      You mean aside from punching one of 
      them in the face?

             CHRISTINA
      Ive taken shit my entire life for 
      being who I am and for having what 
      I have. So Im sorry if I get a 
      little pissed off sometimes. 

More tears. Christina grabs a tissue. 

             CADEN
      Christina, Id like for you to take 
      a polygraph.

Walker stands and gets in between Caden and Christina.

             WALKER
      I know youre new here, but let me 
      explain something to you--

             CHRISTINA
        (to Caden)
      You think I killed her? 

             CADEN
      I think you should take the test.

             WALKER
      --You dont come in here and accuse 
      my daughter-- 

             CHRISTINA
      Ill take it. 

Walker turns to his daughter, surprised. 

             CHRISTINA 
      Ill happily take it. 

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/BEDROOM - MORNING

Jacob watches his bedside clock switch from 5:19 AM to 5:20 
AM. This is how he spent his night. He rolls over and faces 
Diana. She is fast asleep.  

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Jacob heads for the bathroom in a dazed stupor. He stops in 
his tracks when he sees Sandras closed bedroom door. 

He inches towards the door. Grips the doorknob. Turns it. He 
is immediately overcome with emotion. 

He cant bring himself to look inside. He lets his hand fall 
off the doorknob.   

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob stares into the mirror. Sees his pale face, the 3 day 
stubble, the same hopelessness in his eyes from yesterday...

Then, his eyes stop on his neck tattoo. He runs his fingers 
over it... a symbol of the Jacob that once was and... 

Instead of feeling shame, under these circumstances, this 
blemish gives him hope. A fire reignited. His face hardens. 

Suddenly, and with purpose, he grabs the shaving cream. 

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob enters, all cleaned up. He looks like when we first met 
him. One difference. No collar hiding his neck tattoo. 

He sits on the edge of the bed. The movement wakes Diana. 

             JACOB
      I need some air. Be back later. 

Diana looks up at him, confused. 

             JACOB 
      I cant just sit here. 

A KNOCK at the front door. 

             JACOB 
      That should be Alice. Shell keep 
      you company.   

Jacob kisses Diana. She is cold and distant, rolls over, just 
wanting to go back to sleep. 

EXT. RIVER ROUGE - MORNING

Jacob parks his truck at the bank where Yellow Police Tape 
rests in the dirt in a crumpled up forgotten mess. 

He gets out, glacial winds thrashing him in the face. He 
turns his back to the river. Surveys a row of rundown homes. 

EXT. STREET - MORNING

SERIES OF SHOTS: Jacob going from house to house, grilling 
residents, receiving harsh looks, and unanswered doors. 

EXT. HOUSE/FRONT PORCH - MORNING

Jacob talks to a WOMAN (40s, not a people person), who 
smokes a cigarette. 

             WOMAN
      Like I told the police, I didnt 
      hear or see nothin. 

             JACOB
      What bout a car? 

             WOMAN
      Didnt I jus say I didnt see 
      nothin?

             JACOB
      Lady, I aint the cops and this 
      aint an interrogation. Im the 
      father. Now, Ive been up and down 
      this block and all anyone says is 
      they didnt see shit. Not possible. 

The Womans defiance melts away. She looks at him with pity, 
throws her cigarette into the snow, and lights up another. 

             WOMAN
      Im Iris.   

Iris extends her hand. They shake. 

             JACOB
      I was askin bout a car. 

Iris takes a second and really thinks before answering.

             IRIS
      I know you dont believe me, but if 
      I had children Id swear on em. I 
      didnt see a damn thing.  

Jacob looks inside Iriss house. Sees the squalor living 
conditions. He takes out a FIFTY DOLLAR BILL. 

             JACOB
      Sometimes it takes a little while 
      for people to remember things. 

Jacob RIPS the fifty dollar bill in half. 

             JACOB 
      Or sometimes people dont like 
      talkin to the cops. 

He writes his number on half of the fifty, hands it to her.

             IRIS
      Both those things might be true, 
      but what I said aint gonna change.

She tries to give it back.

             JACOB
      Like I said, sometimes it takes a 
      little while to remember. 

Iris nods, throws her cigarette in the snow, and goes inside. 
Jacob walks back to the river bank. Stares at it...

QUICK FLASHES: 

-SANDRA SMILING AT HIM...

-SUDDENLY, BLOOD VIOLENTLY STREAMS DOWN HER FACE, OVER HER 
EYES, INTO HER MOUTH, BUT SHE KEEPS SMILING...

-SHE CRIES OUT, DAD!

Jacob BLINKS, SNAPS back to reality. Shakes off the unwanted 
vision. He holds his head as he feels like he is losing it.

Suddenly, Jacob gets in his truck and drives off.

INT. POLICE STATION/INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Christina Walker sits, taking a POLYGRAPH. 

INT. POLICE STATION/HALLWAY - THAT MOMENT

Sydney Walker, Walkers ATTORNEY, and Caden wait outside.

The POLYGRAPH EXAMINER opens the door. Christina steps out. 

INT. POLICE STATION/INTERROGATION ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The Polygraph Examiner and Caden look at Christinas results. 

             POLYGRAPH EXAMINER
      Shes telling the truth. She didnt 
      kill Sandra Riley. 

             CADEN
      She said she was drunk, that she 
      doesnt remember things. That could 
      effect the outcome, no? 

             POLYGRAPH EXAMINER
      It could. If you consider two 
      percent an effect. Shes clean.

INT. POLICE STATION/HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Caden and the Polygraph Examiner step into the hallway. 

             CADEN
      Thank you. Youre free to go. 

             CHRISTINA
      Told you to believe me.

As Walker, the Attorney, and Christina exit the station, a 
FORENSIC TECH jogs up to Caden. 

             FORENSIC TECH
      Ive got something. 

INT. POLICE STATION/LAB - MOMENTS LATER

The Forensic Tech holds up a clear evidence bag the size of a 
garbage bag. Its filled with BLACK PIECES of charred --

             FORENSIC TECH
      Melted rubber. Found it by the 
      river. Near the shack.

Caden looks at it, quizzically. 

             FORENSIC TECH 
      Theres three more bags this size. 
      Were still working on where it 
      came from, though. 

Caden holds up the bag, staring at it. 

EXT. STREET - DAY

Gratiot Avenue. A section of the city left to fend for 
itself. Unplowed roads and sidewalks. Boarded up storefronts 
mixed with crumbling apartment buildings.

Jacob trudges through the snow. He passes DRUG DEALERS lazily 
hanging out in doorways. 

Jacob enters a decrepid three-story brick building with a 
consignment shop, One Source Resale, at the bottom. Clothes, 
appliances, and worn furniture clog the front window. 

INT. ONE SOURCE RESALE - CONTINUOUS

Jacob walks in to the SOUND of bickering. 

Behind the counter is MANDY ALVEREZ (40s). Thick arms, years 
of hard living. He SLAPS the back of his sons head, PIVO 
(17), wiry and truculent.

             MANDY
      Bitch, its been two days. The 
      sidewalk aint gonna shovel itself. 

Pivo grabs a shovel, walks past Jacob. Mandy looks up, sees 
Jacob, and stops cold. 

             JACOB 
      Wasnt sure Id still find ya here.  

A smile breaks across Mandys face.

             MANDY
      Ho-ly shit. Fuckin Riley?

Mandy looks Jacob up and down then wraps his arms around him.  

             MANDY 
      Shit, man. Yget lost in the 
      fuckin gym the last decade? Look 
      at ya, all fit and shit. The fuck 
      happened to ya?

             JACOB
      Nothin. Still open for business?

             MANDY
      Always open for business. 

             JACOB
      Good. Cuz Im needin somethin. 

Another smile from Mandy. An old customer has found his way 
back. They always find their way back. 

             JACOB 
        (off Mandys smile)
      No. Not that. Somethin else. 

INT. STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER

Mandy leads Jacob up a grimy stairwell. A mixture of HIP-HOP 
and DAYTIME TV comes from behind closed apartment doors. 

They reach the 3RD FLOOR. At the end of the hallway is a door 
with a waist high hatch that slides open and shut. Three 
tweaked JUNKIES wait in line for their fix.

Mandy stops at an apartment next to the one with the hatch. 

INT. MANDYS APARTMENT/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob and Mandy enter. Two street dealers, FLORES and QUINT 
(20s) play BioShock Infinite on Xbox and smoke a joint.

RAMI (early 20s) enters from a makeshift door in the wall 
connected to the apartment where the junkies were lined up.

             MANDY
      This way.

Mandy leads Jacob past a kitchen where an overweight woman, 
MARTA, feeds her overweight BABY GIRL (1). 

INT. MANDYS APARTMENT/BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Mandy pulls out a dresser drawer and puts it on the bed. 
Inside the drawer, a dozen handguns: GLOCKS, SIGS, BERETTAS. 

Mandy hands Jacob an oilcloth. Jacob picks up a Beretta 9mm. 
Holds it. Feels the weight. Remembering. It feels right. 

             MANDY
      Good piece. A real piece. You 
      wouldnt believe the shit people be 
      doin these days.

Jacob inspects the gun. The serial number is scratched off.

             MANDY 
      No fuckin joke, people be makin 
      they own guns. Im tellin ya, 
      motherfuckers are poor as shit. But 
      those poor motherfuckers are some 
      of the craftiest.

Jacob pulls out the magazine. Empty. 

             MANDY 
      Youtube that shit an see what Im 
      sayin. But they make that piece 
      wrong an fire off a round. BAM!

Mandy CLAPS his hands. Jacob startles.

             MANDY 
      Misfire. Ya lose your fuckin hand, 
      bro. Happened to my cousin.
        (laughs)
      Stupid motherfucker. 

Jacob pops the magazine back in. Aims it out the window. 

             MANDY 
      Way they figure, why spend three 
      hundred bucks on a piece when they 
      can go to a scrap yard like yours, 
      buy some metal for fifteen bucks 
      and make it on they own.

Jacob squeezes the trigger with a CLICK just as something 
occurs to him. 

             JACOB
      Howd you know I work at a scrap 
      yard?

             MANDY
      Huh?

             JACOB
      I didnt tell you where I work.


Mandy stares blankly at Jacob. 
             MANDY
      I dunno. Musta heard it somewhere.

             JACOB
      Who? Whod you hear it from?

             MANDY
      I said I dunno. The fucks it 
      matter? 

             JACOB
      Cuz my daughter was murdered two 
      days ago... And now Im here, a 
      place I havent been for ten years 
      and you know somethin about me. 
      Sounds like people have been 
      talkin about me. I wanna know who.

Mandy puts it together that perhaps he said something he 
shouldnt have. 

             MANDY
      Bro, Im sorry bout your girl. But 
      I didnt see anyone.

             JACOB
      The look on your face says 
      bullshit. 

             MANDY
      You aint draggin me into this. 
      Thats how this business works. I 
      dont see you. I dont see nobody.

             JACOB
      Last fuckin chance. Whod you see?

             MANDY
      Who the fuck you think youre 
      talkin to bitch? Fuck off--

Jacob LUNGES at Mandy, SHOVES a forearm into his throat, 
cutting off his air. Mandy GASPS and FLAILS. 

             JACOB
      Whod you see?

Jacob buries his arm deeper into Mandys throat.  

             JACOB 
      WHO?!

The door is BUSTED in by Flores and Quint. Jacob lets go.  

             MANDY
        (coughing)
      Dont -- dont let him leave.

Flores and Quint advance. Jacob raises his gun. Its not 
loaded, but it stops them in their tracks --

Enough time for Jacob to realize that he has no options. 

Flores RAMS his shoulder into Jacobs chest, SENDING him up 
against the wall, PINNING him there.

Jacob PUNCHES the back of Flores head --

The baby CRIES from the other room --

Quint ATTACKS, SLUGGING Jacob in the ear, DAZING him. Jacobs 
feet turn to spaghetti -- Flores lets Jacob collapse.

Jacob lands on all fours, HEAVING, watching BLOOD DRIP-DRIP-
DRIP from his nose onto the ratty carpet. 

             MANDY 
      You wanna leave? Forget you ever 
      came here. Yeah?

Mandy leans in close -- Jacob SNAPS his HEAD BACKWARDS, 
CONNECTING with Mandys forehead.

Jacob goes for his only out. BOLTS for the window and JUMPS --

He shatters through the GLASS, protecting his face with his 
arms and FALLS --

EXT. ONE SOURCE RESALE - THAT MOMENT

Jacob PLUNGES towards the ground. Braces himself for the 
landing. His legs pierce the snow, feet POUND the sidewalk. 

He falls forward, the snow breaking his fall. KNOCKING the 
wind out of him. 

Jacob sits up. Specks of glass fall from his face. He hunches 
over, holds his stomach. Sucking air. 

Everything is quiet while Jacob regains his senses. Finally, 
he looks up to see --

Pivo, ten feet away, shovel in hand, trying to make sense out 
of what the hell he just witnessed. 

             PIVO
      Shit... You alright, bro?

MUFFLED VOICES and RUNNING is heard from inside the store. 

Jacob struggles to his feet and rips the shovel from Pivo.

Rami exits the store and THWACK. The shovel flattens Ramis 
nose. He falls to the ground, out cold. 

Flores and Quint exit followed by Mandy. Jacob holds the 
shovel like a baseball bat, ready to take a head off. 

             JACOB
      I just wanna know who you--

BAM -- Pivos fist connects with Jacobs chin. It doesnt do 
much damage, but allows Flores and Quint to POUNCE.

Jacob side-steps a wild SWING from Quint and kicks his shin. 
SNAP. Quint drops, holding his leg.

Flores goes for his gun -- Jacob grabs his hand, stopping 
Flores from raising it. A struggle. Neither budging.  

Jacob leans in and BITES Flores ear. Flores CRIES OUT, drops 
the gun, holds his bloody ear. Jacob CLOCKS Flores in the 
face. Flores hits the pavement, squirming. 

MOVEMENT behind Jacob -- He WHIPS around and faces Pivo, the 
kid looking like he might shit himself. Jacob looking like a 
vampire with Flores ear blood smeared around his mouth.

Jacob turns back to Mandy. Sees him inside the store running 
down the aisle. 

INT. ONE SOURCE RESALE - CONTINUOUS

Jacob rushes inside as Mandy kicks open the back door. 

EXT. ONE SOURCE RESALE/BACK ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Jacob exits as Mandy gets in his car and starts the engine. 

Jacob SPRINTS to the car -- Mandy HITS THE GAS right as Jacob 
BREAKS the drivers side window with his elbow --

Glass SHATTERS in Mandys face. His hands fall off the wheel. 
The car veers off and SPEEDS into the alley wall and CRASHES.

BLACK SMOKE rises from under the warped hood. 

Mandy is barely conscious behind the wheel. 

POLICE SIRENS WAIL in the distance. 

Jacob limps to the car. Pulls Mandy from the wreckage. Throws 
him to the ground. He turns Mandy over and gets in his face. 

             JACOB
      Whod you see?!  

Mandy is too dazed to answer. His eyes are rolling back. 

A POLICE CRUISER SKIDS to a stop. Two OFFICERS get out and 
pull Jacob off Mandy. Jacob FLAILS like an animal. 

             JACOB 
      WHOD YOU SEE?!

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM/TWO WAY MIRROR - DAY

A broken Mandy Alverez sits alone on one side of the mirror.

On the other side is Caden and Captain Terry. Caden opens a 
folder and pulls out MUG SHOTS of TWO MEN. 

The first MAN is in his late 30s, full red beard, thick 
neck, an unnerving stare. This is --

             CADEN
      Harlan OKeefe --

The other is younger, mid 20s, weak eyes, sunken cheeks and 
sporadic stumble --

             CADEN 
      And his brother Blake OKeefe. A 
      few weeks ago, the OKeefes paid 
      Mr. Alverez a visit looking to 
      score a firearm. Like Mr. Riley, 
      the OKeefes and Alverez go back 
      some years, so they get to talking. 
      Alverez says the OKeefes start 
      talking all sorts of shit about 
      Riley. Also, they knew where Riley 
      lived, where he worked--  

             TERRY
      Why the bad blood between Riley and 
      the OKeefes?

             CADEN
      Because Jacob Riley sent both 
      OKeefes to prison. 

             TERRY
      Thatll do the trick.

             CADEN
      10 years ago, Harlan and Blake 
      broke into the Monroe County power 
      plant, attempted robbery. Things 
      didnt go as planned. The night 
      security guard tried to stop them. 
      They kill him. They get away. 

Terry shakes his head, disgusted. 

             CADEN 
      A couple days later, police get a 
      tip. From Jacob Riley. Harlan and 
      Blake get sentenced to 15 years for 
      second degree murder. 

             TERRY
      So what the hell are they doing 
      buying a firearm from this shitbag?

             CADEN
      Because Harlan and Blake were both 
      released from prison 3 months 
      ago... Time off for good behavior. 

             TERRY
      Fuck... You contact their P.O.? 

HOLD on Caden as he starts to speak --

INT. POLICE STATION/CAPTAINS OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER 

Jacob, face full of scrapes, looks at Caden and Terry in a 
state of disbelief.  

             JACOB
      Ygotta be fuckin kidding me.

             TERRY
      Calm down. Youre lucky youre not 
      in cuffs, Mr. Riley. Attempting to 
      purchase a firearm. Assaulting--

             JACOB
      Youre tellin me ygot no idea 
      where Harlan and Blake are and Im 
      spposed to feel lucky?

             TERRY
      Youre supposed to know youre 
      lucky. 

             JACOB
      Shouldnt I have been contacted 
      bout this?! A phone call -- A 
      fuckin letter in the mail -- 
      Somethin tellin me they got out?!

             TERRY
      You moved residences three times in 
      the last five years. You shouldve 
      been contacted, but these things 
      get lost sometimes. 

Jacob shakes his head, seething. 

             CADEN
      I promise, Mr. Riley. Well find 
      them. 

Jacob goes for the door. An OFFICER in uniform blocks it. 

             CADEN 
      Whyd you turn in the OKeefes? 

             JACOB
      I need some air. 

             CADEN
      Well open a window. Please, sit.

Caden tugs on Jacobs arm and -- JACOB LOSES IT --

He THROWS OFF Cadens arm. The Officer restrains Jacob when 
SMACK -- Jacob PUNCHES the Officer in the face. 

             TERRY
      WE NEED SOME HELP IN HERE!

OFFICERS race down the hall. Caden SHOVES Jacob up against 
the window, CRACKING it up the middle. 

Jacob frees up an arm and SWINGS. Caden side-steps the PUNCH 
and in one quick motion takes Jacob to the floor. 

Four OFFICERS rush over as Caden SLAPS on handcuffs.

INT. POLICE STATION/HOLDING CELL - LATER

Jacob sits alone on a bench, hands still cuffed. Caden walks 
up, unlocks the cell, steps inside, and sits beside Jacob. 

             CADEN
      When you and I first talked, you 
      told me you havent raised your 
      fists in nearly a decade. 

             JACOB
      I shoulda been told they got out. 
      This place is a fuckin joke.

Caden stops just short of agreeing. 

             CADEN
      Sandras gone. But dont let what 
      she did for you leave with her. Be 
      smart.

             JACOB
      You really move back to Detroit? On 
      purpose?

             CADEN 
        (beat)
      I did. 

             JACOB
      And Im not smart?

             CADEN
      Enough. Now theres two ways this 
      can go. One: you answer my 
      questions. Do that and youre free 
      to go. Two: you stay silent, we 
      arrest you. That means...

Caden takes out his cell phone.

             CADEN 
      Your wife gets a call that her 
      husbands in jail because he fucked 
      up again... Your choice.

Jacob clenches his jaw. Caden begins to dial. A tense MOMENT.

             JACOB
      ...Harlan and Diana used to be 
      together.

Caden stops dialing. 

             JACOB 
      Me, Harlan, and Blake used to work 
      at the GM Plant. Harlan was with 
      Diana. Things were good. Then the 
      plant closed. Things got bad.  


             CADEN
      That when you guys started using?

             JACOB
        (nodding)
      Diana tried to leave him, but he 
      wouldnt let her go... Hed hit 
      her... Harlan was crazy and he was 
      crazy about her.

             CADEN
      Where were you when all this was 
      going on?

             JACOB
      Not where I shoulda been.

Self contempt makes Jacob pause for a moment.

             JACOB 
      One day Harlan wants to take a run 
      at this power plant. I say no. They 
      go anyways. I make the call.

             CADEN
      Did you turn in Harlan to get 
      Diana? 

             JACOB
      I saw my chance to protect her and 
      I took it. Next day, I put myself 
      in rehab. A year later, me and 
      Diana start seein each other.

             CADEN
      Why rob a power plant?

             JACOB
      When youre an out-of-work junkie 
      you do whatever it takes. So wed 
      steal metal, sell it as scrap. 

             CADEN
      Tell me how it worked?

             JACOB
      Wed gut abandoned houses, ransack 
      construction sites, anything. Power 
      plants were good targets cuz they 
      got tons of copper cable. Copper 
      pays the most. 

Caden nods.

             JACOB 
      But then places started puttin 
      identifiable codes on the rubber 
      insulation around the wire so they 
      could track it. So wed have to 
      burn off the rubber insulation so 
      no one knew where it came from. 

Something dawns on Caden. 

             CADEN
      Where would you do that burning?

             JACOB
      Wed find a burn site and --

             CADEN
      A burn site?

             JACOB
      Yeah, like an outta the way, 
      secluded place.

             CADEN
      The shack by the river? You and the 
      OKeefes ever use it as a burn 
      site?

Jacob looks at Caden, confused. 

             CADEN 
      I ask because pieces of melted 
      rubber were found there.

Jacob looks down, this is all too much. 

             JACOB
      I dont remember a lot from then.
        (fighting to recall)
      I dont know.

Jacob looks straight ahead, lost in his own head. Caden 
pockets his phone, breaking Jacob out of his daze.

             CADEN
      Go home. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - DAY

Diana is curled up on the couch, crying. 

             DIANA
      This -- This is so fucked up. I 
      feel -- I feel sick --

Jacob sits next to her, silently agreeing. 

             JACOB
      Its gonna be okay. 

Jacob hugs Diana. She slips out of the embrace. Turns away.

             JACOB 
      How long you gonna hate me for?  

             DIANA
      You -- You always said youd get us 
      outta this place. All these years, 
      I really believed it-- 

Jacob stops himself from saying something hed regret. 

             DIANA 
        (crying harder)
      --And now our daughter is dead. And 
      those fuckin animals are out 
      there. 

             JACOB
      Diana.

             DIANA
        (ranting)
      Its not just you, its me. You and 
      I, we, we failed her. Together. We 
      didnt work together. We were never 
      gonna work. 

             JACOB
      You dont believe that.

Diana finally takes a breath. A moment of silence. Then, she 
turns around. Tears and a grave look in her eyes.

             DIANA
      I just wanna be with her...

             JACOB
      What?

             DIANA
      I dont wanna be here anymore. I 
      cant. Not without Sandra. I -- I 
      wanna be with her. Not here. 

Jacob has had enough. He grabs Diana. Looks her in the eye.

             JACOB
      You dont talk like that. Hear me? 

Diana tries to look away. Jacob doesnt let her. 

             JACOB 
      Youre right. Those animals are out 
      there. And we wont be safe til 
      theyre put down. After, I promise 
      you, Ill get you outta here. And 
      youll start over someplace new. 
      Someplace warm. But not til I find 
      em.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jacob is wide awake, staring up at the ceiling. Diana is 
asleep, her back to him as always. He quietly sits up.

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/STREET - NIGHT

Jacob crosses the street to a boarded up and crumbling home.

EXT. BOARDED-UP HOUSE/PORCH - CONTINUOUS

Mounds of trash and scrap. He sifts through it, finds a thin 
12 inch steel pipe. Examines it. Not right. Keeps digging. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob drops an arm full of scrap onto a work table. He 
spreads it out, appraising the materials.

He grabs an acetylene torch and fires it up. Pulls a steel 
pipe from the pile. He goes to work, cutting the pipe. 

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Not a single lit street lamp. The only light seeping out from 
beneath the Rileys garage door. 

EXT. WOODS - DAWN

Desolate. Jacob aims a crudely made five-shot revolver at a 
tree. The firearm doesnt look like much. Just a patchwork of 
metals in the shape of a gun -- BAM!

A 9mm EXPLODES FROM THE GUN, HITS THE TREE, WOOD CHIPS FLY. 
The BOOMING SOUND echoes. Jacob looks at the gun, satisfied. 

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Jacob sits at a window seat, staring out at a strip of 
rundown houses across the street. 

Caden exits one of the more dilapidated homes, gets in his 
car, and drives off. 

Jacob finishes his coffee and leaves some cash on the table. 

EXT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob RINGS the bell. It takes a moment before an attractive, 
but haggard-looking woman with short red hair answers. This 
is ROSE OKEEFE (late 30s) and surprised to see Jacob. 

             ROSE
      My Lord...

She starts fixing her hair, suddenly very self-conscious 
about her looks. 

             JACOB
      Happy new year, Rose.

INT. ROSES HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A cramped, one-story, one-bedroom home. She leads Jacob into 
a living room dominated by clutter and worn-out furniture.   

Sitting on the couch, feet up and smoking a cigarette, is her 
dirtbag boyfriend, ETHAN (late 20s). 

             ROSE
        (motioning to the couch)
      Join the party.

Rose disappears into the kitchen, leaving Jacob and Ethan to 
awkwardly size each other up. 

             ETHAN
      Rose?! Feel like introducin us?

Rose comes back with two beers. 


             ROSE
      Ethan, this is Jacob. Hes the 
      girls father. The one the cops 
      think Harlan and Blake killed.

Her matter of fact tone takes Jacob by surprise. 

             ETHAN
      No shit?... The father.

Rose holds a beer out for Jacob. He waves it off. 

             ROSE
      Oh. Right. Youre a good boy now.   

Rose plops down on the couch next to Ethan and takes a 
tauntingly long sip.

             ROSE 
      Sit, good boy.

Jacob doesnt. Instead, he takes note of a SKETCH PAD on the 
coffee table with a somewhat decent rendering of a MERMAID.

             JACOB
      No offense, but I remember you 
      bein better than that. 

             ROSE
      No offense, but I remember you 
      bein nicer than this. 

             JACOB
      Wherere your brothers? 

             ROSE
      Cops were jus here askin me the 
      same thing.

             JACOB
      And whatd you tell em?

             ROSE
      Hows Diana treating you? 

             JACOB
        (beat)
      You dont talk about Diana. 

             ROSE
      Im jus askin. 

             JACOB
      Rose. 


             ROSE      Better than I coulda treated you?   

Ethan looks at Rose, not liking that question. Jacob scolds 
her with his eyes. Finally: 

             ROSE 
      Last time I saw em was a year ago 
      when I visited them. Yknow, in 
      jail.

Jacob scoffs, not believing her. 

             ROSE 
      I swear. Word to God. 

             JACOB
      Cuz your word means so much. 

             ROSE
      Ill put my word up against yours. 
      I aint the one who sold out my 
      friends for a fuckin bitch. 

             JACOB
      Im warnin you. One more word--

             ROSE
      But yknow what? I moved on. So 
      lets jus assume Harlan and Blake 
      did too. 

             ETHAN
      Alright bro, time to leave. 

             JACOB
      Fuck you. You know where they are. 
      One of you better fuckin talk. 

Ethan stands, gets in Jacobs face. 

             ETHAN
      You heard what she said. No one 
      here can help you. 

Ethan pokes a finger in Jacobs chest.

             ETHAN 
      But from what I heard, ygot what 
      you deserved you snitch 
      motherfucker. 

Jacob fumes. A CLICK is heard by Jacobs side. Ethan looks to 
the source. In Jacobs hand is the revolver. 


A tense BEAT -- Before Rose bursts out laughing --

             ROSE
      Harlan always said you could act 
      tough.  

             JACOB
      Two choices. Tell me where they 
      are, we call the police, they go 
      back to jail. Dont tell me, I find 
      em, I kill em. 

             ROSE
      Choice three. I call the police, 
      you go to jail. 

Rose picks up the phone. 

             ROSE 
      Nice seeing ya, Jacob. Stop by in 
      another ten years.  

Jacob RIPS the phone cord out of the wall. Ethan goes for the 
gun. Jacob WHIPS around -- takes aim at Ethan --

             JACOB
      YOU KNOW WHERE THEY ARE.

The front door CREAKS opens. Jacob WHIPS AROUND --

A little red-headed girl, LACY (8), bundled up in winter 
clothes and wearing a backpack, enters. 

He SHOVES the gun inside his jacket before Lacy can see it.  

             ROSE
      Honey. Go to your room. 

But Lacy is too busy sizing up this new person. 

             ROSE 
      Lacy! I said go! Take your pad. 
      Draw mommy another mermaid. 

Lacy startles, picks up the sketch of the MERMAID, and takes 
it into the bedroom. 

             JACOB
      I didnt know...

Rose pushes the front door open, Get the fuck out!  

EXT. ROSES HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Jacob crosses the street to the coffee shop parking lot. He 
gets in his truck. His eyes fixed on Roses house. Then, he 
gets an idea. He starts the truck and pulls out. 

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - LATER

Jacob sits in his truck, down the block from Roses house. He 
yawns, hes been here a while. 

EXT. ROSES HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Ethan steps outside and walks to his car. 

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Jacob starts the truck as he watches Ethan get in his car.

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob drives, following Ethan through downtown Detroit. 

EXT. STREET - MOMENTS LATER

Ethan pulls into the parking lot of a ratty Irish Pub. Ethan 
gets out and goes inside. 

Across the street, Jacob pulls to a stop. Jacob gets out, 
jogs over to the bar, and peers inside the window. 

INT. BAR - CONTINUOUS

Ethan gives a handshake to the BARTENDER and exchanges 
pleasantries. They begin shooting the shit. Its cold 
out.., Hows the girlfriend? Work sucks. Etc. 

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - LATER

Jacob stews as he watches Ethan play pool with a few 
BARFLIES, tossing back beers, LAUGHING, having a great time. 

EXT. BAR - LATER

Ethan staggers out the front door. He stumbles to his car.

He fumbles for his keys, drops them, bends down to pick them 
up. He stands, Jacob is there. 

Jacob pistol WHIPS Ethan and everything GOES BLACK.

EXT. WOODWARD CHURCH - MOMENTS LATER

A desolate area with an abandoned Gothic-style church in 
total disrepair. Shattered stained glass windows. The grounds 
overgrown with weeds that peek out from the snow.    

INT. WOODWARD CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

CLOSE ON Ethan, unconscious. A WELT on his temple. Water 
STREAMS over his face from above. His eyes flutter open.

He sits up, startled. He is on the floor, wet and naked in 
the ten degree blistering cold. SHIVERING, he hugs himself, 
scans his surroundings, no fucking clue whats happening.

He sees the decaying wooden pews. Holes in the ceiling. Large 
sections of the floor collapsing in. Stacks of cardboard 
boxes and leftover trash from squatters. 

             JACOB
      I know you know something.

Behind him, Jacob sits in a pew, gun in one hand, a water 
bottle in the other. Ethans clothes in a pile by Jacobs 
feet. Ethan wipes water from his eyes, scared shitless. 

Jacob walks to Ethan. Ethan scurries away, pieces of trash 
and broken glass sticking to his wet hands and legs.

He reaches a wall, curls up into a ball, and turns into a 
rocking, shaking form. 

             JACOB 
      Want your clothes? Wanna leave? 
      Tell me where Harlan and Blake are.

Ethan can barely talk, the cold a fifty pound weight on him. 

             ETHAN 
        (shivering)
      I -- I -- dont know --

             JACOB
      What makes you think Id take that 
      for an answer?


             ETHAN
      Youre -- a dead motherfucker --

Jacob PLANTS the GUN on Ethans WELT. Ethan WINCES in PAIN.

             ETHAN 
      I DONT KNOW ANYTHING!

Spit dripping from Ethans lips, he looks up at Jacob, 
looking for mercy. A beat while Jacob sizes him up. 

             JACOB
      Youre fuckin lyin. 

Ethan lowers his head, defeated, holds his chest, his body 
starting to CONVULSE. Breath shooting out fast.

             JACOB 
      Member what you told me? That I 
      got what I deserved. Tell me where 
      they are, or youre gonna find out 
      what I think you deserve. 

Ethans body clenches up, his muscles tightening. 

             JACOB 
      You think Rose cares bout you? You 
      think youre protecting her? She 
      couldnt give a shit bout you. 

             ETHAN
      You dont -- know what youre 
      talkin about --

             JACOB
      I know shes probably got a dick in 
      each hole right now, blowin 
      someone for a fix. Makes me wonder 
      how you two met. 

Ethan starts to CRY, partly from the cold, partly because 
theres truth to Jacobs statement.  

             JACOB 
      I dont think you meant to get 
      caught up in this. But you did and 
      now youre here. And all this can 
      stop if you just tell me where they 
      are. You can get in a car, drive 
      off, police dont need to know.

Ethan CRIES harder. His pale naked body SHIVERS VIOLENTLY in 
the puddle of water, on the verge of HYPOTHERMIA. 

             JACOB 
      They slashed her. Beat her. Killed 
      an innocent girl. What if that was 
      someone you loved? 

Through tears, Ethan looks up at Jacob. Has Jacob found a 
connection? 

             JACOB 
      You know what youd do and youd be 
      right to do it. Now...
        (beat)
      You know where they are, dont you?

Ethan contemplates the question. Finally, Ethan looks up 
and... gives a nod, yes. Jacob rushes over.

             JACOB 
      Where are they?!

SMASH -- Ethan holds a broken beer bottle in his hand that he 
SHATTERED into the side of Jacobs face.  

Jacob DROPS HIS GUN, stumbles back, DAZED, blood starting to 
seep from a SLICE along his cheek. 

Ethan stands with a burst of energy. CHARGES at Jacob, 
VIOLENTLY SWINGS the broken beer bottle at Jacobs throat --

Jacob raises his arm -- the jagged bottle SLICES through his 
jacket, CUTTING HIS FOREARM --

Ethan sees Jacobs gun -- Picks it up -- Fury in his eyes -- 
Turns around, POINTS it at Jacob --

Jacob is there in front of him, on his feet, grabs Ethans 
arms, they wrestle for the gun --

Jacob sweeps Ethans legs out from under him. Interlocked, 
they both fall -- 

Jacob SMACKS the back of his head on a pew on his way down 
and BAM -- Both men hit the ground -- 

BANG -- A gunshot echoes --

Both lay on their backs, a smoking gun in Jacobs hand --

Ethan slowly sits up, his hands clamped over his neck, blood 
pouring out from the bullet wound --

Jacob looks on in horror as Ethan turns to him, tries to 
talk, only GURGLES come out. 

Ethan stands. Streaks of blood run down his pale body. He 
staggers for an open window, stumbles, veers off to the side, 
and falls on his face. 

Jacob runs to Ethan, rolls him onto his back, cups the wound.

             JACOB 
      No -- No -- 

Blood pulses out, leaking through Jacobs fingers. 

A look of regret and confusion on Ethans face before his 
body goes still. Dead. 

             JACOB 
        (shaking Ethan)
      Hey... HEY. WAKE UP.

Jacob checks for a pulse -- Nothing. Jacob stands, backs away 
from the body like it might bite.

A long BEAT as Jacob weighs his options... Finally...  

Jacob digs into Ethans pockets. Takes out a wallet, pockets 
it. He continues to search, nothing else. 

Jacob finds a decrepid workmans tarp and lays it flat. He 
rolls Ethans body onto it and wraps it up.  

Jacob stands back, takes a look at the rolled up body. Its 
10 degrees in here, but Jacob is starting to sweat. 

Jacob spots a section of the floor that has collapsed. He 
drags the body to the hole. Looks down. Sees the basement ten 
feet below, covered in trash. 

He pushes the body into the hole and lets it fall. He scoops 
handfuls of trash, dropping it onto the tarp until it cant 
be seen through the rest of the trash. 

Jacob scoops snow, washes the blood off his hands and face. 

Trembling, he goes to the window, peers outside. A car flies 
by. He waits for an opening, then climbs out the window.

Jacob holds his side, GROANING, in a limping run as he makes 
his way to his truck and drives off. 

WE STAY INSIDE THE CHURCH, where several cardboard boxes 
begin to shift on the floor in a corner. 

A MOMENT LATER, the boxes are flung off, revealing a scared 
shitless SQUATTER. 

INT. JACOBS TRUCK (MOVING) - LATER

Jacob, shell-shocked, spits blood out of the window. He flips 
down the visor to check himself out. A swollen right eye, a 
cut on his cheek, and a bruised chin.

He turns down his street and when he flips the visor up he 
sees a police cruiser parked in his driveway. 

Detective Caden steps out on the passenger side and a cop in 
uniform, Officer Nowles, emerges from the drivers side. 

Jacob parks on the street. Gets out. Does his best to hide 
the nervous wreck that he is. Faces them. Caden is 
immediately taken aback by Jacobs freshly beaten face.

             JACOB
        (sarcastic)
      I fell. 

             CADEN
        (equally sarcastic)
      Again?

Caden walks to the police cruiser and opens the back door.

             CADEN 
      You cant seem to stay on your 
      feet. Lets talk about it.

Jacob hesitates, but does as he is told. He climbs into the 
back seat. Caden slams the door shut.

Jacob shifts in his seat, accidentally causing his jacket to 
fall open and reveal the homemade handgun he has tucked away.

Caden gets in on the passenger side. Nowles behind the wheel. 

INT. POLICE CRUISER (MOVING) - CONTINUOUS

Nowles drives. Jacob looks out the window.

             CADEN
      Miss OKeefe called in a complaint. 
      Said you were harassing her.

             JACOB
      Whaddaya expect me to do? Sit at 
      home?

             CADEN
      If it keeps me from getting calls 
      like that, yeah, sit at home.

Jacob spots the gun protruding from his jacket pocket. He 
hurriedly zips it up just as Caden turns around. 

             CADEN 
        (beat)
      You cold? 

Jacob, Did he notice? 

             JACOB
        (deflecting)
      She knows where they are.

             CADEN
      And she may not. And Harlan and 
      Blake may not have even done it. 
      And if they did, they may be 
      halfway across the country.

             JACOB
      Or theyre hidin in one of the 
      fuckin tens of thousands abandoned 
      homes or buildings youll never 
      have time to check. Theyre here. 

             CADEN
      What makes you so certain?

Jacob leans forward to get Cadens full attention. 

             JACOB
      Cuz I know Harlan. You dont. Im 
      still here, and sos Diana. I 
      promise, he aint done.  

Caden may agree, but he is certainly not going to say it. 

             CADEN
      You have to let me do my job. You 
      know what happens when you try to 
      do my job for me? 
        (points to Jacobs bloody 
         face)
      Thats what happens. 

             JACOB
      Well, you did a great job lettin 
      me know they got out. And an even 
      better job keepin my daughter 
      safe. So Im sure youll do a bang-
      up job protectin my wife. 

Officer Nowles pulls up to Jacobs house. Jacob goes for the 
door. No handle to get out. 

             CADEN
      Would I find anything if I were to 
      search you right now? 

This gets Jacobs attention.   

             CADEN 
      Most people dont zip up their 
      jackets after getting in a heated 
      car. 

Jacob remains still, covering up the fact that his heart is 
racing.   

             CADEN 
      You know what would happen if I 
      found any sort of illegal substance 
      on you? Or, worse, an unregistered 
      firearm?

Caden gets out and opens the back door for Jacob.

             CADEN 
      Out.   

Jacob does as he is told. Caden reaches out. Stops just short 
of putting his hands on Jacob.

             CADEN 
      Im going to find your daughters 
      killer. And despite your best 
      efforts, Im going to keep you from 
      doing something youll regret. 
      Because one wrong move, then what 
      has the last ten years of your life 
      been for?  

Cadens comment hits harder than he knows. Jacob does all he 
can not to break. 

             CADEN 
      Sit at home. 

Caden gets in the car. Nowles hits the gas and drives off. 

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob enters, immediately starts to TREMBLE. A release. He 
hangs up his jacket, walks into the living room. 

Leon dozes in a recliner. Through the sliding glass door, 
Jacob spots ALICE (40s, Leons wife) and Diana sitting in 
the backyard, their backs facing him. 

             LEON
        (waking up)
      Hey, man. I was jus--

Leon looks up. Sees Jacobs beaten face. Quickly stands. 

             JACOB
      Im fine. 

             LEON
      Bullshit fine. What happened?

Jacob tries to control his shaking. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BASEMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob looks in a mirror as he applies a band-aid to his 
cheek. Leon sits on the steps, a horrified look on his face. 

             JACOB
      The guy nodded to me. He knew where 
      they were. 

             LEON
      Then he tried to kill you. He 
      coulda jus been sayin what you 
      wanted to hear.

             JACOB
      He knew something. 

             LEON
      The police will come for you.  

             JACOB
      Maybe not. No ID, nothin on him. 
      Jus another body, right? 

             LEON
      You dont think Rose is gonna 
      wonder where the fuck he went? Turn 
      yourself in. Say it was self-
      defense -- I dont know --

Jacob grabs another band-aid, applies it over his right eye. 

             LEON 
      Im tryin to protect you.

             JACOB
      Long as Harlans out there, Diana 
      isnt safe. 

             JACOB       And I aint goin anywhere. So 
      dont you do anything that you 
      thinkll protect me.

Jacob takes one last look at his reflection, heads upstairs.

             LEON
      This aint you, man. 

             JACOB
      I let Sandra down. Im not gonna 
      let the same thing happen to Diana. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/FOYER - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob sees Leon and Alice to the door. Leon can barely look 
Jacob in the eye as he leaves. 

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BACKYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob steps out. Diana doesnt even turn around. 

             DIANA
      I picked out a dress for Sandra. 
      Its in our bedroom.

Jacob looks inside their bedroom window. An elegant red dress 
hangs on their bedpost. 

Diana faces Jacob for the first time and sees his beaten 
face. She stands up, shocked.

 
             JACOB
     Im okay. 

             DIANA
      But -- ?

             JACOB
      Im not talkin about it.

Diana wants more, but doesnt have the strength to ask. He 
hugs her. She accepts the embrace for a brief moment before --

She slips away, walks into their bedroom, and shuts the door. 
Jacob stands alone, the cold wind smacking him in the face. 

EXT. PORT OF DETROIT, MARINE TERMINAL - NIGHT

A crane loads 8x40 containers of scrap onto a freight ship. 
Walker BARKS orders at his WORKERS before turning to Caden.

             WALKER
      This isnt the best time.

             CADEN
      Never heard that one before.

Caden takes out Harlan and Blakes mug shots.

             CADEN 
      Have you seen these two men? 

Walker gives a distracted glance.

             WALKER
      No.    

             CADEN
      They were released from prison a 
      few months ago. They may have 
      something to do with Sandra Rileys 
      murder. 

             WALKER
      By the looks of them, Id say 
      thats a good possibility.
        (to his workers)
      Speed it up! Its freezing!

             CADEN
      They have a history of metal theft.

This gets Walkers attention. 

             WALKER
      Its illegal for us to purchase 
      materials we suspect to be stolen. 

             CADEN
      Right. But hypothetically, if 
      Harlan and Blake came to your place 
      to unload some stuff, who wouldve 
      handled their business? You?   

             WALKER
      No one wouldve handled their 
      business, because I dont run that 
      kind of business. 

             CADEN
      This entire city has been torn 
      apart by people like the OKeefes. 
      Phone wires cut down. Houses 
      stripped. Factories broken into. 

             CADEN 
      And theyre not hoarding this shit 
      for themselves. They bring it to 
      scrap yards like yours that pay 
      them 30 cents on the dollar for it. 
      Scrap yards like yours that profit 
      off the ruin of Detroit.  

             WALKER
      Listen to me. While every other 
      business picked up and left, I 
      stayed. I could live anywhere I 
      want. I could send my kid to any 
      private school in the world. But I 
      choose to live here. People like me 
      are keeping this place alive. Im 
      not whats wrong with this city. 

             CADEN
      I dont think youre whats wrong 
      with this city, I just dont think 
      youre telling me the truth... So 
      what Im going to do is talk to 
      every worker you fired this year. 
      Some of which, worked for you for a 
      very long time. Workers who, Im 
      guessing, might have a lot to get 
      off their chest. And I promise you, 
      if they saw anything suspect during 
      their tenure here, theyll be happy 
      to make sure I know.

Walker glares at Caden. 

             CADEN 
      But before I turn your business 
      upside down Ill give you one more 
      chance. If Harlan and Blake came to 
      your place to sell whatever shit 
      they lifted, who would they have 
      talked to?

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - NIGHT

The street is cold and lonely. News vans are no longer camped 
out on the street. The Rileys house looks isolated and 
vulnerable under the changing sky. 

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Jacob lays on the couch, an ice-pack over one eye while the 
other watches the local news. 

When it ends, he takes the ice-pack off. His focus shifts to 
Sandras closed bedroom door. An obstacle hes yet to cross. 

He walks over to it and opens the door a crack. The scent of 
his daughters room almost brings tears to his eyes. 

He gently closes the door. Again, he cant go any further. 

Jacob goes to his bedroom, cracks the door, and peeks inside. 
No Diana. Just a stiff breeze hitting him in the face. 

             JACOB
      Honey? 

The window is open. The shades flapping in the wind. He looks 
outside. An empty backyard with fresh footprints in the snow. 

His worst fears flood his head. Harlan and Blake found her. 
Then, he notices something. Sandras red dress that was 
hanging on the bedpost is gone.

EXT. FUNERAL HOME - THAT MOMENT

A finger presses a DOORBELL. 

The FUNERAL DIRECTOR (50s), kind and soft-spoken, answers. 
Diana stands on the porch, shivering, snow caked on her 
slippers. Sandras red dress is draped over her arm. 

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR
      Can I help you, maam? 

Dianas cell phone RINGS inside her purse.

             DIANA
        (shivering)
      Im -- Im Mrs. Riley -- Sandra 
      Rileys mother. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - THAT MOMENT

Jacob is on his cell, becoming more and more concerned. 

             DIANA/VOICE MESSAGE
      Youve reached Diana Riley. Im --

He hangs up. Grabs his car keys. He is out the door. 

EXT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - THAT MOMENT

Caden KNOCKS HARD and LOUD on the front door. 

             CADEN
      Mr. Harris!

No answer. Caden looks in the front window. The blinds are 
closed. He cant make anything out. 

The SOUND of a car. Caden turns to see a rusty OLDSMOBILE 
slowing down to a crawl. The driver observes Cadens Impala 
parked in front of his house. 

When the driver finally makes eye contact with Caden we 
recognize him as REMY. The shaved head, muscular YARD FOREMAN 
who bought the metal pasture gate earlier on.  

             CADEN 
      Remy Harris?

Remy hits the gas and takes off. Caden sprints to his car, 
gets in, and PEELS OUT.

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - THAT MOMENT

Jacob SPEEDS down the road, trying to remain calm. He is on 
his cell phone. Its RINGING on the other end. 

INT. FUNERAL HOME/SMALL ROOM - THAT MOMENT

The Funeral Director leads Diana into a room where Sandras 
body lies on a table. Only her face is visible. A white cloth 
covers the rest of her body. 

The Funeral Homes land-line RINGS in the other room. 

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR
      Will you be okay for a moment? 

             DIANA
      Im fine.   

The Funeral Director walks into an adjacent room. 

EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT

Remy FLIES down a residential road.

Caden swerves through traffic, speaks into the POLICE RADIO. 

             CADEN
      Suspects heading north on 
      Claremount -- Driving a grey 
      Oldsmobile Alero -- 

Remy turns down a dirt alley. He looks in his rearview. Caden 
is gaining ground. Remy FLOORS IT --

BAM! And T-BONES a pickup truck as he exits the alley.

The IMPACT sends Remy flying forward. His nose BREAKS on the 
steering wheel. His knee GRINDS into the dashboard.

Remy gets out. In a hobbled sprint he runs through a BUSY 
INTERSECTION.

Caden stops at the wreckage. Its blocking the exit. He jumps 
out and runs. 

INT. FUNERAL HOME - THAT MOMENT

The Funeral Director picks up the RINGING phone. 

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR/PHONE
      Peter and Sons Family Mortuary. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      This is Jacob Riley. My wife there? 

INT. FUNERAL HOME/BASEMENT - THAT MOMENT

Diana stands over Sandra, the red dress laid out over her.    

Theres a blank, medicated look on Dianas face.

She shifts her gaze to a tray with a cloth over it. She pulls 
back the cloth revealing an array of sharp instruments. 

EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT

Remy sprints down a street of foreclosed homes. He looks over 
his shoulder. Caden trails by 50 yards.   

A POLICE CRUISER flies out from behind Caden, BARRELLING 
towards Remy. 

Remy stops on a dime and runs through an abandoned houses 
front yard where the police cruiser cant follow. 

Remy runs through the backyard and hops a fence into an --

ALLEY  

Remy looks up to see another police cruiser blocking off one 
end of the alley. 

Remy looks back at Caden. Hes running through the backyard, 
about to hop the fence. 

Remy turns to the other end of the alley. Its open. He BOLTS 
for it as Caden hops the fence and lands in the alley. 

Remy exits the alley.

TIRES SCREECH -- A POLICE CRUISER SKIDS DIRECTLY AT REMY --  

REMY JUMPS OUT OF THE WAY JUST AS CADEN EXITS THE ALLEY AND --

THE POLICE CRUISER SMASHES INTO CADEN -- SENDING HIM ONTO THE 
HOOD AND CRASHING INTO THE WINDSHIELD -- GLASS SHATTERS.

Caden hits the pavement -- His forearm SNAPS -- PAIN SURGES 
through his body -- But his adrenaline is still PUMPING --

Caden takes out his gun -- Picks himself up -- And RUNS --

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - THAT MOMENT

Jacob weaves through traffic, still on the phone. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Put her on.  

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR/PHONE
      Of course.

INT. FUNERAL HOME/BASEMENT - THAT MOMENT

The Funeral Director turns around. Sees that Diana has shut 
the door to the room shes in. He tries the door. Locked.    

INT. FUNERAL HOME/SMALL ROOM - THAT MOMENT

Diana is still looking at the tray of sharp instruments.

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR 
      Mrs. Riley? Mrs. Riley, your 
      husband is on the phone. 

Diana picks up a very small, yet very sharp surgical knife.

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR  
      Mrs. Riley, you need to answer me 
      and open this door. 

EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT

Remy hops fence after fence as he runs through several 
backyards. 

Caden does the same, but hes hurt and losing steam.

Caden stops, out of breath. He heaves, eyes locked on Remy. 

Remy hops one last fence that puts him in the backyard of yet 
another abandoned house. 

Remy looks back. Caden is no longer giving chase. Caden just 
stares at Remy, like hes resigned himself to giving up.

They hold a stare for a moment before Remy realizes that --

Caden is NOT staring at him.

Cadens eyes are locked in on something behind Remy.

Remy looks over his shoulder. Three FERAL DOGS LEAP FOR HIS 
FACE. Remy lifts his arm just in time for one dog to clamp 
down on his forearm.

Remy SCREAMS -- falls to the slushy ground.

A second dog BITES INTO Remys calf. The third LUNGES for his 
face --

BANG--BANG--BANG

The GUNSHOTS ECHO. The dog going for Remys face retreats 
before attacking. The two other dogs scatter.

Remy looks down at his MANGLED forearm and calf, then up at 
Caden who has his smoking gun pointed in the air. 

EXT. FUNERAL HOME - THAT MOMENT

Jacobs truck SCREECHES to a halt. He jumps out and runs -- 

INT. FUNERAL HOME - CONTINUOUS

He HEARS the Funeral Director in the basement, YELLING for 
Diana to open the door. Jacobs flies --

DOWNSTAIRS

He barrels past the Funeral Director and POUNDS on the door.

             JACOB
      Diana! Open up! 

Jacob HITS the door with his shoulder. 

             JACOB 
      OPEN THE DOOR! RIGHT NOW!
        (to the Funeral Director)
      How long she been in there?

             FUNERAL DIRECTOR
      5 minutes -- I dont know --

             JACOB
      Call the police. 

The Funeral Director runs to the phone. Jacob KICKS the door. 

             JACOB 
      DIANA! PLEASE! 

BAM--BAM--BAM as Jacob KICKS the door --

It BREAKS off its hinges revealing --

Diana standing in the middle of the room, crying.  

Jacob runs to her. Looks her body up and down, checking her 
wrists, arms, everywhere. No signs of damage. 

             DIANA
        (beat, crying)
      I -- I just needed to see her. 

Jacob wraps his arms around Diana and holds her tight. 

INT. HOSPITAL/PRIVATE ROOM - DAY

Remy lays in a hospital bed. His left forearm wrapped in a 
blood soaked gauze. His right arm handcuffed to the rail. A 
NURSE jabs a syringe into Remys shoulder. 

             REMY
      Ahhh. That shit hurts. 

Caden barges in, his broken arm wrapped in his own jacket. 
Seconds later, an out-of-breath DOCTOR rushes in. 

             DOCTOR
      Detective -- Please -- I need to 
      take care of that arm --


Caden silences the Doctor with a look. The Doctor gets the message. He and the Nurse begrudgingly leave. 

             CADEN
      Did you kill Sandra Riley? 

             REMY
      What?! Shit No!

             CADEN
      Then why the hell did you run? 

             REMY
      Man... I dont know. 

             CADEN
      Then youre either the dumbest man 
      alive or youre lying. Both are 
      bad, but lying to me is worse. 

Remy looks away, not budging. 

             CADEN 
      I talked to your boss today. He 
      told me what goes on at the yard. I 
      know you help Walker illegally buy 
      and sell scrap. 

             REMY
      Good for you. Now fuck off. 

             CADEN
      Youre not hearing me. You fucked 
      up. For which you will now go to 
      jail. Thats how this whole 
      breaking-the-law-thing works. But, 
      if you want any kind of help from 
      me, you have 5 seconds to tell me 
      why you ran...4...3

Caden stands, heads for the exit as he continues his count.

             REMY
      You wanna know why I ran? Whats 
      happenin right now, this is why I 
      ran. To protect my ass. 

             CADEN
      Protect yourself from what? 

             REMY
      Man, all I know is that I do what 
      Mr. Walker tells me to do. 

             REMY 
      I also know that if somebodys 
      gonna have to pay for what Mr. 
      Walker tells me to do, it wont be 
      Mr. Walker.  

Remy motions to his handcuffed arm, See.  

             CADEN
      Whats Walker tell you to do? 

             REMY
      Jus what you said, man. We buy 
      illegal shit all day long. Somebody 
      drives up with a shitload of stuff, 
      I aint quizzing him on shit. I 
      know you guys are cracking down on 
      that shit. 

Caden takes out Harlan and Blakes mug shots.

             CADEN
      Have you seen these guys before?

Remy reluctantly checks out the mug shots. 

             REMY
        (slowly recognizing)
      Yeah... Yeah... Ive seen them. 
      They some fucked up dudes. 

             CADEN
      Fucked up how? 

             REMY
      Junkies. Bought some shit off em. 
      Phone wiring, gas meters, shit like 
      that. 

             CADEN
      When? 

             REMY
      Couple months ago. Then again bout 
      a week ago. 

             CADEN
      A week ago? At the scrap yard?

             REMY
      Yeah. At night though. They know 
      better than to do that kinda 
      business during the day. 

             CADEN
      You know where they are? 

             REMY
      Fuck no! I dont hang out with 
      dudes like that.   

Caden sizes Remy up. Believes him. Moves on.     

             CADEN
      What were they driving? 

INT. POLICE STATION/CAPTAIN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Caden, arm in a cast, looking beat, stands before Terry. 

             CADEN
      Were looking for a red Chevrolet 
      Express. Models 2003 to 2005. 

Terry eyes Cadens arm. 

             TERRY
      Still glad you moved back to the 
      old neighborhood? 

             CADEN
        (ignoring the comment)
      I just cant believe the OKeefes 
      would be dumb enough to show up 
      where Riley works. Why risk being 
      spotted? It doesnt make sense. 

             TERRY
      Theyre junkies. To them, two plus 
      two equals scrambled eggs. Who 
      knows why they do what they do. 
      Maybe they needed money. Maybe they 
      were scoping out Riley. When you 
      catch em, youll be sure to ask.   

Caden still isnt convinced.  

             TERRY 
      People do crazy shit for which 
      there is no explanation. Like you, 
      why on earth youd move back here 
      is beyond my comprehension.  

Terry heads for the door. 

             CADEN
      Id like authorization to place a 
      car outside Rose OKeefes house 
      24/7 in case Harlan and Blake show. 

             TERRY
      Cant spare the men. 

             CADEN
      Too bad, cause I want the same at 
      the Rileys. No more random drive-
      bys. We need round the clock 
      surveillance in case Riley makes a 
      move or the OKeefes show.

             TERRY
      Too bad? Good night. And go fuck 
      yourself.

             CADEN
      If Harlan makes a move for Diana, 
      Im not the one whos gonna be 
      fucked for denying them protection. 
      Im on record for asking.

Terry glares at Caden before --

             TERRY
      You got your cars you little shit.

Terry puts on his hat, heads for the door. 

             TERRY 
      By the way, you read todays paper? 

             CADEN
      Not yet. 

Terry exits the building, leaving Caden by himself. 

INT. CADENS APARTMENT/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Caden lays on the couch, still in work clothes, sipping his 
third beer, trying to ignore that BZZZZZZZ. 

The newspaper rests in his lap. The headline reads, NO 
ARRESTS MADE IN NEW YEARS MURDER.

We see snippets from the article -- 65 percent of homicides 
go unsolved by the police -- Detective Caden leading the 
investigation -- New -- Young -- Inexperienced -- 


Anne enters. Caden quickly shoves the newspaper under the coffee table. Anne sits next to Caden, concerned for him. 

             CADEN
      We knew it would be difficult.

             ANNE
      You couldve been killed today. 

             CADEN
      Dont say that. 

             ANNE
      But you couldve.

             CADEN
      So what do you want to do? Leave? 
      Like everyone else.

             ANNE
      Moving back here, what youre 
      trying to do, its...

             CADEN
      What?

             ANNE
      Its your first case and look at 
      you. Whats the point? 

Caden holds up the newspaper. 

             CADEN
      The point is, as long as the 
      headlines read, unsolved, every 
      criminal knows they can get away 
      with it and every victim loses 
      hope. Something has to change.

Caden stands, leaves the rest of his beer, goes to bed. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BEDROOM - NIGHT

In bed. Diana is asleep in Jacobs arms. This is the closet 
theyve been since Sandras death. He rocks her back and 
forth in a steady, calming motion. 

All the while, Jacobs mind is working. His face is hardened 
with a look of determination. He has made a decision that he 
is now gearing up for. 

FADE TO BLACK: 


EXT. WOODWARD CHURCH - MORNING

A police cruiser with two UNIFORM OFFICERS pulls to a stop. 
The SQUATTER, strung-out, approaches.

             OFFICER #1
      You the one who called?

INT. WOODWARD CHURCH/BASEMENT - MOMENTS LATER

The Squatter leads the Officers downstairs. 

             SQUATTER
      When do I get my award? 

             OFFICER #1
      Award?

             OFFICER #2
        (laughing)
      Think he means reward. 
        (to the Squatter)
      Just show it to us, man.  

             SQUATTER
      Hey -- I didnt need to call --

             OFFICER #1
      And if you didnt, your reward 
      would be going to jail. Show us. 

They arrive at the mound of trash directly below the hole 
that Jacob dropped the body down.

In one big sweeping motion the Squatter straight arms the 
trash out of the way revealing the bare floor. No body. 

The Squatter stares at the floor, totally confused. 

             SQUATTER
      The dude was right here.

The Officers exchange a look. 

             OFFICER #1
      Id ask if youve been doing any 
      drugs today...

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - MORNING

Jacob, anxious and talking fast, stands in the kitchen with 
Alice. He hands her a bottle of PRESCRIPTION PILLS. 


             JACOB
      Shell be lookin for these. She 
      asks, only give her one. 

Alice nods. 

             JACOB 
      She comes in here, watch her round 
      the drawers. And dont let her shut 
      the bedroom door. Understand?

             ALICE
      Why dont you stay here. Relax. 
      Ill do whatever you guys need.

             JACOB
      Ill be back soon. Gotta run some 
      errands. 

             ALICE
      Let Leon do em. Hell be back from 
      church any minute.

Jacob pauses. 

             JACOB
      Church? On a Tuesday afternoon? 

Alice looks at him, shrugs. 

             ALICE
      Its been a rough week for 
      everyone.

INT. LEONS CAR (DRIVING) - THAT MOMENT

Leon drives through an isolated, wooded area. He is covered 
in dirt. His cell RINGS. CALLER ID: JACOB. He answers.

             JACOB/PHONE
      Since when you go to church?

             LEON/PHONE
      Everyone needs protecting. No 
      matter what you think. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Whatd you do?

             LEON/PHONE
      Cleaned up your mess. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob slowly hangs up the phone as Alice walks in.

             JACOB
      Hes on his way.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob kisses Dianas forehead for an extended moment. 

             JACOB
      I love you. 

Diana stirs. Opens her eyes. She wants to say it back, but 
cant bring herself to. Jacob kisses her goodbye.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jacob grabs his jacket and looks out the front window. A 
POLICE CRUISER is parked in front of his house. 

             ALICE
      Jacob. Look at me. You okay? 

             JACOB
      You park where I asked? 

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BACKYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Out of view of the Police Officer in front, Jacob hops his 
backyard fence and lands in an ALLEY. There is a parked DODGE 
SEDAN just up the way. He gets in and starts the engine. 

He reaches into his jacket pocket for something. Empty. Jacob 
checks every pocket. Not finding what he is looking for.  

Suddenly frantic, still searching. Then, it dawns on him.

             TERRY 
      Caden? Take a look at this. 

INT. POLICE STATION/CADENS DESK - THAT MOMENT

Captain Terry and Officer Nowles walk up to Cadens desk. 
Terry holds Jacob Rileys homemade handgun.

             NOWLES
      Found it this morning. 


INT. OFFICER NOWLESS CAR - FLASHBACK - YESTERDAY
Jacob and Caden are in the middle of a heated exchange. As 
Jacob leans forward and gets in Cadens face, the handgun 
slips out of his jacket and slides to the floorboard. 

             OFFICER NOWLES 
      You said you were gonna frisk him. 
      Maybe he got scared, ditched it? 

INT. POLICE STATION/CADENS DESK - PRESENT

Caden shakes his head. 

             TERRY
      I want him in here right now. That 
      black-and-white still stationed 
      outside his house? 

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BACK ALLEY - THAT MOMENT

Back with Jacob, still sitting in the car. He punches the 
dash -- Just when he thought he was out of the woods. 

He takes a breath. Collects his thoughts. HITS the gas.

INT. POLICE STATION/CADENS DESK - THAT MOMENT

Terry grows irritated waiting on Caden to answer. 

             TERRY
      Dont just sit there looking dumb.

Caden stands, grabs his jacket. 

             CADEN
      Sorry, but Im not wasting another 
      second looking dumb, talking to Mr. 
      Riley about what he shouldnt be 
      doing when I could be out there 
      finding the people who murdered his 
      daughter. Bring him in. Detain him 
      if you want. But you deal with him.

Caden exits the station.

EXT. RUNDOWN RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Jacob sits in the parked car, his leg nervously bouncing as 
he stares out the windshield. Waiting... and waiting...
Then, he sees it. Turning the corner, walking down the 
sidewalk, bundled up and wearing a backpack, is 8 year old 
Lacy OKeefe.

She playfully jumps into the slushy mounds of snow in her 
way. SPLAT, SPLAT, SPLAT.

Jacob smiles, seeing the girl play so innocently almost makes 
him lose his nerve for what he is about to do. Almost. 

EXT. SIDEWALK - DAY

Lacy hops into another mound of slush -- SPLAT.  

             JACOB 
      Lacy? 

Jacob pulls up next to her, window down.

             JACOB 
      Jacob. Remember?

It takes a second for Lacy to place him. 

             LACY
      Yeah...

             JACOB
      Sorry bout scarin you yesterday. 
      But look here. I got you a present, 
      to make up for it. 

Jacob shows Lacy a brand new sketch pad and pencils. Lacys 
eyes light up. 

             JACOB 
      Get in. Ill drive you home.

Lacy freezes, uncomfortable with the idea. 

             JACOB 
      Cmon, sweetie. Its cold. 

             LACY
      I dunno... My mom will be mad. 

A TAXI turns down the street, heading in their direction. 
This standoff with a little girl cant look good. 

             JACOB
      Youre hurting my feelings, Lacy.


He stuffs the pad and pencils into a shopping bag and tosses it out the window. It lands on the curb by her feet. 

             JACOB 
        (feigning hurt feelings)
      Enjoy your gift. See you later.

Jacob puts the car in drive. 

             LACY
      No. Wait. 

Lacy picks up the shopping bag, brushes off the snow, and 
gets in the car just as the taxi passes by. 

             LACY 
      Im sorry. Thank you. 

Lacy smiles. Jacob fumbles for words as the realization of 
what he is doing HITS HIM IN THE GUT. 

             JACOB
      Youre welcome. 

Jacob drives. What follows is a long AWKWARD SILENCE before --

             JACOB 
      This is a long walk home. Your mom 
      make you do this every day? 

             LACY
      Its not so bad. 

RED LIGHT. Jacob brakes. 

             JACOB
      Yknow, your mom and I usta be 
      friends?

             LACY
      Yeah? 

             JACOB
      Yeah. Look at this. 

Jacob takes out an old 3X3 PHOTOGRAPH and hands it to Lacy. 
The photograph is from 12 years ago: Jacob, Rose, Harlan and 
Blake at a Red Wings game. All look healthy. All look happy.   

             LACY
      She looks pretty.

             JACOB
      Yknow the guys with us?


             LACY
      Uncle Harlan and uncle Blake.

             JACOB
      Right. You see em lately? 

Lacy shakes her head, no. 

             JACOB 
      Really? Cuz your mom said you did. 

A HORN. The light has turned green. He hits the gas, waves to 
the car behind him. A POLICE CAR. Jacob tries to act normal.  

             JACOB 
      So was your mom lyin bout you 
      seein your Uncles?

             LACY
      No... I dunno  

             JACOB
      Dont lie to me. You wanna keep 
      your present?

The POLICE CRUISERS SIREN GOES OFF, LIGHTS FLASH --

             JACOB 
      No...

It FLIES around Jacob and turns a corner. 

             LACY
      If I tell you the truth, can I keep 
      the pad and pencils?

Jacobs attention quickly shifts back to Lacy.

EXT. RIVER ROUGE - DAY

Caden is back at the crime scene. The shack -- the burn site. 
The river is now unfrozen and is a slushy mess of ice.

In front of the yellow police tape that ropes off the area 
are bouquets of flowers and photos left in memory of Sandra. 

Caden goes to the shoreline. Looks at the river. Nothing new. 
He starts making his way to the shack when his phone RINGS.

             CADEN/PHONE
      What?

             TERRY/PHONE
      Weve got a problem. Jacob Riley 
      isnt at his house. Talked to a 
      friend of theirs. Said he was 
      acting weird and just took off.

Caden shakes his head, fed up, and not surprised.  

CRACK.

Caden picks his foot up and sees a small shiny metal object 
in the grass beneath the snow. 

             TERRY/PHONE 
      We know the car hes driving. Ive 
      got everyone looking for it. 

Caden picks up the object: a set of keys. 

             TERRY/PHONE 
      I need you here dealing with this.

Caden ignores Terry. Caden wipes off the crusted dirt on the 
keys to reveal a BMW logo on the keypad. 

             TERRY/PHONE 
      You hear me? 

Caden heads back to his car at a clip.

             CADEN/PHONE
      I need to talk to Christina Walker. 
      Right now. 

EXT. MCDONALDS PARKING LOT - THAT MOMENT

Jacob pulls up next to a pay phone. Lacy has a Happy Meal and 
her new sketch pad in her lap. 

             JACOB
      Start eating. Be right back.

Lacy digs into her food. Jacob gets out, grabs the pay phone. 
Plucks in 50 cents and dials. As it RINGS he scans the lot.  

             ROSE/PHONE
     Hi --

             JACOB/PHONE
      Rose --

             ROSE/PHONE
      -- Youve reached Rose OKeefe. 
      Leave a message.

BEEP -- Jacob freezes, Did I really just get the answering 
machine?! He stands there, not a clue what to say.   

INT. ROSES HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

The PRICE IS RIGHT is on TV. 5 empty beer bottles are on the 
coffee table. And Rose OKeefe is passed out on the couch. 

TRAFFIC NOISE and Jacobs breathing is HEARD through the 
answering machine. 

EXT. MCDONALDS PARKING LOT - THAT MOMENT

Jacob hangs up. Drops in another 50 cents and dials. The 
phone RINGS again.

             ROSE/PHONE
      Hi. Youve reached --

             JACOB
      Ygotta be fuckin kidding me!

Jacob SLAMS the phone down. 

Jacob looks back at Lacy to see her staring at him, freaked, 
looking like she is about to cry. 

             JACOB 
      Its okay, honey. Jus... Keep 
      eatin.

The pay phone RINGS. Jacob SNATCHES it up. 

INT. ROSES HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

Rose sits up on the couch, hungover, having just woken up. 

             ROSE/PHONE
      Who keeps callin me? 

Jacob signals 1 minute to Lacy. Turns away. Cups the phone. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Its Jacob. 

             ROSE/PHONE
      Oh, has it been another 10 years 
      already?

             JACOB/PHONE
      I know Harlan and Blake have been 
      to your house.

             ROSE/PHONE
      Goodbye, Jacob. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      No. Your daughter wants to say hi.

A shudder passes through Roses body. 

EXT. MCDONALDS PARKING LOT - THAT MOMENT

Jacob turns around. 

             JACOB
      Honey, talk to your mom.

Lacy is not there. Stunned, he looks inside the car. The 
front seat. The backseat. Nothing. His stomach sinks. 

             ROSE/PHONE 
      Lacy...? 

Jacob scans the parking lot -- Inside McDonalds -- The 
street. His SHOCK morphs into FULL PANIC.

             ROSE/PHONE 
      Jacob?! Talk to me!

Then, he sees her. 30 yards away, shaking, crying, waiting 
for the streetlight to change so she can cross. 

WHAT HAPPENS NEXT, HAPPENS FAST

Lacy looks back at Jacob -- Their eyes meet. She scares and 
BOLTS into the street. HORNS. CARS SWERVE. LACY SCREAMS.

Jacob drops the phone and runs --

CARS FLY past Lacy, the speed blowing her hair back --

She stumbles back into a lane, a TRUCK barrels towards her -- 

The TRUCK DRIVER SLAMS on his BREAKS -- HIS TIRES SCREECH -- 
The truck is inches away from Lacy --

Jacob scoops her up -- 

The truck CLIPS his SHIN as it BLOWS PAST and SKIDS to a stop 
in the middle of the street, grinding traffic to a HALT. 

THEN, SILENCE, THE DUST SETTLES

Jacob hobbles to the sidewalk, holding a crying, but unharmed 
Lacy. He sets her down. 

             TRUCK DRIVER
      Watch your kid, asshole!

The Truck Driver speeds off and traffic starts moving again.    

             JACOB
      Look at me -- You okay?

Too shocked to speak, Lacy nods yes. He gives her a hug. As 
he does, he sees traffic slowing down as everyone stares.        

Jacob shifts his eyes to the pay phone receiver dangling by 
the cord. He lowers his head -- Hes lost his chance. 

Then, through the TRAFFIC NOISE a phone RINGS. It takes a 
moment for Jacob to realize that its his cell phone. 

In a daze, Jacob takes out his cell. His eyes widen when he 
recognizes the CALLER ID. He picks it up.   

             ROSE/PHONE
      I saw em! Okay?! I saw em! 

Jacob is suddenly reinvigorated. 

INT. ROSES HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

Rose paces back and forth, crying, FRANTIC.

             ROSE/PHONE
      Just tell me shes alright! 

EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT

Jacob shakes his head, clearing the cobwebs, remembers why he 
is here. He covers the phone so Rose cant hear. 

             JACOB
      Its your mom. But we cant stand 
      in the street like this. If we go 
      back to the car, you can talk to 
      her. But only if you behave. Okay? 


Lacy nods. Jacob takes her hand, leads her back to the car, and puts the cell phone to her ear. 

             LACY/PHONE
      Mommy?! 

             ROSE/PHONE
      Lacy, are you hurt?!

             LACY/PHONE
      No -- Im okay -- Are you mad?

             ROSE/PHONE
      Quickly -- Where are you?

Jacob pulls the phone away and opens the car door. He helps 
Lacy in and shuts the door. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Wherere Harlan and Blake? 

INT. ROSES HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

Crying, Rose is about to answer when she remembers something. 
She runs to the window, sees a POLICE CAR stationed in front.

             ROSE/PHONE
      Theres a cop sitting across the 
      street from my house. I walk 
      outside and youre fucked. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      You walk outside and your whole 
      life is fucked. You dont know what 
      its like to lose a child. 

             ROSE/PHONE
      They didnt do anything! Theyre 
      just tryin to get their lives back 
      on track. Believe me.

EXT. MCDONALDS PARKING LOT - THAT MOMENT

             JACOB/PHONE
      Rose. You can protect Harlan and 
      Blake or protect your daughter. You 
      cant do both. 

             ROSE/PHONE
      ...If I tell you where they are, 
      promise you wont hurt em. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      I promise Ill give you back your 
      child. 

INT. POLICE STATION/INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Caden drops an EVIDENCE BAG containing the BMW car keys in 
front of Christina Walker. 

             CADEN
      Lose your car keys recently?

Christina looks at the keys, confused, then back at Caden. 

             CHRISTINA
      Whered you find those? 

             CADEN
      About 40 feet from where Sandra 
      Rileys body was found.  

On Christinas look, What?!

             CADEN 
      Why didnt you tell me you lost 
      your keys? 

             CHRISTINA
      Do you tell someone every time you 
      lose something? 

             CADEN
      Your keys, Christina. Where Sandra 
      was found dead. 

Christinas face hardens. 

             CADEN 
      What happened? The truth this time. 

             CHRISTINA
      I told you the truth a million 
      times. We got into a fight. She 
      punched me. I punched her. She 
      left. Maybe someones trying to 
      frame me -- I have no idea -- I 
      didnt do anything wrong!  

Christina tears up, looks away, wipes her eyes on her sleeve.

             CADEN
      Whyre you crying? Look at me.  
      Tell me whats going on with you. 

             CHRISTINA
      Are you stupid or something? Im 
      crying because my best friend is 
      dead. My best friend. 

Caden softens his approach. 

             CADEN
      She was your best friend... And 
      when she said what she said about 
      you, I know how it mustve hurt.

             CHRISTINA
      This is so stupid. Youre stupid.

             CADEN
      Sandra judged you for being who you 
      are. And it stung. Because you 
      never judged her, right?

             CHRISTINA
      I - did not - kill - her. I passed 
      the lie detector, remember? 

             CADEN
      You drank a lot that night. It can 
      effect the outcome of the test. 

Christina cries harder.

             CADEN 
      Talk to me... I can help you. 

Christina SWATS the car keys off the table. They fly across 
the room, hit the wall, and fall to the floor. 

             CHRISTINA
      I have no fucking idea how my keys 
      got there! And Im not saying 
      another fucking word until I talk 
      to my lawyer.

Caden sits back, disappointed. He goes to the door, opens it 
a crack, and talks to an Officer who is standing guard.

             CADEN
      Bring in a phone. 

Caden bends down to pick up the car keys. He stops. Stares at 
the car keys laying on the floor. Something dawns on him. 

             CADEN 
        (to himself)
      She punched you. You punched her...


             CADEN         (to Christina)
      Then you both fell to the floor?

Caden picks up the keys. Christina looks at him, confused. 

             CADEN 
      What else fell with you? Your 
      purse?

Christina is about to answer when his cell RINGS. CALLER ID: 
UNKNOWN. He picks it up. 

             CADEN/PHONE
      This is Caden.

             ROSE/PHONE
        (frantic, crying)
      Mr. Caden -- Ygotta help!

             CADEN/PHONE
      Hang on. Whos this --

             ROSE/PHONE
      Listen! Jacobs gonna kill em!

EXT. STREET - DAY

A neighborhood of abandoned houses. Auto plant workers and 
their families once lived here, but when those plants left, 
so did the residents. 

Jacob and Leon sit in the Dodge around the corner from a 
crumbling, one-story, BRICK HOUSE. 

             JACOB
      You bring it?

Leon reluctantly pulls a 9mm pistol from his waistband and 
hands it to Jacob. 

             LEON
      Whatre you gonna do? Jus walk 
      right on up there? 

Jacob nods. 

             LEON 
      They see you, theyre gonna run... 
      Ill go check.

             JACOB
      You dont need to do this. 

             LEON
      I do. We got one shot at this. 

Leon gets out.

             LEON 
      Watch my back. 

Leon walks up the street, towards the brick house. Half way 
up the road it hits him, What the hell was I thinking? 

Leon pushes forward, crosses the dead and overgrown front 
lawn, walks up the porch and stops at the front door. 

Leon raises a fist to knock, hesitates, looks back at Jacob.

Giving away that Leon is not alone.

Jacob motions for Leon to turn the fuck around. Leon realizes 
his mistake, turns back to the door and KNOCKS. 

INSIDE THE CAR, Jacob primes the gun -- the SLIDE JAMS.

             JACOB
      Fuck. 

AT THE FRONT DOOR, Leon KNOCKS again.  

INSIDE THE CAR, Jacob frantically works on the jammed slide. 

AT THE FRONT DOOR, nobody answers. Leon walks over to a 
boarded up window, looks through a slight crack in the wood.

INSIDE THE CAR, Jacob sees Leon looking through the window. 
He goes back to the gun, steadies his hand, grips the slide.

             JACOB 
      Please --

It SLIDES -- It works -- The gun is primed. Ready to go. 

BANG--BANG--BANG

Jacob startles. Looks up to see Leon rapping on the car 
window. Jacob lowers it. 

             LEON
      Nothin. Didnt see anythin. 

             JACOB
      That cant be.

             LEON
      Im sure. Lets get outta here. 

Leon gets in the car while Jacob keeps his eyes on the house. 

             LEON 
      They aint there, man. Im sorry. 

Jacob tucks the 9mm into his waistband and gets out. 

             JACOB
      Make sure nobody comes out the 
      back. 

Jacob heads for the house. 

             LEON
        (whispering loudly)
      Jacob! Come back!

Jacob walks down the street. His eyes locked on the house the 
entire time. He arrives at the front door. 

He takes out the 9mm -- Steps backs -- KICKS it down. 

The door CRASHES onto the living room floor. No furniture. 
Trash. Liquor bottles. Syringes. Meth pipes. 

From inside the car, Leon sees Jacob raise the gun and step 
inside the house. Leon gets out. 

INSIDE

Jacob, breathing heavy, scans the living room, his gun out in 
front of him. Up ahead he sees two doorways. One is to the 
kitchen, the other is to a bedroom.   

Jacob makes his way to the kitchen. He hugs the wall and 
peeks inside. Empty. Just more piles of trash. 

He looks up to the bedroom down the hallway. The door is 
closed. Jacob advances. The floor CREAKING under his feet. 

Jacob slides up next to the door, his back up against the 
wall. He reaches for the doorknob...

OUTSIDE

Leon creeps around the side of the house into the backyard. 
Sees a RED VAN, 2003 CHEVROLET EXPRESS parked on the grass. 

It STARTS with a ROAR. 

INSIDE

Jacob HEARS the ENGINE coming from the back. He RUNS to the 
back door -- Swings it open --

OUTSIDE 

To see the van kicking up dirt, HAULING ASS through the 
backyard. And through the windshield he sees them --

HARLAN IN THE PASSENGER SEAT. BLAKE DRIVING.  

Harlan and Jacob lock eyes -- EVERYTHING SLOWS DOWN -- For a 
moment, its just the two of them -- Then --

Jacob raises the gun and FIRES -- BANG-BANG-BANG. The 
windshield spider webs. An explosion of BLOOD on the inside. 

The van veers off and crashes into a tree. Stillness. Then --

Harlan KICKS OPEN the passenger door, gun in hand, aiming it 
at Jacob -- Jacob ducks into the house, BULLETS hit the door 
frame, WOOD CHIPS FLY --

Harlan RUNS through the yard, hopping a fence into another 
yard when his leg is grabbed by Leon. 

Harlan FIRES A SHOT -- It GRAZES Leons shoulder. Harlan 
KICKS Leon in the jaw. Leon falls to the ground, out cold. 

Jacob peaks outside the house, sees Leon on the ground. Looks 
up at Harlan. 

Harlan jumps over the fence, runs though the yard. Jacob runs 
after him, FIRES OFF A SHOT. BLOOD ERUPTS from Harlans side.

Harlan SCREAMS, stumbles, Jacob FIRES again -- MISSES. Harlan 
scrambles to the back door of another abandoned house. BUSTS 
IT in with his shoulder and falls inside. 

Jacob SPRINTS through the yard, gets to the back door. Peaks 
inside. Sees a trail of blood leading down a hallway, into 
the living room, and veering off around a corner. 

Jacob quiets. He can HEAR the labored breathing of Harlan 
somewhere inside the living room. 

             JACOB
      This what you wanted?

More HEAVY BREATHING, then --

             HARLAN
      Come in here and ask me that.

INSIDE 

Jacob steps into the hallway, hugs the wall as he makes his 
way towards the living room. 

OUTSIDE

A POLICE CRUISER and Cadens Impala pull up behind Alices 
Dodge. Caden gets out. Two OFFICERS emerge from the cruiser.  

INSIDE

Jacob reaches the end of the hallway. He peers into the 
living room, sees Harlan on the floor, back against the wall, 
blood soaking through the side of his shirt. He is dying. 

IN A FLASH Harlan raises his GUN -- BAM -- the bullet skims 
Jacobs cheek. 

Jacob FIRES -- BAM-BAM-BAM three to Harlans chest. 

OUTSIDE

Caden and the Officers turn to the source of the gunshots. 
They see the kicked in front door. They take out their guns. 

             CADEN
      Call EMS. Now. 

Gun drawn, Caden advances towards the house.

INSIDE

Jacob holds the 9mm out in front of him as he stares at a 
completely still Harlan. But then, Harlan blinks. 

Jacob walks up to Harlan, kneels down. Harlan looks at Jacob 
and with his last breath says --

             HARLAN
      It wasnt spposed to end like 
      this.

Harlan dies. In a daze, Jacob backs away from the body and 
into the hallway. His eyes still locked on Harlan. Jacob 
doesnt see Caden standing at the back door.   

             CADEN
      Drop the weapon! 

Jacob startles -- With the GUN still in his hand, Jacob whips 
around to face Caden -- BANG -- 

Jacobs body DROPS to the floor. Caden and an Officer rush 
him. Caden kicks the gun out of Jacobs hand. 

Jacob groans as he holds a bullet wound in his chest. 

Caden flips Jacob onto his back. 

             CADEN 
        (to the Officer)
      Wheres that fucking ambulance?

ALL SOUND DROPS OUT --

Caden shouts at Jacob. We cant hear the words. All the 
while, Jacobs eyes remain fixed on Harlan. Until he cant 
keep them open any longer.  

CUT TO BLACK:

EXT. HARLAN AND BLAKES HOUSE - NIGHT

Flood lights illuminate the crime scene. A dozen police cars. 
Ambulances. News vans. Reporters. Its a madhouse. 

Leon sits in an ambulance, talking to an OFFICER.

EXT. HARLAN AND BLAKES HOUSE/BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Caden stands in the middle of the yard, chaos all around him. 
The crashed van. Evidence markers next to discarded shells. 
Blake slumped over the steering wheel of the van. 

             CRIME SCENE TECH 
      Detective. In here. 

Caden walks into the kitchen where a CRIME SCENE TECH pulls a 
PIECE OF PAPER out of the trash. Caden looks at it. 

             CADEN
      Jesus Christ. 

INT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/PRIVATE ROOM - NIGHT

Jacob lays in bed, barely conscious through the painkillers, 
his chest bandaged. Diana sits bedside. Both look at Caden.

Caden shows them a photograph of Christina Walker. Its of 
Christina leaving her house. Caden shows a second photograph: 
This one is of Christina behind the wheel of her BMW.

             CADEN
      These are copies of photos found at 
      Harlan and Blakes place. They were 
      found in the trash. 

Jacob and Diana dont understand. 

             CADEN 
      Harlan and Blake meant to take 
      Christina.

Stunned silence from Jacob and Diana. 

             CADEN 
      Weve been working on the timeline 
      from that night. Christina and 
      Sandra got into a fight. 

INT. THE HOUSE PARTY - FLASHBACK

Sandra shouts into Christinas ear --

             SANDRA
      YOUR DAD IS AN ASSHOLE! 

Sandra and Christina get into a fight. They fall to the floor 
and claw at each other until its broken up.

Sandra and Christina stare at each other. Sandra is crying -- 
this makes Christina start to cry. Sandra wants to apologize, 
but she cant bring herself to. 

Sandra wipes her eyes and notices that during the fight her 
purse fell to the floor. Sandra also notices that Christinas 
purse fell to the floor along with her BMW car keys.

Sandra picks up her own purse and swipes Christinas BMW car 
keys at the same time so that nobody notices. She storms out.

INT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/PRIVATE ROOM - PRESENT

Caden holds up the set of BMW car keys. 

             CADEN
      After the fight, Sandra left. She 
      took Christinas car keys. 

Jacob and Diana stare at the keys dangling from Cadens hand. 

             CADEN 
      I found these at the crime scene.

EXT. THE HOUSE PARTY - FLASHBACK

Sandra walks down the street. She presses the keypad. The 
headlights on the BMW flicker. 


She gets to the BMW and is JUMPED by a man, Harlan. He throws 
a bag over her head. 

A red van pulls up next to them. As Sandra flails and fights, 
the driver, Blake, opens the passenger door. Harlan shoves 
Sandra inside and gets in after her.

             CADEN 
      It was dark... they mistook Sandra 
      for Christina. 

INT. RED VAN - FLASHBACK

As Blake drives, Sandra SCREAMS and CLAWS at Harlan. 

             HARLAN
      Shut the fuck up!

             BLAKE
      Fuckin control her. 

             SANDRA
      HELP! HELP!!!!

Sandra gets a hand on Harlans face. Feels his eyeball. Digs 
her finger inside it. 

             HARLAN
      AW! FUCK!

Harlan throws Sandras head into the passenger window, 
CRACKING the window up the middle. Sandra goes limp. 

             HARLAN 
      Fuckin bitch! 

             BLAKE
      Harlan?

             HARLAN
      Get off this street! Take a right! 

Harlan regains his composure, then sees a dime-sized red dot 
on top of the bag over Sandras head. The red dot gradually 
expands into a large red circle. 

             HARLAN 
      What the fuck? 

Harlan takes the bag off. Blood completely covers Sandras 
face. There is so much blood flowing that its impossible to 
tell where its coming from. 


             HARLAN       Oh my God.   

Harlan lifts Sandras head and realizes that it broke through 
the window and slit her from her temple down to her throat. 

             BLAKE
      What the fuck did you do?! 

Harlan applies pressure to the wound. 

             HARLAN
      No--No--No

Sandra tries to speak. All that comes out are GURGLES and 
BUBBLES of blood. Harlan wipes the blood from her eyes and 
stares at her. She stares back, she knows shes dying. Shes 
confused and scared. A split second later, shes gone.  

             HARLAN 
      Fuck! 

Harlan sits back, stunned and defenseless, as the blood 
flows. Then he takes a closer look at her. Something isnt 
right. He wipes the blood away from her face. 

             HARLAN 

      Oh fuck. 

             BLAKE
      Now what?!

             HARLAN
      It aint her! 

             BLAKE
      What?!

             HARLAN
      It aint fuckin her! 

             BLAKE
      What the fuck?! Who is it?!     

INT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/PRIVATE ROOM - PRESENT

Diana is hysterically crying. 

             CADEN
      Maybe we should take a--

             DIANA
        (wiping her eyes)
      No. Go on. 

Caden looks for confirmation from Jacob. 

Jacob nods, they need to hear this. 

             CADEN
      Harlan and Blake had a red van 
      parked behind the place where they 
      were squatting. The crack in the 
      glass of the window matches the 
      formation of the wound on Sandras 
      face and neck.

EXT. ROADSIDE - FLASHBACK

The van is parked on the side of the road. Harlan and Blake 
lift Sandras body out and carry her into the woods. 

INT. RIVER ROUGE - FLASHBACK

They carry Sandra past the shack and down to the river. 

As they carry her, the BMW car keys slip from Sandras coat 
pocket and fall to the ground. Harlan and Blake dont notice. 

They dump Sandras body in the river and watch it drift away. 

SNOW BEGINS TO FALL.

Harlan looks up as snowflakes fall onto his face. 

             HARLAN
      Lets go. 

Blake doesnt move. 

             HARLAN 
      Blake! Lets get the fuck outta 
      here!

Blake snaps out of it and starts to walk back to the road. 

As Harlan and Blake hoof it back to the van we HOLD on the 
BMW car keys as the snow falls and begins to bury them. 

The CAMERA TILTS UP to the sky. The SCREEN GOES WHITE. 

             CADEN 
      And we found this...

INT. ST. JOHNS HOSPITAL/PRIVATE ROOM - PRESENT

Caden shows Jacob and Diana the PIECE OF PAPER that the CRIME 
SCENE TECH found inside Harlan and Blakes trash.

Its a ransom note made from cut out letters and words from 
magazines. It reads: Christina Walker. 4 million dollars. 
Instructions to follow.

Jacobs head is spinning, trying to process it. He looks at 
the evidence as Diana buries her head in her hands and wails.   

EXT. CEMETERY - MORNING

A PRIEST says a prayer as Sandras coffin is lowered into the 
ground. Jacob and Diana sit front row with roses in their 
hands. A crutch rests against the back of Jacobs chair. 

The entire town is here. Sydney Walker, Christina Walker, the 
entire workforce of Walker Scrap Metals, high school friends 
and faculty, Caden and his family -- Everybody. 

The Priest motions for Jacob and Diana to come forward. Diana 
helps Jacob up. They make their way over. They look down at 
their daughters coffin and drop their roses. 

EXT. CEMETERY - LATER

People file away and give their condolences to the Rileys. 
Sydney Walker approaches.  

             WALKER
      Jacob, can I have a moment? 

Jacob looks to Diana. She nods that its okay. Jacob and 
Walker step away. They stop to talk underneath a tree. 

             JACOB
      Thank you for posting bail. 

             WALKER 
      A man who gives others hope, no 
      matter how desperate the situation, 
      is a true leader

Walker hands Jacob a piece of paper. A check for $50,000. 

             WALKER 
      Youre a true leader. I shouldve 
      given that to you a long time ago. 

Walker smiles sympathetically and pats Jacob on the back.

             WALKER 
      If you end up going away... 
      hopefully this will help. 

Jacob hands the check back to Walker. 

             JACOB
      I ppreciate it, Sydney. But no 
      thanks.

On Walker, Come again?

             JACOB 
      The only reason Im gettin this is 
      cuz my daughters in the ground. 
      You think I want money like that?

Walker shoves the check in Jacobs breast pocket. 

             WALKER
      Then tear it up... But at least 
      think about it. 

Walker turns away, heads to his limo. 

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - DAY

Jacob pulls into the driveway. Diana is still numb from the 
funeral. Jacob is about to speak. But she gets out of the 
truck, walks inside. His cell RINGS. CALLER ID: UNKNOWN. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Hello.

INT. CADENS APARTMENT/LIVING ROOM - DAY

Caden sits on his couch, wears a black suit, his tie undone. 
In another room, his baby boy cries through a diaper change.

             CADEN/PHONE
      Its Ross. That was a lovely 
      service. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Yeah. ppreciate that.

Caden goes to the nursery, sees his wife struggling with 
their son. He gives an apologetic look as he closes the door. 

             CADEN/PHONE
      I hate to do this with everything 
      that just happened, but... 

             CADEN/PHONE 
        (beat)
      You remember Ethan Jackson? Rose 
      OKeefes boyfriend?

Jacobs stomach sinks. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Of course.    

             CADEN/PHONE
      Hes gone missing... You know 
      anything about this? 

             JACOB/PHONE 
        (beat)
      No. 

             CADEN/PHONE
      Listen, youre going to do some 
      time for Harlan and Blake. I beg 
      you, dont make it worse. 

Jacob reaches into his pocket, pulls out the $50,000 check. 

             CADEN/PHONE 
      You know I cant look the other 
      way. Thats not why Im here. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      You do whatever you need to do. But 
      Im gonna say goodbye now.

A LONG BEAT, Caden conflicted, replies --

             CADEN/PHONE
      You know, maybe Detroit isnt where 
      you belong. Thats all Ill say.

Jacob hangs up. 

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - DAY

Jacob enters, the check in his hand. Diana is curled up in a 
ball on the couch, done. He sits next to her.

             JACOB
      Police say Im gonna have to stay 
      here for a little while.

Jacob puts the check in Dianas hand. 


             JACOB 
      But I want you to take this and 
      leave this place.

Diana looks at the check, confused, not sure its for real. 

             JACOB 
      A gift from Walker. 

She starts to cry. The thought of being without him suddenly 
too much. The coldness between them gone in an instant. 

             DIANA
      I dont want this. 

Jacob hugs Diana. As he does, he sees one last obstacle. 
Sandras closed bedroom door. Taunting him as always. 

Diana tries to give the check back. Jacob wont take it.

             JACOB
        (holding back tears)
      New Years Eve, member when you 
      said you didnt regret takin a 
      chance on me? That you never  
      regretted your choice? Dont make 
      the same mistake. Think about it.

Jacob gets up, leaves Diana to think. What will she choose? 

Jacob inches towards Sandras door. A sense of closure 
lurking behind it. He grips the doorknob. Deep breath...

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/SANDRAS BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The bedroom door creaks opens. The scent of his daughters 
room hits him in the gut. 

He sits down on her unmade bed and is finally able to let go. 

As he breaks down, he takes in his daughters room. Her 
clothes on the floor, her school books, her desk, photographs 
of her and her friends tacked on the wall. 

A couple of the photographs catch his eye. He walks over to 
the desk and takes a closer look at two specific photographs. 

And thats when it hits him. Hes looking at the same two 
photographs of Christina that Detective Caden showed them. 

He untacks them from the corkboard and sees that there are 
two tack holes in each of the photographs, but not any of the 
other ones. Theyve been moved recently. 

Jacob gets a sinking feeling in his stomach as he remembers 
Caden showing him the photographs. 

             CADEN 
      These are copies of photos found in 
      Harlan and Blakes place. 

Jacob blinks. This doesnt make sense.

             DIANA
      I decided... Im not goin anywhere 
      without you.

Diana stands in the doorway with the check in her hand, 
smiling. Her smile fades the moment she sees Jacobs state.

             DIANA 
      Jacob! Are you okay?

             JACOB
      Whatre these?

Jacob holds up the two photographs. 

It takes a moment for Diana to see what they are.

When she realizes, she freezes, and all the color drains from 
her face.

             JACOB 
      These are the same photos found at 
      Harlan and Blakes... Howd they 
      get there? 

             DIANA
        (stumbling)
      I -- I dont know -- 

             JACOB
      HOW?!

Diana STARTLES. Jacob glares at her. Tears form in her eyes. 

Diana searches for what to say, then --

             DIANA
      Im sorry...

The words are like a punch in the gut to Jacob.

             DIANA 
        (crying)
      It -- It wasnt supposed to happen 
      like it did.

Jacob stands in a STUNNED SILENCE before --

             JACOB
      What the fuck you do? 

Diana CRIES and disappears into their bedroom, leaving Jacob 
hanging, no clue what to think. 

She eventually returns, holding several pieces of paper. 
Through tears she manages to get out --

             DIANA
      We -- We did get letters that 
      Harlan and Blake were gettin outta 
      jail...

             JACOB
      Jesus Christ -- 

Diana wipes eyes. 

             DIANA
      It wasnt supposed to happen like 
      this, Jacob. 

             JACOB
      STOP SAYING THAT AND TELL ME WHAT 
      THE FUCK IT MEANS!

             DIANA
      It was supposed to be our way out, 
      damn it! A way to a better life. A 
      life where were not worryin about 
      keeping the fucking heat and 
      electricity on. A life where were 
      not killing ourselves just to live.  

JACOB HOLDS HIS STOMACH -- FEELING DIZZY -- HIS MIND RACES --

FLASHES OF:

-Diana working the checkout lane, DEPRESSED, AT HER WITS END.

-Diana at the hospital, EXHAUSTED, pushing her body forward.

-Jacob outside the bar, on the phone with Diana, telling her 
he got a pay cut from Walker.  

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - PRESENT

Jacob can barely stay on his feet -- Diana breaks down -- 

             DIANA
      For Christ sakes, Jacob -- I -- I 
      wanted Sandra to have a life!

He cant look at her, his world collapsing, as he remembers --

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

The candlelit dinner Jacob prepared. Jacob sits across from 
Diana, trying to tell her that things will be alright. 

             DIANA
      I want out of here. 

             JACOB
      I wanna get us outta here. 

             DIANA
      Sandra deserves better. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - PRESENT

He comes out of the memory -- THE ROOM SPINNING --

             JACOB
      You -- You fuckin killed her -- 

DIANA SPARKS TO LIFE WITH RAGE -- LASHING OUT --

             DIANA
      I WAS TRYING TO FUCKIN SAVE HER 
      FROM A LIFE OF SHIT! I TRIED TO 
      GIVE HER A LIFE. A LIFE YOU AND I 
      COULDNT GIVE HER.

JACOBS BLOOD BEGINS TO BOIL --

             JACOB
      You shut the fuck up...

             DIANA
      No -- I had a way to give her that 
      life --

             JACOB
      I SAID ENOUGH! 

JACOB IS TREMBLING NOW -- 

             DIANA
      I had a way to get us that money. 
      But I knew youd never do it! 

             DIANA 
      So when I found out Harlan was 
      gettin out, I knew someone who 
      would. 

JACOB IS REELING -- HE CANT BREATHE --

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

After coming home from the morgue -- Diana BERATES Jacob --

             DIANA 
      YOU ALWAYS GOTTA BE THE GOOD ONE.

             JACOB
      Im warnin you. 

             DIANA
      God forbid you stand up to ANYONE.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - PRESENT

JACOB BREAKS -- GRABS DIANA -- SHOVES HER AGAINST THE WALL -- 
HOLDS HER THERE -- LOATHING HER -- SHE STARES BACK, DEFIANT --

             DIANA
      WHYD YOU CALL HER BACK?! WHY?!

JACOB PUNCHES -- DESTROYING THE WALL NEXT TO DIANAS FACE --

HE PULLS HIS ARM BACK -- PLASTER RAINING DOWN -- READY TO 
SWING AGAIN -- DOING ALL HE CAN TO HOLD HIMSELF BACK -- 

THEY GLARE AT EACH OTHER -- DETESTING ONE ANOTHER -- THE 
MOMENT BUILDING -- SWELLING -- THEN:

DIANAS HARD FACADE BREAKS -- SHE WITHERS -- FALLS ONTO 
JACOBS CHEST -- WAILING UNCONTROLLABLY --

             DIANA 
      IM SORRY -- OH MY GOD --  

THE GUILT AND REGRET TOO MUCH FOR HER TO BARE ANY LONGER --

             DIANA 
      IM SO SORRY --

JACOBS BODY SHAKES -- AN AVALANCHE OF EMOTIONS -- 

             DIANA 
      I did it for her...

HIS FURY RISES -- SEES THE $50,000 CHECK IN HER HAND --

             DIANA 
      I did it for Sandra. 

DIANA LOOKS UP AT JACOB -- HER FACE A WET CRYING MESS --

             DIANA 
      I did it for all of us. 

TEARS STREAM DOWN THE SIDE OF BOTH THEIR CHEEKS -- THOUGHTS 
AND MEMORIES FORCING THEIR WAY UP IN JACOBS MIND --

FLASHES OF:

-Sandra smiling.

-Sandras head being SMASHED into the window.

-Jacob standing over Sandras body at the morgue.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - PRESENT

JACOB -- STARING DAGGERS AT HIS WIFE --

DIANA -- EYES PLEADING FOR FORGIVENESS --

JACOB CLENCHES HIS FISTS -- CLOSES HIS EYES AND --

CUT TO BLACK:

DAWN...

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - MORNING - THE NEXT DAY

Jacob sits in his truck, staring blankly out the windshield. 

He looks at his hand. Knuckles bloody and swollen. Tries to 
make a fist. Cant. Might be broken.

He takes out his cell and dials. It RINGS a few times. 

             JACOB/PHONE
      Its Jacob...

INT. CADENS APARTMENT/BEDROOM - MORNING

The room is dark. Shades still drawn. Anne is asleep. Caden, 
sits up, groggy, as he listens. Then --

Jacob says something that wakes Caden up real quick. 

             CADEN/PHONE
      Jacob... What happened?


EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - THAT MOMENT

Jacob doesnt answer. He hangs up. 

INT. CADENS APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Caden, fully dressed, rushes out the door.

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob looks at the house. Fights off tears. 

INT. CADENS IMPALA - MOMENTS LATER

Caden speeds down the road as he radios for back up. 

EXT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Three POLICE CRUISERS pull up. Caden right behind them. 
Jacobs truck is nowhere in sight. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - THAT MOMENT

The house is a total disaster. Tables tossed over. More holes 
punched in the walls. Like a tornado hit. 

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE/BEDROOM - THAT MOMENT

Diana is sprawled out on the bed. Sleeping. 

A KNOCK at the front door wakes her. She opens her eyes. 
Looks like hell. Rolls over. No Jacob. More KNOCKING. 

Diana drags herself out of bed. 

INT. THE RILEY'S HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Diana looks out the window. Caden and several POLICE OFFICERS 
are on the porch.  

             CADEN
      Mrs. Riley?! Open the door!

             DIANA
      Jacob?!

No answer.


Diana frantically retreats into the kitchen. She pulls a 
knife from the drawer and runs into her bedroom. She SLAMS 
the door shut, freaking out, no idea what to do.  

A BANGING on the front door. The police are breaking it down.

Diana holds up the knife, it shakes in her hand. 

Caden leads a pack of Officers down the hallway.

Diana hears FOOTSTEPS STOMPING in her direction. 

She approaches the door -- Self-preservation kicking in --
Ready to slice whoever comes through the door --

Caden barges into the room as Diana raises the knife and --

Puts it under her neck and --

Caden LUNGES for her, ripping the knife from her hand --

Before shes able to cut her throat --

Caden takes her to the floor, snaps the cuffs on.

INT. JACOBS TRUCK - THAT MOMENT

Jacob behind the wheel. The trunk packed with his things. 

Jacob takes the $50,000 check out of his pocket, crumples it 
up. Throws it out the window.

INT. THE RILEYS HOUSE - FLASHBACK

Jacob takes Dianas face in his hands. 

             JACOB
      Those animals are out there. And we 
      wont be safe til theyre put 
      down. After, I promise you, Ill 
      get you outta here. And youll 
      start over someplace new. Someplace 
      warm. But not til I find em.

INT. JACOBS CAR - PRESENT

The sun shines bright in Jacobs eyes. He flips the visor 
down where paper-clipped inside is a photo of him and Sandra. 
He lingers on the photo before looking to the road ahead.

THE END

