              BURY THE LEAD

               Written by

              Justin Kremer

Madhouse Entertainment
CAA

FADE IN:

A satellite view of New York. The Empire State. We PUSH IN, 
moving fast. The giant green mass grows more defined. With 
each moment, our vision is clearer. 

We increase our speed. Move past MANHATTAN, PAN TO THE RIGHT. 

Our target: Long Island. 

We SWOOP IN at a breathtaking pace, hurtle toward the ground. 

A SMALL TOWN comes into view. We’re flying into the heart of  
suburbia, descending slowly toward a tree lined street.

CUT TO:

A PAIR OF DARK BROWN EYES. Probing. There are bags under 
them. They hint at interminably long, sleepless nights. They 
belong to ERIC CHANDLER, 38. He’s in --

INT. CAR- DAY

-- where he flips through a copy of The New York Times, sips 
a cup of coffee. A morning tradition.

Eric checks his watch. Puts the paper down. Through the 
windshield, we see the offices of:

NEWSDAY. 

A well respected Long Island paper, albeit a publication 
teetering on the brink of insolvency for the better part of a 
decade.

A ROUSING CHEER carries us to --

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM- DAY

TIGHT ON ERIC. A thin smile purses his lips. Is he the 
subject of this adoration? 

WE PUSH BACK TO REVEAL that Eric is just one in a crowd, a 
dozen coworkers at his side. He’s not the center of 
attention.

KAREN HIRSCH is. She’s 35. Ambitious. Intelligent. And now 
award winning.

She holds a POLK AWARD PLAQUE in her hand. A high honor.

Eric’s smile fades. He can’t feign joy much longer. 

He watches on with envy. A staffer cuts a decorative cake.

Eric keeps his eyes trained on his cell phone. Can’t go more 
than a minute without taking a glance. No new calls, emails. 
A tinge of disappointment crosses his face. 

INT. BATHROOM- DAY

Water rushes out of a faucet. Eric splashes it on his face. 
Catches his reflection in the mirror. Doesn’t particularly 
like what he sees. 

He dries himself off and exits. Steps into --

INT. NEWSDAY BULLPEN- CONTINUOUS

Televisions BLARE. Phones RING. Keys are PUNCHED furiously.

It’s a typical morning at the office. The cubicles are only 
half full, a by-product of yet another round of layoffs. 

Executive offices overlook the bullpen. Eric approaches the 
one occupied by FRANK BLAINE, 55. He’s an old school newsman,  
a relic, with Murrow’s integrity and Peter Jennings’ warmth.

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- CONTINUOUS

Eric enters without knocking. Removes a USB Drive from his 
pocket and tosses it to Frank.

             ERIC
      Cut the third and fifth graphs. 
      Tightened the rest up. I need 140 
      inches.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Not again --

             ERIC
      You’ve got to trust me. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      I said 80. That wasn’t a 
      suggestion. It was an order.

             ERIC
      This is the one.

             FRANK BLAINE
      I thought the Rifkin profile was 
      “the one”.

             ERIC
      I mean it this time. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      I’ll see what I can do.

Eric’s attention shifts to the treasured hardware on Frank’s 
wall. A Pulitzer Prize. 

             ERIC
      17 years since we won.

             FRANK BLAINE
      And this’ll break the slump?

Eric shrugs as if to feign modesty.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      This better not be the last thing 
      you write for me. 

             ERIC
      Still haven’t heard anything.

             FRANK BLAINE
      We don’t have a lot of money lying 
      around. And by a lot, I mean any...

             ERIC
      You know it’s not about that.

             FRANK BLAINE
      ...but I could cobble something 
      together. A nice little raise.

             ERIC
      It’s The New York fucking Times. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      If I could squeeze another fifteen 
      thousand --

             ERIC
      I love you, but I’d mop the floors 
      for minimum wage if they’d have me.

             FRANK BLAINE
      I’d miss you.

             ERIC
      Feeling’s mutual. You don’t have 
      anything to worry about yet. Not a 
      peep since Tuesday. 


             FRANK BLAINE
      I could put in a call over there, 
      see who the other candidates are...

             ERIC
      Don’t worry about it.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You sure? I can be subtle. 
      Charming, even. I’ll schmooze them.

             ERIC
      No schmoozing necessary. I hope.

             FRANK BLAINE
      As you wish. Get out of here, Mr. 
      Pulitzer. 

CUT TO:

ERIC’S DESK.

A picture rests next to Eric’s laptop: a happy family. Eric 
with his arm around a brunette, two children at their side. 

Eric’s focus is his email. A subject heading: CRIME DESK 
POSITION. The recipient has a NEW YORK TIMES email address.

INT. TODD HOLLANDER FAMILY LAW OFFICE- DAY

Plaques. Degrees. Framed articles. The Todd Hollander family 
law office is a shrine to TODD HOLLANDER. 

The apparently distinguished attorney, 56, flips through 
photos of a newly constructed children’s room. It’s pristine. 
Neatly assembled. And completely untouched.

             TODD HOLLANDER
      Beautiful. You should take the 
      plastic off. 

             ERIC
      When’s it going to get some use?

             TODD HOLLANDER
      I’ll have the kids in there by the 
      weekend.

             ERIC
      Sounds too good to be true.

             TODD HOLLANDER
      You paid for the best. That’s what 
      you get. The Judge will grant us a 
      trial period of joint custody. 

             ERIC
      And then what?

             TODD HOLLANDER
      After six months, if Kyle and Robin 
      are happy... 

             ERIC
      Kevin.

             TODD HOLLANDER
      Excuse me?

             ERIC
      My son’s name is Kevin.

             TODD HOLLANDER
      If Kevin and Robin are happy and 
      everything’s going smoothly, the 
      arrangement becomes permanent.

             ERIC
      And there’s nothing she can do at 
      the hearing to stop --

             TODD HOLLANDER
      It’s just a formality. 
        (a beat)
      Smile. Good things are coming.

No smile. Eric doesn’t quite share his lawyer’s optimism.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- NIGHT

The largest space in this cozy two bedroom apartment. There 
are discarded beers on a coffee table. Baseball on the TV. 

Eric watches from the couch, drink in hand. 

The clock strikes midnight. 

His cell rings. He answers, and is serenaded with Happy 
Birthday by two high pitched voices. Children singing loudly, 
and in unison. The ones from the photo. 

This is ROBIN, 6, & KEVIN, 9. When they’re finished:

       KEVIN
	Happy Birthday.

	ROBIN
	Happy Birthday, Dad!

             ERIC
      Love you guys. Go to bed. I’ll see 
      you tomorrow.

             KIDS
      Night.

Eric hangs up. Takes a swig of beer. A WHIMPER from outside, 
followed by A FERAL SCREECH. Eric rises from his seat.

             ERIC
      I’m coming.

EXT. ERIC’S APARTMENT- MOMENTS LATER

Eric drops a bowl full of tuna in front of MOLLY, the 
neighborhood’s stray cat. She laps it up, satisfied. He 
nuzzles her with affection.

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- DAY

Eric enters to find Frank seated at his desk, USB in hand and 
an unusually dour expression on his face. Something’s up.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Don’t hate me.

Eric shuts the door. Braces himself for the worst.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      I can’t run it like this.

             ERIC
      Yes. You can.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Best I can do is 90 on Sunday. 
      Maybe 95.

             ERIC
      I can’t cut it. It’s as tight as 
      it’s going to get. If you lose any 
      more, the whole thing unravels.

             FRANK BLAINE
      We’ll find a way to make it work.

             ERIC
      Please. I need this one. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      I’m giving you all I have. Pushed 
      Karen’s piece a week... 

             ERIC
      How awful. She might not be able to 
      win an award for another month. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      ...chopped the Board of Ed story in 
      half, sliced the Robert Moses op 
      ed. I don’t have the space. Cut it 
      down and get me a new draft.

ON ERIC -- caving. Frustrated.

             ERIC
      Picking up the kids at 3. I’ll get 
      you something later tonight.

             FRANK BLAINE
      It can wait until tomorrow. Enjoy 
      the birthday. 

EXT. AMANDA’S HOUSE- DAY

A beautiful two-story Victorian nestled in the heart of 
suburbia. A sharp contrast to Eric’s hovel. 

Eric waits at the door. It is guarded by ROGER. 35. Tall. 
Well built. A bit intimidating. Wears an NYPD tee. 

             ROGER
      They’ll be out in a minute.
        (a beat, begrudgingly)
      Happy Birthday.

Eric nods. There’s clearly tension between these two. An 
awkward silence is shattered when --

Kevin and Robin burst through the door. They hug their 
father. For the first time, we see Eric smile. 

INT. CHUCK E CHEESE- DAY

An arcade. Kids run wild. Eric is at the skee-ball lane with 
Kevin & Robin. They’re struggling, can’t get a high score. 

Eric grabs a ball, leans across the lane. Drops it directly 
into the 50 point hole. Tickets spurt out of the machine.  
The kids laugh, overjoyed.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- NIGHT

Eric sits in silence, sifts through emails on his laptop.

A NOTIFICATION. There’s a new message in his inbox.

It’s from The New York Times. He opens it.

We see key phrases: “regret to inform you”, “strong 
candidate”, “appreciate your interest”.

Eric glares at the page, rereads in disbelief. He hits REPLY. 
Asks for specifics as to why he was denied. Hits send.

He slumps in his seat. Happy fucking Birthday.

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

Eric is at his desk, predictably hungover and pissed off. 
Frank approaches. Puts a hand on his shoulder.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Hey. I’m sorry.

Eric nods his thanks.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      I’ve got something.

             ERIC
      They said my writing lacked color.

             FRANK BLAINE
      It’s Joel Harris.

             ERIC
      ...that it was “a little dry”. What 
      do they expect? This isn’t the 
      fucking Post.

             FRANK BLAINE
      He’s dead.

             ERIC
      And the guy they hired -- Issacson. 
      3 years at HuffPo and no print 
      experience. It’s a joke.

Eric processes what Frank just said. He perks up. Intrigued. 

             ERIC 
      What happened?

             FRANK BLAINE
      Looks like suicide. 

             ERIC
      I’ll get right down there.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Karen asked to cover this one. So 
      did Lucas. A few of the others.

             ERIC
      It’s local crime. This is mine. How 
      could they possibly try to --

             FRANK BLAINE
      It’s bigger than that. He was a 
      public figure. Karen spent six 
      months inside the department when 
      he was Commissioner. Lucas has a 
      few good sources --

Eric’s resigned to his fate. He’s going to lose this one too.

             ERIC
      Who are you giving it to?

             FRANK BLAINE
      Figured I owe you one after the 
      other day. It’s yours.

             ERIC
      Thank you. 

Eric’s been so wrapped up in his own world that it’s only now 
he takes note of Frank’s demeanor. The sadness in his eyes.

             ERIC 
      When’s the last time you saw him?

             FRANK BLAINE
      The day he got Commissioner. Drank 
      our asses off. Never made time to 
      catch up after. He was busy and I --

             ERIC
      I’m sorry. There anything I can do?

             FRANK BLAINE
      Get out there. Cover the story.

Frank trudges back to his office, shuts the door. 

EXT. EAST HAMPTON HOME- DAY

A gorgeous manor. Two stories. Ivy covers a healthy portion 
of the exterior. Police cars and an ambulance idle outside.

Eric stalks up the driveway. He approaches CHRIS BISHOP, 40s, 
commanding officer on the scene. An old friend. The two hug.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      They’re sending you all the way out 
      to the boonies now?

             ERIC
      Couldn’t resist a chance to see 
      your pretty face. How you doing?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Good, man. Mara’s in her second 
      trimester.

             ERIC
      Holy shit. Congrats.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      What’s new with you?

             ERIC
      Same old. What the hell happened 
      here?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Found him two hours ago. GSW to the 
      head.

             ERIC
      Jesus. He leave a note?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Nope.

             ERIC
      Why’d he do it? 

             CHRIS BISHOP
      We’re not sure.

             ERIC
      ...depressed? Bad breakup? Low on 
      cash?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      We’re looking into it. He kept to 
      himself after he left the force. 
      Liked his privacy.

Eric’s intrigued. He looks to the front door - officers 
shuffle in and out.

             ERIC
      When can I get inside?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Can’t help you there.

             ERIC
      Since when --

             CHRIS BISHOP
      This one is different. He was a 
      cop, not some corporate jerkoff. 
      Deserves some respect. Privacy.

             ERIC
      Give me five minutes. In and out.

Chris shakes his head. 

             ERIC 
      What’s it going to take? 

             CHRIS BISHOP
      A badge. You got one?

Eric reaches into his pocket, removes his middle finger and 
holds it up to Chris. A playful, but semi serious gesture. 

             ERIC
      Probably better off anyway. I can 
      smell the stench from here. Don’t 
      need to spend a month trying to get 
      it out of my clothes. You better 
      crack a few windows open.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Fifth suicide this month. I can 
      barely smell it anymore.

             ERIC
      It reeks.

A fleeting silence --

             ERIC 
      Hey. Let’s grab a beer later and 
      catch up. Unless it’s gonna be a 
      late night here...

             CHRIS BISHOP
      We’ll be out soon but Mara’s 
      cooking. Gimme a rain check.

Eric nods casually. 

DISSOLVE TO:

Harris’s driveway. Four hours later. It’s empty. 

Eric creeps his way to the front door. Turns the knob. It’s 
locked. He walks around to the...

SIDE OF THE HOUSE -- 

The first floor windows are bolted shut. However, he spots a 
second floor window that is slightly ajar.

A bulky air conditioning unit rests a few feet to Eric’s 
right. It hums quietly. He props himself up on it. 

INT. HARRIS HOME - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

A GRUNT. The sound of strain. 

Eric wiggles through the window and lands in the dark 
corridor with a thud. He stands up, brushes himself off. 
Activates the flashlight app on his phone. 

He moves down the hallway and spots Harris’s office. It’s 
cordoned off with tape.

Eric thinks for a moment, then continues on to...

INT. HARRIS HOME - BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

...which is also cordoned off. Eric stands at the doorway and 
shines his light onto the white carpet - blood all over it. 

Otherwise, the room is bare. The night stand is empty.

Eric spots SHARDS OF GLASS near a dresser. A lamp sits atop 
of it, cracked. 

He surveys it with curiosity. Snaps a photo.

INT. HARRIS HOME - LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Pristine. Eric moves past a series of pictures on the wall.  
We see Harris, in NYPD regalia, alongside Mayor Bloomberg. 

INT. HARRIS HOME - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Eric swings open the refrigerator. It floods the room with 
light. Contains nothing but condiments and water. 

THE MAIN FOYER --

CUT TO:

Eric heads for the front door. He stops. Reconsiders. A beat.

INT. HARRIS HOME - OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Eric slides under the police tape. Rummages through papers on 
Harris’s desk. Little of interest. He opens a laptop.

The wallpaper: an NYPD Shield. 

He clicks on Harris’s inbox when the SHRILL RING of his cell 
phone interrupts him. He almost jumps at the surprise. 

He silences the phone. Sifts through Harris’s emails.

Seconds later -- another BEEP. A text message. Eric reads it, 
clenches his jaw in anger. Slams the laptop shut.

EXT. HARRIS HOME- MOMENTS LATER

Eric reaches the foot of the driveway, cell glued to his ear. 

             ERIC
      What happened?

             AMANDA 
      There was an accident. Kev’s 
      getting x-rays. They think he broke 
      his arm.

             ERIC
      Shit. How?

             AMANDA 
      He was playing basketball with 
      Roger and --

             ERIC
      I’ll be there in 20.

As he hangs up, A GREEN SEDAN passes by. Taps its brakes. 
Slows for a moment.

Eric walks to his car quickly. The sedan drives on. Eric 
watches it fade into the horizon.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR- NIGHT

We peer through glass into a HOSPITAL ROOM. A voyeuristic 
look. Kevin is being fitted for a cast. Eric gives him a 
kiss, worry on his face. 

He approaches Amanda and Roger, who stand in the corner of 
the room. A few words are exchanged. Within moments, the 
awkward trio exit the room and enter the hallway.

             AMANDA
      They were playing, horsing around. 
      The boys went up for a rebound and  
      Roger outboxed Kev -- 

             ROGER
        (correcting her)
      Boxed out --

             AMANDA
      -- a little hard. Kev fell, landed 
      on it funny. It was a freak 
      accident.

             ROGER
      It’s my fault. We shouldn’t have 
      been so rough. Won’t happen again.

Eric’s stare could burn a hole right through Roger. His gaze 
shifts to his ex-wife.

             ERIC
      Give us a minute.

Amanda looks to Roger, who nods as if to say “it’s okay”. She 
returns to the room.

             ERIC 
      If you ever hurt one of my kids 
      again, you’ll be the one in this 
      fucking hospital. Understood?

Eric marches back into the room, a phony smile plastered on 
his face. Roger trails behind, far less enthused.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- NIGHT

There are already a few beers at Eric’s side. He’s on his 
laptop. On the screen: a Word document. Eric has composed a 
lengthy article about Harris’s death.

The headline: FORMER NYPD COMMISSIONER COMMITS SUICIDE.


It’s a standard profile. Perhaps it’s “a little dry”. 

Eric opens his browser and visits The New York Times website. 
Finds a short piece about Harris’s death.

Its headline: SUICIDE LIKELY IN DEATH OF EX-COMMISSIONER.

The article is nearly identical to Eric’s.

He moves to his inbox and reopens The Times rejection letter. 
Rereads. An audible sigh of frustration, followed by a moment 
of contemplation. A beat.

Eric returns to his article. Deletes the headline. 

He types a new one.

SOURCE: MURDER SUSPECTED IN DEATH OF EX NYPD COMMISSIONER.

He stirs in his seat for a moment, finger hovering over the 
delete key. 

But instead, Eric begins to edit the piece, repurpose it. 

We see phrases flash by us -- “no note”, “overturned lamp”, 
“mysterious resignation”, “mercurial”, “made enemies”.

He drags the document into an email. Types in Frank’s 
address. Stops. Thinks for a moment. And hits send.

A telephone immediately begins to RING and we’re in...

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

Eric reaches for the phone at his desk. He’s hungover and 
exhausted, which helps mask the nervousness that he feels.

             ERIC
      Chandler.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      Get in here.

Eric hangs up, marches toward his Frank’s office. Short, 
hesitant steps like a man walking the green mile. He enters --

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- CONTINUOUS

-- without closing the door, to provide him with an escape.

             ERIC
      Morning.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Shut the door.

Eric complies. Takes a seat across from Frank, who has a copy 
of the Harris piece printed out in front of him. 

             FRANK BLAINE 
      Is this solid?

             ERIC
      Yeah. Source is good.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Why would somebody -- 

             ERIC
      I don’t know.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Cops say it’s open and shut. Clean 
      suicide.

             ERIC
      They’re wrong.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Who’s your source?

Silence that serves as an answer to the question.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      I don’t like to ask that. You 
      realize how much shit this is going 
      to stir up?

             ERIC
      I do.

             FRANK BLAINE
      ...we’ve got The Times, Post, and 
      Daily News all saying the same 
      thing as the cops. We can’t get 
      burned here. I need to know that 
      this is legit before we throw it on 
      the front page. Is it real?

If Eric expresses the slightest reservation here, this story 
could disappear. A mistake erased. But the temptation of his 
own cover story...

             ERIC
      It’s real.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Okay.
        (beat, shifting gears)
      I ran it by legal. We’re clear. 

Eric nods. He tries to suppress a smile, already dreaming of 
the attention. Salivating.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      We’ll leak the story at 4. Nightly 
      news will want you to do a few 
      remotes when it hits. Get yourself 
      cleaned up. You got a suit here? 
      Something nice you can wear...

             ERIC
      Amanda ‘misplaced’ all of my decent 
      ones during the split. I can run 
      down the block, pick something up.

Frank nods. He moves to exit...

             FRANK BLAINE
      Good work. This could be something.

INT. CAR- DAY

Eric cruises down an empty street. There’s a suit carefully 
laid out on his passenger seat. 

He dials a number on his cell. No answer. 

A moment of contemplation. Eric hastily makes a u-turn.

EXT. EAST HAMPTON POLICE STATION- DAY

A posh, well manicured building. More resort than police 
station. Eric stands outside with Chris Bishop.

             ERIC 
      I need to give you a heads up on 
      something.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      What’s that?

             ERIC
      We’re running a story today.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      I’d hope so.

             ERIC
      It’s going to suggest that Harris 
      may have been murdered.

Chris’s tone shifts from lighthearted to apoplectic.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Why the fuck would you say that?

             ERIC
      You don’t think it’s possible you 
      guys rushed to a conclusion here? 

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      No.

             ERIC
      He had enemies.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Everybody does.

             ERIC
      Didn’t leave a note. 

             CHRIS BISHOP
      You think every sad sack of shit 
      takes the time to write something 
      before they pull the trigger?

             ERIC
      How did that lamp fall by the bed? 
      He have time to smack it down after 
      he offed himself?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      How did you see that?

             ERIC
      What happened to the lamp?

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      ...it wasn’t in the report.

             ERIC
      And why’s that?

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Wait. You went into the house?

             ERIC
      Why wasn’t it in the report?


             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Are you fucking kidding --

             ERIC
      Chris...

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Come within 100 yards of my crime 
      scene again and I’ll put your ass 
      in jail.

That was loud. A few passersby take notice, gawk at the men. 

             ERIC
      I’m sorry. I had to check it out.

Chris lowers his voice. In a hushed tone --

             CHRIS BISHOP
      One of my rookies was clumsy. As we 
      swept the room, he knocked the lamp 
      over. Has nothing to do with the 
      case.

             ERIC
        (mutters inaudibly)
      Shit.
        (to Bishop)
      I need a favor.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      You’re asking for a favor...now.

             ERIC
      Let the story circulate for a few 
      hours before you issue a denial.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Fuck you.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM- DAY

An editorial meeting comes to a halt. Staffers rush out of 
the room, assignments in hand. Eric lingers, accosts Frank.

             ERIC
      Wanted to give you a heads up. 
      Spoke to my guy inside the 
      department. They’re going to issue 
      a denial as soon as we go public.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Source is still sticking to the 
      story though, right?

Eric glances outside. We see the suit draped on his chair. In 
a corner of the office, a green screen has been assembled 
with a camera in front of it.

BACK ON ERIC -- whose eyes fill with excitement.

             ERIC
      Yeah.

A LIGHT. Incredibly bright. It blinds us for a moment. Dims 
and we’re tight on Eric’s face, drenched in makeup...

CUT TO:

INT. BULLPEN- MOMENTS LATER

He’s in front of the camera, moments from his first 
interview. Eric adjusts his earpiece, uncomfortable.

The cameraman signals. It’s showtime.

An ANCHOR’s soothing monotone emanates from the earpiece.

             ANCHOR 
      We’re here with Newsday reporter 
      Eric Chandler, the man who broke 
      this story. Thanks for joining us.

Eric smiles. Stares into the black hole that is the camera.

             ERIC
      Hi Tom. Thanks for having me.

INT. BATHROOM- NIGHT

Eric dabs his face with a wet paper towel, removes his 
makeup. He catches his reflection in the mirror. Smiles.

INT. BULLPEN- NIGHT

Surprisingly well populated for this hour. A television 
replays Eric’s interview on NBC. We catch a glimpse of it.

             ERIC
      Commissioner Harris made plenty of 
      enemies. 

             ERIC 
      His first year on the job, he waged 
      war on our city’s drug trade. He 
      even wrangled with other law 
      enforcement entities -- state and 
      government officials who sought 
      jurisdiction in...

Eric stares at the television for a moment. It’s surreal. He 
heads for the exit. Locks eyes with Karen, pouring over copy.

             KAREN
      Nice work.

Eric nods, thankful. 

EXT. FAIRFIELD APARTMENT COMPLEX- NIGHT

Drab and depressing. Full of divorcees, single parents, and 
others struggling to make ends meet. Eric’s car comes to a 
halt outside of the community mailbox.

He exits the vehicle and unlocks his mailbox.

INSIDE: A SINGLE BULLET.

Eric looks around. It’s dark, quiet. There’s no one in sight. 
He’s puzzled. 

INT. HALLWAY- MOMENTS LATER

Eric pounds on a door. It swings open to reveal GUS, 50, in a 
white tee and boxers. A rather unenthusiastic landlord.

             ERIC
      Hey. I have a question.

             GUS
      Not the dryer again --

             ERIC
      No, not that. Did you see anybody 
      near my mailbox today?

             GUS
      No. 

             ERIC
      Nothing strange or out of the 
      ordinary...

             GUS
      I wasn’t around when the post 
      office came.

             ERIC
      I don’t mean the post office. I 
      mean anybody. You didn’t see 
      anybody over there today?

             GUS
      Can’t say I did.

             ERIC
      Maybe a tall guy about six four. 
      Well built. Brown hair.

He’s describing Roger. Gus shakes his head.

             GUS
      You looking for someone?

             ERIC
      Forget it. Thanks.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- NIGHT

The door creaks open. Eric enters with apprehension, flips on 
the light. Everything is as he left it. Nothing unusual here.

He places the bullet on a table. Dials a number on his cell. 

             AMANDA 
      Hi, I’m not here right now but...

EXT. AMANDA’S HOUSE- NIGHT

It’s late. The witching hour in suburbia. Lights are out. 
Eric stands at the front door. Raises his fist to knock. 
Rings the doorbell instead. It’s loud.

The sound of SHUFFLING inside. Confusion. A moment later, 
Amanda answers the door in a robe. 

             AMANDA
      What are you doing here? 

             ERIC
      I need to speak with Roger.

             AMANDA
      You’ve said enough.



             ERIC
      He’s not gonna scare me away from 
      my kids.

             AMANDA
      What are you talking about?

             ERIC
      The bullet. 

             AMANDA

      Bullet...?

             ERIC
      In my mailbox. 

             AMANDA
      ...what?

             ERIC
      Not a very subtle message. The 
      judge is going to hear about this.

             AMANDA
      When did this happen?

             ERIC
      Today.

             AMANDA
      Roger’s been with me. All day. He 
      had off so we went to -- if you’re 
      in trouble, the kids aren’t going 
      anywhere near there.

Eric is slowly coming to grips with the enormity of his 
mistake. Begins to backtrack...

             ERIC
      Everything’s fine.

             AMANDA
      Maybe the judge does need to hear 
      about this.

             ERIC
      It...it must have been Gus.

             AMANDA
      Who the hell is that?

             ERIC
      My landlord. He’s a big practical 
      joker. Real character. 

             AMANDA
      You really think so?

             ERIC
      Yeah, we’re close. I just...it was 
      a good one. Sorry to wake you. Give 
      the kids a kiss.

CUT TO:

IMAGES OF BULLETS by the dozen. All shapes and sizes. Boat 
tails, hollow points. A cursor scrolls past them. We’re in --

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Eric stares at the pictures on his computer. Looks at the 
bullet in his hand, comparing the two. Tries to find a match. 

It’s a tedious task, but he keeps searching...

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

...and searching. Still browsing through pictures the 
following morning at his desk. Eric looks haggard, exhausted. 

He rises from his seat and walks to the...

INT. OFFICE KITCHEN- CONTINUOUS

Eric puts on a pot of coffee. Slumps against the counter 
while it brews. Frank enters, makes himself a cup of tea.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Morning. What’s the latest on 
      Harris?

             ERIC
      Nothing yet.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Who have you spoken to?

             ERIC
      NBC, ABC, & News 12.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Not what I meant. You talk to his 
      old co-workers?

             ERIC
      Not yet.


             FRANK BLAINE
      Head out there today. And take 
      Karen with you.

             ERIC
      I can handle it on my own.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Bring her. She’s a good 
      interrogator. They like her over 
      there.

             ERIC
      This is my story. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      It is. She’s just here to help. 

EXT. PARKING LOT- DAY

Karen strides towards Eric’s car. She opens the passenger 
door. Eric brushes papers off of the front seat, makes room.

 
             KAREN
      Morning.


             ERIC
     Hey.

Eric pulls out of the lot. The two ride off in silence.

INT. CAR- MOMENTS LATER

Bumper to bumper traffic on the BQE. Eric taps his fingers 
against the steering wheel. Karen breaks a long silence.

             KAREN
      Thanks for taking me along. 

             ERIC
      Frank thought it’d be a good idea.

             KAREN
      And you...?

Eric remains mum. His feelings are evident.

             KAREN 
      Let’s cut the territorial shit. I’m 
      not here to take your story. 

             ERIC
      Then why are you here?

             KAREN
      To do what I do. Have you ever been 
      lead on anything remotely this big?

The answer is an obvious, resounding no.

             KAREN 
      I was scared shitless on my first 
      investigative. Didn’t know what the 
      hell I was doing. Don’t want you to 
      feel the same, no matter how much 
      of an asshole you’re going to be.

He looks at Karen, impressed by her gall.

EXT. POLICE PLAZA- DAY

A towering structure. 

INT. POLICE PLAZA, LOBBY- DAY

Eric and Karen approach a RECEPTIONIST at the check in desk. 
Hand over their licenses and Newsday credentials. 

The RECEPTIONIST pauses when she sees Eric’s name.

             RECEPTIONIST
      Hirsch and...Chandler?

Eric nods. The receptionist punches a few keys. Moves to a 
printer nearby. Hands Eric and Karen their press badges.

The receptionist watches Eric, picks up the phone.

CUT TO

Eric and Karen approach an elevator bank. 

             ERIC
      Let’s split up. Cover more ground.

             KAREN
      Good idea. Where do you need me?

             ERIC
      15th floor. Talk to his old 
      buddies. Secretary. Anybody who 
      knows anything. 

             KAREN
      I’m on it.

An elevator swings open. Karen enters. Eric doesn’t follow.


             ERIC
      Gotta make a quick call.

Before the doors shut --

             ERIC 
      Hey. Thanks.

Karen nods. Eric looks at a directory alongside the elevator. 
Finds a listing for: FORENSICS. 7th Floor.

INT. POLICE PLAZA, FORENSICS DEPARTMENT- MOMENTS LATER

A FORENSIC ANALYST inspects the bullet as Eric watches with 
anticipation. Doesn’t take more than a few seconds before --

             ANALYST
      It’s a Speer. 125 grain. Hollow 
      point. Probably for a SIG Sauer. 

             ERIC
      Common?

He returns the bullet to its unfortunate new owner.

             ANALYST
      Not particularly. It’s professional 
      grade. Homicides we get are usually 
      the generic stuff. A Model 10 or an 
      M1911. SIG’s not a gun you see on 
      the street.

             ERIC
      Where do you see it then?

             ANALYST
      Assassinations. Targeted killings.

Eric tries to suppress the wave of panic that’s erupting 
inside of him. He turns to walk away.

             ANALYST 
      You can print my name if you want. 
      Whenever the article comes out.

             ERIC
      Yeah. Definitely.

INT. POLICE PLAZA, CAFETERIA- MOMENTS LATER

Mediocre food and vending machines galore. Eric sits at a 
table alone, sips a cup of coffee. He’s lost in thought. 

FIVE OFFICERS march into the room with purpose. They head 
straight for Eric’s table. THE LEADER of the group towers 
over him. Stares a hole through Eric.

             ERIC
      Can I help you, Officer?

             LEADER
      You got a badge?

Eric presents his visitors pass to the leader, who crumples 
it in his hand. A few other cops mosey over. He’s surrounded.

             LEADER 
      It’s time for you to go.

             ERIC
      I think you’re right.

Eric raises his hands in defeat. Rises. Reaches for his 
coffee, but the officer smacks it over. It spills everywhere, 
including on Eric’s pants.

             LEADER
      Don’t come back here again.

INT. CAR- SUNSET

Eric cruises down a local road. Karen scans her phone. 

She has the ‘Notes’ application open. Recites her findings.

             KAREN
      Lieutenant Dan Billingsly. 
      Homicide. Worked with him for 20 
      years. Wouldn’t comment.
        (scrolling down)
      Vince Daddario, Deputy Commissioner 
      of Operations. Wouldn’t comment. 
      The secretary, Amy Mitchum. 
      Wouldn’t comment...

             ERIC
      Fantastic.

             KAREN
      ...on the record. Privately, she 
      says Harris was distressed his last 
      few months on the force. That’s 
      when things changed.

             ERIC
      Why?

             KAREN
      No clue. What’d you find out?

             ERIC
      Coffee stains on khakis are a bad 
      look.

             KAREN
      What’s your next move?

             ERIC
      I’ll figure something out.

Eric pulls into the Newsday parking lot. The car comes to a 
stop. He kills the engine. As Karen gathers her things --

             KAREN
      I saw you reading the Daily News 
      piece yesterday.

             ERIC
      I’m a masochist. 

             KAREN
      It must piss you off.

             ERIC
      I’ve been called a lot of things. 
      “A third rate hack” is a new one. 

             KAREN
      Brush it off. Make them eat shit. 
      You need any more help, I’m around. 

And with that, she exits. 

EXT. NORTHERN STATE PARKWAY- NIGHT

Narrow. Two lanes, poorly lit. Empty except for one lonely 
vehicle. Eric’s car cruises down the road, its brights shine.

INT. CAR- MOMENTS LATER

He fiddles with the radio. Turns on a sports broadcast. We 
hear the soothing, monotonous tones of AM radio commentators.

Eric spots a car behind him in the rearview. A GREEN SEDAN. 
Looks a lot like the one we saw outside of Harris’s place. 

It approaches rapidly. Eric looks at his dashboard - he’s 
doing 70. How fast is this guy going?

Eric moves to the right lane, out of the vehicle’s path.

The sedan changes lanes as well. 

Now it’s 50 yards away and closing fast.

Eric punches the accelerator. The needle inches past 80.

The driver shifts back into the left lane. Speeds up. Evens 
the car with Eric’s.

Eric tries to get a look at the driver, but the cars windows 
are tinted. As he tries to peer through the tint --

THE SEDAN SMASHES INTO HIS CAR. SENDS IT TUMBLING OFF THE 
PARKWAY, INTO A RAVINE. 

AS ERIC’S VEHICLE FLIPS ON ITS FRONT...

It’s then that everything goes --

BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT. RAVINE- MOMENTS LATER

A plume of smoke rises from the wreckage. We PULL BACK to 
reveal the totality of the crash. 

Crumpled metal. Shattered glass. 

A GROAN from inside the vehicle. With great effort, Eric 
squeezes out of the car. Pulls himself to his feet.

His face is nicked, cuts everywhere. He clutches his right 
shoulder in pain. Backs away from the wreckage. Surveys it. 

And then -- Eric begins to laugh. 

EXT. NORTHERN STATE PARKWAY- NIGHT

The shoulder of the road is cordoned off - three police cars 
and an ambulance occupy it. Eric is questioned by a genial 
DETECTIVE, who takes a copious amount of notes. 

             DETECTIVE
      ...green sedan. You can’t be more 
      specific than that? Remember a 
      logo? If the car looked new or like 
      an older model --

             ERIC
      It happened quickly. You guys have 
      cameras here? If you could grab the 
      plate number --

             DETECTIVE
      Nope, dead zone. Here to 110. Keep 
      telling ‘em we need to fix that. 
      Nobody listens.

             ERIC
      So this was the perfect place to do 
      it...

             DETECTIVE
      Got a few standard questions I have 
      to ask. Don’t like ‘em but...it’s 
      the job. You did nothing to 
      irritate the guy, right? Cut him 
      off, honk your horn --

             ERIC
      No. 

             DETECTIVE
      Any drugs or alcohol in your 
      system?

             ERIC
      No.

             DETECTIVE
      Need to call anyone? Family...?

Eric shakes his head. 

             DETECTIVE 
      Alright. Give us a few minutes and 
      we’ll get somebody to dig you out. 

The Detective walks back to his vehicle. 


He’s approached by a colleague, handed a piece of paper. The 
two exchange words, glance at Eric. They make no attempt to 
hide the fact that they’re talking about him. 

The Detective’s face darkens. Uh oh. He returns to Eric, 
hands him back his license and registration.

             DETECTIVE 
      On second thought, call a tow.

EXT. FAIRFIELD APARTMENT COMPLEX- NIGHT

A taxi grinds to a halt. Eric exits, right shoulder in a 
sling. He approaches his mailbox with apprehension.

Opens it. Takes a half step back.

Inside: nothing but bills. 

He breathes a momentary sigh of relief.

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

Eric attracts stares from his colleagues as he enters the 
office. They’re used to seeing him hungover. This is worse.

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- MOMENTS LATER

Frank scans a document intently. His focus is interrupted 
when Eric barges in. He surveys Eric’s face with worry.

             ERIC
      I know I’ve said it before but I 
      mean it this time...this is the 
      one.

             FRANK BLAINE
      What the hell happened to you?

             ERIC
      I’m fine.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Doesn’t look like it.

             ERIC
      Two nights ago, I found a bullet in 
      my mailbox. Thought it was Amanda’s 
      boyfriend. I was wrong. Last night, 
      somebody tried to kill me. Run me 
      off the road.


             FRANK BLAINE
      Jesus Christ.

             ERIC
      It’s Harris. The story.

             FRANK BLAINE
      How do you know they’re connected?

             ERIC
      Car that hit me -- I saw it outside 
      of his place. It’s the only thing 
      that makes sense.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You get an ID on the driver?

Eric shakes his head.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      You’re staying at my house tonight. 
      Nora will make the guest room.

             ERIC
      I’m fine.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Then we’ll speak to the cops. Get 
      you some protection.

             ERIC
      Tried that. They weren’t too 
      helpful. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      This story isn’t worth dying for.

             ERIC
      It’s the one.

Frank exhales, frustrated. Shifts gears --

             FRANK BLAINE
      Have you started drafting the 
      follow up? We need to go public 
      with this. 

             ERIC
      Not happening.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Department is taking out a full 
      page in the Times tomorrow. They 
      want a retraction and an apology.

             ERIC
      Shit. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      They need to see that we’re right.

             ERIC
      We can’t do that.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Why not?

             ERIC
      My hearing’s on Friday. Got no 
      chance of getting joint custody if 
      the court thinks I’m in danger.

             FRANK BLAINE
      ...or if you’re unemployed.

             ERIC
      I’ll have something. Soon.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You should keep your distance from 
      the kids until this settles down.

             ERIC
      I can protect them.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You can barely keep yourself in one 
      piece.

Eric is silent, unsure of how to defend himself here...

             FRANK BLAINE 
      If you can’t get me a smoking gun, 
      I need something solid. Something 
      to keep the wolves at bay. Physical 
      evidence would be a start.

EXT. HARRIS HOME- DAY

Eric stops in front of two trash cans at the edge of Harris’s 
driveway. Opens them. They’re full. Someone has been here. 

He strides up the driveway, tries the front door again. 
Knocks. No answer. Reaches for the handle. It’s locked.

Eric returns to the --

SIDE OF THE HOUSE

To his dismay, the 2nd floor window is now shut. 

He approaches the fence that leads to the backyard. Scales it 
in agony, forced to put pressure on his injured shoulder. 

EXT. HARRIS BACKYARD- CONTINUOUS

Eric lands with a thud and finds a beautiful pool, waterfall 
and all, muddied with leaves and dirt. He approaches a glass 
door that leads inside the house. It’s locked.

He balls up his first and swings at it. Hard. The glass 
doesn’t break, and Eric only injures himself further. 

He shakes the pain away, looks toward a shed across the yard.

A pair of hedge trimmers, as they’re violently thrust into 
the glass. It shatters.

CUT TO:

INT. HARRIS HOME, KITCHEN- MOMENTS LATER

Eric pinches his nose as he enters the house. The place reeks 
of bleach and anti-oxidants. He spots a brochure on the 
kitchen table. “Coram Crime Cleanup”. That would explain it.

INT. HARRIS HOME, OFFICE- CONTINUOUS

Eric opens Harris’s laptop and powers it on. He’s puzzled 
when he reaches the home screen. The NYPD background is gone.

Eric opens the C: Drive. Looks through it. 

There are no documents or files. Only a few default programs.

It’s as if the laptop has never been used...

...or it’s been wiped clean.

He shifts his focus to the desk drawers. Nothing exciting.

INT. HARRIS HOME, BEDROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Eric isn’t faring much better here. He parses through a 
wardrobe. Moves to the night stand adjacent to the bed. Opens 
the drawer. Empty.

Frustrated, he slams it shut with force.


A moment after the drawer closes, we hear A SOFT THUD.

Eric stops in his tracks. He crouches in front of the night 
stand. Reaches behind it. His eyes light up.

He finds a compact case, with a velcro strip attached to it. 
Opens it. 

Inside: an LED Torch. It’s a blacklight, the size of a small 
flashlight.

Eric turns off the lights. Shines the torch on the floor, the 
bed. When he moves the light to the ceiling, he sees...

A message, scrawled in bright yellow ink. 

DON’T LET THEM HURT ME. 0001637158.

He stares at the ominous warning, his eyes awash with 
wonder...and fear. WE PUSH IN ON THE MESSAGE. Haunting.

INT. DINER- NIGHT

Eric sits at a booth, an empty cup of coffee and a legal pad 
in front of him. There are iterations of the number from the 
ceiling scribbled all over the pages. Dozens of combinations.

None of them are particularly meaningful. It’s all gibberish. 

A WAITRESS approaches. 

             WAITRESS
      Need anything else, hon?

             ERIC
      I’m good.

As she heads back into the kitchen, Eric removes a flask from 
his jacket pocket. Pours its contents into his cup. Drinks.

A BELL CHIMES. A new customer has arrived.

Eric doesn’t bother to look up until --

THE CUSTOMER takes a seat in the booth across from his.     
Eric locks eyes with the man. The Customer nods. 

Eric’s focus returns to the pad. A BEAT.

The Customer arches his neck, stares in Eric’s direction. 

Eric senses the unwanted attention. He crowds around the pad, 
tries to block it from The Customer’s view.

The Customer continues to ogle him.

             THE CUSTOMER
      Burning the midnight oil?

Eric nods, doesn’t give the man much. A silence.

             THE CUSTOMER 
      Lotta’ numbers there. You an 
      accountant or something?

             ERIC
      Or something.

Silence. The Customer’s cell RINGS. He exits, steps outside 
to take the call. Remains visible through the glass window. 
The Waitress reappears, approaches Eric’s table.

             ERIC 
      The guy on the phone -- he ever 
      come in here before?

The Waitress gives The Customer a once over.

             WAITRESS
      Not that I can remember.

             ERIC
      Is he looking at us right now?

             WAITRESS
      Yeah. 

             ERIC
      Okay. Laugh like I said something 
      funny and refill my coffee. 

The Waitress does as instructed. Overdoes the laugh. Eric 
covertly slides a few twenties across the table.

             ERIC 
      When he comes back in, take his 
      order. If he tries to get up, 
      distract him.

The Waitress pockets the cash. The Customer reenters, returns 
to his seat. She saunters over to his table.

             WAITRESS
      Hey hon. What can I get ya? I hope 
      you saw our specials. We’ve got --

Eric rips several pages from the pad. He scribbles a note. 
Rises from his seat. Exits with haste.

The Waitress pours The Customer a cup of coffee. When he sees 
Eric exit --

             THE CUSTOMER
      You know what, I think I’m okay --

As he gets up, The Waitress knocks the coffee over. Spills it 
all over The Customer’s pants. He recoils. It’s hot.

             WAITRESS
      Oh my gosh. I’m so sorry, sir.

The Customer shoves her to the side. Snatches the pad from 
the adjacent table. It reads --

FUCK OFF.

He flips through the other pages. All blank.

EXT. DINER- MOMENTS LATER

THE SCREECH OF TIRES. Eric speeds out of the parking lot. 
Moments later, The Customer exits. He looks around, irked. 

EXT. EAST HAMPTON POLICE STATION- DAY

Chris Bishop strolls toward the entrance, a smile on his 
face. Ready to start the day. And then he sees Eric, who 
approaches with a coffee in hand. The smile disappears.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Fuck off.

             ERIC
      I’m sorry.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      You’re not.

             ERIC
      I feel awful about it. I fucked up. 
      And I apologize.
        (hands coffee to Bishop)
      Two sugars and a little cinnamon.

Bishop accepts the drink, but by no means is this a panacea. 

             CHRIS BISHOP
      What do you want?

Eric hands Chris a piece of paper with the numbers on it.

             ERIC
      What do those mean to you?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Nothing.

             ERIC
      Are you sure?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      No. Could be anything. Serial 
      number, bank account, case 
      number...

             ERIC
      Case number? That’s ten digits.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Some boroughs use ten. We don’t. 
      But some do.

             ERIC
      Manhattan?

Chris nods. Eric snatches the paper back with excitement.

             ERIC 
      Thanks. Oh, and one more thing -- 
      Harris. No note, right?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      We’re not having this conversation.

             ERIC
      Humor me.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      No fuckin’ note.

             ERIC
      Checked the computer too?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Of course.

             ERIC
      Went through all his files, huh?

             CHRIS BISHOP
        (nods)
      We covered it. Drop this. You’ve 
      got no idea what you’re doing. Just 
      stick to the petty larcenies.

TIGHT ON ERIC - a smile creases his lips as he walks away. 

INT. POLICE PLAZA, MAIN LOBBY- DAY

We’re back at the check-in desk. Eric has a baseball cap on. 
Brim low. He approaches the receptionist once again. Hands 
her his license, credentials, and a crumpled $100 bill.

             ERIC
      How bout we don’t tell the boys I’m 
      here this time, okay?

INT. POLICE PLAZA, DEPARTMENT OF RECORDS- DAY

A glass partition. Behind it sits PENNY, 45, a no-nonsense 
administrator. She’s buried in a file. Eric approaches.

             ERIC
      Hey. How ya doing?

Penny doesn’t even look up. A fleeting silence.

             ERIC 
      I’m with Newsday...Eric Chandler. 
      I’m looking for a case file.

             PENNY
      Number?

             ERIC
      0001637158.

After a few keystrokes --

             PENNY
      I’ve got nothing for you.

             ERIC
      I don’t need much.

             PENNY
      Good, cause I’ve got nothing.

             ERIC
      It’s a footnote for this story I’m 
      working on. The boss is a stickler 
      for the little stuff. Real pain in 
      the ass. I just need a name.

             PENNY
      I’m sorry.

             ERIC
      It won’t trace back to you.

             PENNY
      No, it won’t.

             ERIC
      I’d really appreciate some help.

             PENNY
      No can do.

             ERIC
      Maybe you need to grab a coffee.

             PENNY
      I’m not thirsty.

             ERIC
      Maybe you are. And maybe you tilted 
      your screen a little to the right. 
      Maybe I caught a glimpse by 
      accident.

             PENNY
      Maybe I told you to fuck off.

A man enters the room. There’s a press badge around his neck. 
New York Times logo. This is ZACK ISSACSON, 35.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Penny baby, you’re a ball of 
      sunshine today.

             PENNY
      Not you again.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      You remember me! See, I told you 
      we’d become fast friends. Now give 
      this poor guy something.

             PENNY
      I can’t. And we’re not friends. 

             ZACK ISSACSON
      When he leaves, give me the scoop. 
      Gotta impress the new bosses.

             PENNY
      This one’s above my pay grade. 
      Can’t get it open.

Zack playfully pats Eric on the shoulder, extends his hand.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Zack Issacson. Nice to meet you.

             ERIC
      Eric Chandler.

Zack dramatically pulls his hand back as if he’s been burnt.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      You’re quite the celebrity these 
      days.

             ERIC
      It’s the winning smile. Congrats on 
      the job. Heard it was in high 
      demand.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Got lucky, I guess.

             ERIC
      I’m sure you did.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      So when are you retracting this 
      Harris thing?

             ERIC
      I’m not.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      The autopsy puts a damper on your 
      little theory.

             ERIC
      We’ll see what the results say.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Oh, you haven’t heard...

             ERIC
      Nothing to hear. M.E. won’t 
      announce until tomorrow.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Unless your college buddy happens 
      to be his lab tech.

Zack milks the silence. He’s going to make Eric ask. Grovel.

             ERIC
      ...and?

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Suicide.

             ERIC
      Bullshit.

             ZACK ISSACSON
      Hey, I just listen to the pros. 

Zack removes a pen & pad from his pocket. Flashes it at Eric.

             ZACK ISSACSON 
      Anyway, back to work. Good meeting 
      you, buddy.

Eric nods. He exits the room, frustrated. 

PRELAP --

             ERIC 
      Who do you know in the department?

INT. POLICE PLAZA, HALLWAY- DAY

Eric paces down the hallway, cell glued to his ear.

             KAREN 
      Couple patrolmen in the 5th.

             ERIC
      I need someone with access.

             KAREN 
      Had Ramirez, but he transferred to 
      Nassau in January. Twice the pay, 
      half the work.

             ERIC
      Shit. That’s it?

             KAREN 
      Best I had. Let me see what I can 
      dig up.

             ERIC
      Forget it. I’ve got somebody.

The dread on Eric’s face is apparent.

A FIST, as it knocks meekly...reluctantly...on a door.

CUT TO:

             MAN 
      Come in.

The door swings open to reveal --

INT. ROGER’S OFFICE- DAY

-- Roger, Amanda’s boyfriend. He sits at his desk, buried in 
paperwork. Tries to conceal his surprise when he sees Eric.

             ERIC
      Hey. Can I have a word?

Roger motions him inside. He glances at the sling.

             ROGER
      What happened?

             ERIC
      Fender bender.

Roger nods. As Eric takes a seat, he spots a picture of 
Amanda & the kids on Roger’s desk. Tries not to wince.

             ERIC 
      I wanted to apologize for the other 
      night. I overreacted. I was just 
      worried about Kev. 

             ROGER
      Thanks. So why are you actually 
      here?

This is the part Eric can’t stand. The humbling, the begging. 

             ERIC
      I need a little information for a 
      story. I’d be...grateful if you 
      could help me out.

             ROGER
      Must be pretty important if you’re 
      asking me.

             ERIC
      It is.

             ROGER
      I’d love to help. What can I do?

Shock. Eric didn’t expect it to be this easy.

             ERIC
      I have a case number. I need the 
      file that corresponds to it.

             ROGER
      You went down to Records and it’s 
      sealed.

             ERIC
      Yes.

             ROGER
      Happy to lend a hand.

             ERIC
      ...thank you.

             ROGER
      And you’re going to do something 
      for me.

             ERIC
      What’s that?

             ROGER
      The hearing on Friday...

             ERIC
      ...yes.

             ROGER
      You’re going to drop the petition 
      for custody.

             ERIC
      You’re kidding.

             ROGER
      We’ll work out a flexible 
      visitation schedule. You’ll see the 
      kids plenty. They can stay over a 
      weekend or two. 

             ERIC
      Fuck off.

             ROGER
      This can work for all of us.

             ERIC
      No, it can’t. They’re my kids.

             ROGER
      And this is my job. You know what 
      happens to me if I get caught 
      passing you a sealed file?

Eric rises from his seat, dismissive --

             ERIC
      Thanks for the time.

INT. POLICE PLAZA, MAIN LOBBY- DAY

We’re just a few feet from the exit. Eric is prepared to 
storm out of the building, but he stops. Turns around. 

There’s desperation in his eyes. He’s frozen in place...

INT. ROGER’S OFFICE- MOMENTS LATER

Eric stands in front of Roger, shoulders slumped ever so 
slightly. He’s defeated. 

             ERIC
      You win.

He extends his hand. They shake.

             ROGER
      Thank you. Really. 

             ERIC
        (hands Roger a paper)
      Here it is.

             ROGER
      What are you doing tonight?

             ERIC
      Nothing.

             ROGER
      Why don’t you take the kids out for 
      dinner. I’ll have it for you then.

Eric nods, jaw clenched. He turns to exit the room.

PRELAP --

             ROBIN 
      Dad. Are you okay?


EXT. AMANDA’S HOUSE- NIGHT

Eric greets the kids at the door. Robin sees his shoulder for 
the first time. She’s concerned. Kevin isn’t. He’s excited.

       ROBIN
	What happened?

	KEVIN
	We match.


             ERIC
      A little accident. I’m fine. But 
      look, we’ve got a cool new car for 
      the week. Want to check it out?

The kids gaze at the plain Toyota idling in the driveway. 
It’s not very exciting. Well, to a 9 year old, it might be.

             KEVIN
      Yeah!

             ROBIN
      Does it have new car smell?

             ERIC
      You’ve got to find out.

The kids run to the car. Roger appears in the doorway, a file 
in hand. He passes it to Eric with reluctance.

             ROGER
      We never spoke about this.

Eric nods. Immediately opens the folder and begins to read. 

HONK! Kevin impatiently sounds the car’s horn. Eric closes 
the file, tucks it under his arm. 

EXT. APPLEBEE’S- NIGHT

Bustling. Kids loiter outside on benches. Cars circle the lot 
looking for spots. Eric leads the kids to the entrance.

Before he steps inside, Eric looks back to his car. The 
Toyota is inconspicuous amongst the other vehicles.

INT. APPLEBEE’S- MOMENTS LATER

Eric surveys the crowded restaurant from his booth. He keeps 
his eyes trained on the entrance, paranoid. 

The kids are occupied by the word search puzzle on their 
menu. Robin takes the lead, crayon in hand.

             ROBIN
      I can’t find ‘chicken’, Dad.

Eric’s attention is elsewhere. Kevin points to a series of 
letters that form the word. Robin is jealous.

             ROBIN 
      How’d you see that?

Kevin shrugs. Eric rises from the booth.

             ERIC
      I’ll be back in a sec, okay?

The kids nod, barely paying attention. 

EXT. APPLEBEE’S- MOMENTS LATER

Eric rushes to the car. Exhales when he sees the file, 
untouched, in the passenger seat. Safe & sound. He unlocks 
his car and grabs it. Scrambles back inside.

INT. APPLEBEE’S- MOMENTS LATER

Eric takes his seat, tucks the file into his jacket. He leans 
over to the kids, still entranced by the word search.

             ERIC
      What’s our next word?

INT. CAR- NIGHT

The kids are fast asleep. Eric glances at the children, 
smiles. His focus shifts to the road. Checks his rearview.

A car is getting awfully close to Eric’s. Riding his bumper. 
Its lights blind him. He can’t decipher the make or model. 

Is it the Green Sedan again?

Eric slows down, pulls off the road and onto its shoulder.

The vehicle speeds past him. He breathes a sigh of relief. 
Pulls back onto the road and continues driving.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- NIGHT

Eric’s predictably buried in the file. WE PUSH IN ON THE 
TEXT. A series of phrases dart past us -- “no suspects”, 
“four bullets”, “headshot”, “SIG Sauer”.

At the foot of the page, a name: Detective Danny Morales.

There’s a picture of the victim: he’s blonde. Blue eyes. 20s. 
Boy next door type. This is MATT JOHNSON.

Eric grabs his cell, dials a number.

             OFFICER 
      8th Precinct.

             ERIC
      Hi, is Detective Morales in?

             OFFICER 
      Sorry, can you repeat that?

             ERIC
      I’m looking for Danny Morales.

             OFFICER 
      Morales? No one by that name works 
      here. I’m sorry sir.

             ERIC
      Can I speak with your supervisor?

A brief pause. Followed by a booming voice...

             SUPERVISOR 
      Hello?

             ERIC
      Hi, I’m looking for Detective 
      Morales.

             SUPERVISOR 
      He’s no longer with the Department.

             ERIC
      Who is he with?

             SUPERVISOR 
      May I ask who I’m speaking to?

             ERIC
      I’m a reporter. Cover the crime 
      beat at Newsday. Eric Chandler. 

An audible grumble. 

             SUPERVISOR 
      This part of another conspiracy?


             ERIC
      No, I’d just like to ask him a few 
      questions and...

CLICK. The line goes dead. Eric shakes his head, frustrated. 
Glances at the victim’s picture again, the wheels turning...

INT. BRIEFING ROOM, POLICE PLAZA- DAY

Packed to the rafters with reporters. A distinguished DEPUTY, 
50, addresses the crowd. 

             DEPUTY
      I’d like to address one more thing. 
      Turn to Page 9 of your packets. 
      You’ll find a copy of Commissioner 
      Harris’s autopsy report.

Pages turn.

             DEPUTY 
      In light of today’s findings by the 
      M.E., we demand that Newsday, who 
      printed an inaccurate and 
      irresponsible story, immediately 
      retract their report. Joel Harris 
      was a member of our family. And we 
      don’t like it when people mess with 
      our family. 

INT. PARK SLOPE BROWNSTONE, HALLWAY- DAY

Dimly lit. A bit dirty. Eric knocks on an apartment door. 
Waits. A WOMAN’s frightened voice emanates from inside.

             WOMAN 
      Yes?

             ERIC
      Hi Mrs. Johnson, this is Eric 
      Chandler from Newsday. I’m sorry to 
      bother you but I was wondering if I 
      could have a moment. It’s about 
      your son.

             WOMAN 
      What about him?

             ERIC
      I’d like to ask you a few 
      questions.


             WOMAN 
      Talk to Detective Morales.  

             ERIC
      I can’t find him.

             WOMAN 
      Well that makes two of us.

             ERIC
      Maybe he’s given up. But I haven’t.

             WOMAN 
      Matt is gone. 

             ERIC 
      He is. And I’m sorry for your loss. 
      But I want to help you find out 
      why.

A beat. The door swings open. 

INT. JOHNSON APARTMENT- MOMENTS LATER

A two bedroom that may as well function as a a mausoleum. 
Framed photos of Matt cover the living room wall to wall. 

EMMA JOHNSON sets a cup of coffee down in front of Eric. 
She’s 57, years of baggage evident on her wrinkled face.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Fourteen months. That’s when 
      Morales stopped calling. Gave up.

             ERIC
      It’s not right. You deserve 
      answers.

             EMMA JOHNSON 
      You’re the one who will give them 
      to me?

             ERIC
      I’ll try.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      What’s in it for you?

             ERIC
      A story.


             EMMA JOHNSON
      Is that what you care about? 
      Finding something to splash on the 
      cover?

             ERIC
      With all due respect ma’am, it 
      doesn’t matter what I care about. 
      We want the same thing.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Maybe I don’t want to know why he 
      died. Maybe I just want to forget.

Eric looks around the room -- that’s clearly not the case.

             ERIC
      I’d understand.

A beat. And then Emma continues --

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Things weren’t great towards the 
      end. He had a habit.

             ERIC
     Drugs?

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Pills.

             ERIC
      Which?

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Any. He wasn’t well.

             ERIC
      I’m sorry.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      He was paranoid. Always looking 
      over his shoulder. 
       ERIC
Who was he afraid of?

	EMMA JOHNSON
	He would come home filthy. 
     Covered in soot.

The remark catches Eric off guard.

             ERIC
      Soot?

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Don’t know what he was doing.

             ERIC
      Did he have a regular group of 
      friends? People who would know --

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Just one.

             ERIC
      And who was that?

INT. CAR- NIGHT

It’s late. The clock reads 2:30. Eric’s parked on a Manhattan 
street, across from a run down 24 hour diner.

A man exits. This is DANNY. Late 20s. Bearded. 

He proceeds down the block. Eric exits the car in pursuit.

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET- CONTINUOUS

Eric crosses the street, walks quickly. Danny moves at a 
similarly brisk pace. He approaches a subway entrance. 
CHAMBERS STREET. Proceeds down its steps and out of sight.

INT. CHAMBERS STREET STATION- MOMENTS LATER

Empty. Eerily quiet. The lights are dim. 

Danny is nowhere to be found. He’s already on the platform. 

Eric rushes to the turnstile - realizes he doesn’t have a 
Metrocard. Runs to a machine. Purchases one. Sprints to --

THE PLATFORM.

Danny walks down it, nearing the end. 

Eric quietly pursues him. Fifty feet away and getting closer.

Danny reaches the end. Eric’s going to catch up with him. 

And then, to Eric’s disbelief, Danny lowers himself onto the 
tracks. Walks down them casually.

Where the hell is he going?

Eric looks at a sign ahead:

(6) PELHAM BAY PARK: 8 MINS.

As the clock ticks down to 7 minutes, THE ANNOUNCER’S CHEERY 
VOICE RINGS OUT.

             ANNOUNCER 
      An uptown local 6 train approaches 
      the station in...seven minutes.

Eric considers his options. Scurries to the end of the 
platform and jumps onto the tracks as well. 

INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL- CONTINUOUS

He rushes into the impenetrable darkness. Only makes it a few 
feet before he steps in a puddle of strange liquid. SPLASH.

He continues to move forward, undaunted. 

Danny’s figure is barely visible in the distance. 

A RUMBLE. DISTANT, BUT LOUD. OMINOUS. 

Eric’s frightened. Stares ahead. Danny is moving further 
away, out of his reach. He follows.

A light gust of wind breezes through the tunnel. Eric 
quickens his pace. 

He walks. And walks. Minutes pass. It feels like an eternity. 

The MUFFLED, DISEMBODIED VOICE OF THE ANNOUNCER AGAIN...

             ANNOUNCER 
      An uptown local 6 train approaches 
      the station in...two minutes. 

Eric is nervous. The clock is ticking. 

A moment later, he spots a light in the distance. Red-ish 
hue. Danny cuts left into it. Disappears. 

Eric runs toward it.

ANOTHER RUMBLE. 

This time, it’s not distant at all. The ground shakes.

A SECOND LIGHT emerges on the horizon. It’s unbearably 
bright. It can only be one thing.

A train. And it’s coming right at us.

Eric panics. Can he make it to wherever Danny went in time? 

The train pushes forward. It’s two hundred yards away. 

Eric must think fast.

One hundred yards.

The rumble grows into A THUNDEROUS ROAR.

Eric has nowhere to go. He presses his body tightly against 
the subway wall. He’s only a few inches away from the track. 

If the train is the slightest bit off center, he’ll be in 
trouble.

CHUG. CHUG. The train is upon us. 

Eric shuts his eyes, terrified. 

He waits for impact. 

But there is none. His body barely escapes this flying hunk 
of steel. A strong gust of winds flies in his face. And just 
like that, the train disappears.

Eric bends down, hands on his knees. He takes a second to 
catch his breath. Continues on toward the light. 

He reaches it and finds himself at the edge of a new 
platform. In a new station. A sign ahead reveals we’re in --

INT. CITY HALL STATION- CONTINUOUS

Abandoned for nearly sixty years. The place is well kempt and 
unusually elegant. Artfully tiled walls, iron chandeliers. 

Danny’s footsteps ECHO in the distance.

Eric hoists himself onto the empty platform. It’s painful. He 
pauses a moment to rub his shoulder. Looks at his clothes. 
They’re covered in soot.

He wipes himself down, and ascends a set of stairs. A door 
slam shut. It’s labeled MAINTENANCE.

Eric presses his ear to the door. Can’t hear a thing. It’s 
too late to turn back now. He turns the knob and enters --

INT. MAINTENANCE ROOM- CONTINUOUS

-- where he finds four men, Danny included, staring at him. 

They’re sitting at a table, laptops open - alongside 
innumerable hard drives & other devices. A complex setup. 

ONE OF THE MEN GRABS THE DOUBLE BARREL SHOTGUN AT HIS SIDE. 
POINTS IT AT ERIC.

The others rise, startled. Their eyes shift to Danny - he’s 
the alpha male here. Eric raises his hands, a bit panicked.

             ERIC
      Hey. Hey. It’s okay.

             DANNY
      Who the fuck are you?

             ERIC
      I’m a reporter. Drop the gun. 
      Please. Here. Look.

He slowly lowers his right hand. Reaches into his shirt 
pocket. Retrieves a Newsday ID. Flashes it at the men.

             DANNY
      What’s that supposed to prove? They 
      can easily make a dummy paper ID.

             ERIC
      They?

             DANNY
      Are you working for them?

             ERIC
      I’m a writer for Newsday, and I --

             DANNY
      How long have they known about this 
      place? 

             ERIC
      Please, just lower the gun.

             DANNY
      How did you find us?

             ERIC
      I followed you. From the diner. 

             DANNY
      You’re alone...?

             ERIC
      Yes. I swear.

             DANNY
      Why are you here?

             ERIC
      Matt Johnson. I’m working on a 
      story. I want to know why he died.

There’s a look of confusion on Danny’s face at the mention of 
Matt’s name. Some vulnerability. Paranoia slowly recedes. 

             ERIC 
      I’m just grabbing my wallet.

Eric reaches into his pocket. Tosses the wallet to Danny.

             ERIC 
      It’s all there. License, business 
      cards. Just drop the gun.

Danny inspects it all. After a long silence, he nods. Sold. 
This guy is okay. The gunman lowers his weapon. 

             DANNY
      You have my attention.

             ERIC
      Who wanted to hurt him?

             DANNY
      The last few weeks were different. 
      We shared everything.

             ERIC
      He stopped talking.

             DANNY
      Yes.

             ERIC
      About what?

             DANNY
      Our work.

             ERIC
      What is it that you do here?

             DANNY
        (paranoia rising again)
      I thought we were talking about 
      Matt.

             ERIC
      We are.


             DANNY
      Then none of those questions.

             ERIC
      Forget it. Sorry. 

             DANNY
      He started a new project.

             ERIC
      A hack?

             DANNY
      I didn’t say that.

             ERIC
      Didn’t deny it either. What was he 
      hacking?

             DANNY
      I’m not sure. 

             ERIC
      And then he was gone.

Danny nods.

             ERIC 
      Have you checked his computer?

             DANNY
      Can’t. It’s at his house. Mrs. 
      Johnson...she thinks I’m 
      responsible. 

Before he can process any sort of guilt, a switch flips...

             DANNY 
      She doesn’t understand the forces 
      we’re contending with. The people 
      that are out there watching, 
      waiting for us to slip up...

             ERIC
      Who are these forces?

             DANNY
      If you get the laptop, I’ll get you 
      what you need.

             ERIC
      How do I know I can trust you?

Danny motions to their surroundings.

             DANNY
      You know our secret.

Eric is cornered. What other options does he have?

INT. BEDROOM- NIGHT

Eric’s soot covered clothes are scattered across the floor. 
He’s fast asleep -- until he’s awoken by A SCREECH, followed 
by the sound of rustling. 

He sits upright, unnerved. Then...A WHIMPER.

This time, its cadence is recognizable. As he rises from bed -

             ERIC
      Damnit, Molly.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Eric heads for the door, a bowl of tuna in hand. He swings it 
open to find --

MOLLY, at his doorstep. She’s hemorrhaging blood. 

Those weren’t cries of hunger. They were whimpers of death.

This was no accident either. There’s a deep, precise 
laceration on Molly’s side. Perhaps a knife wound. 

Eric looks around. There’s no one in sight. He takes Molly in 
his arms, tries to sooth her as the life fades from her eyes.

Blood seeps onto his hands --

A bright red tie, in a perfect Windsor knot, as its fastened.

CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM- DAY

Eric is in a three piece suit. He brushes a barely visible 
piece of lint from his jacket, self conscious. 

INT. JOHNSON APARTMENT- DAY

Eric greets Emma with a friendly nod, unsure if a handshake 
or hug is appropriate. Takes a seat on the couch with her.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      You look nice.

             ERIC
      Thank you.

             EMMA JOHNSON 
      Have somewhere fancy to be?

             ERIC
      Custody hearing.

             EMMA JOHNSON 
      I’m sorry.

             ERIC
      I need to ask you for something.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Okay --

             ERIC
      Matt’s laptop. 

             EMMA JOHNSON
      Why?

             ERIC
      It would really help.

             EMMA JOHNSON 
      The police already went through it.

             ERIC
      I’d like to take a look for myself.

             EMMA JOHNSON 
      You spoke to Danny?

             ERIC
      Not yet. Went to the diner but he 
      wasn’t working.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      He’s been trying to get his hands 
      on the thing for a year.

             ERIC
      I had no idea.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      If there was something there, they 
      would have found it.

             ERIC
      Last year, there were these guys, 
      three of ‘em, on a home invasion 
      spree in Suffolk. Would hold 
      housewives at knife point when the 
      kids were in school and the 
      husbands at work. Make off with 
      electronics, jewelry, the works. 
      One day, they hold up this woman. 
      Scare her half to death. Cops come 
      to the place, catalogue what’s 
      missing. I talk to her a few hours 
      later. Mentions she heard one of 
      the perps on her computer. What he 
      was doing - she has no clue.

A dramatic pause. Emma is engaged. 

             ERIC 
      And she says the cops checked it 
      for prints. I asked if they turned 
      the damn thing on. She doesn’t 
      know. We walk over to her study. 
      Power on the computer. Check the 
      browser history. The idiot was 
      googling the nearest Home Depot. 
      Needed lumber, a hammer, who knows 
      what. I tell the cops. They get 
      security footage from the store. 
      The guys are in custody 24 hours 
      later.

             EMMA JOHNSON
      So you were the hero.

             ERIC
      Just used my head. You trust those 
      guys with Matt’s computer?

Emma’s caving. There’s palpable doubt on her face...

EXT. NASSAU FAMILY COURTHOUSE- DAY

A fairly plain looking building. From it emerge broken 
families - single mothers, deadbeat dads, children too young 
to understand why they’re here. Cops mill about. 

INT. CAR- DAY

Eric lingers in his seat, Matt’s laptop in front of him. He 
punches keys. Finds a file: password protected. 


Removes a piece of paper from his pocket. Password 
combinations, courtesy of Danny. He punches them in. 

After a few unsuccessful tries --

A FILE OPENS. IT’S A DOCUMENT. CIA STATIONERY.

Eric stares at the page. 

His attention wavers when he hears A BURST OF LAUGHTER behind 
him. A gaggle of police officers stroll through the parking 
lot, just feet away from Eric’s car.

He shuts the laptop. The officers pass. He reopens it.

The document contains 4 names. Nothing else.

SOLOMON FISHER. OMAR HABIB. FREDERICK BAGROV. RAJ DHAWAN

Eric stares at it, puzzled. Grabs his cell & dials a number.

             ERIC
      Hey. I need a favor. 

INT. FAMILY COURTROOM- DAY

An intimate room, which only makes this more uncomfortable. 
Eric sits next to Todd Hollander; Amanda is with her counsel, 
REBECCA GREEN. 45. Intelligent. 

Roger occupies the first row of the gallery. He and Eric lock 
eyes. Roger nods pleasantly, with gratitude. Excited.

JUDGE BAKER, 62, presides over the hearing. He’s either 
sleepy, disinterested, or both. Flips through a file.

             JUDGE BAKER
      Any motions before we begin? 
        (silence)
      Mr. Chandler. Six months ago, you 
      petitioned The Court for joint 
      custody.

             ERIC
        (rises)
      Yes, Your Honor.

             JUDGE BAKER
      And you’re here seeking that today?

             ERIC
      Yes, Your Honor. I am.

Roger is in total disbelief. What is going on? 

             JUDGE BAKER
      At your last hearing, you were in 
      between residences. It says here 
      that you have secured a two bedroom 
      apartment.

Eric nods.

             JUDGE BAKER 
      And in conjuction with the requests 
      of the Court, the apartment is 
      properly furnished and suitable for 
      the children? 

Todd rises, motions for Eric to take his seat. It’s his turn. 

             TODD HOLLANDER
      Your honor, we’ve included photos 
      of the apartment and the children’s 
      room. My client has complied with 
      all of the courts demands. We see 
      no reason why --

Rebecca jumps out of her seat, interrupts --

             REBECCA GREEN
      We’re not convinced that the 
      apartment is a suitable home for 
      the children, bedding or not.

             JUDGE BAKER
      Proceed.

             REBECCA GREEN
      Just days ago, Mr. Chandler found a 
      bullet in his mailbox. He accosted 
      my client in the middle of the 
      night to accuse her of planting it 
      there. This is not a healthy 
      environment.

Eric shakes his head, knew this was coming. 

             TODD HOLLANDER
      My client has already acknowledged 
      that this was a harmless and 
      senseless practical joke 
      perpetrated by a friend. Eric has 
      spoken to the man. It won’t happen 
      again. This is a non issue.

             REBECCA GREEN
      What kind of community does Mr. 
      Chandler live in where this type of 
      behavior is okay? 

             TODD HOLLANDER
      A reputable and safe one. The 
      children would only benefit from 
      spending time there.

             JUDGE BAKER
      Mr. Chandler, I’d like to hear from 
      you directly.

             ERIC
      It was a stupid prank. If I thought 
      there was the slightest chance the 
      kids weren’t safe, I wouldn’t be 
      here. I protect them. Always. 

             JUDGE BAKER
      This hearing -- forgive me for 
      speaking so plainly -- was supposed 
      to be a formality. If you met the 
      requirements specified by the 
      court, we’d have a trial period of 
      joint custody. Now, I’m uncertain.

             ERIC
      Please, Your Honor. I’ve done 
      everything you’ve asked. I’ve 
      waited so long. 

             REBECCA GREEN
      You’re right to have reservations, 
      Judge. As do we. At this juncture, 
      it’s only prudent that we keep 
      Kevin and Robin where they are.

             JUDGE BAKER
      I’ll decide what’s prudent, Ms. 
      Green. 

             REBECCA GREEN
      Of course, Your Honor. 

The Judge takes a moment. Eric stirs in his seat.

             JUDGE BAKER
      In light of recent developments, I 
      won’t sanction a standard trial 
      period of six months.

He’s crushed. Until --

             JUDGE BAKER 
      However, I do believe Mr. Chandler 
      will provide the children with a 
      safe, loving home. I’ll grant a 
      trial period of joint custody for 
      eight weeks, at which point we will 
      reconvene and assess the situation. 
      No more pranks, Mr. Chandler. I 
      won’t be so forgiving next time.

Eric can’t suppress his smile. He’s thrilled. 

INT. COURTHOUSE LOBBY- MOMENTS LATER

Eric and Roger argue heatedly in a corner of the foyer. 
Eric’s desperately trying to avoid a scene.

             ROGER
      What the hell was that? You gave me 
      your word.

             ERIC
      Look, I’m sorry. They’re my kids. I 
      could never...

             ROGER
      This is bullshit. I should...

             ERIC
      Should what? You tell anyone you 
      gave me that file and you’re in 
      deeper shit than I am.

Roger shakes his head, but he knows Eric is right. 

             ERIC 
      When can I see them?

             ROGER
      Saturday. Afternoon.

             ERIC
      We’ll make this work. It’ll be good 
      for the kids. For all of us.

             ROGER
      Since when do you give a shit about 
      anyone other than yourself?

Roger storms away. Eric reaches into his pocket. Turns on his 
cell. He has five missed calls from Frank. Something’s up.

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

Karen taps her finely manicured nails against her desk, 
anxious. There’s a manila folder in front of her. 

She breathes a sigh of relief when Eric makes his way into 
the bullpen. Grabs the folder and approaches him.

             KAREN
      You need to see this.

             ERIC
      Just give me two minutes.

Eric continues walking, heads straight for Frank’s office. 
Karen grabs him by the arm. He stops. She leans in, quietly --

             KAREN
      The names you gave me -- these guys 
      have something in common.

             ERIC
      What’s that?

             KAREN
      They’re all dead.

             ERIC
      You’re kidding.

             KAREN
      Same pattern. Four GSW’s. One 
      headshot. Mark of a pro.

Eric snatches the folder from her hands, flips through it.

             ERIC
      They find casings?

             KAREN
      Barely. A few SIG shells. 

             ERIC
      Of course.

             KAREN
      This isn’t local. Only one in the 
      tristate. Others in Atlanta, Salt 
      Lake City, and Dearborn. 

             ERIC
      Thank you for this.

Karen nods dutifully. There’s a look of concern on her face. 

             KAREN
      Be careful.

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- DAY

Frank paces around his desk, exasperated. There’s an 
EXECUTIVE on speakerphone. The conversation isn’t going well.

             EXECUTIVE 
      We’re not the fucking Post. We have 
      standards. We need to back up the 
      shit we print.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Who do you think upholds those 
      standards? I do. Every goddamn day.

             EXECUTIVE 
      You’re doing an excellent job.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You need to give me some rope here.

             EXECUTIVE 
      We’ve done the best we can.

Eric opens the door and enters. Shuts the door behind him. 
Frank moves his finger to his lips - “be quiet”. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      One more week.

             EXECUTIVE 
      That’s not something the Board is 
      comfortable with.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Is the Board comfortable with a 
      Pulitzer? Because that’s what we’ll 
      end up with if we’re allowed to do 
      our jobs --

             EXECUTIVE 
      I’m sorry, Frank. That’s our final 
      decision.

Frank slams the receiver down. Shifts his focus to Eric.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You’ve got 72 hours.

             ERIC
      You’re kidding me.

A beat.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Corporate is beyond pissed. The 
      Times ad was bad. It’s about to get 
      worse.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      In three days, there’s going to be 
      a media blitz from the PBA and The 
      New York Association for Police 
      Officers. They’ll picket the 
      building. Make rounds on the local 
      news shows.

             ERIC
      Let them do what they want. It’ll 
      only make ‘em look like bigger 
      assholes when we publish.

             FRANK BLAINE
      I fought this one. I did.

             ERIC
      It’s not over.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Corporate’s call. You’ve got until 
      Monday morning.

             ERIC
      What happens then?

             FRANK BLAINE
      We retract. And apologize. 
      Corporate gets rid of you by lunch 
      to save face.

             ERIC
      This is bullshit. They wouldn’t 
      hang us out to dry like that.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Yeah. They would. 

             ERIC
      This thing is big. It’s not a Long 
      Island thing, it’s not even an NYPD 
      thing...we have a national story.

             FRANK BLAINE
      They say they’ve got 8,000 of ours 
      lined up, ready to cancel their 
      subscriptions. That’s big.


             ERIC
      If we nail this, we’ll double our 
      audience overnight. 8,000 will look 
      like peanuts. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      Board doesn’t want to take the 
      chance. 
        (a beat)
      Go. You’re on the clock. Let’s get 
      something to shut them up.

Eric nods. He’s daunted, frightened... but determined. 

PRELAP --

             ERIC 
      How good are you at what you do?

INT. MAINTENANCE ROOM- NIGHT

Eric stands behind Danny, who mans Matt’s laptop. The hacker 
is supremely focused, taps keys without a word. 

             DANNY
      The best.

The CIA stationary reappears. The four names.

             ERIC
      How hard is it to hack into the 
      CIA’s database?

             DANNY
      For most hackers, impossible. But 
      I’m not most hackers. 

             ERIC
      They’ve got case files on these 
      guys. We figure out the connection, 
      we’ll understand why Matt was 
      killed.

Danny opens a program on the computer. Stares at the screen. 
Hesitates. Then starts coding. His cronies do the same.

             DANNY
      You may want to sit down. Takes 
      longer than five minutes to hack 
      into the server. 

             ERIC
      How long do you need?

             DANNY
      Nine, maybe ten hours. 

             ERIC
      I’ll be back.

             DANNY
      Something more important to do?

             ERIC
      You do your work. I’ll do mine.

INT. CAR- MOMENTS LATER

Eric weaves through traffic on the George Washington Bridge.

In the passenger seat - a page from Karen’s file. Background 
on Omar Habib, one of the names listed on the CIA document. 
WE PUSH IN ON OMAR’S PHOTO. His piercing stare...

EXT. HABIB RESIDENCE- NIGHT

A duplex in a dicey neighborhood. Eric is in the midst of a 
conversation with MIRA HABIB, 58. She wears a burka.  

             ERIC
      I know it’s late, but if I could 
      have two minutes --

 
             MIRA HABIB
     I can’t. 

             ERIC
      Please. I want to help you.

             MIRA HABIB
      There’s nothing to be done. 

             ERIC
      There is.

             MIRA HABIB
      We must make peace. Goodnight.

Mira tries to shut the door. Eric instinctively places his 
foot in its path, stops her. She recoils, frightened. 

             ERIC
      Why was your son killed?

He takes a step back to ease Mira’s worry. 

             MIRA HABIB
      Please stop.

             ERIC
      Who wanted to hurt him?

             MIRA HABIB
      Enough of this. I didn’t know.

             ERIC
      Didn’t know what?

             MIRA HABIB
      Don’t know. Don’t know. Sometimes 
      my English...

             ERIC
      That’s not what you meant.

             MIRA HABIB
      I’m going to bed.

             ERIC
      I need answers.

             MIRA HABIB
      I told him everything.

             ERIC
      Him?

             MIRA HABIB
      Leave. Now.

             ERIC
      Who did you tell?

Eric grabs his phone from his pocket. Pulls up a picture of 
Joel Harris. Holds it in front of Mira for inspection.

             ERIC 
      Is that who you spoke to?

Mira doesn’t say it, but her eyes betray the answer: yes.

             ERIC 
      Do you know what happened to this 
      man? He was killed. I can stop --

             MIRA HABIB
      I said nothing. Leave or I’ll call 
      police.

The door slams shut. 

INT. MAINTENANCE ROOM- NIGHT

Danny and his colleagues are still hard at work. They show no 
signs of wear, accustomed to ten hour shifts at the computer. 
They don’t even bother to look up when Eric enters the room.

             ERIC
      Any of you have kids?

It’s an odd question. The men are silent. Answer is clear.

             DANNY
      Too late for small talk.

             ERIC
      It’s not -- what would a kid have 
      to do for you to disown them?

The man who held Eric at gunpoint mutters a response. Let’s 
call him SHOTGUN.

       DANNY
Fuck up my computer?

SHOTGUN
Bomb a marathon?

             ERIC 
      Seriously.
        (beat)
      Wait. What did you say?

             DANNY
      I’m messing around.

Eric walks toward Shotgun with curiosity. 

             SHOTGUN
      ...bomb a marathon?

             ERIC
      No shit. Habib was born in 
      Jersey...

             DANNY
      Correct.

             ERIC
      Ever travel overseas? Mideast, 
      Europe?

             DANNY
      Not that I know of.

             ERIC
      What about the others?

             DANNY
      Same thing. Good old American boys.

             ERIC
      Any connections to radical groups? 

             DANNY
      We don’t know.

Eric’s lost in thought. Slowly returns to his seat. 

             ERIC
      How far are we?

             DANNY
      Need a few more hours.

             ERIC
      Can we try to move a little faster?

Danny stops typing, shoots Eric a look that makes him squirm.

             ERIC 
      Okay. Sorry.

Eric rests his head on the wall behind him. Shuts his eyes.

HOURS LATER. Eric wakes with a start. 

Danny and his team are finally beginning to show signs of 
fatigue. They’re slumped in their seats, eyelids heavy.

DISSOLVE TO:

             DANNY
      Almost there.

WE PUSH IN on his laptop display...

THE LOGO OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY APPEARS, AS DO A 
DOZEN FOLDERS.

Danny lets out an exasperated whoop.

             DANNY 
      We’re in. 

Eric leans over Danny’s shoulder. There are files all over 
the screen. It’s hard to know where to even begin. 

             ERIC
      Fuck. 


He points to something. Danny enlarges it. Habib’s file. 
There’s one sentence in particular that catches the eye.

SUSPECTED AFFILIATION: AL QAEDA

Beneath are detailed notes of Habib’s meetings and contacts.

Onto Solomon’s file. SUSPECTED AFFILIATION: HEZBOLLAH

Frederick’s. SUSPECTED AFFILIATION: CAUCASUS EMIRATE

Raj’s. SUSPECTED AFFILIATION: AL QAEDA. 

             DANNY
      They killed them. Matt knew it.

             ERIC
      So did Harris.

             DANNY
      Who’s Harris?

             ERIC
      Ex cop.

             DANNY
      Is he...okay?

             ERIC
      They made it look like a suicide.

Concern on the faces of Shotgun and the others. Eric plugs a 
USB into Matt’s computer. Transfers the files onto it.

             DANNY
      And now we know.

             ERIC
      Now we know. And we’re gonna’ nail 
      them. 

             DANNY
      Nobody will believe us.

             ERIC
      They will. 

             DANNY
      Why?

             ERIC
      Because I don’t work for the 
      fucking Post. My paper has 
      standards. People trust us.

             DANNY
      Sure hope so.

Danny returns to the computer. Sifts through a host of other 
documents on Matt’s laptop - classified NSA and FBI files.


             ERIC
      What’s this? We got what we needed. 

             DANNY
      You got what you needed. We’re not 
      done.

             ERIC
      Yes, you are. 

             DANNY
      Go write your story.

             ERIC
      I want Matt’s computer.

             DANNY
      We’ll be holding onto it. 

             ERIC
      Why?

             DANNY
      There were other projects he worked 
      on. Documents he obtained. Things 
      that will cause a ripple. 

             ERIC
      We’re already causing a shitstorm.
      The Bureau and the NSA didn’t kill 
      your friend.

             DANNY
      Maybe not.

             ERIC
      So let them be.

             DANNY
      What is it you think we did here 
      before you barged into this room?

             ERIC
      I don’t know.

             DANNY
      Because you didn’t ask. You waited 
      until you got what you wanted, and 
      then you suddenly grew a 
      conscience. Isn’t that cute.

Eric removes his USB from Matt’s laptop. Slams the screen 
shut. Danny laughs, reopens the laptop and resumes his work. 

             DANNY 
      Pandora’s Box is open. You can’t 
      just expect us to pack up and go 
      home now.

             ERIC
      So what’s the plan?

             DANNY
      That’s no longer your concern.

             ERIC
      Out a few undercovers? Disable our 
      cyber-defenses? Sell government 
      secrets to the highest bidder?

             DANNY
      Something like that.

             ERIC
      That’s not gonna happen.

             DANNY
      What are you gonna do about it?

Eric eyes Shotgun’s trusty weapon, which rests in the corner. 
Shotgun rises from his chair, alarmed by the furtive glance.

They have the same thought. BOTH MAKE A MAD DASH FOR THE GUN.

Eric grabs it a millisecond before Shotgun. Trains it on him.

Danny keeps typing. Barely glances in Eric’s direction.

             ERIC
      It doesn’t have to be this way. 
      Shut it down and hand it over.

             DANNY
      No.

Without a moment’s hesitation --

ERIC FIRES A ROUND at Matt’s computer. It shatters. Fragments 
of metal fly in Danny’s face. He’s bleeding. And angry. 

             ERIC
        (mutters)
      Oh, fuck. I didn’t mean -- I 
      couldn’t let you...

             DANNY
      Shit.

Danny’s men rush to his side, inspect the wounds. He slams 
his fist against the table. Eric backs toward the exit.

             SHOTGUN
      That was a very stupid thing to do. 

INT. CITY HALL STATION- MOMENTS LATER

Eric empties the shotgun with difficulty as he rushes down 
the platform. He pockets the bullets, tosses the weapon onto 
the tracks.

INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL- MOMENTS LATER

THE PITTER-PATTER OF FOOTSTEPS. Eric sprints into the tunnel, 
a relentless dash into the black hole. 

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET- DAY

Eric is nearly blinded by the sunlight as he emerges from the 
Chambers Street station. His cell BEEPS. A flood of messages. 
Voicemails and missed calls from: Amanda.

             AMANDA 
      You’re already late. Great start --

Shit. Eric hangs up, darts across the street to his car.

EXT. AMANDA’S HOUSE- DAY

Roger is at the front door. He’s not happy to see Eric.

             ROGER
      What do you mean you can’t take 
      them? This is what you wanted...

             ERIC
      Please stay with them.

             ROGER
      Tell me what’s going on.

             ERIC
      Just watch them. I’ll call when I 
      can. When it’s clear.

             ROGER
      “When it’s clear”...

             ERIC
      ...and arm the security system.

Roger’s demeanor shifts. He’s more frightened than angry.

             ROGER
      Why? Who’s coming? 

             ERIC
      Nobody. Just be vigilant.

             ROGER
      I need more than that. 

             ERIC
      I’m asking for your help.

             ROGER
      Is this about the file? 
        (silence betrays ‘yes’)
      I should have never given it to 
      you.

             ERIC
      They want me. Just me. 

             ROGER
      “They”? You sound like a --

             ERIC
      I need to know that you’ll keep 
      Robin & Kev safe. Promise me.

             ROGER
      Of course.

             ERIC
      Everything will be fine. Just tell 
      them --

Robin and Kevin appear in the doorway, bags packed, ready for 
the first sleepover. Eric’s expression softens. He hugs them.

             ERIC 
      Hey guys.

             KEVIN
      We’re ready.

             ERIC
      I’ve got some bad news. Something 
      came up at work and I can’t -- I’m 
      sorry. You guys need to stay with 
      Mom and Roger.

Palpable disappointment. 

             KEVIN
      When are you coming back?

             ERIC
      Soon. Really soon. Everything’s 
      ready too. Your room’s all set, I 
      got the mac & cheese you like -- 
      the one with the Spongebob shapes. 
      And as soon as you walk inside, 
      there will be presents waiting for 
      you. Hold on a few more days...then 
      we’ll be home.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- DAY

Dark. Eerily quiet. Eric enters. He grabs his laptop and a 
few files. Tucks them under his arm. Exits with haste.

INT. CAR- DAY

Eric speeds down an intersection, GPS navigating him, when 
his cell RINGS. The caller ID reads “Unknown”. He answers.

             ERIC
      Chandler.

             DANNY 
      Intersection of Wantagh & 
      Jerusalem. Where are we headed?

Eric’s eyes dart to the street signs in front of him.  
Wantagh & Jerusalem.

             ERIC
      What do you want?

             DANNY 
      You hurt me.

Eric makes a u-turn and quickly changes direction. 

             ERIC
      And I’m sorry about that. 

             DANNY 
      It’s time I repay the favor.

             ERIC
      Where are you?

The line goes dead. Eric stares at the phone, confounded. He 
pulls into a convenience store parking lot. Exits the car...

EXT. CAR- CONTINUOUS

...and stomps on the phone until it’s just bits and pieces. 

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE- MOMENTS LATER

Eric tosses a pair of disposable cell phones on the counter. 
Hands the cashier a wad of cash.

INT. CAR- MOMENTS LATER

He reverses out of the parking lot. The GPS reactivates, 
guides him to his destination. Another device tracking him. 
Eric stops the car. Exits.

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE- MOMENTS LATER

Eric presses the burner to his ear. He stands inside the 
store, behind its glass. Slightly protected. Sheltered.

             ERIC
      I need a cab to 141 Jerusalem. Now. 

He waits, stares at each car that enters the lot. Are they 
coming for him? 

EXT. RAMADA INN- SUNSET

A two star motel. Nobody stays here by choice. A cab slows to 
a halt in front of the entrance. Eric exits with his laptop.

INT. ERIC’S MOTEL ROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Eric takes a seat in front of a generic, wood paneled desk. 

He opens his computer. It’s time to work. 

But first, he moves to the coffee pot stationed atop his mini 
fridge. Fills it.

MONTAGE --

- Eric peruses a series of articles. The CIA’s targeted 
killing program. Debates. Legal opinions. One headline: 

ATTORNEY GENERAL: US GOVT. HAS AUTHORITY TO TARGET & KILL US 
CITIZENS ON AMERICAN SOIL

- The coffee pot is full. Eric pours its contents into a cup. 
Doesn’t even take a sip before he starts brewing more.

- A blank white screen. Eric takes a deep breath. Types.

- He stands in front of the window, keeping watch. Monitors 
the guests comings and goings.

- Eric’s still typing. Completely focused. In the zone. He 
reaches the last sentence. Finishes it.

- He’s rereading, and beaming. Thrilled with his work.

END MONTAGE.

The following morning.

Eric’s in a t-shirt and boxers. Hasn’t shaved or eaten. He’s 
parked in front of the computer, editing the article. 

He reaches the last sentence. Nods approvingly. 

INT. BATHROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Steam clouds the room. Eric emerges from the shower. Wipes 
down a fogged up mirror. Gazes at his reflection. Smiles.

He opens the door.

INT. ERIC’S MOTEL ROOM- CONTINUOUS

A very strange sight. He looks across the room to find --

A MAN, HUNCHED OVER HIS COMPUTER. Danny? Shotgun? 

THE BATHROOM DOOR CREAKS. 

THE MAN SPINS AROUND. He’s 40. Clean cut. A stranger to us. 

He locks eyes with Eric AND REACHES FOR A HOLSTERED WEAPON.

Eric charges at him, full speed. Spears the man into the 
wall. The gun flies out of reach.

The Man recovers. Raises his elbow and pummels it into Eric’s 
back. Eric recoils in pain. 

The Man delivers a right hook. A left jab. 

He knows how to fight. Eric returns with a few weak punches. 

The Man blocks them with ease. He’s toying with Eric, circles 
him like prey. He’s ready to deliver a crushing blow when --

HE SLIPS ON THE LAPTOP’S THICK POWER CORD. Loses his balance.

Eric seizes the opportunity. HE SPEARS THE MAN DIRECTLY INTO 
THE SIDE OF THE DESK. THE MAN’S SKULL SLAMS AGAINST IT. HARD.

A sickening thud, followed by a deafening silence. 

The Man drops to the floor, unconscious. 

Eric backs away, frightened. What the hell did he just do?

He fishes through The Man’s pockets. Finds an ID.

PHILLIP WALKER, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

Panic. Eric retrieves the gun from the floor. 

THERE’S A KNOCK AT THE DOOR. 

             VOICE 
      Mr. Chandler?

Eric moves to the peephole. He sees TWO MEN. Suits. They’re 
flanked by A CLERK, a set of keys in his hand.

Eric runs across the room to the window - it’s bolted shut. 

He’s trapped. ANOTHER KNOCK. More forceful this time.

             VOICE  
      Mr. Chandler, open up.

Eric grabs Walker’s body and drags it into the bathroom.

It’s only then that he spots a POOL OF BLOOD underneath 
Walker’s skull. It has congealed on the carpet. 

             VOICE  
      Mr. Chandler, we’re coming in.

Eric rushes to his laptop. It wasn’t tampered with...yet. He 
sets the gun down. Uploads a series of file to a server.

The SCRATCH of a key entering a keyhole. 

Eric ejects the USB drive. 

He looks around the room for a hiding spot. Rushes to the 
dresser. Reaches behind it.

The doorknob turns. 

Eric lodges the USB in its recesses, and then --

TWO MEN BURST INTO THE ROOM, GUNS DRAWN. They swarm.

AGENT FOX, 45, takes the lead. His partner, AGENT CARROLL, 
trails behind him.

             AGENT FOX
      Freeze. Put your hands above your 
      head. Now.

Fox throws Eric against the wall with force. Frisks him. 

Agent Carroll empties the gun next to the computer. He moves 
to the bathroom. Finds his colleague’s lifeless body.

             AGENT CARROLL
      Oh shit. Walker.

             ERIC
      It’s not what you think. 

Agent Carroll’s expression says it all. Walker is dead.

             ERIC 
      He tried to kill me. I tackled him. 
      I didn’t know it would -- I didn’t 
      mean to. I swear to you.

Fox presses the barrel of his gun against Eric’s temple.

             AGENT FOX
      Stop talking and sit down. Now. If 
      you disobey a single command, I 
      will kill you. 

Eric nods, follows the order. He takes a seat. The laptop is 
a foot away from him. His article is still on the screen.

Agent Fox seizes the computer and begins to read the piece.


             AGENT FOX 
      My name is Agent Fox. 
        (motions to his partner)
      This is Agent Carroll. 

Fox doesn’t lift his eyes from the screen. Still reading. He 
smirks, amused by something in the article.

             ERIC
      You want to give me a quote for it? 
      Could really give the article some 
      color.

             AGENT FOX
      I think I’ll pass.

             ERIC
      How did I do? Capture it all?

             AGENT FOX
      Not too bad.

             ERIC
      Why kill them? Why not try them, 
      lock them up? Ship them off to 
      Guantanamo...

             AGENT FOX
      Every war has its phases. This is a 
      new one. A more aggressive 
      approach.

             ERIC
      Am I gonna be the latest victim of 
      the aggressive approach? 

             AGENT FOX
      Not exactly.

             ERIC
      Sell it as a suicide, maybe a car 
      accident...

             AGENT FOX
      There are always options. And you 
      have two of them. 

Agent Fox is done reading. He places the laptop in front of 
Eric, inches from his grasp. Taunting him. 

             AGENT FOX 
      You want to send this thing to your 
      editor? Get it in tomorrow’s paper?

             ERIC
      Yes.

             AGENT FOX
      You can do that. You can press a 
      few little buttons. Go for it.

Eric reaches for the keyboard, reluctantly. Is this some kind 
of trick? His question is answered when --

             AGENT FOX 
      Hit send, and we’re going to take 
      you into custody for the murder of 
      an officer of the Central 
      Intelligence Agency. Your arrest 
      will not be publicized, nor will 
      any statement you’re stupid enough 
      to make. For all intents and 
      purposes, you will enter a black 
      hole. You’ll have your day in 
      court, but you’ll be tried by a 
      military tribunal. Closed 
      courtroom. If you’re lucky, you’ll 
      spend the rest of your miserable 
      life in a maximum security facility 
      and never see your children outside 
      of a glass box. 

             ERIC
      It was self defense. Forensics will 
      prove that. 

He flashes defensive wounds on his arms. Cuts and scratches.

             AGENT FOX
      Forensics won’t change the fact 
      that Walker is dead and his blood 
      is on your hands.
        (a pause, rehearsed)
      Agent Walker came to question you 
      regarding accusations you were 
      preparing to print in your 
      newspaper. You’re a desperate man. 
      An unstable one. Didn’t get your 
      dream job and can barely hold onto 
      your kids. You’re a heavy drinker. 
      You’ve been paranoid. Volatile. 
      Hell, you threatened to assault 
      your wife’s boyfriend just this 
      past week. An upstanding officer of 
      the law. 

             ERIC
      How do you know --

             AGENT FOX
      You panicked. Walker wound up dead. 

             ERIC
      This is bullshit. What about the 
      article?

             AGENT FOX
      We’ll speak to your editor. Implore 
      him to trash the piece. If he 
      trusts you enough to run this 
      drivel, we’ll deny it. It’s the 
      work of a desperate, attention 
      hungry drunk. 

             ERIC
      There will be blow back. A 
      shitstorm. You’ll be held 
      accountable.

             AGENT FOX
      Someone will fall on the sword. 
      There will be ‘an internal review’. 
      A ‘far reaching investigation’...  

             ERIC
      Yes.

             AGENT FOX
      ...but the program will continue to 
      function as is. Nothing will 
      change.

             ERIC
      That’s where you’re wrong. 
      Everything will change. 

             AGENT FOX
      Perhaps. For a few weeks. Maybe 
      even a few months. And then it’s 
      back to business as usual. 

             ERIC
      They’ll remember what I wrote. 
      Study it. Might even teach it. 

             AGENT FOX
      Don’t flatter yourself.

             ERIC
      They’ll give me a Pulitzer. A place 
      in history.

             AGENT FOX
      ...a place in history?

             ERIC
      Yes.

             AGENT FOX
      You think that will make your kids 
      feel better when you’re in prison? 
      It sure won’t tuck ‘em in at night, 
      see ‘em drive for the first time, 
      go to college, get married...

Eric stares a hole into Fox. He’s right.

             AGENT FOX 
      Now don’t you want to see what’s 
      behind door number two? 
        (pause)
      I’ll take that as a yes. We’ll take 
      care of Agent Walker’s body, and in 
      return, you’ll give us everything 
      you have. Every file. Every 
      contact. Every scrap of paper. You 
      will fill in every little detail 
      until we are satisfied. And then 
      we’ll go our separate ways.

             ERIC
      And what -- I’ll walk into work and 
      tell my editor to just...forget 
      this one? Onto the next story...

             AGENT FOX
      You’ll tell him the truth.

             ERIC
      We have different versions of the 
      truth.

             AGENT FOX
      You fabricated the Harris murder 
      story. There was no source. No Deep 
      Throat. You were desperate and you 
      made it up. You planted that bullet 
      in your mailbox. The night of the 
      accident, you were drinking...as 
      usual. 

             ERIC
      The police report won’t jive. I 
      didn’t have a drop --

             AGENT FOX
      That can be fixed. 

Fox shoots Eric a look as if to say “any more questions?”

             AGENT FOX 
      You’ll issue a formal apology that 
      will run in Monday’s edition, pack 
      up your stuff, and leave the paper. 
      That is how this ends.

             ERIC
      As simple as that?

             AGENT FOX
      Yes.

             ERIC
      You’ll keep following me.

             AGENT FOX
      We will.

             ERIC
      Until when?

             AGENT FOX
      Until we’re satisfied. Once you 
      leave the paper, you won’t ever 
      speak of this again. If you say a 
      word, or even drop a hint, you will 
      be killed. Your body will never be 
      found. Your children will think 
      that you’ve abandoned them. And 
      that will be their final memory of 
      their father.
        (a beat)
      So Mr. Chandler, what would you 
      like to do?

TIGHT ON ERIC -- trapped, his world crashing down...

             ERIC
      Let me show you the files.

EXT. RAMADA INN- NIGHT

Agents Fox and Carroll force a heavy, human sized black bag 
into the trunk. Not too difficult to guess what’s inside.

             AGENT FOX 
      What about the backups?

             ERIC 
      They’re hosted on a server. 
      Encrypted. Password protected.

INT. ERIC’S MOTEL ROOM- NIGHT

The bed is tossed. Drawers are open. The agents have stripped 
the place clean to ensure Eric isn’t hiding anything. 

CUT TO:

THE USB. It rests on a small patch of carpet behind the 
dresser, untouched. Barely visible to the naked eye. 

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- NIGHT

Similarly ransacked. Clutter everywhere. Eric sits on the 
couch, waits. Fox emerges from his bedroom.

             AGENT FOX
      Good. 

INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL- NIGHT

A pair of flashlights probe the darkness. 

INT. MAINTENANCE ROOM- NIGHT

There are no computers, hard drives. Danny and his group have 
evidently moved on. They were prepared for this. 

             AGENT FOX
      Don’t worry. They can’t run far.

CUT TO:

A computer screen. We’re on the server Eric was referring to.  
All of his files & notes are deleted, erased from existence. 

EXT. FAIRFIELD APARTMENT COMPLEX- DAWN

Agent Fox’s sedan rolls to a stop in front of Eric’s 
apartment. He exits, trudges toward it.

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Eric is finally alone, but still terrified. Feels as if he’s 
being watched. He disassembles every piece of electronic 
equipment in his home. Phone. Television. The works.

When he’s finished, he sits on the couch. A moment of quiet 
contemplation. 

INT. CAR- SUNRISE

Eric speeds down a local road. Checks his rearview. 

There’s a car very obviously following him, 100 feet away. 
Eric locks eyes with THE TAIL, who gives him a courteous nod.

EXT. NEWSDAY OFFICE- MOMENTS LATER

Eric takes slow, hesitant steps. Looks over his shoulder. The 
Tail is parked across the street, watching. 

INT. BULLPEN- DAYS

Staffers are socializing, trading stories of the weekend. The 
office is full of life. Eric trudges past them.

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- MOMENTS LATER

A KNOCK. Eric enters with a piece of paper in hand. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      It’s D Day. What do you have for 
      me? Let’s print.

Eric’s at a loss for words. Glances at Frank’s cell phone, 
the tiny webcam on his computer. Other devices in the room. 
Are they listening?

He reluctantly hands the paper to his boss. Takes a seat.

Frank scans it for a moment. His expression darkens.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      What is this?

             ERIC
      My resignation.

             FRANK BLAINE
      This is a joke.

             ERIC
      No.

             FRANK BLAINE
      It must be.

             ERIC
      I’m sorry.

Frank keeps reading. We can almost hear his heart breaking.

             FRANK BLAINE
      This isn’t -- no. Harris was my 
      friend. You made me believe -- 

             ERIC
      I can’t excuse what I’ve done.

             FRANK BLAINE
      But you were almost killed. You 
      said you were in danger. The 
      accident...

             ERIC
      I had too much to drink. It was 
      dark. The road took a sharp turn. 
      It was my fault. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      No. This can’t be.

             ERIC
      I can, uh, pack up pretty quickly. 
      Need an hour or two.

             FRANK BLAINE
      How could you?

             ERIC
      I’ll speak to The Board. Tell them 
      you had nothing to do with this.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You had to know you’d be exposed. 

             ERIC
      There’s nothing I can say to make 
      up --

             FRANK BLAINE
      Tell me. Why?

             ERIC
      I’m sorry. I’ll get my things. 

He rises from his seat. With a thunderous tenor in his voice - 

             FRANK BLAINE
      SIT.
        (Eric sits.)
      I want an explanation. You owe me 
      that. 

Eric directs his gaze to the Pulitzer on Frank’s wall. 

             ERIC
      I wanted to be noticed.

Frank rises from his desk, violently pulls the Prize off of 
its hinges and slams it on the desk in front of Eric.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Take it. It’s the closest you’ll 
      ever come to touching one. And 
      enjoy the newsroom while you’re at 
      it. You won’t step foot in one of 
      those again.

             ERIC
      I know I won’t. 

This blow is particularly painful. Eric bows his head. Frank 
sees the hurt. His anger softens to colossal disappointment.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Sixteen years building this paper’s 
      reputation. 

             ERIC
      You’ve done incredible work.

             FRANK BLAINE
      It doesn’t matter anymore. 

             ERIC
      Don’t say that. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      Tried to separate us from the 
      gossip rags. To give us 
      credibility. And then this.

             ERIC
      I’m sorry.

A silence. It feels like an eternity. Eric rises, slowly.

             ERIC 
      I’ll be out by noon.

He exits. Frank is frozen in place.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Goddamnit. 

CUT TO:

The family photo of Eric, Amanda, and the kids. It dances in 
the air. Falls into the abyss of a cardboard box. We’re in --

INT. BULLPEN- MOMENTS LATER

The office is quiet, its cheery air extinguished. Colleagues 
speak in hushed tones. Eric finishes packing. Hoists a box 
over his shoulder. 

He brushes past Karen’s desk and stealthily drops a small, 
carefully folded piece of paper in front of her.

He casually continues toward the exit.

Karen snatches the paper. Looks around. None of the gawking 
staffers noticed. She reads it.

EXT. PARKING LOT- MOMENTS LATER

Eric jams the box into his trunk. The Tail watches, 
satisfied. Eric removes the burner from his pocket. Dials 
Amanda’s number. Reaches voicemail. 

             ERIC
      Hey. It’s me. I just wanted to 
      check in. Everything is fine. 

Eric subtly tinkers with the phone as he speaks. He’s not 
just making a call. The phone is in camera mode. He covertly 
snaps photos of The Tail and his vehicle.

             ERIC 
      Say hi to the kids. See you.

Eric hangs up. Judging by his stoicism, The Tail appears to 
think nothing of the conversation.

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

Karen rises from her desk, slings her purse over her 
shoulder. She makes a discrete exit, Eric’s note in hand.

INT. RAMADA INN, LOBBY- MOMENTS LATER

We’re back at the scene of the crime. The Clerk gazes at a 
small TV planted on his desk. Karen enters. Approaches him.


             KAREN
      Hey. I’m looking for a single for 
      the night.

             CLERK
      Okay. Let me see what we have here.

The Clerk punches a few keys on the computer.

             KAREN
      This is kinda stupid, but I’m a 
      little superstitious. Big believer 
      in lucky numbers and all that. I 
      was wondering if you might have a 
      certain room available.

             CLERK
      Which might that be?

             KAREN
      315.

The Clerk registers the number. He’s not that stupid. 

             CLERK
      We had some commotion in that room 
      last night.

             KAREN
      Oh, did you?

She’s playing dumb, and boy does it show. 

             CLERK
      You’re not a cop.

             KAREN
      No, I’m not. Is the room available?

             CLERK
      Needs to be cleaned. 

             KAREN
      How much is it?

             CLERK
      139.99. Plus tax.

             KAREN
      Give me five minutes inside and 
      I’ve got 500 for you.

             CLERK
      Make it 750.

INT. ERIC’S MOTEL ROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Karen crouches in front of the dresser, reaches behind it. At 
first, she finds nothing. She keeps groping blindly. Feels 
something. Grabs it. It’s the USB. 

INT. BARNES & NOBLE, CAFE- DAY

Blue ink bleeds onto manila paper. Eric scribbles furiously 
into a journal. Pages are already filled. What is he writing?

EXT. LONG ISLAND EXPRESSWAY- DAY

Packed. Construction has shut down the left lane. Cars plod 
down the highway, eager for the jam to clear. 

INT. CAR- MOMENTS LATER

Eric is trapped in the middle lane. Looks ahead. Drivers 
accelerate. An exit is visible in the distance.

The Tail is two cars behind us. Aggravated. 

Eric inches forward. He’s fifty feet from the exit. 

Forty feet. Thirty.

He swerves into the right lane. Nearly collides with an 
oncoming vehicle. Speeds towards the exit. 

The Tail HONKS HIS HORN to no avail, stuck in gridlock. He 
desperately tries to maneuver his vehicle out of it.

EXT. SHOPPING CENTER- MOMENTS LATER

Suburban tranquility is shattered by THE SCREECH OF BRAKES. 
Eric’s vehicle comes to an abrupt halt in the parking lot.

He rolls down his window. Karen is in the spot alongside him. 
Eric hands her the journal and his cell phone.

             KAREN
      It’s already 2. Thought you bailed.

             ERIC
      Everything’s there. How long to 
      print?

             KAREN
      Three, maybe four hours.

             ERIC
      Good. Is Frank okay?

             KAREN
      He will be.

             ERIC
      I don’t want my name on the byline. 
      The story is yours.

             KAREN
      What are you talking about?

             ERIC
      Your name needs to be on the front 
      page. This is too big. They’ll try 
      to discredit us. We need someone 
      with credibility. Someone 
      unimpeachable. That’s you. 

             KAREN
      You’re credible.

             ERIC
      They’d sling mud. Say I’m a drunk. 
      Unstable. A two bit hack. They 
      can’t do that to you.

             KAREN
      Those things -- they’re not true.

Eric’s silent. It’s almost an admission of guilt.

             KAREN 
      You’ve earned this.

             ERIC
      We’re out of time. Go.

She nods, a hint of fear in her eyes. Drives away. 

Eric exits the car, strides into a Starbucks.

INT. THE TAIL’S CAR- MOMENTS LATER

The Tail peers at Eric through the Starbucks window, puzzled. 
What the hell was that? 

He probes the lot for any sign of a disturbance. Nothing.

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- DAY

Frank stares out his window, eager to escape this hellish 
day. His door swings open, no knock. Karen rushes through it.

             KAREN
      Please tell me you didn’t retract.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Apology goes live in thirty.

             KAREN
      You might want to hold off on that.

THE JOURNAL, as it lands on Frank’s desk with a SOFT THUD.   
A hand opens it. Peruses the pages. After a moment --

CUT TO:

             FRANK 
      Jesus Christ.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM- DAY

Usually pristine. Now it’s a war room. Hordes of documents & 
photos are spread across the table. Staffers file in and out. 
Frank sits at the head. 

Karen is at his side, gaze fixed on her laptop - its word 
processor open. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      Get me Jordan at CNN. Where’s 
      legal?

A staffer -- LUCAS -- chirps up.

             LUCAS
      On the way. Fifteen minutes.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      Tell ‘em to speed. Make it ten.

Lucas scurries out of the room. Frank turns to Karen --


             FRANK BLAINE 
      Is there anything else I can do?

             KAREN
        (shakes head)
      I’ve got it.

She starts typing. Lucas returns.

             LUCAS
      Chris just joined. You’ve got all 
      the Board on the line.

Frank nods, picks up the telephone at his side.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Gentleman, we have a change of 
      plans.

INT. STARBUCKS- DAY

Eric sips on a latte, stares at the TV on the wall. CNN. A 
mundane report: are muffins a healthy snack? He waits.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM- DAY

Karen pounds the keys. Sentences pile up on the screen. 

The journal rests at her side - dozens of pages of notes. 
Every detail of the last week. 

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- DAY

Eric paces around the room, anxious. He’s completely out of 
the loop. Powerless. And not particularly enjoying it.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM- SUNSET

Now it’s Karen who paces, a bundle of nerves. Frank reads a 
copy of her report, pen in hand. No marks on the paper...yet. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      Okay.


             KAREN
      ...okay?

             FRANK BLAINE
      It’s great, but you forgot 
      something.


             KAREN
      What’s that?

             FRANK BLAINE
      Look at the byline. Where’s Eric? 
      Can’t take all the credit.

             KAREN
      He doesn’t want it there.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Yeah, right.

             KAREN
      I’m serious.

Frank stops dead in his tracks. He’s heard a lot of 
unbelievable things today, but this may take the cake. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      It’s his Pulitzer.

             KAREN
      He wouldn’t budge. He’s convinced 
      it won’t be good for the story. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      Since when does he -- 

             KAREN
      They’d drag him through the mud. 
      Distract the public. Make this 
      about the reporter. He wanted 
      someone...

             FRANK BLAINE
      Experienced.

             KAREN
      “Unimpeachable” was his word.

             FRANK BLAINE
      And that’s you.

             KAREN
      I guess so.

A TEXT MESSAGE. The sender: KAREN. “Go. We’re live in 30.” 

BRRRR. BRRRR. The muffled ring of a telephone takes us to --

CUT TO:
INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- DAY

Eric has a new burner pressed against his ear. Chris Bishop’s 
gruff voice emanates from the other line.

             ERIC
      Hey. It’s Chandler. I need you.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      What now?

             ERIC
      There’s a guy outside my place. 
      He’s been following me all day. I 
      don’t know what to do.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Take it easy. You sure you’re not 
      exaggerating?

             ERIC
      No. He’s sitting in his car right 
      now, watching.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Give me a plate number. Let me run 
      it and see what’s what.

             ERIC
      Wait. Shit. He’s getting out. 

The Tail hasn’t moved an inch. Eric sells it convincingly. 
His voice tremors.

             ERIC 
      Oh god. I think I see a gun. Holy 
      shit. He’s coming up.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Don’t open the door. Stay put.

             ERIC
      I need your help. 

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Fairfield, right?

             ERIC
      Apartment 211. Hurry.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      I’ll be there as soon as I can.

INT. CAR- DAY

The Tail sips a cup of coffee, peruses an automotive 
magazine. Glances at the apartment window. No movement. 

Quiet. And then, A SIREN BLARES. RED AND BLUE LIGHTS FLASH.

             THE TAIL
      What the fuck.

EXT. FAIRFIELD APARTMENT COMPLEX- MOMENTS LATER

Bishop exits his squad car. Beelines for Eric’s apartment 
until he spots The Tail in his car. 

He approaches with caution, hand on his nightstick. As he 
inches toward the driver’s door, it swings open. 

Bishop grabs his nightstick and prepares to strike. 

The Tail exits the vehicle, hands raised. Calm and collected.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      Don’t move, asshole. Suffolk PD.

             THE TAIL
      How can I help you, officer?

             CHRIS BISHOP
      You can start by telling me what 
      you’re doing here.

The Tail attempts to reach into his pants.

             THE TAIL
      My badge is in my pocket.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      What badge might that be?

             THE TAIL
      I’m CIA.

             CHRIS BISHOP
      And I’m the Queen of England.

Chris reaches into The Tail’s pocket. Finds the ID.

             CHRIS BISHOP 
      Motherfucker. 

He looks to Eric’s window, puzzled. What is going on? 

MORE SIRENS. Other vehicles responding to the call. 

If we were to look closely, we’d see Eric’s car cruise past 
in the background. He makes a discrete, hasty exit.


The Tail rushes toward the apartment.

PRELAP --

             STAFFER 
      Live in thirty seconds.

INT. BULLPEN- NIGHT

Tense. Crowded. Staffers glued to their desks.

Karen refreshes the Newsday home page on her browser. Again. 
Frank stands behind her; he’s on the phone.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You’ll know what it’s about 
      in...twenty five seconds. Trust me. 
      Take whatever you’ve got scheduled 
      and cancel it. Karen’s ready to hit 
      air immediately. Okay? 

Karen takes a deep breath. She locks eyes with Frank.

             STAFFER
      Ten.

He gives her a nod of encouragement. It’ll be okay.

Karen refreshes the page again and...

The story is splashed on the homepage. It reads --

A NEWSDAY EXCLUSIVE.

CIA’S TARGETED KILLING PROGRAM HITS US SOIL. 6 DEAD, 
INCLUDING EX NYPD COMMISSIONER.

INT. CAR- NIGHT

The needle pushes 80. Eric cruises down a highway, AM radio 
on blast. A commercial. It’s interrupted by a COMMENTATOR.

             COMMENTATOR 
      1010 Wins. The time is 8:13, and 
      this is a breaking news alert. 

             COMMENTATOR  
      According to a stunning report 
      coming out of Newsday, the Central 
      Intelligence Agency --

Eric smashes his fist against the wheel in excitement. 

Honks the horn. Multiple times. It drowns out the broadcast.

             ERIC
      YES!

INT. NEWSDAY PRINTING PRESS- NIGHT

THWACK! Hordes of newspapers fly down an assembly line. 
Photos of our victims grace the front page.

EXT. GARDEN STATE MOTEL- NIGHT

Tucked in an alcove off the Jersey Turnpike. It’s a shithole, 
albeit a good place to hide. 

INT. GARDEN STATE MOTEL ROOM- MOMENTS LATER

Two locks are bolted tight. The curtains are drawn.

Eric lays on the bed, drink in hand. Flips through cable news 
broadcasts. Every channel is covering the story.

EXT. SHOPPING CENTER- NIGHT

A delivery truck, emblazoned with the Newsday logo, circles 
the place. A large stack of papers fly out of it, land in 
front of the Starbucks entrance. 

BEGIN MONTAGE: The impact.

- Karen chats with Anderson Cooper on CNN.

- A deli. Eric’s being rung up with a coffee. There are a 
half dozen customers around him. All are reading Newsday.

- The WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY addresses the media. He 
tells us that The President is shocked by these allegations.

- Pictures of AGENT WALKER, AGENT CARROLL, & THE TAIL on the 
news. Men detained for questioning re: the assassinations. 
“Lone wolves”, “radicals” working outside the system.

- REPORTERS swarm MIRA HABIB’s home. She shields her face 
from the cameras.

- KAREN is on MEET THE PRESS. She’s articulate, charming. 
Made for the spotlight. 

END MONTAGE.

CUT TO:

A SKEE BALL as it shoots up a ramp. We’re in --

INT. CHUCK E CHEESE- DAY

The ball drops in the fifty point hole. Victory. 

Amanda high fives Kevin and Robin. Tickets spurt out of the 
machine. 

Roger sits a few feet away, sips a cup of coffee. His eyes 
dart back and forth between the entrance and the kids. 

He’s surprised when ERIC enters. Approaches him.

             ERIC
      Hey.


             ROGER
      Hey.

             ERIC
      Everything is okay. It’s all over.

             ROGER
      The story -- you were a part of 
      that thing?

             ERIC
      A little bit. 

             ROGER
      Those bastards. Glad you got ‘em.

             ERIC
      Me too. You look tired.

             ROGER
      Haven’t slept since you called.

             ERIC
      Thank you. Really.

             ROGER
      Yeah. 


             ERIC
      Maybe I could take the kids off 
      your hands tonight. You could sleep 
      in. No disturbances.

The kids spot Eric and reluctantly migrate over. They’re 
still disappointed from their last encounter. 

             ERIC 
      Hi guys. I’ve missed you.

He hugs them tightly. Eric and Amanda exchange a terse nod.

             KEVIN
      Hi.

             ROBIN
      You’re not at work?

             ERIC
      Nope. Have the rest of the day off.

             KEVIN
      Oh. Cool.

             ERIC
      And I’ve got an apartment all to 
      myself and I was thinking...I’m 
      gonna’ be real lonely. I need some 
      company. Maybe you guys want to 
      sleep over? 

The kids turn to Amanda, search for her approval.

             AMANDA
      Okay. 

Their faces light up in excitement.

             ERIC
      Thank you.

             ROBIN
      But we’re not done here.

Kevin proudly flashes an overflowing cup of tickets.

             KEVIN
      We’ve got to cash them in. And 
      choose our prizes.

             ERIC
      Mom could help you find something 
      cool. She’s got a great eye.

             AMANDA
      Come on. Let’s go look. 

She shepherds the children away. Eric and Roger stand side by 
side, watch them go. 

INT. ERIC’S LIVING ROOM- SUNSET

Still a mess. Papers strewn about. Electronics unhooked. It’s 
not exactly the den Robin and Kevin expected. 

The kids creep into the room. Eric enters behind them.

             ERIC
      Dad made a little bit of a mess in 
      here, but why don’t you go on and 
      check out your room.

The kids comply, exit the frame. Eric opens a closet and 
removes a few presents. Not wrapped, but they’ll do.

             ROBIN 
      It’s pretty.

             KEVIN 
      I got top bunk.

             ROBIN 
      That’s no fair!

His cell RINGS. The caller ID reads: NEW YORK TIMES.

Eric drops the presents, stares at the phone. Thinks. A beat.

He hits IGNORE. The call goes to voicemail. Eric slides his 
phone back into his pocket, enters the kids room. 

INT. BULLPEN- DAY

Unbelievably busy. There’s constant CHIRPING -- phones, 
email, printers. Frenetic movement. Staffers shuffle about. 

Eric enters. In contrast to his last appearance in the 
bullpen, not a soul appears to notice him. He’s invisible. 

INT. FRANK BLAINE’S OFFICE- MOMENTS LATER

Eric sits across from his boss, who is in the middle of 
lunch. There’s a half eaten salad on the desk.

             FRANK BLAINE
      I can’t tell you how good it is to 
      see you.

             ERIC
      It’s good to be back.

             FRANK BLAINE
      I’m sorry about this ---
        (motions to food)
      Haven’t had a moment to breathe 
      since it broke.

             ERIC
      We found ‘the one’.

             FRANK BLAINE
      No ‘we’ about it. All you. 

             ERIC
      I’m sorry about Monday. I didn’t 
      know who was watching...or 
      listening. I had to make it 
      convincing. Real.

             FRANK BLAINE
      No apology necessary. You’re safe. 
      All that matters.

             ERIC
      Thank you.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Knew you weren’t dumb enough to 
      concoct a story anyway. 

An uncomfortable laugh. A brief, awkward silence.

             FRANK BLAINE 
      You didn’t bring your boxes.

             ERIC
      I didn’t want to presume --

             FRANK BLAINE
      Your desk is waiting for you.

             ERIC
      The Times called.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Oh?


             ERIC
      When they approached Karen, she 
      shared our little secret. Told ‘em 
      I broke the story. 

             FRANK BLAINE
      Did they make an offer?

             ERIC
      Six figures.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Congratulations. When do you start?

             ERIC
      I don’t. Turned it down.

             FRANK BLAINE
      You know I can’t match that number -

             ERIC
      It’s not about the number. I don’t 
      think it’s the best fit. My writing 
      is “a little dry” for them.

             FRANK BLAINE
      Why’d you really say no?

             ERIC
      There’s still time to reconsider if 
      you think I should --

             FRANK BLAINE
        (smiles)
      No. Let’s get to work. It’s no CIA 
      conspiracy but we’ve got a robbery 
      at the Sleepy’s on 25A and no 
      reporter to cover it. Feel like 
      making the trip?

             ERIC
      I’d like that. 

PRE-LAP -- 

The BOOMING BARITONE of A SPEAKER.

             SPEAKER 
      There are great works of 
      journalism, and then there are 
      those -- the select few, every 
      decade or two -- that shake the 
      very foundation of our society.

INT. BANQUET HALL, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY- DAY

SUPER: SIX MONTHS LATER.

The Speaker stands in front of a podium. There’s a banner 
behind him. 

Pulitzer Prize Luncheon.

It’s a large room. There are a few dozen tables. Various 
papers and their reporters seated at each. 

Karen, Jamie, and a host of Newsday executives are seated 
directly in front of the stage. Eric is nowhere to be found.

             SPEAKER
      We salute Newsday’s Karen Hirsch 
      and honor her with the Pulitzer 
      Prize for investigate journalism.

THUNDEROUS APPLAUSE. 

Karen rises from her seat and humbly ascends to the podium. 
She clears her throat. Gazes out at the crowd.

INT. FOYER, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY- DAY

An exodus. The luncheon has ended. Karen fights her way 
through a lingering crowd, politely pauses to accept 
compliments and congratulations from those around her.

She spots Eric across the way. Makes a beeline for him.

             ERIC
      Congratulations.

             KAREN
      You came --

             ERIC
      Of course. Sorry I’m late. 

             KAREN
      Just happy to see you.

             ERIC
      Got held up in Riverhead. 
      Comptroller’s deposition lasted six 
      hours. Real pulse pounding stuff. 

             KAREN
      I’m jealous I missed it.

             ERIC
      As you should be. Caught the end of 
      the speech though. Damn good job.

             KAREN
      It felt -- strange. Dirty.

Eric glances at the case in Karen’s hand. It holds the 
Pulitzer medallion.

             ERIC
      Do you mind if I --

Karen happily forks it over. Eric opens the case. Stares at 
the prize for a moment. His expression is tough to read. 
Something hides behind those eyes.

             ERIC 
      It’s beautiful.

             KAREN
      If only I had actually earned it.

             ERIC
      You did. Don’t say that.

             KAREN
      No, I didn’t.

             ERIC
      We’re not having this conversation 
      again.

             KAREN

      One thing.

             ERIC
      Don’t start.

             KAREN
      Just tell me why.

             ERIC
      It doesn’t matter.

             KAREN
      Once Fox and his guys were put 
      away, you could have came out and 
      taken credit. Told the world your 
      story.

             ERIC
      I’m not much of a public speaker. 
      You’re easier on the eyes, anyway.

             KAREN
      Stop. Seriously.

             ERIC
      This is not the time --

             KAREN
      It’s exactly the time.

             ERIC
      You’ve probably got another hundred 
      hands to shake.

             KAREN
      Tell me. Or my special day will be 
      ruined. You wouldn’t do that to me.

             ERIC
      Come on.

Karen shoots him a look as if to say “I’m serious”. 

             ERIC 
      You remember that Dedeman piece 
      twenty five years ago...

             KAREN
      The Color of Money.

             ERIC
      Right. It was published in...

             KAREN
      The AJC.

             ERIC
      Studied it in college.

             KAREN
      So did I. That and --

             ERIC
      All The President’s Men.

Karen nods.

             ERIC 
      When I read that thing, I 
      understood perfection. The adverbs, 
      descriptors -- every sentence, 
      graph, and page. I tried to match 
      it, to chase that high with 
      everything I filed. 

             ERIC 
      Never quite nailed it. And then I 
      read what you wrote.

             KAREN
      Please. I botched the third graph. 
      I shouldn’t have lead with Habib --

             ERIC
      Some people have the gift.

             KAREN
      Yeah. You do.

             ERIC
      Nah. I cover larcenies & 10-75’s. 
      You write news. I don’t belong at 
      The Times. You do.

             KAREN
      That’s not true.

             ERIC
      It is. Maybe it’s not such a bad 
      thing. There are worse gigs.

             KAREN
      There definitely are.

             ERIC
      Well, I don’t want to keep you too 
      long. Catch up with you at the 
      office.

             KAREN
      I’ll be in around four.

             ERIC
      Won’t even take one day off...

             KAREN
      No rest for the wicked.

             ERIC
      I’ll see you there.

The two exchange smiles. There’s clearly a spark here. Karen 
can barely move before she’s accosted by a group of admirers. 
They gawk at the Pulitzer with wonder.

TIGHT ON ERIC as he watches -- a quiet moment of 
introspection. Fleeting melancholy is quickly replaced by 
acceptance. Eric’s lips purse into a smile as we...

FADE OUT.

