                  CAKE

                   by

               Patrick Tobin

Draft: 08/16/13


INT. COMMUNITY CENTER - NIGHT

A sign taped to a closed door: WOMEN’S CHRONIC PAIN SUPPORT 
GROUP.

INT. MEETING ROOM - NIGHT

A dozen Women sit in a circle.

Including CLAIRE SIMMONS: intense, intelligent eyes that 
don’t miss a beat. She’s like Turkish coffee in a roomful of 
Sanka.

Claire has scars on her face and neck. If she were more 
careful with her makeup they wouldn’t be very noticeable.

In the center of the circle is an empty chair.

ANNETTE the facilitator, walks around the perimeter. 

She points at an easel, which holds a picture of NINA, an 
attractive woman in her early 30s.

              ANNETTE
       I feel we need some closure with 
       what happened to Nina, because we 
       all cared so much for her.

Claire crosses her arms and takes a deep breath.

              ANNETTE
	(CONT’D)
       It’ll be hard, but I’m going to sit 
       in the middle and pretend to be 
       Nina. And as you feel led, I want 
       you to verbalize to me -- to Nina --
       how her suicide affected you. Okay?

Everyone nods except for Claire.

GAIL raises her hand. Annette nods and points to her.

              GAIL
       I just want to say...to you Nina... 
       that I don’t understand how you 
       could give up.

              ANNETTE
       I’m sorry Gail that I gave up. Can 
       you forgive me?

Gail nods yes with tears in her eyes. 

LIZ raises her hand. Annette points to her.


                                        2.

              LIZ
       I...this is so hard.

              ANNETTE
       I know it’s hard Liz.

              LIZ
       What about your son? He doesn’t 
       have a mother anymore.

              ANNETTE
       I hope in time my son will forgive 
       me. And I hope you will too Liz.

              LIZ
       I do. We miss you. So much.

Most of the women are now crying. STEPHANIE, 30s, raises her 
hand.

              STEPHANIE
       Why the hell didn’t you reach out 
       for help? You could’ve called any 
       one of us! We would’ve been there!

              ANNETTE
       I know that Stephanie. 

              STEPHANIE
       One phone call!

              ANNETTE
       Will you forgive me?

Stephanie is crying so hard she can’t even answer. Claire 
raises her hand.

              ANNETTE
	(CONT’D)
       Yes, Claire?

              CLAIRE
       I have a question.

              ANNETTE
       For Nina, or for me?

Claire shrugs indifferently. 

              CLAIRE
       Makes no difference.

              ANNETTE
          (warily)
       Go ahead.


                                        3.

              CLAIRE
       Is it true she jumped off the 
       Vincent Thomas bridge?

              ANNETTE
       Yes, but...

              CLAIRE
       Is it also true she landed on a 
       cargo ship heading out to sea?

              ANNETTE
       Claire, we should be focusing on 
       our feelings...

              CLAIRE
       And is it also true that the 
       shipping company sent back what was 
       left of her body in a Rubbermaid
       cooler? 

No response.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       That the cooler was stuck in 
       customs for a week before Nina's 
       husband could claim it?

Everyone looks horrified. Annette finally nods.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
          (to photo)
       Nice job Nina. Personally, I hate 
       it when suicides make it easy for 
       the survivors.

EXT. CLAIRE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

A cab pulls up in front. Claire lays across the backseat. As 
she gets out of the cab she grimaces in pain.

She hands the Cabbie some money.

INT. CLAIRE’S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Claire finds SILVANA, a Mexican woman in her 50s, watching 
television. 

Silvana’s kind and sympathetic demeanor belies a strength 
that is shocked by nothing -- she is one person who will 
survive even the end of the world.


                                        4.

              CLAIRE
       Why are you still here?

              SILVANA
       I make dinner.

              CLAIRE
       I’m not hungry. 

              SILVANA
       You must eat. Doctor says.

              CLAIRE
       You’re not going to leave until I 
       eat, are you?

              SILVANA
       Quesadilla?

              CLAIRE
       What the hell.

Silvana starts preparing the food. 

Claire sees she has messages on her cell phone. 

              ANNETTE
	(VOICE)
       Hi Claire, it’s Annette. Listen, we 
       all stayed late tonight after you 
       left. Gosh, what a tough session, 
       huh? Anyway, not to minimize your 
       feelings in any way at all...

Claire snorts.

              ANNETTE
	(VOICE)
	(CONT’D)
       ...but we all agreed it might best 
       if you found another group. Maybe 
       one to help you deal with your 
       anger issues? This isn’t a 
       judgment...we just think you’d be 
       better served elsewhere. Good luck.

Claire shakes her head and erases the message. The next 
message is from Claire’s ex-husband JASON.

              JASON
	(VOICE)
       Hey, it’s me. Could you call my 
       assistant tomorrow and let her know 
       when I can come by to pick up the 
       rest of my stuff.
          (pause)
       When you aren’t there. 


                                        5.

              JASON
	(VOICE) (CON T'D)
       I think it’s...prudent if we don’t 
       see each other. Not yet.

Claire erases the message.

              CLAIRE
       His mother must have told him 
       exactly what to say. He never used 
       to throw around words like 
       ‘prudent’.

Silvana puts a plate on the island. 

              SILVANA
       Ready.

              CLAIRE
       I’ll eat it in a few minutes. I 
       just need some quiet time.

              SILVANA
       Promise?

              CLAIRE
       On my mother’s grave.

              SILVANA
       But your mother lives.

Claire opens her purse and pulls out some twenties.

              CLAIRE
       Here. For overtime.

              SILVANA
       No, no. This is...my way.

              CLAIRE
       Please. You should be home with 
       your family.

              SILVANA
       Thank you Mrs. Simmons.

              CLAIRE
       When you leave remember not to set 
       the alarm.

              SILVANA
       I know. Sorry.

              CLAIRE
       Night Silvana.


                                        6.

              SILVANA
       Sleep good I hope.

Claire watches Silvana leave with a wistful expression -- 
Silvana’s concern touches her, although she would never admit 
it to anyone.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Claire opens her medicine cabinet: a miniature pharmacy.

Claire picks up one bottle, but it’s empty. She picks another 
-- it’s empty as well.

Claire moves aside a fern and pulls out a bottle of methadone 
from behind it.

She opens the bottle but there are only two pills.

              CLAIRE
       Fuck me.

Claire takes the pills and turns off the light.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

The camera watches Claire sleep from above. She twitches and 
moans.

Suddenly she bolts upright. After she gets her bearings she 
gets out of the bed.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - NIGHT

Claire turns on lights in the backyard, revealing a large 
pool.

She gets into the pool and swims to the deep end. She grabs 
the edge of the pool and floats.

A possum walks through the yard and comes close to Claire. 
Claire merely nods.

              CLAIRE
       Nice night huh?

The possum stops to consider her.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Come on in, the water’s fine.


                                        7.

The possum scurries away. 

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Then again, it might not be 
       prudent. 

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - DAY

Silvana walks up to where Claire, wrapped in towels, is 
asleep on a lawn chair. She puts her hand on Claire’s arm.

              SILVANA
       Mrs. Simmons.

Claire opens her eyes.

              CLAIRE
       What time is it?

              SILVANA
       So cold, you poor thing!

              CLAIRE
       Am I?

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Claire brushes her teeth listlessly. Silvana comes in with a 
blouse.

              SILVANA
       I iron.

Silvana opens a drawer and takes out a tube of ointment. She 
hands it to Claire.

              CLAIRE
       That stuff doesn’t work.

              SILVANA
       You must do it. My sister has  big 
       one...

Silvana points to an imaginary scar on her hand.

              SILVANA
	(CONT’D)
       ...is gone.

              CLAIRE
       It doesn’t matter one way or the 
       other anyway. 


                                        8.

Silvana puts the tube back in the drawer. 

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       When I’m dressed, we need to go to 
       the clinic.

Silvana looks concerned.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       What?

Silvana shakes her head.

              SILVANA
       Nothing.

INT. SUV - DAY

Silvana drives. Claire has her seat all the way back, so that 
she’s lying flat on her back.

              CLAIRE
       Never take Crescent Heights.

              SILVANA
       How can you know?

              CLAIRE
       I can feel it. 

              SILVANA
       Ay.

              CLAIR
       Crescent Heights is like being 
       thrown in a burlap sack and carted 
       cross the tundra by horse.

              SILVANA
       No understand.

              CLAIRE
       Turn left at the next light and 
       take Fairfax.

Claire sees a crow keeping pace with the car high above the 
tree tops. 

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Look at that.

              SILVANA
       What?


                                        9.

All of a sudden the crow disappears into the trees.

INT. METHADONE CLINIC - DAY

Silvana reads La Opinion. Claire finishes filling out some 
paperwork.

Nearby is a massage chair with a sign: COURTESY OF HOLLYWOOD 
HEALTH ALLIANCE. 

An Old Man tries to get it to work. Claire watches him 
without any expression.

              CLAIRE
       It’s broken.

The Old Man won’t give up. 

Claire points to a piece of paper on the floor by the 
machine: MACHINE BROKE. The Old Man keeps trying.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       It’s broken. I’m trying to be 
       helpful, and if you only knew how 
       hard that is for me, you’d listen.

Claire turns her attention to a JUNKIE, 20s but worn-out old, 
staring at her.

Claire scowls at him.

              JUNKIE
       Sorry.

The Junkie looks away embarrassed, but he can’t help looking 
back at Claire.

              CLAIRE
       What?

              JUNKIE
       You look like my mom.

A Clinic Worker opens a window at the counter.

              CLINIC WORKER
       Number forty seven.

Claire gets up and walks past the Junkie.

              CLAIRE
       Are you fucking kidding me?


                                       10.

Silvana looks up from her newspaper.

              JUNKIE
          (to Silvana, re: Claire)
       What a bitch.

              SILVANA
       Shut up, you know nothing.

INT. CLINIC OFFICE - DAY

A NURSE goes through a file. Claire sits with a casual 
demeanor and an easy smile: she is very good at faking nice.

              NURSE
       How’s it going?

              CLAIRE
       I’m doing really well. That support 
       group has made all the difference.

              NURSE
       I thought it would. You know, just 
       other women, non-threatening, 
       everyone’s super supportive.

              CLAIRE
       Exactly. How’s your daughter doing?

              NURSE
       Lila started her senior year, it’s 
       hard to believe. Thanks for asking.

              CLAIRE
       Is she still interested in UCLA?

              NURSE
       Uh huh.

              CLAIRE
       Well, alumni recommendations count 
       for something so let me know when 
       she applies, I’d be happy to write 
       one.

              NURSE
       We will definitely take you up on 
       that. You’re too sweet.

The Nurse flips through more pages and frowns.


              NURSE
	(CONT’D)
       Gosh, I can’t seem to find that 
       authorization.

Claire’s demeanor changes slightly - like a card player.

                                       11.

              CLAIRE
       Dr. Shipman’s office said they’d 
       fax it right over.

              NURSE
       I’m sure they did. I swear I’d lose 
       my head if it wasn’t attached to my 
       body.

Claire does her best to laugh convincingly.

              CLAIRE
       I’m the same. I have to write 
       reminders about my reminders.

The Nurse laughs. 

              NURSE
       I know!

The Nurse pauses for a moment, like she’s making a decision.

              NURSE
	(CONT’D)
       Look, I don’t want to waste your 
       time.
          (whispering)
       I’ll go ahead and give you a few to 
       tie you over, just don’t tell 
       anyone.

              CLAIRE
       And I’ll give them a call to re-fax 
       it.

              NURSE
       Great. Thank you!

Claire stands up.

              CLAIRE
       No, thank you.

              NURSE
       Keep up the good work, you’re doing 
       great.


                                       12.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - DAY

ARTURO, 30s, is doing tile work on the hot tub.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Claire drinks a glass of wine, watching Arturo.

Silvana comes up to Claire with a bottle of wine.

              SILVANA
       More?

              CLAIRE
       Yes. Then you can go home.

              SILVANA
       Is early.

              CLAIRE
       Not really.

For some reason, Silvana doesn’t want to leave Claire alone.

              SILVANA
       Maybe I wash patio...

              CLAIRE
       Silvana go home, I don’t need you. 

Silvana nods and takes off her apron.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Claire lays on the bed, her head propped up with pillows. 
There’s a tap on the sliding glass door to the backyard.

The sliding glass door opens and Arturo comes in. He closes 
the door and stands there tentatively.

              CLAIRE
       You know the way to the bathroom.

Arturo nods and goes to the bathroom.

Claire takes a sip of wine.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       You want something to drink?

              ARTURO
	(O.S.)
       No.


                                       13.

Arturo comes out, his hair slicked back. He stands next to 
the bed.

              CLAIRE
       You can take your shirt off.

She motions for him to take his shirt off. Arturo takes it 
off.

Arturo sits on the edge of the bed. He touches Claire’s leg. 
He pushes up her nightgown, revealing scars on the legs.

He gently touches one of the scars. Claire pulls her leg 
away.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Don’t.

Arturo nods. He gently pulls Claire’s nightgown over her 
head. 

He moves closer to kiss her on the lips, but she turns her 
head. He kisses her on the neck instead.

              ARTURO
       Bonita. Comprende?

              CLAIRE
       No.

              ARTURO
       Pretty.

              CLAIRE
       You’re full of shit.

Arturo embraces Claire and continues to gently kiss her down 
the front of her body. Claire stops him and kisses him 
forcefully. He’s a little surprised by her aggression, but he 
enjoys it.

They french kiss for a moment, until Claire’s tongue starts 
tracing the outline of Arturo’s lips.

Claire suddenly bites his lip - hard.

              ARTURO
       Ow!

He pulls back. 

Claire stares at him with lust as she unbuttons his pants and 
pulls them down off his legs. 


                                       14.

He sits up and tries to pull her to him, but she leans into 
him and pins him down against the pillows. 

Arturo is clearly bothered by her aggression now. He tries to 
get out from under her, but Claire climbs on top of him and 
guides him inside her. 

He moans. Claire smiles victoriously.

She rides him and now he’s powerless. He tries to caress her 
body, but she pulls his hands away, until he finally lets his 
hands fall to his sides.

Claire rides him without looking at him. Her hands trace his 
torso until they’re at his face. She covers his eyes with her 
hands and then pulls them aside.

              CLAIRE
       Boo.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire awakens to find Arturo asleep next to her.

She quietly gets out of bed and puts on a robe. She opens the 
sliding doors and goes outside.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - NIGHT

Claire stands at the edge of the pool, almost like she’s 
about to dive in. 

She thinks she sees something move in the dark shadows of the 
deep end. 

Then she hears what sounds like a ball bouncing against 
concrete. 

              CLAIRE
       Hello?

But no one answers.

Suddenly, a child’s ball rolls toward her feet.

Claire is horrified. She turns around:

Right into Arturo.

              ARTURO
       Problem?


                                       15.

Claire looks down, but she doesn’t see the ball.

              CLAIRE
       I think I was sleepwalking.

Arturo shrugs - he doesn’t understand.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       It means it’s time for you to go.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Arturo showers. 

              CLAIRE
       You married?

There’s a long pause.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I’ll take that for a yes. Children?

              ARTURO
       Two girls.

              CLAIRE
       How old?

              ARTURO
       Seven and five.

              CLAIRE
       They must keep you busy.

              ARTURO
       They are in Guatemala. 

              CLAIRE
       Oh.

              ARTURO
       When Christmas is, I bring them 
       here.

              CLAIRE
       With your wife.

Again a long pause.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Claire sits at the island with a box. Arturo comes in.


                                       16.

              CLAIRE
       I hope you weren’t expecting 
       dinner.

              ARTURO
       No.

              CLAIRE
       I’d like to give you this.

Arturo opens the box and discovers some toys for young 
children.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       For your kids. I don’t need them.

              ARTURO
       Thank you. Your kids grow up?

Claire opens the front door.

              CLAIRE
       Goodbye.

              ARTURO
       Oh. Goodbye.

He tries to give her a kiss, but it turns into an awkward hug 
-- Claire kind of patting him on the back.

              CLAIRE
       Night.

EXT. CLAIRE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Arturo walks down the driveway with the box of toys and his 
tool box. 

He passes Silvana in her minivan: she’s asleep, her head 
resting against the window.

Arturo knocks on her window startling her. She rolls down the 
window.

              ARTURO
          (in Spanish)
       Will you give me a ride to the bus 
       stop? 

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       I don’t give rides to dogs.


Arturo shrugs and starts walking away. Silvana gets out of 
the van.

                                       17.

              SILVANA
	(CONT’D)
          (in Spanish)
       Wait. You can’t take that box.

              ARTURO
          (in Spanish)
       Your lady gave it to me.

Silvana pulls the box out of his hands and toys spill out.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       No! You can’t have these!

              ARTURO
          (in Spanish)
       Go ask her, she gave them to me.

Silvana shoves her finger in Arturo’s face.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       I swear if you take these I will 
       put a curse on you and your bastard 
       children. 

Arturo throws up his hands.

              ARTURO
          (in Spanish)
       Mexican bitch.

He spits on the ground and walks away. Silvana carefully 
gathers up the toys.

When she’s done she puts the box in her car and drives off.

INT. SILVANA’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Silvana comes into the living room with the box. Her daughter 
TINA, 30s, watches TV. Silvana’s husband NUNCIO, 60s, is 
asleep on the couch.

Tina’s son FELIPE, 4, is asleep on the floor.

              TINA
       You’re late.


                                       18.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Tell me something I don’t already 
       know.

              TINA
       What’s in the box?

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Toys.

              TINA
       For the kids?

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       No. I’m going to keep them for Mrs. 
       Simmons.

              TINA
       Did the bitch make you do that?

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Watch your mouth.

Tina lowers her recliner all the way.

              TINA
          (mocking)
       Silvana. Drive me to the drug 
       dealer.

              SILVANA
          (smiling, Spanish)
       Stop.

              TINA
       She doesn’t pay you enough to put 
       up with her shit. If I were you 
       mom, I’d quit.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       You’re not me.
          (re: Nuncio)
       Did he drink tonight?

              TINA
       Yes. 

Silvana nods and sighs. 


                                       19.

              TINA
	(CONT’D)
       You want me to make you something 
       to eat?

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       No. I feel a little sick in my 
       stomach.

              TINA
          (in Spanish)
       It’s the bitch’s fault.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Enough!

INT. SILVANA’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Silvana opens her closet. She puts the box of toys on top of 
several other identical-looking boxes.

She closes the closet doors.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Claire is in a swim suit. She takes a pill out of a bottle 
and swallows it. 

She jiggles the pill bottle - she’s down to only a couple. 
She sighs and puts the bottle in the locker.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY POOL - DAY

Claire’s physical therapist, BONNIE, mid 20s with the body of 
a triathlete, holds Claire in the water on her back.

              BONNIE
       Remember the clock. Think of your 
       legs at four and seven.

              CLAIRE
       It hurts.

              BONNIE
       I understand.

              CLAIRE
       You obviously don’t.


Wheelchair Woman is being assisted by a Physical Therapist 
into the sling that will lower her into the water.

                                       20.

              BONNIE
       Come on. Spread your legs a little 
       wider.

              CLAIRE
       Shouldn’t we go on a date first?

              BONNIE
       Ha ha. Come on.

              CLAIRE
       Ow!

              BONNIE
       From your pelvis. Feel your hip 
       sockets loosen. 

              CLAIRE
       Mother fucking Jesus Christ!

Wheelchair Woman looks over with disapproval. Claire stands 
up in the water.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
          (to Wheelchair Woman)
       What are you looking at?

              BONNIE
       Claire. Stay focused.

              CLAIRE
       I am!

              BONNIE
       No you’re not.

              CLAIRE
       But it hurts.

              BONNIE
       You had pins in your legs for 
       almost a year. Of course it’s going 
       to hurt.

Bonnie comes close to Claire.

              BONNIE
	(CONT’D)
          (quietly)
       Your doctor wants me to write up an 
       assessment.


                                       21.

              CLAIRE
       On my water ballet moves?

              BONNIE
       Why there’s been zero improvement 
       in six months.

              CLAIRE
       I’ve always hated that weasely 
       little bastard.

              BONNIE
       It doesn’t seem like you want to 
       get better.

              CLAIRE
       I show up for every appointment. 
       Like a good little girl.

Bonnie shrugs.

              BONNIE
       Maybe you’d do better with someone 
       else.

Claire bobs in the water. The only sound is the sling being 
lowered into the water.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY POOL - LATER

Claire is alone in the pool. She floats on her back.

She stands up, takes a deep breath, and dives underneath the 
water.

Claire holds her breath as she floats in the water. She 
slowly exhales and her body starts to descend into the depths 
of the pool.

Her face: determined.

Claire reaches the bottom, but it isn’t long before she 
bursts to the surface.

After catching her breath, Claire looks disgusted with 
herself.

She swims to the edge.


INT. SUV - DAY

Silvana drives. Claire is laying down with the seat all the 
way back, her hair still wet from therapy.

                                       22.

              SILVANA
       Where now?

              CLAIRE
       Just stay on the 710. We’re going 
       to the bridge.

              SILVANA
       Okay.

Claire looks out the windows as they drive past signs for 
casinos, and shopping centers, and TV shows, and attorneys.

Claire starts to drift off in a druggy haze, but she forces 
herself to stay alert.

EXT. SHIPPING COMPANY OFFICE - DAY

Claire and Silvana stand next to BUDDY, 30s, a longshoreman. 
They’re looking at the Vincent Thomas Bridge.

              BUDDY
       I’m coming out of the trailer and 
       for some reason I look at the 
       bridge. Like this.

He points toward the bridge.

              BUDDY
	(CONT’D)
       And I see this car stopped and then 
       this woman walking -- I think the 
       car’s stalled. But then I realize 
       she’s not walking on the inside of 
       the bridge. She’s managed to get 
       herself on the outside. I’m like, 
       fuck, she’s gonna jump.

              CLAIRE
       How fast was she going?

              BUDDY
       Not fast, she had to hang on to the 
       mesh. So I called the police and 
       then I’m yelling at her. ‘Don’t 
       jump’. She probably couldn’t hear 
       me, she was too far away. 


                                       23.

              CLAIRE
       How long before she jumped?

              BUDDY
       It was pretty long, the whole time 
       she’s looking down at the water. It 
       was enough time for the cops to 
       start driving up the bridge. When 
       she saw the cops, that’s when she 
       jumped. Well, actually, fell. 
       Backwards.

Silvana shudders. 

              CLAIRE
       A few minutes before she jumped?

              BUDDY
       Maybe.

              CLAIRE
       So she wasn’t a hundred percent 
       sure.

              BUDDY
       I don’t know about that. She did 
       it, so she was a hundred percent 
       successful.

              CLAIRE
       Right.

              BUDDY
       I gotta get back to work.

              CLAIRE
       Thanks.

Buddy walks off.

              BUDDY
       Hey, when’s the article coming out?

              CLAIRE
       Thursday.

Buddy waves and keeps walking. Silvana shoots Claire a 
disappointed look as they walk to the SUV.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       What?

Silvana just shakes her head.


                                       24.

EXT. VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - DAY

The SUV is parked along the side of the road, even though 
there isn’t a shoulder and there are signs prohibiting 
stopping.

Silvana sits in the car. She waves anxiously as honking cars 
go around her.

Claire walks along the edge of the road.

              CLAIRE
       It’s impossible.

She touches the wire fence guards that prevent someone from 
jumping.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       How the hell did she do it?

Claire stares down at the water.

Claire hikes back to where the bridge starts. Cars honk at 
her but she ignores them.

Silvana rolls down her window.

              SILVANA
       Get in!

              CLAIRE
       Wait in the car.

Claire walks all the way down to where the wire fence starts. 
She is able to get around to the other side of the bridge -- 
where Nina obviously started walking to her death.

Claire is pleased she figured this out.

EXT. VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - LATER

Claire is back at the top of the bridge.

She stares down at the water, as another freighter passes 
underneath from the harbor to the open sea.

Claire listens to the wind whistling through the fence. Her 
face is peaceful. She looks down at the shimmering water and 
the wake of the freighter.

Claire closes her eyes.


When she opens them, she is on the other side of the fence, 
holding onto the steel rail. 

She waits for a moment, then steps off the bridge. 

                                       25.

Falling in slow motion. 

The wind blows her hair. 

The water gets closer and closer.

She can see the smoke stacks and the workers and the cargo 
boxes on the freighter.

SPLASH!

She hits the surface of the water like a rocket. She plunges 
underneath, deeper and deeper.

She passes the churning propellers of the freighter. 

She passes a school of fish.

She passes disappearing rays of sunlight.

She passes strands of seaweed that look like waving arms.

Deeper and deeper, into the abyss:

Everything goes black and deathly silent.

INT. COMMUNITY CENTER - DAY

Claire sits in a waiting area. She watches Annette walk 
toward her with a confused look.

              ANNETTE
          (fake earnest)
       Well hello Claire. How are we 
       doing?

              CLAIRE
       We’re doing great!

Annette tentatively sits down next to Claire.

              ANNETTE
       Well that’s super! Did you find 
       another support group?

              CLAIRE
       Funny you should mention that. I've 
       decided to sue the support group. 


                                       26.

              ANNETTE
       Goodness.

              CLAIRE
       Technically it’s not the support 
       group I’m suing, it’s Los Angeles 
       County, because they oversee the 
       community center that sponsors the 
       group. 

              ANNETTE
       But...

              CLAIRE
       There was an interesting little 
       case a few years ago, I doubt you 
       heard of it. McDonnell vs. City of 
       Glendale, where it was ruled that 
       support groups could quote unquote 
       discriminate on the basis of 
       membership - e.g. only breast 
       cancer survivors could join - but 
       not when said discrimination was 
       legally prohibited - e.g. race or 
       religion - or where it involved 
       intangible and subjective 
       personality traits - e.g. Claire is 
       a raving bitch.

              ANNETTE
       But a lawsuit?

              CLAIRE
       I’m just pulling your leg. I'm 
       actually here to get Nina's 
       address.

              ANNETTE
       From group?

              CLAIRE
       The one who killed herself? Yes, 
       that Nina.

              ANNETTE
       I don't think I'm allowed to give 
       out that information. Was there 
       something else I could help you 
       with?

              CLAIRE
       I hardly think that’s possible.


                                       27.

              ANNETTE
       Well I'm certain I can't give you 
       that information. 

Annette starts to get up.

              ANNETTE
	(CONT’D)
       I'm sorry.

              CLAIRE
       Remember when I said I was kidding 
       about the lawsuit?

              ANNETTE
       Uh huh.

              CLAIRE
       Now I’m not kidding.

EXT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Claire rings the doorbell. She rings it again.

She’s about to leave when the door opens, revealing:

ROY -- there’s something haunted and vulnerable about him.

              ROY
       Yes?

              CLAIRE
       Hi. 

              ROY
       Hi.

              CLAIRE
       I’m Claire.

Roy doesn’t respond.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I used to live in this house when I 
       was a little girl.

              ROY
       Oh.

              CLAIRE
       You probably think I’m strange...


                                       28.

              ROY
       No. I’m just glad you’re not 
       selling magazines.

Claire laughs a little too hard. Roy manages a sad smile.

              CLAIRE
       I was wondering if I could take a 
       look. But it seems like a bad idea 
       now that I’m here.

Roy assesses Claire - intrigued. He opens the door wider.

              ROY
       It’s kind of a mess right now.

INT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Lots of takeout packages and garbage bags.

              ROY
       We changed the dining room. 

              CLAIRE
          (fake surprise)
       Right. Wow.

              ROY
       We decided to open up the wall to 
       the kitchen.

              CLAIRE
       Nice.

              ROY
       When we entertained, it was nice. 

              CLAIRE
       I’ll bet.

INT. CHILD’S BEDROOM - DAY

The room is decorated for a young boy. 

              ROY
       This was probably your room.

              CLAIRE
       Yes. Except I didn’t have Sponge 
       Bob Square Pants all over the wall.


                                       29.

              ROY
       I suppose not.

              CLAIRE
       There was a lot of pink and purple. 

              ROY
       What else?

              CLAIRE
       Let’s see. My mom painted a scene 
       from The Nutcracker Suite on that 
       wall. 

              ROY
       Which scene?

              CLAIRE
       The one with the mice.

              ROY
       Huh.

Awkward moment of silence.

              CLAIRE
       How old is...?

              ROY
       Casey. He’s five.

              CLAIRE
       A handful, huh?

              ROY
       Yeah. 
          (pause)
       He’s staying with my mom for 
       awhile. He’s been having nightmares 
       here.

              CLAIRE
       Oh. That’s too bad.

INT. NINA’S BEDROOM - DAY

Roy and Claire walk by the master bedroom. Roy isn’t going to 
show it to her, but Claire stops and looks in.

              ROY
       Oh right.

They come into the bedroom.


The room is dark with all the curtains drawn. Roy turns on a 
light.

Claire sees a wedding portrait of Nina and Roy. She also sees 
some bottles of medication on a dresser.

                                       30.

              CLAIRE
       Still the same.

              ROY
       We didn’t do anything to the 
       bedroom. We were, but then, you 
       know, we kind of lost track, you 
       know?

Claire looks at Roy -- the sadness in his eyes.

              CLAIRE
       I should go.

              ROY
       Yes.

Roy turns out the light and Claire follows him out.

EXT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Roy walks Claire out the front door. Claire sees Silvana 
asleep in the SUV across the street.

              CLAIRE
       Thank you.

              ROY
       It was interesting.

              CLAIRE
       I’m glad.

              ROY
       You know, your performance was 
       impeccable, but we didn’t do a damn 
       thing to the dining room.

Claire pretends not to understand.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       Annette called me after you left 
       her.

Claire doesn’t know what to say.


                                       31.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       Did you really threaten her?

              CLAIRE
       Yes.

              ROY
       Why?

              CLAIRE
       To be honest, I’m not sure.

              ROY
       Nina never talked about you.

              CLAIRE
       Why did you let me go on?

Roy shrugs.

              ROY
       I wanted to see how far you’d go. 

              CLAIRE
       Sorry.

              ROY
       Don’t be. I enjoyed myself. 

He holds out his hand. Claire shakes it.

              CLAIRE
       That’s fucked up.

              ROY
       So are you.

This gets a smile out of Claire.

INT. CLAIRE’S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Claire moves the fern and pulls out the methadone. She only 
has one pill left.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Silvana is folding laundry. Claire pops her head in.

              CLAIRE
       I want to go to Tijuana tomorrow.


                                       32.

              SILVANA
       Why?

              CLAIRE
       To that pharmacy you were talking 
       about.

              SILVANA
       A good idea?

              CLAIRE
       You have your green card, right?

              SILVANA
       Yes. 
          (beat)
       But long drive. You do too much 
       today.

              CLAIRE
       If you don’t want to go, I’ll just 
       hire someone.

              SILVANA
          (resigned)
       I drive.

              CLAIRE
       Get here early.

INT. SUV - DAY

Silvana drives, Claire laying all the way back. 

Claire starts rubbing her leg. She suddenly holds up a tiny 
fragment of glass.

It sparkles in the light.

              CLAIRE
       Look at that.

              SILVANA
       I drive.

              CLAIRE
       I’m shedding glass.

              SILVANA
       Is normal?

              CLAIRE
       That’s what the good doc says. 


Traffic slows down: there’s an accident up ahead. Silvana 
inhales sharply when she sees it. 

                                       33.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       What’s going on?

              SILVANA
       Nothing. 
          (pause)
       Workers.

              CLAIRE
       What kind of workers?

              SILVANA
       Just workers.

              CLAIRE
          (suspiciously)
       What are they wearing?

              SILVANA
       Yellow. Orange.

              CLAIRE
       Is anyone hurt?

Silvana doesn’t say anything. Claire studies her face.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Take Romaine instead.

              SILVANA
       Yes.

INT. SUV - LATER

Silvana and Claire are driving along I-5 south. 

Something’s off with Claire -- the pain seems to be worse.

              CLAIRE
       Are we in Orange County yet?

Silvana shrugs.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Do you only see white people?

              SILVANA
       Maybe.


                                       34.

              CLAIRE
       Then we’re in fucking Orange 
       County.

              SILVANA
       Pretty houses.

              CLAIRE
       I hated trials in Orange County 
       because A, you had to assume 
       everyone was a fucking retard and 
       B, you had to assume that everyone 
       was a fucking right wing Nazi 
       sympathizer. Hi, I’m the card-
       carrying ACLU member defense 
       attorney. Please don’t hold that 
       against my client and sentence him 
       to death for shoplifting.

              SILVANA
       I no understand.

              CLAIRE
       Don’t even get me started on the 
       fucking Nixon library. 

              SILVANA
       You take medicine today?

Claire gives her a look: give me a break.

EXT. TIJUANA BORDER - DAY

Claire’s SUV waits in a long line of vehicles. 

Everything is gray - the buildings, the wire fences, the air - 
and everything is washed out from the relentless noon sun.

Pedestrians walk into and out of Tijuana on either side of 
the road, an unending stream of people.

On either side of the border, vendors sell fruit and sodas 
and cheap ceramics and animal print T-shirts from their push 
carts. 

INT. TIJUANA PHARMACY - DAY

Claire and Silvana approach the counter. Claire is jittery - 
the low level of drugs in her blood stream just starting to 
cause problems. 


              CLAIRE
          (to Silvana)
       How does this work?

The PHARMACIST, early 30s, looks up from his newspaper.

                                       35.

              PHARMACIST
       I speak English.

              CLAIRE
       Great.

              PHARMACIST
       What do you need?

              CLAIRE
       Um....

She pulls out a piece of paper.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I made a list, and then I went on 
       the internet to see if the names 
       might be different in Mexico.

She hands the list to the Pharmacist.

              PHARMACIST
       This is a lot. 
          (laughing)
       Are you trying to sedate a small 
       city?

              CLAIRE
       They’re so expensive in the U.S.

              PHARMACIST
          (knowing)
       Yes.

He disappears into the back. Silvana comes up to the counter 
with a box of detergent.

              SILVANA
       This is good soap. No buy at 
       home...

              CLAIRE
       Get it.

The Pharmacist returns with several bottles.

              PHARMACIST
       You have prescriptions?


                                       36.

              CLAIRE
          (angry, to Silvana)
       I thought we didn’t need them.

              PHARMACIST
       The border, they’ll take them away 
       unless you have prescriptions.

              CLAIRE
       What should I do?

The Pharmacist takes a statue of the Virgin of Guadalupe. He 
turns it over to reveal a hole in the bottom. 

Then he opens one of the bottles and shows her the same 
number is imprinted on the tablets.

              PHARMACIST
       We write down the numbers on the 
       pills, see how this drug has a 
       unique number? Then I put all of 
       them in here.

              CLAIRE
       This seems kind of tricky. Won’t I 
       get caught?

              PHARMACIST
       You’re a rich white woman. Do you 
       ever get caught at anything?

Claire smiles and holds up the statue.

              CLAIRE
       Do you have anything other than 
       Mary?

              PHARMACIST
       I have Gabriel.

              CLAIRE
       I kind of have a problem with 
       anything religious.

              PHARMACIST
       I think you have bigger problems.

              CLAIRE
       Perceptivo.

Claire takes one of the pills and tastes it with the tip of 
her tongue.


                                       37.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Yep, that’s the one.

              PHARMACIST
       You don’t trust me?

              CLAIRE
       It’s not personal.

INT. SUV - DAY

Claire takes one of her pills and looks relaxed and pleased.

              CLAIRE
       I want to do something nice for 
       you.

              SILVANA
       Do not worry about me.

              CLAIRE
       What was your favorite restaurant 
       when you used to live here.

              SILVANA
       Are you hungry?

              CLAIRE
       Yes.

Silvana smiles.

              SILVANA
       I know a very good place. But, it 
       is not cheap.

              CLAIRE
       The sky’s the limit today. Let’s 
       go.

INT. TIJUANA RESTAURANT - DAY

Claire and Silvana sit at a table. Silvana eats a shrimp 
cocktail while Claire drinks a margarita.

Silvana notices two women come into the restaurant: IRMA and 
INOCENCIA, both 50s. 

              SILVANA
       Ay no.


              CLAIRE
       What?

Silvana tries to position herself so that the two women can’t 
see her, but eventually they recognize her.

                                       38.

              IRMA
       Silvana?!

              INOCENCIA
          (in Spanish)
       It is her!

Silvana tries to appear happy.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Look at you two! What are the odds?

Silvana gets up and hugs both of the women. They look at 
Claire and wait to be introduced.

              SILVANA
	(CONT’D)
          (in Spanish)
       This is Mrs. Simmons.
          (to Claire)
       These are my friends, Irma and 
       Inocencia.

              IRMA & INOCENCIA
       Hello.

              CLAIRE
       Nice to meet you.

              IRMA
          (in Spanish)
       I heard through the grapevine poor 
       Nuncio can’t find work.

              INOCENCIA
          (in Spanish)
       That must be so hard for you. Poor 
       Silvana, always working your 
       fingers to the bone.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       He got a job.

              IRMA
          (in Spanish)
       Really?


                                       39.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       A good one. He builds big swimming 
       pools.

              INOCENCIA
          (in Spanish)
       At his age?!

              IRMA
          (in Spanish)
       You know my Eduardo, he retired 
       this year. Now we spend all our 
       time with our grandchildren.

Claire notices that Silvana is looking increasingly 
miserable. She gets up.

              CLAIRE
       Excuse me ladies, I’ll be right 
       back.

We follow Claire as she finds the Waiter. She hands him some 
twenty dollar bills.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Please bring the change to that 
       woman, not me. You understand?

              WAITER
       Yes.

Claire slips back unnoticed.

              INOCENCIA
          (in Spanish, to Silvana)
       Your daughter was so pretty when 
       she was young. Is she still a 
       beauty?

              CLAIRE
       Nuncio did a fabulous job on my 
       pool.

The three ladies stare at Claire with confusion.

              INOCENCIA
       Really?

              CLAIRE
       I’ve recommended him to several of 
       my friends. 


                                       40.

              IRMA
       Oh.

              CLAIRE
          (to Silvana)
       Should we go shopping or do you 
       need to get back home.

              SILVANA
          (gratefully)
       Shopping.

The Waiter brings the change to Silvana. A beat of confusion, 
before she counts out a tip. Irma and Inocencia are 
impressed.

              CLAIRE
          (to Silvana)
       Thank you for lunch, it was 
       wonderful.
          (to Irma and Inocencia)
       And any friend of Silvana is a 
       friend of mine.

INT. SUV - DAY

Silvana drives along I-5 north of San Diego.

Silvana is lost in thought.

              SILVANA
       I always think you no speak 
       Spanish.

              CLAIRE
       I understood a few of the words, 
       but mostly it was those bitches’ 
       attitudes. 

Silvana smiles.

              SILVANA
       Thank you.

              CLAIRE
       De nada.

              SILVANA
       They are friends when I am young. 
       Now they are no friends. Because of 
       money.


                                       41.

              CLAIRE
       That’s fucked up.

              SILVANA
       This is life.

Silvana approaches the Border Inspection Station north of 
Camp Pendleton and slows down.

              CLAIRE
       What’s going on?

              SILVANA
       Inspection.

Silvana slows down even more, as cars file past Border Patrol 
officers.

An Officer looks at Silvana, then at Claire laying all the 
way back in the passenger seat. He waves the SUV over.

              CLAIRE
       What’s going on?

EXT. BORDER PATROL BUILDING - DAY

Claire and Silvana stand outside the SUV. An OFFICER is 
looking at Silvana’s green card and the contents of her 
purse.

Silvana gives Claire a desperate look.

              CLAIRE
          (to Officer)
       Can I make a phone call?

              OFFICER
       To who?

              CLAIRE
       My husband. I want to let him know 
       we’re running late.

              OFFICER
       Fine.

Claire dials.

              ASSISTANT
	(VOICE)
       Jason Simmons’s office.


                                       42.

              CLAIRE
       Put me through right now. It’s 
       Claire.

              ASSISTANT
	(VOICE)
       I don’t think...

              CLAIRE
       Now!

              ASSISTANT
	(VOICE)
       Please hold.

              OFFICER
       Hold on.

The Officer opens the back door of the SUV and pulls out the 
bag of detergent Silvana bought.

              OFFICER
	(CONT’D)
       You can’t bring this shit into the 
       country.

EXT. CLAIRE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

The SUV pulls into the driveway. JASON sits on the stairs 
near the front door.

Claire gets out.

              CLAIRE
       What are you doing here?

              JASON
       I wanted to make sure you got home 
       okay.

              CLAIRE
       You could’ve called.

              JASON
       Your phone goes straight to 
       voicemail and then you never return 
       calls.

              CLAIRE
       Oh, right.

Silvana gets out of the car with the statue.

              JASON
       Hi Silvana.


He gives her a warm hug.

                                       43.

              SILVANA
       Hello Mr. Simmons. Is good to see 
       you, but you are too skinny!

              JASON
       It’s good to see you too.

              CLAIRE
       We’re both okay. You can leave.

              JASON
       I don’t get a thank you?

              CLAIRE
       Thank you for abusing your position 
       within the federal government...

              JASON
       To save your ass...

              CLAIRE
       Over some stupid laundry 
       detergent...

              JASON
       And whatever you put in the statue 
       that they didn’t find.

Silvana opens the front door.

              SILVANA
       Good night Mr. Simmons.

              JASON
       Good night Silvana.

              CLAIRE
       Good night Jason.

              JASON
       I may as well get the rest of my 
       stuff.

              CLAIRE
       Not tonight. It wouldn’t be 
       prudent.

              JASON
       You never called my assistant. 

              CLAIRE
       I’ll call her tomorrow. 


                                       44.

              JASON
       You’re lying.

              CLAIRE
       Boy, nothing gets by you.

Jason sits down on the front steps.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       That doesn’t say ‘I’m leaving’.

              JASON
       I want to know how you’re doing.

Claire sighs and sits down next to him.

Claire doesn’t say anything for a moment. She finally rests 
her head against his shoulder. He puts his arm around her.

              CLAIRE
       I’ve been better.

              JASON
       I’m sorry.

Claire sits up. 

              CLAIRE
       I’m just warning you, what I’m 
       about to ask is going to sound 
       weird and full of inappropriate 
       intentions.

              JASON
       I can deal.

              CLAIRE
       I don’t want sex or anything, but 
       would you stay in my room until I 
       fall asleep.

              JASON
       Of course.

              CLAIRE
          (suspiciously)
       That was easy.

              JASON
       Oh, come on. Can you just give me a 
       little credit for being a nice guy.

              CLAIRE
       Sorry.


                                       45.

Jason stands up and helps Claire get up.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jason tucks in Claire.

              JASON
       Do you want me to lay next to you?

              CLAIRE
       Nah. The chair.

              JASON
       Okay.

Jason sits down. 

              JASON
	(CONT’D)
       Do you want me to tell you a 
       bedtime story?

              CLAIRE
       Tell me a story where everything 
       works out in the end for the evil 
       witch.

              JASON
       I think I can do that.

              CLAIRE
       Thanks.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

Claire wakes up and sees that Jason’s not in the chair.

              CLAIRE
       Jason?

No response.

She lays back down and goes back to sleep.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire is awakened by:

KNOCKING

On the sliding glass doors.


                                       46.

Claire stirs.

              CLAIRE
       Go away Arturo! I’m not in the 
       mood!

MORE KNOCKING

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I said go away!

The knocking doesn’t stop.

Claire flings opens the curtains.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - NIGHT

In the jacuzzi is Nina, Roy’s dead wife.

Claire opens the sliding door. Nina waves.

              CLAIRE
       What the fuck do you want?

              NINA
       I could use something to drink.

              CLAIRE
       Go away!

              NINA
       And something to snack on. Some 
       chips would be nice.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - NIGHT

Claire sits in the jacuzzi. Nina takes a sip of wine.

              NINA
       Why are you such a cunt?

              CLAIRE
       I hate to break it to you but I 
       don’t believe in ghosts.

              NINA
       That doesn’t mean you’re not a 
       coward.

This comment gets to Claire.


                                       47.

              CLAIRE
       I know.

              NINA
       What’s stopping you? You don’t 
       believe in God. In heaven or hell. 
       You don’t believe in anything.

              CLAIRE
       I know.

Nina moves in closer, her eyes blazing.

              NINA
       Do it right now.

              CLAIRE
       Get away from me.

              NINA
       Come on. Don’t be a coward.

Nina grabs Claire by the shoulders and pushes her down into 
the water.

Claire fights for her life.

              CLAIRE
       Stop!

But Nina is stronger. Claire tries to lift her head out of 
the water for air.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire wakes up gasping for air. She’s pushed off most of her 
covers and sheets. 

Claire notices the curtains billowing from the open sliding 
doors.

She gets up slowly -- her pain nearly unbearable -- and shuts 
the door.

EXT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Roy comes out of the house to find Claire waiting by his car. 
A cab drives away in the distance.

He stops and frowns.


                                       48.

              CLAIRE
       I need a ride.

              ROY
          (beat)
       I’m running an errand.

              CLAIRE
       I don’t mind.

INT. ROY’S CAR - DAY

Roy looks down at Claire, her seat lowered all the way back.

              CLAIRE
       Thank you for not asking why I sit 
       like this.

              ROY
       Or why you just showed up at my 
       house without a car?

              CLAIRE
       Yeah.

Roy continues to drive.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I’m not a stalker. Not in the 
       traditional sense.

              ROY
       I believe you.
          (beat)
       It doesn’t matter either way.

              CLAIRE
       I like your attitude.

              ROY
       Thanks, I guess.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Roy and Claire stand before of a shiny new headstone.

Roy rubs his hand against the surface of the headstone.

              ROY
       They did a nice job.


                                       49.

              CLAIRE
       Italian marble?

              ROY
       The best.

              CLAIRE
       Do you know where they got it? I’m 
       thinking of putting a kitchen 
       island in the back yard.

              ROY
       I could give you the name. I don’t 
       have it on me.

              CLAIRE
       That would be great.

They stare at the headstone in silence. A flock of noisy 
crows lands nearby.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       She was thirty two. 

              ROY
       Yes.

              CLAIRE
       I never would have guessed.

              ROY
       Why?

              CLAIRE
       She seemed younger. Too naive to be 
       in her thirties.

Roy picks up a stepladder and a box and walks to a nearby 
tree.

              ROY
       Could you help?

              CLAIRE
       If I can.

Roy places the stepladder under the lowest branch of the 
tree. He unpacks the box, pulling out a wind chime.

              ROY
       Hold this...

Roy climbs up the ladder and takes out a piece of wire from 
his pocket.


                                       50.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       Okay.

Claire hands him the wind chime.

              CLAIRE
       Careful. Don’t fall.

Roy attaches the wind chime to the branch. He taps it lightly 
and soothing tones fill the cemetery.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I don’t think that’s legal.

              ROY
       I don’t give a shit.

INT. BAR - DAY

Roy and Claire sit in a booth, beneath a huge sailfish. They 
both have a glass of wine.

              CLAIRE
       You can talk about her if you want.

              ROY
       I don’t.

Claire nods and takes a sip of her wine.

              CLAIRE
       I’m just saying...I don’t mind.

A Waitress brings over a plate of nachos. Roy and Claire 
stare at the food as if they regret ordering it.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I was recently in Tijuana.

              ROY
       What for?

              CLAIRE
       This frat boy I’m dating. He wanted 
       to get tanked on cheap booze and 
       then go see a woman have sex with a 
       donkey.

Roy doesn’t laugh...waiting for Claire to continue.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I’m kidding.


                                       51.

              ROY
       Oh.

              CLAIRE
       I had some business there.

              ROY
       What kind?

              CLAIRE
       Nothing very interesting.

Roy takes a bite of the nachos.

              ROY
       You know how she killed herself, 
       right?

              CLAIRE
       Yes.

She waits for Roy to continue. Finally:

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Did she leave a note?

              ROY
       No. 

Claire takes another sip of wine.

              CLAIRE
       You must wish you could talk to 
       her.

              ROY
       Why?

              CLAIRE
       Don’t you wonder why she did it?

              ROY
       We did an exercise in my suicide 
       support group. Your partner 
       pretended to be the person who 
       died.
          (beat)
       Want to know what I had to say to 
       my lovely wife?

Claire nods.


                                       52.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       Thanks for ruining Casey’s life. 
       Thanks for ruining my life. Thanks 
       for leaving me this fucking mess. 
          (beat)
       I hate you so much I can hardly 
       breathe anymore. I hope you’re 
       burning in hell, cause that’s where 
       you’ve put me and Casey.

Claire doesn’t say anything -- not even a raised eyebrow.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
          (to Claire)
       My partner got scared.

              CLAIRE
       Why?

              ROY
       She said she felt like I was gonna 
       bash her face in.

              CLAIRE
       Did you want to?

              ROY
       Yes. But I didn’t.

Claire catches the Waitress’ attention: another glass for 
both of them.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       Do I scare you?

              CLAIRE
       Yes.
          (beat)
       But that’s not a bad thing.

The Waitress brings two glasses of wine. Roy raises his. 

              ROY
       Cheers.

              CLAIRE
       Cheers.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A very drunk Roy and Claire stumble in. Claire has to grab 
Roy to support herself.


                                       53.

              ROY
       I want to get something straight.

              CLAIRE
       He said, changing the mood of the 
       room.

              ROY
       Seriously, I don’t want to have 
       sex.

              CLAIRE
       I know.

              ROY
       I just wanted to be clear.

              CLAIRE
       I get it. I hate sleeping by myself 
       too.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - LATER

Roy and Claire lay next to each other on the bed - Roy’s 
asleep.

Claire turns on her side away from Roy. Her eyes wide open.

After a moment, she reaches for Roy’s hand and carefully 
places his arm around her.

Claire closes her eyes.

INT. WALK-IN CLOSET - DAY

Claire comes in and notices Jason’s clothes on one side.

Claire pulls some of his clothes off the rack, tossing them 
into a pile. 

When she’s done with that, she pulls down some shoe boxes and 
tosses them into the pile.

An unmarked box tumbles down on her.

              CLAIRE
       Ow! Fuck!

The contents of the box: old CDs.

Claire picks out a Carpenters CD and considers it for a 
moment.


                                       54.

She takes this CD and the others and throws them in the 
garbage with a loud bang.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Claire sits drinking wine. 

A car drives up her street. She opens the curtains and looks 
out the window -- maybe it’s Roy? But the car drives past her 
house and Claire is slightly disappointed.

The Carpenters play on the stereo.

              KAREN CARPENTER
	(SONG)
       All the years of useless search,
       Have finally reached an end. 
       Loneliness and empty days will be 
       my only friend.
       From this day love is forgotten,
       I'll go on as best I can...

Claire turns her attention to the stereo. 

              CLAIRE
       Jesus Christ. Enough with the 
       whining already.

Claire ejects the CD and throws it across the room.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire is in bed, propped up on her elbows. She stares at the 
chair where Jason sat before. She sighs and lays back down.

She turns on her side. After a moment, she takes a pillow and 
pushes it against her back - like someone is spooning her.

But this substitute doesn’t provide much comfort. 

Claire sits up. She stares at the room for a moment, 
eventually focusing on the billowing curtains. 

For a moment it appears that there’s a young child hiding in 
the folds of the curtains - but then the shape is gone. 

EXT. NINA’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Very late at night. The neighborhood is dark.

Claire knocks on the door. Eventually, Roy answers the door, 
sleepy and confused.


                                       55.

              ROY
       What’s going on?

              CLAIRE
       I took a fucking cab.

              ROY
       Why?

              CLAIRE
       It dawns on me that you’re more 
       than a little depressed, and I 
       realized I didn’t have your phone 
       number.

              ROY
       You thought I killed myself?

              CLAIRE
       Not that it’s actually any of my 
       business. 

              ROY
       I didn’t. I’m alive. Ta da.

              CLAIRE
       Okay, you’re not dead. I don’t have 
       to break in and call the police. 
       That’s a relief.

Roy opens the door wider.

              ROY
       You could have just said you wanted 
       to come over.

              CLAIRE
       Yeah, but where’s the fun in that?

INT. NINA’S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Claire goes through the medicine cabinet -- she examines 
several bottles.

              CLAIRE
       Good girl.

She takes a couple of pills and drinks water from the faucet 
to wash them down.


                                       56.

INT. NINA’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Roy and Claire are laying in bed. Claire is focused on the 
portrait of Roy and Nina on the opposite wall.

              CLAIRE
       There are primitive people who 
       think you steal a person’s soul 
       when you take their picture.

No response. Claire turns over and discovers Roy is asleep. 

When she turns back around, she sees:

Nina, sitting on the bed by her.

              NINA
       Hello slut.

              CLAIRE
       Thanks for the percocets.

              NINA
       What are you doing here? He doesn’t 
       even like you -- he’s in mourning, 
       for me. He’s not thinking clearly.

              CLAIRE
       You think I love him? Give me a 
       fucking break.

              NINA
       You just use people.

              CLAIRE
       You’re right.

Claire pretends to cry. Nina tries to comfort her. Claire 
starts laughing.

              NINA
       Fuck you.

Nina gets up and leaves the room.

              CLAIRE
       Your language has really degraded.

EXT. NINA’S BACKYARD - NIGHT

The yard is filled with holes. Claire realizes she’s holding 
a shovel.


                                       57.

Claire starts to dig a hole. She hits something hard. She 
puts all her force into it until she’s standing on the 
shovel.

Suddenly she hears screaming and then the shovel dislodges 
something:

Nina’s head.

              CLAIRE
       Did it hurt?

Nina’s head opens its eyes.

              NINA
       I could hear him yell ‘don’t jump’.

Claire tries to bury the head back in the hole, but it keeps 
appearing in other holes.

              NINA
	(CONT’D)
          (mocking)
       Don’t jump. Don’t jump.

INT. NINA’S BEDROOM - DAY

Claire and Roy are asleep. The doorbell rings. Roy sits 
upright. 

Someone is opening the front door with a key.

Roy looks at the clock.

              ROY
       Shit!

He jumps up and throws on some clothes.

              CLAIRE
       What’s going on?

              ROY
       I forgot my mom’s dropping off 
       Casey. Just stay here.

Roy runs out of the bedroom and closes the door behind him.

INT. NINA’S BATHROOM - DAY

Claire sits on the toilet. She opens a bottle of pills and 
takes a couple.


Suddenly the bathroom door opens.

CASEY, 5. He’s shocked to see Claire, but the shock quickly  
turns to admiration of her scars.

                                       58.

              CASEY
          (whisper, re: scars)
       What happened?

              CLAIRE
       Can you let me finish peeing?

Casey nods and closes the door.

INT. ROY’S CAR - DAY

From his car seat in the back, Casey stares at Claire laying 
all the way back in her seat. 

              CASEY
       It’s my birthday.

              CLAIRE
       Happy birthday.

              CASEY
       I want a kite.

              ROY
       Your birthday isn’t until next 
       Tuesday. 

              CASEY
       Oh. Right.

              CLAIRE
       What kind of kite do you want?

              CASEY
       A big one.

              CLAIRE
       I like dragon kites. And shark 
       kites. I like any animal that 
       bites.

Casey laughs. Roy looks at Claire with concern.

              ROY
       Are you okay? 

              CLAIRE
       Yeah.


                                       59.

              ROY
       You don’t have to come to the 
       cemetery with us. 

              CLAIRE
       I’m good. Really.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Claire sits in Roy’s car. She watches Roy and Casey stand in 
front of Nina’s headstone.

Roy takes Casey over to where the wind chime hangs. 

Casey wants to touch it. Roy puts him on his shoulders, and 
Casey touches the chimes - it’s beautiful and poignant.

Then Casey really whacks the chimes.

Claire winces from the noise. She gets a bottle of pills out 
from her purse and takes two.

She drops the pills. She bends down to find them on the 
floor. It’s excruciating for her to bend over. 

Claire moans and lifts her head. 

Casey is at the window, his face pressed against the glass.

              CLAIRE
       Ah!

Casey giggles and runs back to Roy.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Jesus Christ.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

Roy and Casey eat breakfast. 

Claire isn’t eating anything -- she colors a children’s paper 
placemat.

She holds it up for Casey.

              CLAIRE
       What do you think?

              CASEY
       Everything’s blue! That’s silly.


                                       60.

              CLAIRE
       Picasso did it and it turned out 
       pretty well for him.

She notices a booth in the corner. Claire does a doubletake 
when she realizes it’s:

Nina. Nina waves at Claire.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I’ll be right back.

Claire walks over to Nina, who has a Cheshire cat grin on her 
face.

When Claire reaches the booth:

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I ought to smack that fucking grin 
       right off your face.

              NINA
          (fake innocent)
       What?

Claire leans against the tabletop.

              CLAIRE
       You heard me.

But Claire isn’t talking to Nina, she’s actually talking to 
an OLD WOMAN.

              OLD WOMAN
       Can I help you?

              CLAIRE
       Leave me the fuck alone, that’s 
       what you can do to help me.

              OLD WOMAN
       Waitress!

Claire walks away -- toward the exit and not back to Roy’s 
table.

INT. CLAIRE’S HOUSE - DAY

The doorbell rings. Silvana answers it to reveal Roy. 

              SILVANA
       Yes?


                                       61.

              ROY
       I’m a friend of Claire’s.

Silvana is suspicious.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       I live in Palos Verdes. I think you 
       drove her to my house one time.

              SILVANA
       Yes. She sleeps now. Very tired.

              ROY
       Can I come in? 

Silvana hesitates.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       I’m worried about her.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - DAY

Roy sits in the chair the end of the bed watching Claire 
sleep.

Claire stirs and is startled when she sees Roy.

              CLAIRE
       Jesus!

              ROY
       Sorry.

              CLAIRE
       Is that really you or am I 
       hallucinating?

              ROY
       It’s really me.

              CLAIRE
       Prove it.

              ROY
       You’ll just have to trust me.

              CLAIRE
       How’d you get in?

              ROY
       Silvana.
          (beat)
       She told me about the accident.


                                       62.

              ROY
	(CONT'D)
          (long pause)
       And your little boy.

              CLAIRE
       She needs to keep her fat mouth 
       shut. 

              ROY
       She cares about you.

              CLAIRE
       I pay her to care about me. It’s 
       not my fault she’s sentimental. 
          (beat)
       I hope you’re not getting 
       sentimental.

              ROY
       I can’t save you Claire. I can 
       barely save myself and my kid.

              CLAIRE
       I’m not asking you...

              ROY
       I lied about Nina not leaving a 
       note.

Roy opens his wallet and pulls out a folded piece of paper.  
He puts the note on the edge of the bed and leaves.

Claire waits a moment, before eagerly picking it up. All it 
says is:

I’M ALREADY DEAD. I’M JUST MAKING IT OFFICIAL. 

Claire is disappointed. 

              CLAIRE
       I was expecting something a little 
       more original.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Silvana is cleaning the floor. Claire comes in and stares at 
her.

              SILVANA
       Yes?

              CLAIRE
       You’ve got this habit of letting 
       everyone into the house.


                                       63.

              SILVANA
       He say he is friend. 

              CLAIRE
       Anybody can say that.

              SILVANA
       But he is friend, no?

Claire doesn’t know how to respond.

              SILVANA
	(CONT’D)
       I think you get angry now, but...

              CLAIRE
       What?

              SILVANA
       I invite him and his boy for lunch 
       tomorrow.

              CLAIRE
       What?!

              SILVANA
       I make tamales. You like my 
       tamales.

              CLAIRE
       That’s not the point.

Silvana waits for Claire’s wrath, but it doesn’t come.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Did he say yes?

              SILVANA
       Yes.

              CLAIRE
       Good.
          (beat)
       Maybe you could make some mango 
       tamales too?

              SILVANA
       Yes. Anything more?

              CLAIRE
       The next time someone asks for me 
       at the front door, you have to let 
       me know before you let them in. 
       Understand?


                                       64.

Silvana nods.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Even if it’s Jesus fucking Christ 
       himself.

Silvana tsks her disapproval.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       What? I’m serious. This isn’t a bus 
       station.

EXT. INTERSECTION - DAY

Claire stands on the sidewalk, watching the cars go through 
the busy intersection.

She glances down and notices some pieces of glass from a 
shattered car window. She picks one up and examines it.

A car HONKS.

Claire jumps back. The Driver motions for her to get out of 
the street.

INT. TOY STORE - DAY

Claire walks slowly through the enormous aisles, like she’s 
lost. Like she’s in a lot of pain.

Claire finds the kite section. She tries to grab one, but 
they’re all beyond her reach. 

She groans and sits down on the floor. 

A young ASSISTANT walks by the aisle and sees Claire.

              ASSISTANT
       Are you okay ma’am?

              CLAIRE
       I got dizzy. 

              ASSISTANT
       Should I call 911?

              CLAIRE
       No! I’m okay. I was just trying to 
       get one of the kites. 

The Assistant helps Claire to her feet.


                                       65.

              ASSISTANT
       Which one? I can get it for you.

              CLAIRE
       I don’t need any help.

Claire walks away. The Assistant watches her with a puzzled 
expression.

INT. COMMUNITY CENTER - DAY

Claire sits in the waiting area. Annette comes out of her 
office.

When Annette sees Claire, she turns around and walks in the 
opposite direction. 

              CLAIRE
       Annette?

Claire gets up and follows her.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Wait. Come on, we need to talk.

Annette keeps walking away from Claire.

              ANNETTE
       I have nothing to say to you.

              CLAIRE
       I want to apologize Annette.

              ANNETTE
       Hah!

              CLAIRE
       I come bearing a conciliatory gift.

              ANNETTE
       What, a poisoned apple?

              CLAIRE
       That’s a good one. Actually I 
       brought a nice bottle of vodka.

Annette considers this and stops walking.

              ANNETTE
       What kind?

              CLAIRE
       Grey Goose. 


                                       66.

Annette turns around.

              ANNETTE
       Show me.

Claire takes out the bottle from her bag.

              CLAIRE
       The big bottle from Costco.

              ANNETTE
       Put it on the floor.

              CLAIRE
       What?

              ANNETTE
       I accept your apology. You can put 
       the bottle on the floor and go 
       home.

              CLAIRE
       You don’t want me to hand it to 
       you?

              ANNETTE
       No.

              CLAIRE
       Fair enough.

Claire puts the bottle on the floor. She waves at Annette 
before walking away.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Have a good night.

              ANNETTE
       You too Claire.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - NIGHT

Claire floats on her back in the pool. The possum watches as 
she moves her arms and legs in various positions.

INT. PHYSICAL THERAPY POOL - DAY

Claire sits at the edge of the pool staring at Wheelchair 
Woman being lowered into the water.

Bonnie the physical therapist comes out to the deck.


                                       67.

              BONNIE
       Claire.

              CLAIRE
       Don’t sound so surprised.

              BONNIE
       I wasn’t sure I’d see you again.

              CLAIRE
       I want to get something off my 
       chest.

              BONNIE
       Sure.

              CLAIRE
       I am in a lot of pain.

              BONNIE
       I know that.

              CLAIRE
       You may know it, but sometimes I 
       suspect you think I’m just this 
       uncooperative old bitch who’s 
       making it all up.

              BONNIE
       I’m sorry if you’ve felt that way. 
       Because that’s not what I think. At 
       all.

              CLAIRE
       Good.

              BONNIE
       Can I get something off my chest?

              CLAIRE
       Sure.

              BONNIE
       There’s going to be some pain 
       involved in our therapy. This isn’t 
       a spa. 

              CLAIRE
       It isn’t?
          (beat)
       Just kidding.


                                       68.

              BONNIE
       Do you really want to get better? 
       No bullshit, just an honest answer.

              CLAIRE
       I do.

INT. BEAUTY SALON - DAY

Claire sits in a chair - a Stylist cutting her wet, freshly-
colored hair.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - DAY

Claire opens the door from the kitchen -- she’s put on some 
foundation that mostly masks her facial scars. 

Roy and Casey come outside to the pool.

              ROY
          (to Casey)
       Wow.

              CASEY
       Can I go swimming?

              ROY
       You don’t have your swimsuit.

              CLAIRE
       I might have one he can borrow.

              ROY
       Well...

              CLAIRE
       Silvana needs a few minutes to get 
       the feast ready anyway.

              CASEY
       Please?

              ROY
       Okay.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Claire stands in front of a door that we haven’t seen before. 
She goes to open the door, but pauses.


                                       69.

              CLAIRE
       Hey Silvana? 

No response.

Claire decides to open the door.

INT. CHILD’S BEDROOM - DAY

Claire comes into the room and turns on the light. 

Everything is boxed. The drapes are closed, and the room is 
dusty.

Claire looks at an enormous mural on one of the walls. She 
turns on a light to better see it.

The mural is of a Little Boy flying with arms outstretched 
through outer space: the Sun, the planets, stars, comets. 

Claire parts a curtain to see Roy chasing Casey in the 
backyard. 

Claire tries to open a box, but stops when she realizes her 
hands are shaking.

              CLAIRE
       Silvana!

              SILVANA
	(O.S.)
       What?

              CLAIRE
       I need your help!

              SILVANA
	(O.S.)
       Where are you?

              CLAIRE
       Here!

Silvana comes in to find Claire staring helplessly at the 
boxes.

              SILVANA
       What are you doing?

              CLAIRE
       A swimsuit for Casey. 

Silvana puts her hands on Claire’s shoulders and guides her 
out of the room.


                                       70.

              SILVANA
       I will find. 

              CLAIRE
       Thank you.

EXT. CLAIRE’S BACKYARD - DAY

Claire and Roy lay on lawn chairs drinking wine. They watch 
Casey splashing in the shallow end.

              ROY
       I stopped going to my support 
       group.

              CLAIRE
       Did they kick you out?

              ROY
       No. My anger scared me.

              CLAIRE
       But anger can feel so good.

              ROY
       It’s just a drug. 
          (beat)
       I’m going back to work next week.

              CLAIRE
       Really?

              ROY
       I need to get my mind off myself. 

              CLAIRE
       They’ve got real drugs for that.

              ROY
       I think I’m going to sell the house 
       too. We can’t live there anymore.

              CLAIRE
          (annoyed)
       You’re just full of resolutions 
       today. Pretty soon you’ll be 
       running marathons.

              ROY
       I’m not the one getting my hair 
       done.


                                       71.

              CLAIRE
       What’s wrong with my hair?

              ROY
       Nothing. It’s nice.
          (pause)
       Can I ask you a question?

              CLAIRE
       Sure.

              ROY
       How can you stay here?

              CLAIRE
       I like my house.

              ROY
       I mean...don’t you sometimes feel 
       like you’re surrounded by ghosts?

              CLAIRE
       No.

              ROY
       I’m not even talking about real 
       ones. Just memories. Or maybe 
       that’s what ghosts are.

Claire gets up.

              CLAIRE
       More wine?

              ROY
       Sure.

Claire takes Roy’s glass and goes into the kitchen. Roy goes 
to the edge of the pool.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
          (to Casey)
       You want to dive for a quarter?

              CASEY
       Yes!

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Silvana is busy preparing the food. Claire pours wine.


                                       72.

              SILVANA
       Casey is so cute. He is good father 
       that man.

              CLAIRE
          (distracted)
       Yes.

Casey shrieks from the pool -- it’s a scream of joy, but it 
sounds just like a something terrible has happened.

Claire is startled and drops one of the wine glasses. It 
shatters all over the floor.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Shit.

              SILVANA
       No move. I clean up.

Claire stands rigid while Silvana picks up shards of glass. 
She looks out the window at Casey diving for Roy’s quarter.

              SILVANA
	(CONT’D)
       No move!

              CLAIRE
       I’m not!

Casey screams again and Claire closes her eyes and clenches 
her teeth.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Claire pushes aside the fern and takes out the bottle of 
methadone.

              SILVANA
	(O.S.)
       Lunch is ready! Mrs. Simmons?

Claire puts the bottle back.

              CLAIRE
       Coming.

INT. DINING ROOM - DAY

Roy, Casey, Silvana and Claire sit at the table. Before them 
is a terrific spread.

              ROY
       I think we should applaud.


                                       73.

Roy and Casey clap and Claire joins them.

              SILVANA
          (embarrassed)
       Stop. Pass plates.

              CLAIRE
       I’m glad you could come to lunch.

              ROY
       Us too.

Roy points to a wall in the living room where a large piece 
of art obviously hung -- there’s now a large square of darker 
paint where the sunlight didn’t hit.

              ROY
	(CONT’D)
       What’d you have up there?

              CLAIRE
       You know that painting of the dogs 
       playing poker?

              ROY
       Seriously?

              CLAIRE
       No. It didn’t go with the room 
       anymore.

Silvana starts dishing out food. Suddenly the doorbell rings.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Ignore it.

              SILVANA
       One second.

Silvana disappears for a moment. She comes back.

              SILVANA
	(CONT’D)
       It is man, he ask for you.

              CLAIRE
       What’s his name?

              SILVANA
       He no say. 

              CLAIRE
       He’s probably a Jehovah’s Witness. 
       Tell him to go away.

Silvana leaves again, but she comes back quickly.


                                       74.

              SILVANA
       He say he wait outside.

              CLAIRE
       Oh, Jesus.
          (to Roy)
       Excuse me. This won’t take long.

EXT. CLAIRE’S HOUSE - DAY

Claire opens the front door to find LEONARD, late 60s, 
sitting on the steps. He gets up.

When Claire sees him her face fills with disbelief.

              CLAIRE
       Get off my fucking property before 
       I call the police.

              LEONARD
       I’m sorry.

              CLAIRE
       What the fuck?

              LEONARD
       I wish I could do something. I 
       can’t live with myself. If I could 
       switch places I would.

Claire stares at Leonard with horror. Then rage.

              LEONARD
	(CONT’D)
       I wanted to tell you that at the 
       trial, but the lawyers wouldn’t let 
       me. 

Leonard starts crying.

              CLAIRE
       Get the fuck out of here!

She pushes Leonard -- he stumbles backward and falls on the 
grass.

Claire starts kicking him. Leonard doesn’t resist.

Silvana rushes outside and tries to pull Claire away from 
Leonard, but Claire pushes her back. 

Roy and Casey follow close behind.


                                       75.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       You fucking piece of shit! I will 
       kill you!

Roy manages to pull Claire away from Leonard. She starts 
hitting Roy but he grabs her arms.

              ROY
       Stop. Claire, come on, calm down.

Silvana helps Leonard up -- he’s sobbing and bleeding from 
his lip.

              CLAIRE
          (to Silvana)
       Don’t you dare take him inside!

              LEONARD
       She’s right. 

Claire notices a couple of Neighbors watching the scene with 
horrified interest. Leonard limps away to his car.

Claire looks at Silvana and Roy and Casey. Casey is crying.

              CLAIRE
       All of you go home! Right now!

              SILVANA
       But...

              ROY
       Claire...

              CLAIRE
       Get the fuck out here!

Claire goes back inside the house and slams and locks the 
door. Roy picks up Casey and consoles him. 

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Claire angrily washes off the makeup. After wiping her face 
with a towel she grabs the methadone and takes several.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Claire watches TV with glassy eyes. Beside her is an empty 
bottle of wine and several bottles of pills.


She keeps pressing the remote, endlessly changing the 
channels: informercials, celebrity gossip shows and reality 
shows.

                                       76.

              CLAIRE
          (commenting on each show)
       Bitch. Stupid bitch. Cunt. Moron. 
       Retard. Go ahead, flash your snatch 
       at me. Get your teeth done asswipe. 
       You’re gonna tell me how to invest 
       my money, dyke? 

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

Claire is in the same position - asleep. Her head bobs and 
she wakes up.

She looks at the bottle of pills and wine.

              CLAIRE
       Oh my God.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Claire forces herself to throw up. When she can’t throw up 
any more, she looks at herself in the mirror - terror in her 
eyes.

              CLAIRE
       Holy. Fucking. Shit.

INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT

Claire lays on a stretcher moaning.

              EMT
       How many did you take?

              CLAIRE
       It’s okay. I ride like this all the 
       time.

              EMT
       Ma’am? What have you taken?

              CLAIRE
       Everything.


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Claire is in a private room. She opens her eyes to find a 
NURSE standing over her. Claire notices a drip.

                                       77.

              NURSE
       If your throat hurts it’s because 
       we pumped your stomach. The bad 
       taste in your mouth is the 
       charcoal.

              CLAIRE
       Nothing hurts.

Claire slips back into unconsciousness.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Claire opens her eyes and sees Silvana sitting next to her. 
Silvana’s eyes are closed: she’s praying with a rosary. 

Claire watches the rosary swing as Silvana goes through each 
of the beads. She hears the beads click against each other - 
the sound distorted and out of proportion.

In contrast, Silvana’s prayers are soothing, indistinct 
Spanish words.

Claire closes her eyes.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Claire lays on her side in the bed, asleep. 

She opens and closes her eyes. When she opens them again, 
everything is blurry.

Claire sees a man sitting next to her. After blinking a few 
times, she realizes it’s Roy.

Claire nods appreciatively. Everything goes blurry again and 
she shuts her eyes.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Claire opens and closes her eyes a couple of times, until she 
sees:

Nina walk into the room carrying a large layer cake, which 
she places on a table.


                                       78.

Claire gets up on her elbows.

              CLAIRE
       I like your cute new do.

              NINA
       Thanks. I wish I could say the same 
       about yours.

              CLAIRE
       My makeover didn’t take.

Nina pulls up a chair next to Claire.

              NINA
       You’re probably wondering about the 
       cake.

              CLAIRE
       I didn’t want to be rude, but yes.

              NINA
       Remember when Annette asked us what 
       our dream would be if we didn’t 
       have chronic pain?

              CLAIRE
       I always hated her drippy little 
       exercises.

              NINA
       Yours was to have sex with the 
       entire Madrid soccer team.

              CLAIRE
       And yours was sickeningly sincere.

              NINA
       What’s wrong with a mother wanting 
       to make her son a birthday cake 
       from scratch?

Nina gets up and lights the candles on the cake.

              NINA
	(CONT’D)
       Everyone in the group cried after I 
       told mine. Everyone except you.

              CLAIRE
       I had my reasons.

              NINA
       I know that now.


                                       79.

              CLAIRE
       I know you know.

Nina comes over and strokes Claire’s face.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       To be honest, I wasn’t that 
       impressed with the whole Saint Nina 
       thing.

              NINA
       Saints don’t jump off the Vincent 
       Thomas Bridge.

              CLAIRE
       I give you points for execution.

              NINA
          (pleased)
       I knew you’d like it.

Nina brings over the cake to Claire.

              NINA
	(CONT’D)
       Make a wish.

Claire closes her eyes and thinks for a moment.

              CLAIRE
       I can’t think of anything...

              NINA
       It doesn’t matter. Just blow them 
       out.

Claire blows out all the candles. 

When she opens her eyes, she sees Nina opening the window. 
Nina throws out the cake and then immediately jumps out 
herself.

There’s a horrible 

THUD. 

Someone below starts screaming.

The Nurse runs into the room and looks out the window. The 
Nurse starts screaming.


                                       80.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Claire is screaming at the top of her lungs. A FILIPINO NURSE 
runs into the room.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       It’s okay. It’s okay.

Claire realizes she’s the one screaming and she stops.

              CLAIRE
       Don’t touch me!

              FILIPINO NURSE
       Okay, I won’t.

              CLAIRE
       Don’t!

Claire lays back down and pulls the IV out of her arm.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       What are you doing?!

              CLAIRE
       I don’t want this shit anymore. Do 
       you hear me?

              FILIPINO NURSE
       It’s just saline! Don’t pull it 
       out! 

The Nurse runs out of the room.

Claire watches her arm bleed profusely. The blood splatters 
all over the white sheet.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Claire sits up in bed, pale, dark circles under her eyes. 
She’s alone.

The Discovery Channel is playing on the TV. Claire tries to 
change the channel with the remote, but it doesn’t work.

The TV is showing a documentary about animal attacks.

Claire pushes the call button. The Filipino Nurse comes in.

              FILIPINO NURSE
          (weary)
       Yes?


                                       81.

              CLAIRE
       Could you change the channel? This 
       thing isn’t working.

Filipino Nurse sighs and pulls a chair under the TV. 

              FILIPINO NURSE
       No problem your highness.

              CLAIRE
       Oooh. Someone’s got a little edge 
       to her.

Filipino Nurse gets up on the chair and starts changing the 
channel manually. 

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       HBO would be great.

Filipino Nurse leaves it on the History Channel. She gets off 
the chair.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       There.

              CLAIRE
       Touché Imelda.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       It’s Amparo.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Claire watches a documentary on drive-in movie theaters.

              NARRATOR
	(TV)
       Once a popular symbol of youth 
       culture, drive-in theaters have 
       mostly disappeared from the United 
       States. One of the last operating 
       drive-in theaters is in the 
       California desert town of 
       Barstow...

Claire watches the TV with a wistful expression. 

The Filipino nurse comes in to check on Claire.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       You should eat something. How about 
       the apple sauce?


                                       82.

              CLAIRE
       We went to a drive-in.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       Who?

              CLAIRE
       On our first date. We were law 
       students at UCLA.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       I should’ve known you were a 
       lawyer.

              CLAIRE
       I found out he liked the 
       Carpenters, and not in an ironic 
       way either. And I got sick on rum 
       and Coke.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       Sounds like a wonderful time.

              CLAIRE
       Are you being sarcastic?

              FILIPINO NURSE
       I don’t have the energy to be 
       sarcastic.

The Filipino Nurse tucks in a couple of stray sheet corners.

              CLAIRE
       He held my hair while I got sick. 
       And he kept saying, it’s gonna be 
       okay. Over and over.

              FILIPINO NURSE
       That’s nice.

              CLAIRE
       I believed him.

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

A Nurse pushes Claire in a wheelchair out the exit.

Silvana is waiting by the SUV. 

She tries to help Claire get out of the wheelchair -- 
initially Claire tries to do it on her own, but she’s shaky 
on her feet, so she takes Silvana’s arm.


                                       83.

The two move very slowly.

              SILVANA
       Careful.

              CLAIRE
       We’re going on a little trip.

              SILVANA
       To home, yes. 

              CLAIRE
       To Barstow.

              SILVANA
       No. Only home.

              CLAIRE
       Barstow.

Silvana shakes her head firmly.

              SILVANA
       Home.

              CLAIRE
       Barstow. You’ll see.

              SILVANA
       You are not in good mind.

              CLAIRE
       That’s an understatement.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - DAY

Silvana holds a large overnight bag. She looks concerned as 
Claire paces back and forth, manic.

              CLAIRE
       Um. The travel pillow. You know the 
       one.

              SILVANA
       Sit down and rest. I find it.

Claire starts to sit down on the edge of the bed, but decides 
to get back up.

              CLAIRE
       It was fifty bucks. I bought it at 
       Sharper Image.


                                       84.

              SILVANA
       This one, yes?

              CLAIRE
       Yes! Great!
          (examining pillow)
       Oh, but I also want that lumbar 
       support pillow.
          (explaining)
       For my lower back. I bought it on 
       the internet, what a fucking 
       fiasco, remember?

              SILVANA
       Rest.

              CLAIRE
       And what about my sunglasses, I’ll 
       need those too. And a six pack of 
       Coke. A change of clothes just in 
       case.

Silvana keeps trying to get Claire to sit down.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Maybe I should write all this down 
       so we don’t forget.

              SILVANA
       You sit down if you write?

              CLAIRE
       Yes.

Silvana leaves and comes back with a pen and pad of paper. 
Claire takes them and sits down on the edge of the bed.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Okay. Now we’re in business!

INT. SUV - DAY

Silvana drives on I-15 through the high desert. Claire 
fidgets as she scans the relentlessly bleak scenery for any 
sign of life. 

All of a sudden, a large crow flies right into the 
windshield.

Silvana and Claire scream.

              CLAIRE
       Jesus! 


                                       85.

The dead and bloody bird is still on the windshield. Silvana 
tries the wipers, but it only makes the mess worse. 

EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY

The SUV is parked on the shoulder.

Silvana tries to remove the dead bird with a stick. 

Claire stands beside the car, staring at the passing 
vehicles, but not really watching them - her body trembling.

Suddenly a car honks at Claire, startling her back into the 
present.

              SILVANA
          (re: bird)
       This is very bad.

              CLAIRE
          (inside her own head)
       Yes.

EXT. DRIVE-IN - NIGHT

The marquee: THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST.

INT. SUV - NIGHT

The tinny speaker in the driver’s window is a constant stream 
of lashes and groans.

Silvana watches the movie and weeps. 

Claire has her head back against the head rest, sweating 
profusely, miserable. She takes several tissues and wipes her 
forehead.

Claire opens the travel bag and reaches inside. 

              CLAIRE
       We’re out of Coke.

Silvana doesn’t respond. Claire sighs.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       It’s okay, I get it. The damned 
       should have to go to the concession 
       stand.


                                       86.

EXT. DRIVE-IN - NIGHT

Claire walks toward the concession stand. She passes the 
playground, where a few young children in pajamas play.

Claire pulls out her cell phone.

              CLAIRE
       Hey it’s me. Crazy lady. I’m sure 
       you’re screening, I wouldn’t blame 
       you one little bit. 
          (nervous laugh)
       Thanks for coming by the hospital, 
       I’m assuming you were there and I 
       wasn’t hallucinating.
          (pause)
       Listen, please please please
       apologize to Casey.
          (pause)
       I can’t justify what happened, 
       but...Jesus! His lawyer advised him 
       not to apologize to me?! 
          (getting angrier)
       What the fuck?! What kind of fucked 
       up person does that? If I had been 
       his fucking lawyer I certainly 
       wouldn’t have done...

Claire notices some of the parents of the children looking at 
her with displeasure. 

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Sorry Roy. You’re a good person. 
       And I’m me.

As Claire hangs up she starts shivering uncontrollably and 
zips up her jacket.

She hears a not-so-distant train horn. She walks to a fence 
and sees train tracks nearby.

Claire squeezes through a hole in the fence. She walks 
through the brush to the tracks.

She’s joined by Nina.

              NINA
       It’s really hard without the drugs, 
       isn’t it?

              CLAIRE
       Unbelievably hard.


                                       87.

              NINA
       What would Jesus do?

              CLAIRE
       I think the son of bitch would lie 
       down on the tracks and let Union 
       Pacific put himself out of his 
       misery.

EXT. TRAIN TRACKS. - NIGHT

Claire and Nina reach the tracks. A train approaches from a 
distance.

              CLAIRE
       They need a mile to stop, right?

              NINA
       More or less.

Claire lays across on the tracks. Nina joins her.

              NINA
	(CONT’D)
       Not very comfortable, is it?

              CLAIRE
       That’s okay. It keeps me focused.

The two stare up at the beautiful desert night sky.

              NINA
       Your last thoughts are very 
       important Claire. They’re the only 
       things you get to take with you.

Claire considers this.

              CLAIRE
       Michaelangelo’s David. 

              NINA
       That’s a good one. Even though he 
       has a small dick.

              CLAIRE
       Listen to you!

              NINA
       What else?

              CLAIRE
       Bach cantatas.


Nina hums the theme of one. Then she starts humming a theme 
from The Nutcracker Street. Claire recognizes the tune and 
smiles happily.

                                       88.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       I was a mouse in The Nutcracker 
       Suite. Three years in a row.

              NINA
          (nodding)
       You were adorable.

              CLAIRE
       I wanted to be Clara or the sugar 
       plum fairy, but my mother told me I 
       wasn’t graceful enough. She said, 
       be grateful you’re a mouse, because 
       then no one will notice when you 
       make a mistake.

              NINA
       Ouch.

              CLAIRE
       The thing is, she was right. She 
       was always right.
          (shaking head)
       But I refuse to take her with me.

              NINA
          (whispering)
       We’re running out of time.

Claire goes quiet. The train is getting closer.

              NINA
	(CONT’D)
       Say it Claire.

              CLAIRE
       I was...

Claire turns her head to watch the train approaching. She 
looks back at Nina with a scared expression.

              NINA
       You were what Claire?

              CLAIRE
       A...

              NINA
       A what Claire?


                                       89.

Claire watches the train approaching. When she looks back 
Nina’s gone.

              CLAIRE
       A good mother.

Claire sits up, her eyes fill with tears. She gasps - trying 
to stifle a sob. She wipes her eyes, just as she sees Silvana 
running toward her. 

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Oh my God! What are you doing?

Claire gets to her feet with great difficulty.

              CLAIRE
       Don’t worry. I was just resting.

INT. SUV - NIGHT

Silvana drives through the high desert. Claire lays back in 
her seat - looking very guilty.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       It’s not enough I put up with your 
       bad attitude, your insults, you 
       sleeping with every low life man 
       who crosses your path, your 
       drinking and drugs, you treating me 
       like a dog and paying me a dog’s 
       wages. Why do I worry about your 
       soul? Why do I bother lighting 
       candles for you? You want to kill 
       yourself, be my guest, and Mary in 
       heaven, Queen of the Angels, 
       forgive me for saying that, but I’m 
       only human. 

              CLAIRE
       I’ve never heard you this angry.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       You don’t see the good in your 
       life. You drive poor Mr. Simmons 
       away, when all he wanted to do was 
       help you. He lost his boy too!

              CLAIRE
       I’m going to let you vent in 
       Spanish as long as you want. 


              CLAIRE
	(CONT'D)
       Because I can only imagine how 
       frustrated you’ve been with me.

All of a sudden the Check Engine light starts buzzing and 
flashing.

                                       90.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Frustrated!? That doesn’t begin to 
       describe my feelings. Dear Lord, I 
       should have left you months ago...

              CLAIRE
          (re: warning light)
       Uh, Silvana...

              SILVANA
       What?

              CLAIRE
       I think there might be a problem.

              SILVANA
          (sarcastically)
       Oh you do?

Just as the engine rattles and gasps to its death.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

A tired MECHANIC finishes unhitching the SUV from his tow 
truck.

Silvana and Claire stand near him.

              CLAIRE
          (to Mechanic)
       How long will the repair take?

              MECHANIC
       Two, three days.

              CLAIRE
       Shit.

              MECHANIC
       Your head gasket’s blown.

              CLAIRE
          (to Mechanic)
       Okay, fine, I trust you, not like I 
       have any choice. Okay, just take me 
       to where we can rent the car.


                                       91.

              MECHANIC
       What?

              CLAIRE
       I’m a platinum triple A member. I’m 
       entitled to a free mid-size rental.

The Mechanic looks confused.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       What’s the problem?

              MECHANIC
       Everything’s closed.

              CLAIRE
       Why? Is it a holiday?

              MECHANIC
       People are sleeping.

              CLAIRE
       Right. Sometimes I forget.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - NIGHT

Bound for L.A. on I-15.

Claire and Silvana sit in the middle of the bus. Silvana is 
asleep.

In the back of the bus is a noisy group of Teenagers. Claire 
looks around and sees that they are passing around a joint.

Claire sighs -- annoyed at the noise. She sniffs and can 
smell the pot.

Finally Claire gets up and walks to the back. The ringleader, 
BECKY, 16, glares at her defiantly. She doesn’t bother to 
hide the joint.

              BECKY
       Toilet’s broke bitch.

              CLAIRE
       I don’t need to use the toilet.

              BECKY
       Then get lost.

Her friends laugh. Claire smiles and leans in close to Becky.


                                       92.

              CLAIRE
       I used to be married to a federal 
       prosecutor in L.A. I have no 
       problem getting on my cell phone 
       and asking him to send a marshal to 
       the bus station.

Becky stops grinning. Claire points to the joint.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Is that just pot or did you morons 
       cut it with something else?

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - NIGHT

Claire sits next to Becky. Both are stoned and quiet. The 
rest of Becky’s friends are asleep.

              BECKY
       I ran away from home. In case you 
       were wondering.

              CLAIRE
       I wasn’t.

              BECKY
       From Boise. Ever been there?

              CLAIRE
       I make it a point of pride that 
       I’ve never set foot in Idaho.

              BECKY
       It’s beautiful.

              CLAIRE
       If you’re a white supremacist.

A moment of quiet.

              BECKY
       I want to be an actress.

              CLAIRE
       Let me give you some unsolicited 
       feedback. You're going to end up 
       doing porn or worse. That's what 
       happens to girls from Idaho like 
       you.

              BECKY
       Gross! I won’t do porn!


                                       93.

              CLAIRE
       Right. Do any of these stars ever 
       say in an interview, 'I ran away 
       from Idaho when I was sixteen and 
       ended up doing Hollywood movies'? 
       No. That's what porn actresses say, 
       not Scarlett Johannson.

              BECKY
       I hate Scarlett Johannson.

              CLAIRE
       You realize we’re not talking about 
       Scarlett Johannson? 

              BECKY
       I’m not sure what the fuck we’re 
       talking about.

              CLAIRE
       I’m trying to help you avoid at 
       least some of the many mistakes you 
       seem so intent on making.  

              BECKY
       Yawn.

Becky points at Claire’s scars.

              BECKY
	(CONT’D)
       So what happened? Was it gory?

              CLAIRE
       You got another joint?

Becky opens her bag with a pout.

              BECKY
       I hope you know these weren’t free.

Claire opens her purse and hands Becky a hundred dollar bill. 

              BECKY
	(CONT’D)
       Thanks! 
          (chatty)
       It’s funny, you don’t seem like a 
       stoner.

              CLAIRE
       Just for today. It’s kind of a 
       special occasion. 

              BECKY
       Cool.


                                       94.

              CLAIRE
       Right. Cool.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAWN

Everyone in the bus is asleep except for Claire. She watches 
the sun rise as the bus goes down El Tejon pass.

Silvana wakes up and panics when she sees Claire isn’t next 
to her.

Silvana looks in the back and sees Claire -- Claire waves 
serenely. Silvana walks back to her and points at Becky.

              SILVANA
       Who is this?

              CLAIRE
       You know what sounds good right 
       now? A homemade yellow cake with 
       fudge frosting.

              SILVANA
       I make one later.

              CLAIRE
       Let’s make one the minute we get 
       home.

              SILVANA
       First I go my home. Later I go your 
       home.

Silvana offers a hand to Claire. They walk back to their 
seats.

              CLAIRE
       You know, I’m ashamed to admit that 
       I have no idea where you live.

              SILVANA
       Downey. 

              CLAIRE
       It’s where the Carpenters are from.

              SILVANA
       I do not know them.

They sit down. 

Claire pulls out a small bottle of lotion from her purse. She 
takes some and starts rubbing Silvana’s hands with it.


                                       95.

A moment before:

              CLAIRE
          (singing quietly)
       Why do birds...suddenly appear...

              SILVANA
       This is very pretty song.

              CLAIRE
       Every time...you are near? Just 
       like me...they long to be...close 
       to you.

Claire continues to rub Silvana’s hands.

EXT. LOS ANGELES BUS STATION - DAY

Silvana opens the door to a cab. Claire hands Silvana some 
cash.

              CLAIRE
       You know I wouldn’t blame you if 
       you didn’t ever come back to my 
       house. 

              SILVANA
       I come. I promise.

Claire hugs Silvana.

              CLAIRE
       Thank you.

Silvana gets in and the cab drives off.

When Claire looks around she sees Becky sitting outside by 
herself. Becky has been watching Claire -- she waves.

Claire sighs. Another cab pulls up.

              CABBIE
       You need a ride?

              CLAIRE
       Just a second.

Becky walks over to her.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       What are your big plans? Oh that’s 
       right, you’re going to be a star.


                                       96.

              BECKY
       Shut up.

              CLAIRE
       Want to make another hundred?

              BECKY
       Ew, I knew you were a dyke.

              CLAIRE
       I don’t want to fuck you, I just 
       need you to bake me a cake.

              BECKY
       You’re a freak.

              CLAIRE
       Can you follow directions in a cook 
       book, or are you illiterate?

              BECKY
       Am I what?

              CLAIRE
       Jesus. Can you read? Do they still 
       teach that in Idaho?

              BECKY
       Fuck off.

              CLAIRE
       Fine.

Claire gets in the cab. It starts to drive off.

              BECKY
       Wait!

The cab stops. Becky runs up to it and opens the door.

              CLAIRE
       Offer’s fifty now.

              BECKY
       That’s not fair.

              CLAIRE
       I’d take notes if I were you. 

INT. SILVANA’S KITCHEN - DAY

Silvana comes in to find Tina making breakfast for Nuncio, 
engrossed in TV, and Felipe.


                                       97.

              FELIPE
       Grandma!

He runs to hug her. 

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       My handsome sweet little man!

              TINA
       You hungry?

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       Starving. I’m going to take a bath 
       first.

              TINA
       You okay?

Silvana nods.

              NUNCIO
          (to Silvana, in Spanish)
       Did she pay you for the extra time? 
       It’s not your fault the car broke 
       down.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       It all works out in the end.

              NUNCIO
          (in Spanish)
       That’s what someone says when the 
       answer’s no.

Silvana puts the money Claire gave her in the parking lot on 
the table. Nuncio ignores it.

              TINA
       Felipe, sit down and quit bugging 
       grandma, your food’s almost ready.

              SILVANA
          (in Spanish)
       I’ve got a quick little gift for 
       him.

              FELIPE
       Yay!

              SILVANA
       Come with me.


INT. SILVANA’S BEDROOM - DAY

Silvana makes Felipe sit on the bed. She takes down one of 
the toy boxes and opens it.

                                       98.

              FELIPE
       Whoa!

              SILVANA
       Just one for now.

Felipe chooses a car and runs out of the room. Silvana puts 
the box back in the closet.

INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY

Claire and Becky are in the baking aisle. Claire pushes/leans 
against a shopping cart.

Claire stares at the theme birthday candles -- it’s clear 
she’s in a lot of pain.

              BECKY
       Why don’t I use a mix? It’s so much 
       easier.

              CLAIRE
       No. It has to be homemade.

              BECKY
          (exasperated)
       Fine. Do you have baking powder?

              CLAIRE
       Is that the stuff you put in the 
       fridge to keep it from smelling?

              BECKY
       No. That’s baking soda.

              CLAIRE
       Then I don’t have any.

Claire throws some shark candles into the shopping cart. 
Becky throws in baking powder.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Is that it, cause I’m fading fast.

              BECKY
       We can go.

They make their way up to the checkout.


                                       99.

              BECKY
	(CONT’D)
       You are pathetic.

              CLAIRE
       You’re only just now realizing 
       that? God, you really are stupid.

The CLERK starts ringing up the items.

              BECKY
       What about booze?

              CLAIRE
       I’ve got plenty, but can you handle 
       liquor? I don't want green puke all 
       over my carpet after you drink a 
       whole bottle of Midori.

              BECKY
       Why are you always such a fucking 
       cunt?

Claire smiles: admiration.

              CLERK
          (nervously)
       Paper or plastic?

INT. CLAIRE’S KITCHEN - DAY

Becky is busy making the cake. Claire checks in on her.

              CLAIRE
       Can I do anything to help?

              BECKY
       Yeah, stay out of the fucking 
       kitchen.

Claire notices a house key on the counter -- Jason’s. 

INT. WALK IN CLOSET - DAY

Claire checks the closet and sees that all of Jason’s clothes 
are gone. She touches all the empty hangers and they tinkle 
like a wind chime.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Claire walks into the living room. 


                                       100.

She stops when she sees a family portrait hanging back in the 
blank spot: Jason, Claire, and their little boy.

There’s a Post-it on the picture with the following note:

DON’T THROW AWAY!

Claire stares at the portrait for a moment. She takes the 
note down and crumples it up. Then she adjusts the picture to 
straighten it.

She dials her cell phone.

              CLAIRE
       Is Jason there?  
          (pause)
       Yes, I’d love to leave him a 
       message. Tell him thank you for the 
       gift.
          (pause)
       He’ll know what I’m talking about.

She hangs up.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
          (yelling to kitchen)
       How about a glass of wine?

              BECKY
	(O.S.)
       Yeah!

              CLAIRE
       I’m not going to waste the good 
       stuff on you.

              BECKY
	(O.S.)
       I don’t give a shit.

EXT. CLAIRE’S HOUSE - DAY

The pool shimmers in the sunlight. Claire sits in a deck 
chair drinking wine.

Becky comes outside with her glass of wine.

              CLAIRE
       You want to go for a swim?

              BECKY
       I don’t have a suit.

              CLAIRE
       You can borrow one of mine.


                                       101.

              BECKY
       Cool.

Becky sits next to Claire. Claire stares at her for a moment, 
then reaches over to flick some hair out of her face.

Becky reacts like Claire’s going to hit her, but then 
relaxes.

              CLAIRE
       I’ve been thinking.

              BECKY
       What?

              CLAIRE
       Does your dad or your mom’s 
       boyfriend or some creepy uncle 
       molest you?

              BECKY
       No!

              CLAIRE
       Mom or dad beat you? Force you to 
       perform satanic rituals?

              BECKY
       My folks are the most boring people 
       in the world.

              CLAIRE
       Then you should go home.

              BECKY
       I just got here!

              CLAIRE
       I think you’ve already figured out 
       this whole L.A. thing isn’t going 
       anywhere. 

Becky takes a sip of wine, but doesn’t say anything.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Stay here a couple days. We’ll eat 
       out. You can swim and we’ll watch a 
       bunch of movies. Then I’ll send you 
       home on a plane.

              BECKY
       But they’ll kill me.


                                       102.

              CLAIRE
       They’ll ground you, big deal. You 
       live in bumfuck Idaho, what’s there 
       to do anyway?

Becky is quiet for a moment.

              BECKY
       Why do you give a shit?

              CLAIRE
       Because.

INT. CLAIRE’S BEDROOM - DAY

Claire wanders in with a half-empty bottle of wine and curls 
up on her bed.

              BECKY
	(O.S.)
          (yelling)
       Where’s the fucking booze? Cause 
       I’m thirsty!

              CLAIRE
       Be resourceful! You need to be 
       resourceful!

Claire stretches out with difficulty and drifts in and out of 
consciousness. 

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
          (quietly)
       Come on, you can do it.

Claire closes her eyes.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Claire wakes to find Silvana wiping her face with a wet 
washcloth.

              CLAIRE
       What time is it?

              SILVANA
       Too many hours.

              CLAIRE
       Is the girl still here?


                                       103.

              SILVANA
       No. She stealed. She take your 
       purse, your jewelry, your alcohol, 
       your pills...  

Silvana helps Claire get out of bed. Claire checks behind the 
fern. The bottle of methadone is gone.

              CLAIRE
       How did she find the methadone?  I 
       completely underestimated her.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Claire sees a frosted cake wrapped in plastic.

              SILVANA
       I call the police.

              CLAIRE
       No.

She lifts up the plastic and tastes the frosting.

              SILVANA
       She does wrong when you are sick! 
       This is bad girl!

              CLAIRE
       Homemade fudge frosting. Taste it.

Silvana reluctantly takes a taste. She nods.

              SILVANA
       This thief can cook.

              CLAIRE
       Right?

EXT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Roy opens the front door. He doesn’t seem surprised to find 
Claire standing there holding the cake and a large bag. 

              CLAIRE
       Hey.

              ROY
       Hey.

              CLAIRE
       Where’s Casey?


                                       104.

              ROY
       Playing at a neighbor’s.

              CLAIRE
       Good. Can I come in?

INT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Roy watches Claire clean off the dining room table.

Claire sets the cake on the dining room table and takes off 
the plastic wrap.

She takes out shark birthday candles from the bag and 
carefully places them on the cake.

She takes out a pack of matches and sets them next to the 
cake.

She takes out a shark kite from the bag and puts it in on the 
table next to the cake.

Claire finishes and turns to Roy, who’s been watching her. 
She makes a motion with her hands - ta da. 

She stands there for a moment, intensely vulnerable.

Roy smiles at her.

INT. RENTAL CAR - DAY

Silvana drives. Claire lays back in the passenger seat with a 
satisfied expression.

EXT. NINA’S HOUSE - DAY

Roy watches the rental car make a left at the end of the 
street. 

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

The rental car is parked near Claire’s son’s headstone.

Silvana uses a step ladder to attach some chimes to the 
branch of a nearby tree. Claire watches.

              CLAIRE
       I think they should go higher.


                                       105.

              SILVANA
       If you no like, you put them up.

              CLAIRE
       Look at you. I like you with a pair 
       of balls.

              SILVANA
       Do not say this!

Silvana gets down and puts the ladder back in the car.

              CLAIRE
       I suppose you’ll want a raise too.

Silvana looks surprised.

              CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
       Yeah, I understood your little 
       tirade. It’s okay. You were mostly 
       right. Although I don’t think I 
       paid you like a dog - that’s a 
       little drama queeny.

Claire and Silvana stop in front of Claire’s son’s headstone. 

They listen as a breeze moves the chimes. Silvana pulls out a 
handkerchief to dab her eyes. 

Claire takes Silvana’s hand in hers.

INT. CAR - DAY

Claire gets in the passenger side and lays down. She puts on 
her seat belt.

Silvana gets in the driver’s side and puts on her seat belt. 

Claire stares up at the beautiful blue sky, at the clouds, at 
the dappled sunlight coming through the bright green trees. 

She looks up at the ceiling of the car, then over at Silvana.

Silvana gets the keys out of her purse and puts them in the 
ignition. Claire puts her hand on the tilt lever.

              CLAIRE
       Wait.

Silvana notices Claire’s hand and thinks Claire’s lost 
something.


                                       106.

              SILVANA
       What...?

But she realizes Claire’s hand is on the tilt lever.

Silvana waits, not looking at Claire, almost like she’s 
dealing with a bird she doesn’t want to scare off.

Claire takes a deep breath, concentrating intensely.

She nods her head, as if she’s about to do it.

But Claire can’t do it after all. She moves her hand into her 
lap. 

Silvana smiles to herself, disappointed, but glad Claire at 
least tried.

Silvana turns the key in the ignition. The car starts.

Claire’s hand suddenly reaches back to the tilt lever.

And pulls it.

Claire’s face rushes up into frame.

THE END

                               CUT TO BLACK.


