                CLARITY

             Screenplay by
        Ryan Belenzon & Jeffrey Gelber

              March, 2013

   Bona Fide Productions / ShowKat Productions

FADE IN:

On the faint undulation of an ELECTROCARDIOGRAM.

PAN OVER to a once-beautiful woman lying still in bed, the 
glean gone from her skin.  Her face is hollow.  Sunken.

Almost as if something deep inside were eating her alive.

A HAND tenderly caresses the woman’s forehead.  There is love 
in this touch.  Follow the hand back to its owner:

DR. DANIEL HERD

The fluorescent overheads cast long shadows over his tired, 
weary face.  No lack of light, though, can hide his sadness.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

With her last bit of strength, the woman’s half-mast eyes 
lock onto her husband.  Daniel grabs her cold, chafed hand.

She tries to speak... but can’t get it out.  Daniel leans in 
and she WHISPERS SOMETHING into his ear--

Something that makes Herd bolt upright.  Something that 
confounds every rational instinct in his body. 

And she knows it too, because in her final act on this earth, 
Dr. Herd’s wife smiles.  And then--

SHE’S GONE

The EKG WHINES, like a muted scream, cutting through the 
silence of the hospital, its diagnosis unappealable.  The 
noise literally stabs at Herd, knocking the air out of him.

A part of him... here... now... has died.

              TECHNICIAN
	(PRE-LAP)
      Test number twenty-two complete.

INT. CONTROL ROOM

Dr. Herd -- a long five years older -- stands in front of a 
thick viewing window, eyes locked on the hidden room beyond.

But he’s not seeing.  He’s remembering.

The only clue as to what lies behind the glass -- what Dr. 
Herd is staring past -- is an out-of-focus REFLECTION just 
hinting at some gleaming metal monster of a machine.


                                      2.

             TECHNICIAN
	(O.S.)
      Energy signature confirmed.  
      Powering down.

             WOMAN’S VOICE
	(O.S.)
      That brings our success rate within 
      threshold.  What do you want to do?

Dr. Herd returns to the present, glances off at the voice of 
his associate.  He thinks for a moment.  Then turns back.

And this time he sees.  And slightly nods.

             DR. HERD
      I want to show the world.

                                  BLACK.

FADE IN:

EXT. HOUSE OF BLUES L.A. - NIGHT - TO ESTABLISH

The marquee proclaims: GREAT SCOTT - ONE NIGHT ONLY.

INT. HOUSE OF BLUES - GREENROOM 

Meet the four indie darlings of the band Great Scott:

             GUITARIST
      ...and I’m just dreading they’ll 
      call my name.

             DRUMMER
      I kinda like jury duty.

             GUITARIST
      So I run to the bathroom and this 
      sleazy old suit starts talkin’ to 
      me while I’m takin’ a piss...

ON A GLASS TABLE, a line of cocaine -- A nose sweeps in --

It’s ADAM DALEY (23), the lead singer.  A GROUPIE sits beside 
him on the sofa.  Her clothing sparse.  Adam wipes his nose.

             ADAM
      I hate that shit.  I pee in peace.

The groupie -- stoned out of her mind -- licks Adam on the 
shoulder, leaving her tongue plastered there.  Frozen.

Adam looks at her.  Used to it.


                                      3.

             GUITARIST
      So the lawyer guy says: “When I 
      walk into this building, I make 
      money.”

             DRUMMER
      At the urinal?

             GUITARIST
      Out of nowhere.  And I turn to him 
      and I say... “What, do you bet on 
      the trials?”

Everyone LAUGHS as the BASSIST exits the bathroom.  The man’s 
so dedicated he takes his guitar to the john.  He’s confused--

             BASSIST
      What’s so funny?

They’re interrupted by the STAGE MANAGER popping his head in.

             STAGE MANAGER
      Two minutes.

He's halfway out the door...

             ADAM
      Waitwaitwait.  Is my brother here?

The band members share a knowing look.  The clueless stage 
manager consults his ever-present clipboard.

             STAGE MANAGER
      Um... I'll check for ya, Adam.

INT. BENTON ACADEMY - MUSIC CLASSROOM - SAME

MUSIC NOTATION scrawled on a CHALKBOARD.  Well used 
instruments set against the wall.  Band posters, including 
one for Great Scott... AUTOGRAPHED.  At the front--

Is an upright PIANO, covered with piles of papers, arranged 
by grade.  This is the makeshift desk of RONALD DALEY (27).  
The quieter brother, he’s a teacher because he fell into it.

And all the girls are grateful.

He finishes the last exam and we catch a glimpse of the 
student’s name: “Ashley Koner.”  Ronald writes an: “A”

And deposits the paper next to the “B” papers on its own 
little pile of perfection.  Then, perhaps as a self-
referential joke, he plays an A on the piano and...


HIS CELLPHONE RINGS -- “ADAM CALLING”

                                      4.

Ronald picks up the phone and STRONGLY debates answering.

It rings.... and rings... and not answering is killing him.

“1 MISSED CALL”

Carefully, he sets the phone back down and keeps grading.

INT. HOUSE OF BLUES - GREENROOM - NIGHT

Adam cradles a phone at the tail end of a MESSAGE.

             ADAM
      ...Just come to the show, I’ll 
      leave another ticket.  I miss you.  
      And I’m... sorry for everything.

He hangs up.  The band's balding manager, BARRY, enters.

             BARRY
      What's the hold up?

The band members point to Adam; here's the reason.

             BARRY
	(CONT’D)
      Your brother really coming this 
      time?

             ADAM
      Fuck off, Barry.

Barry holds up his hands and backs out of the room.  As he 
closes the door, the last thing we see--

Adam... snorting another line.  STAY WITH BARRY:

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

...Coming down a stairwell behind the stage.  The CHANTING of 
the audience grows louder--

             CROWD
      GREAT SCOTT!  GREAT SCOTT!

Barry sees the stage manager and yells:

             BARRY
      They’re on their way!

The stage manager speaks into a mic on his collar--


             STAGE MANAGER
      “Great Scott” is coming down.

                                      5.

The manager steps out onto the stage revealing the venue is 
PACKED.  CAMERA FLOWS over the audience as we FOCUS IN ON...

A maturely attractive, too dolled-up ASHLEY KONER.  Freshly 
18 -- thank God -- Ashley is busy looking around for someone.

             CROWD
      Great Scott!  Great Scott!  Great--

                              AUDIO CUT TO:

A LIVE NEWS REPORT:

             MARILYN
	(INTO CAMERA)
      --Scott, I’m standing outside UCLA 
      Medical Center where tomorrow, Dr. 
      Daniel Herd, perhaps America’s most 
      famous research scientist...

Reporter MARILYN KONER is a pro.  You can tell she’s been at 
this for years from how hard she’s trying to hide that’s 
she’s been at this for years.

             MARILYN
	(CONT’D)
      ...will hold his first press 
      conference in five years.

She pauses for the control room to...

A PRETAPED VIDEO PACKAGE

On the world-famous Dr. Daniel Herd.  Marilyn narrates...

                                  CUT TO:

             MARILYN
	(V.O.)
      Dr. Daniel Herd first rose to 
      prominence when he appeared on 
      national news and proclaimed his 
      team was on the verge of a cure for 
      cancer.

NBC NEWS INTERVIEW OF DANIEL HERD (2005):

             DR. HERD
      It is our belief that we may be 
      able to use these denatured viruses 
      as targeted delivery systems.  
      They’ll attack the tumor, they’ll 
      kill the tumor and then they’ll 
      disappear.

VARIOUS FOOTAGE:

Of cancer patients receiving injections.  Of cancer patients 
hugging their families.  Of cancer patients... cured.

                                      6.

             MARILYN
	(V.O.)
      And though Dr. Herd’s Nobel Prize 
      winning work did lead to new 
      breakthroughs on rarer forms of 
      cancer, an FDA ruling in 2008 
      halted human trials after close to 
      95-percent of patients, including 
      Dr. Herd’s own wife, passed away 
      from side effects within eight 
      months of supposedly being cured.

EXT. UCLA MEDICAL CENTER - RESUME

We’re back, live:

             MARILYN
	(INTO CAMERA)
      The anticipation surrounding 
      tomorrow’s announcement is 
      understandably high, as many in the 
      medical community believe that Herd 
      has used the past five years to 
      perfect a safer version of his 
      treatment.  We’ll find out tomorrow 
      if we’re that much closer to a cure 
      to what has been referred to as the 
      ‘emperor of all maladies.’  I’m 
      Marilyn Koner-- reporting live.

CAMERAMAN DAN holds for a beat before...

             CAMERAMAN DAN
      And we’re clear.  That was good.

             MARILYN
      No shit.

Marilyn instantly drops the smile and turns off the charm.

             CAMERAMAN DAN
      Don’t get mad at me, it's not my 
      fault they’re giving the anchor job 
      to Mia.  

             MARILYN
      Well we can’t all be young... and 
      Asian, can we?

                                      7.

INT. C.C.'S OFFICE - 37TH FLOOR - NIGHT

A young and Asian secretary waits as...

CHARLES CROWNING "C.C." HUNT, late-fifties, fully graying, 
signs his name on company letterhead: HUNT PHARMACEUTICALS. 

DEAN KENSWORTH, the company’s young-gun, enters the office 
like he’s deciding where he’ll eventually put his desk.

             DEAN
      Legal’s on my ass.  Have you heard 
      back from Dr. Herd about his 
      announcement?

             C.C.
      Daniel’s never been good with 
      returning phone calls.

             DEAN
      If he’s failed, we need to be 
      prepared to distance ourselves.

             C.C.
      It’s going to be hard to distance 
      ourselves when he’s making the 
      announcement from a building with 
      my name on it.

             DEAN
      Your name is the company name, C.C.  

For the first time C.C. looks up from his paperwork.

             C.C.
      I’ve known Daniel a long time.  And 
      this Willy Wonka act means he’s got 
      something big... and that means 
      he’s got the drug.  And if he’s got 
      the drug, we have the drug.

Dean looks out the imposing windows at the city, the cars...

             DEAN
      I hope so.
        (then)
      I do love this view.

...and a brightly lit CHURCH looming large across the street:

INT. ST. AUGUSTINE’S CHURCH - NIGHT

Empty, save for candles, a sleeping homeless man and the 
judging eyes of stained-glass saints.


             DAVE
	(PRE-LAP)
      Hi, my name’s Dave.  And I’m an 
      alcoholic.

                                      8.

INT. ST. AUGUSTINE’S CHURCH - BASEMENT - SAME

Dave is one of fifteen people in a circle of folding chairs--

             GROUP
      Hi, Dave.

FATHER FRANKLIN REESE, early-fifties and tired, technically 
runs the meeting.  But maybe... maybe also has a need for it.

             DAVE
      I’ve been sober for 67 days.

The group claps, genuinely impressed.

             DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      I have to say, I didn’t have faith 
      in the steps.  Most of you know I’m 
      not religious or here by choice.  
      But I have to thank everyone, 
      because you’re the reason I’ve been 
      able to make it this far.  
      Especially you, Father Reese.

Dave sits and the attention turns to the woman next to him.  
This is SALLY HUNT (55) and she’s by far the wealthiest here.

             SALLY
      Hi, I’m Sally and I’m an alcoholic.

             GROUP
      Hi, Sally.

Whatever she’s about to confess, it’s not easy.  It never is.

             SALLY
      I took a drink today.  So.  Eight 
      months down the drain.

Dave puts a comforting hand on her shoulder.

             SALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m embarrassed.  Not that I took 
      the drink, actually, I’m 
      embarrassed telling you all.  
      Mostly... because it felt good.  
      Just like I remembered it feeling.  
      I wish it didn’t.
        (beat)
      I don’t have a hobby.  I don’t have 


             SALLY
	(CONT’D)
      kids.  I haven’t worked in fifteen 
      years, which also happens to be the 
      last time my husband looked at me.
      My husband, he...

                                      9.

She stops, reconsiders.  As she continues, we’ll do something 
a little different... we won’t leave Father Reese’s face.  

Even when it gets uncomfortable, we won’t leave his face.

             SALLY
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      I guess I started coming here 
      because I thought if I told 
      everyone about my urges, I’d be 
      able to get rid of them.  But I 
      can’t.  I can only try and control 
      them.  Hearing other people’s 
      battles, it helps a little.  Makes 
      me feel like I’m not alone in this.  
      But when that stops being enough, 
      when there’s nothing else left, 
      when you realize you really have 
      nobody... what do you do to fill 
      the void?

We’re so close now on Reese we see the pain, the connection 
to her words, clear as day in his eyes.

             SALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m Sally, I’m an addict and I’ve 
      been sober since this afternoon.

As all eyes turn to Father Reese, waiting for a response...

A response he doesn’t have, we juxtapose...

                                CHEERING:

FROM AN AUDIENCE of roaring fans inside--

INT. HOUSE OF BLUES - NIGHT

As the fingers of a singular talent grind the opening lick of 
a guitar-fueled anthem...

AN EXPLOSION OF LIGHT

Sends Great Scott into their next number.  You know the one.

IN THE AUDIENCE -- Ashley (the dolled up 18 year-old) and her 
frumpy friend, KATE, dance and sing along.

Lead singer Adam keeps glancing to the side of the stage... 
Waiting...


To see if his brother will show.

                                      10.

                                  CUT TO:

A CD CASE

The cheap kind A&R guys have piles of.  It’s for Great 
Scott’s first self-published album: “HILL VALLEY." 

INT. BENTON ACADEMY - MUSIC CLASSROOM - NIGHT

Ronald Daley (the teacher) holds the case, flipping it over.  

Debating.

             RONALD
      Oh, fuck it!

He grabs his jacket and rushes out the door.

INT. UPSCALE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Smoothing the wrinkles in her blouse, Marilyn (the reporter) 
lithely rushes into the dim, crowded dining area.  

A pug-faced man in his mid-fifties checks his watch, annoyed.  
This guy’s receding hairline languishes so far behind his 
ears it can’t help but give away the obvious... he’s a BOB.  

             MARILYN
      Hi, Bob.

Bob sees her short skirt, instantly forgiving her tardiness.

             BOB
      It’s been too long, Marilyn.  
      You're looking quite lovely.

             MARILYN
      I wanted to look my best for the 
      man behind Good Morning America.
        (jokingly looks around)
      Now where is he?

Bob smiles and takes a full-bodied drink of wine.

             BOB
      I know this was supposed to just be 
      two old friends reminiscing, but 
      your name came up on a conference 
      call today with some O-&-O station 
      managers.


             MARILYN
      Really?

                                      11.

             BOB
      Well we were all shocked the anchor 
      job didn’t go your way.  Shocked.  
      I thought you earned it.

             MARILYN
      I thought so too.

             BOB
      So when I told them I was having 
      dinner with you tonight, they said 
      that was... fortuitous.

             MARILYN
      Is there an opening in New York?

             BOB
      There may be.  Suppose it depends 
      on how this dinner... ends.

Marilyn is only slightly flustered by Bob's sexual overture.

EXT. C.C.'S MANSION - ESTABLISHING

Night hovers over the large, oak-trimmed mansion.  A GREY 
BENTLEY pulls up the curved driveway.

The car stops.  Idling.

A long moment.  Finally.  The ignition turns off.

INT. C.C.'S MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

C.C. Hunt (the CEO) walks through the entry hall and removes 
his coat, throwing it across a table.

He enters his STUDY and pours himself a scotch.  C.C. picks 
up the glass and takes a gratifying drink.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

At separate ends of a long, ornate table, C.C. and his sad-
eyed wife, Sally (the recovering alcoholic), sit stone quiet.

Sally sips a glass of water with lemon.  It’s all she can do 
not to stare at the thick caramel colored whisky her husband 
blithely drinks.

The void between them is bigger than just the table.

C.C. sets down his fork, finished.


             C.C.
      I’ll be in the library.

                                      12.

The room descends back into silence.  Sally stops eating, her 
husband’s coldness stealing her appetite.  Also...

He left his drink.

INT. HOUSE OF BLUES - NIGHT

Adam is dripping with perspiration...

             ADAM
      This next song, I wrote it for 
      someone very special who I wish was 
      here tonight.  

The band launches into a powerful and melodic hit in the 
making entitled “YOU’RE MY LAST."  The audience erupts...

And it hits Ashley, speaks to her, out there in the audience.    
A song about loss... about having no one else...

AT THE BACK OF THE HOUSE

Ronald has arrived.  He watches his brother with a mixture of 
pride, love... and tremendous jealousy.  

Because God, this song is good. 

ON STAGE

Adam pulls back from the mic for a brief musical interlude.  

As the cue for him to sing comes... nothing.

Instead, Adam seems to teeter, grabbing the mic stand and 
pulling it toward his chest as if in confused pain.  

The rest of the band vamps.

Suddenly, Adam LOCKS EYES with someone in the audience, ever-
so-briefly, then collapses...

The band’s manager Barry darts out onstage and finds Adam 
unconscious, blood leaking from his nose.

ON RONALD

Trying to push through the throng...

Fighting to get to his brother.

EXT. HOUSE OF BLUES - NIGHT

An AMBULANCE races out of the lot onto Sunset...

             MONROE
	(V.O.)
      Have you recently lost someone 
      close to you?

                                      13.

                                  CUT TO:

A TV ADVERTISEMENT

MONROE WEAVER, a stately black man in a cream-colored suit 
familiar to insomniacs and channel-flippers, addresses us:

             MONROE
	(INTO CAMERA)
	(CONT’D)
      Was there something left unsaid?  A 
      goodbye, an unanswered question... 
      do you seek closure where none can 
      be found?  My name is Monroe Weaver 
      and if you call the number at the 
      bottom of this screen I can help 
      you speak to loved ones lost.  
        (O.S. door knock)
      My offices...

A hand comes into frame and MUTES THE TELEVISION...

INT. UCLA - DR. DANIEL HERD'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

(The infamous) Dr. Herd sets down a TV remote as his loyal 
associate DR. JANE KEATON steps into the room.

             JANE
      We have a problem.  The Wassermans 
      changed their mind.  We can’t use 
      their son as a candidate.

Herd splays his palms on the desk.

             DR. HERD
        (damnit)
      What about the back-up?

             JANE
      They’re not sure Mr. Humphrey’s 
      will make it through the night.

             DR. HERD
      Call Dr. Port at Cedars and Jerome 
      at County, see who they have high 
      up on the Groff scale. 


             JANE
      There’s another possibility...

INT. UCLA EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

                                      14.

Two paramedics BURST in wheeling Adam on a stretcher.  Ronald 
and Barry follow behind.  The HEAD NURSE on duty rushes over.

             PARAMEDIC
      Cardiac arrest.  Possible overdose.

Ronald tries to follow but an orderly stops him and points 
toward the WAITING AREA.

             HEAD NURSE
      Take him to E.R. six.  What are his 
      vitals?

The paramedic launches into the necessary stats as Jane steps 
out and approaches the stretcher, blocking its way.

             JANE
      Dr. Herd would like to handle this 
      patient personally.

INT. HOUSE OF BLUES - NIGHT

The crowd, confused and upset, mull around as the lights come 
on and the stage manager takes the mic.

             STAGE MANAGER
      Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately 
      Adam Daley has come down with a 
      severe case of exhaustion.  The 
      rest of tonight’s show is canceled.
        (over "boos")
      Your tickets will all be refunded.

FOCUS IN on Ashley, unconvinced, turning to her friend Kate.

             ASHLEY
      That's bullshit.  That's such 
      bullshit.

             KATE
      They didn’t even finish “You’re My 
      Last!”

             ASHLEY
      No.  I mean... something's really 
      wrong with him.

             KATE
      How do you know?


The grumbling crowd moves toward the exits.

             ASHLEY
      When he collapsed, he looked at me.  
      Right fucking at me.  And he didn't 
      look tired.

                                      15.

INT. E.R. WAITING ROOM - LATER

Ronald sits in a chair, absently watching a TV on the wall. 
Barry sits beside him, nervously rubbing his hands.  The rest 
of the band -- in rockstar regalia -- mull around.

A MEXICAN FAMILY sits below the hanging television, the 
mother saying a quiet prayer as she kisses a ROSARY. 

Ronald notices, and suddenly can’t take his eyes off the 
rosary.  He watches with a blend of pity and disdain.  Then:

             BARRY
      You know I tried to get him off.

             RONALD
      I know.

             BARRY
      You giving up didn’t help.

If Ronald had the energy... he just might punch Barry.

             YOUNG NURSE
      Excuse me.  Can I get you anything?

             BARRY
      Not right now.

Ronald shakes his head.  The YOUNG NURSE leaves and he turns 
back to the television, ignoring Barry.

ON THE TELEVISION: 

A REPORTER stands in front of UCLA Medical Center.

             REPORTER
	(ON SCREEN)
      ...expecting perhaps an 
      announcement of some kind of new 
      cancer treatment.  All we know for 
      certain is insiders are calling Dr. 
      Herd’s discovery “earthshattering.”

Ronald spots something on the screen, in the background.  He 
raises his arm and... yep... that's him, in the waiting area.


             REPORTER
	(CONT'D)
      We’ve also just received word that 
      lead singer of the up-and-coming 
      band ‘Great Scott’ has...

                                      16.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bob, Marilyn's dinner guest, sits on the bed, watching the 
same reporter on television as he takes off his shoes... 

IN THE BATHROOM -- Marilyn stares at herself in the mirror.  
Almost like she’s psyching herself up for the act at hand--

             BOB
	(O.S.)
      Exhaustion?  If he'd have been a 
      real rock-and-roller, he'd have had 
      an overdose!

Marilyn exhales and returns out to Bob, now in his underwear.

             BOB
	(CONT’D)
      Your phone keeps beeping.

Marilyn walks to the nightstand.  She has two missed calls 
and a text from ASHLEY: “R U coming home 2nite?”

             MARILYN
      It's nothing.  Just my daughter.

She sets the phone back down and unzips her dress...

INT. KONER RESIDENCE - ASHLEY’S ROOM - NIGHT

No posters or the trappings of a teenager.  This is the room 
of an 18 year-old mature beyond her years.  Speaking of--

Ashley sits on her bed, holding her phone.  No messages from 
her mother.  Nervous and scared after the night’s events, she 
debates her next move.  Steeling her resolve...

She opens her desk drawer and pulls out the BENTON ACADEMY 
SCHOOL DIRECTORY.  Flips a few pages, then...

                                  DIALS:

RONALD’S CELLPHONE, sitting on an end table in a corner of the 
E.R.  When nobody picks up, the phone flashes: “2 NEW MESSAGES”

INT. E.R. WAITING ROOM - SAME

Nobody picked up because Ronald’s seat is empty.  None of the 
other UNFORTUNATES in the ER have noticed either because 
they’re too busy rubbernecking out to the hall:


                                      17.

WHERE JANE, Dr. Herd’s assistant, explains some hard news to 
Ronald, Barry and the remaining members of Great Scott...

                                  CUT TO:

A CLERICAL COLLAR being removed...

INT. PRIVATE RECTORY - NIGHT

...by Father Franklin Reese (from the AA meeting), who does 
the only sensible thing he can do after leading one of those--

He pours himself a drink.

His accommodations are spartan, either out of a belief in 
Christian frugality or a fear he’ll have to pack up fast.

THE TELEVISION

Plays the same news report as in Bob’s hotel room.  Father 
Reese doesn’t pay any attention to it until...

             ANCHOR
	(ON SCREEN)
      We’re now receiving conflicting 
      reports saying ‘Great Scott’ lead 
      singer Adam Daley is, in fact, 
      listed in critical condition...

Reese SPINS around, spilling a bit of drink.  He walks over 
to the television, which displays:

CELLPHONE VIDEO - - ADAM COLLAPSING AT THE HOUSE OF BLUES

Reese’s hand shakes.  Either he’s a really big fan.

Or he knows Adam.

He gulps the entire glass, hand trembling the entire time.

INT. CLOSET - NIGHT

Father Reese turns on the light and grabs a SHOEBOX from the 
top shelf.  He opens the box BELOW FRAME, shuffling its 
contents until he finds...

INT. BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

...A picture.  Of two young boys, maybe three years apart.  
Brothers, happy, dressed in Sunday school vestments.

Reese calmly sets the photo on the neatly made bed next to a 
small LEATHER WHIP. He then removes his undershirt to REVEAL:


                                      18.

HIS BACK, covered with years and years of scar tissue.  He 
picks up the whip, positions it over his shoulder and we...

                                 SNAP TO:

INT. ADAM DALEY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Adam is unconscious, cold, nearly gone but in some kind of 
stabilized coma.  Ronald is beside him, conflicted.

             RONALD
      They say you can’t hear me.  So--

The only reply is the dulcet monotone of a weak EKG.  

             RONALD
	(CONT’D)
      If you can, you’re dying.  Or 
      you’re already dead, I don’t know.
        (beat)
      God damnit, why didn’t you fucking 
      listen to me?  How many times did I 
      drag you into rehab?  This wasn't 
      you.  It wasn't us.

EXT. HALLWAY - SAME

Dr. Herd and Jane watch Ronald through the small window.

             JANE
      Do you think he’ll agree to it?

             DR. HERD
      He has to.  We can’t postpone.  His 
      brother is our only viable option.

             JANE
      It doesn’t hurt that he’s famous.

Beat.

             DR. HERD
      It always hurts.

INT. ADAM’S HOSPITAL ROOM - RESUME

Ronald is almost more angry than sad...

             RONALD
      I’m sorry I wasn’t stronger.  I 
      just-- I couldn’t stand to watch 
      you do this to yourself.
        (after a beat)
      You had so much left to offer.


                                      19.

Ronald takes his brothers hand and squeezes it goodbye.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Jane and Dr. Herd are waiting as Ronald drags himself out of 
the hospital room like he’s on some kind of auto-pilot.

             DR. HERD
      Hello, Ronald.

             RONALD
      I know you.

             DR. HERD
      I’m very sorry about your brother.

             RONALD
      Yeah, thank you.  I...
        (suddenly)
      He’s an organ donor, who do I talk 
      to about...
        (then)
      Wait... you’re Daniel Herd.  You’re 
      on the news... why are...
        (beat)
      I think I need to sit down.

Ronald teeters.  Jane and Dr. Herd help him to a chair.

             DR. HERD
      Put your head between your legs and 
      take big breaths... in, out... 
      that’s it.

Dr. Herd sits beside Ronald.  Jane stands back.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      Are you alright now?

             RONALD
      Yes.  I mean--
        (beat)
      Why are you here?  I don’t 
      understand why...

             DR. HERD
      ...Why a guy like me is working an 
      overdose in the E.R.?

Ronald nods.  That’s exactly right.


                                      20.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      I’m here because I need you to make 
      a decision, an important one, and I 
      wanted to ask you personally.

             RONALD
      No, it’s okay, Adam was... I’ll 
      sign whatever, he wanted to be an 
      organ donor.

             DR. HERD
      That’s very noble of him but 
      actually-- because of the drugs in 
      his system, we can’t use them.
        (beat; and it’s the 
         biggest beat of his life)
      But there is something he can do.

Ronald suddenly notices what we might already have--

             RONALD
      Where’d all the other people go?

Dr. Herd looks around the empty hallway mostly for Ronald’s 
benefit.  He know’s the floor is empty.  He ordered it.

             DR. HERD
      Mr. Daley, tomorrow I’m holding a 
      well-publicized press conference.  
      For the past five years, I’ve been 
      working on something game changing.  
      It will be the single greatest 
      scientific achievement in mankind’s 
      history.  That sounds like a lot of 
      hype but I believe it.  Now I know 
      this is the worst time to ask, I 
      wish it didn’t have to be this way, 
      but in order to share what I’ve 
      discovered with the world, I need 
      one last candidate.  I need your 
      brother.

             RONALD
      I don’t understand.

             DR. HERD
      Come with me.

INT. ANOTHER HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

The two men, followed by Jane, walk up to thick doors 
emblazoned in big bold letters with: THE HUNT WING.


                                      21.

             DR. HERD
      My discovery... will be difficult 
      for people to believe.  

             RONALD
      Why?

             DR. HERD
      Because any sufficiently advanced 
      technology is indistinguishable 
      from magic.

Dr. Herd holds up a KEYCARD and the doors unlock.

INT. HUNT WING - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Herd leads Ronald into this much newer area of the 
hospital.  Scientists in non-standard white scrubs bustle.

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
      If you agree to help me, after 
      tomorrow your brother’s legacy, his 
      music, will -- I assure you, never 
      be forgotten.

They reach the end of the hall and enter--

INT. CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Suddenly, we’re in mission control.  Dozens of computers and 
highly streamlined equipment rest under a ROW OF GLASS. 

What the windows look onto, we cannot tell; it’s dark beyond.

             DR. HERD
      Please have a seat.

Herd motions to a chair in front of a large central monitor.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      My experiment, which I have 
      repeated twenty-two times, requires 
      an individual on life support.  In 
      this case, Adam.  Here’s the tough 
      part for many; the needs of the 
      experiment call for us to control 
      time of death precisely.  Twenty-
      one times, the results were exactly 
      as I’m about to show you.

Jane begins typing into a computer and ON THE MONITOR:

                                      22.

VIDEO OF AN UNCONSCIOUS MAN - -

Laying on a sleek white slab in a sleek white room.  A nurse 
in sleek white garb checks the LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM keeping 
the subject alive.

             TECHNICIAN
	(VIA MONITOR)
      TFS at full power.  Clear the room.

Above the unconscious man, elusively out of frame, is just a 
hint of some kind of incredibly powerful MACHINE.

             DR. HERD
      This is Subject 17.  He suffered a 
      brain aneurysm.  What I’m about to 
      show you may be difficult to watch 
      but I ask you to try.  And I ask 
      you to understand this has been in 
      no way faked.  It was shot with a 
      sensitive, high speed camera.  Even 
      still, you must pay attention or 
      you’ll miss it.

Jane hits the SPACEBAR and from this point forward we NEVER 
SEE WHAT’S ON THE MONITOR again.  We hear it, and see the 
change in brightness across Ronald’s face...

The WHIR of machinery builds, timed to a slow-thumping EKG.

             TECHNICIAN
	(VIA MONITOR)
      Ending mechanical ventilation.

Dr. Herd watches Ronald watch his experiment.  The EKG 
suddenly flatlines and a burst of sound culminates with--

THE VIDEO MONITOR BLOWING OUT

The bright light across Ronald’s face forces him to flinch... 
but he never shuts his eyes.  The flash quickly subsides--

And whatever Ronald sees on the monitor... it leaves him 
shell-shocked.  His brother’s death -- even for a moment -- 
pushed aside by the incredible thing he has just seen.

             RONALD
      Was that...?

Dr. Herd nods yes.

             RONALD
	(CONT’D)
      How did you do that?

             DR. HERD
      I’ll show you.


                                      23.

He looks to Jane, who types a command and the room beyond the 
windows LIGHTS UP to reveal--

“THE CHURCH”

It’s another world.  Three stories tall and curved -- like an 
operating theater -- “The Church” is the epicenter of the 
Hunt Wing.  Clean and white, it’s the room from the video.

The other end of the Church is bisected by a wall of FROSTED 
GLASS, cutting the circular arena in half.  The control room 
we’re in looks out on the half that holds THE DEVICE.

And that’s basically all this giant room is... a massive 
device formed by several large rings running to the ceiling.  
Time travel, space travel, whatever this thing does...

It’s fucking powerful.

             DR. HERD
      I call this “The Church.”

             RONALD
      The Church?

It’s impossible for a small smile not to creep over Dr. Herd:

             DR. HERD
      Because it’s going to change 
      everything people believe.

                                 SLAM TO:

BLACK.

             VOICE
      National’s cutting in in 5, 4, 3...

We hear the familiar theme of a NATIONAL NEWS BROADCAST as 
the opening graphic for “BREAKING NEWS” appears on--

THE MONITOR

We’re watching.  Taped under the monitor it reads: NYC.

             NATIONAL ANCHOR
	(VIA MONITOR)
      Welcome to this special report...

Several other monitors show different camera angles of what 
must be Dr. Herd’s press conference.  

Right now we’re...

                                      24.

INT. NEWS VAN - MORNING

Where TECHNICIANS from the LA affiliate are checking the 
feed.  Bob, the newsman from New York, quietly oversees.

    		TECHNICIAN 1
	Camera 2 is soft.

		TECHNICIAN 2
	--Dan, I’m getting feedback.

PULL OUT the open door of the van...

EXT. UCLA MEDICAL CENTER - CONTINUOUS

...to reveal DOZENS OF OTHER NEWS VANS, their satellite 
dishes raised high, parked and broadcasting live:

 		NATIONAL ANCHOR
	(V.O.)
	...We go live to UCLA Medical 
	Center...

		ANOTHER ANCHOR
	(V.O.)
	...Dr. Daniel Herd’s eagerly 
	awaited...

And somehow we can HEAR the many TELECASTS around the world 
broadcasting into the news vans, forming...

A CACOPHONY OF VOICES, building into a blazing CRESCENDO--

                                  CUT TO:

Silence.  

And a microphone.  On a podium.  Inside...

INT. HUNT WING - PRESS THEATER - CONTINUOUS

This is the OTHER SIDE of the massive room known as “The 
Church.”  Built for one purpose: this press conference.

A stadium-seated theater with curved walls, the PRESS are 
sloped up from a STAGE that’s backed with a THREE-STORY WALL 
of frosted glass.  On the other side of that glass...

The Device.

But right now it’s HIDDEN, and nobody in the audience knows 
about the massive machinery only a clouded windowpane away.

The reporters wait with anticipation.  The only person not 
watching with enthusiasm sits in the back row--

RONALD.  He’d rather be anywhere else as...

A private door opens and Dr. Herd emerges.  The room falls 
silent as he strides to the podium, practiced and confident.


                                      25.

             DR. HERD
      Good morning.  My name is Dr. 
      Daniel Herd.  I’m the head of the 
      UCLA Department of Experimental 
      Diagnostic Imaging and the Hunt 
      Chair for Oncology Research.  Thank 
      you all for being here.
        (beat)
      I have looked 2,147 patients in the 
      eye and told them that no matter 
      what we do, they will die.  Three 
      of them were foreign royalty.  Two 
      of them were US Senators.  And one 
      of them was my wife.  No matter who 
      I tell, the reaction is the same.  
      Rich, poor, doesn’t matter.  
      They’re all scared.  The kind of 
      scared you get right at the end of 
      some horrible nightmare.  And I’ve 
      had to tell those 2,147 people they 
      can’t wake up.
        (beat)
      I have singularly and passionately 
      sought a cure for cancer for almost 
      thirty-two years in a selfish 
      attempt to never again see that 
      look of fear.  Five years ago, I 
      came close.  Closer then anyone 
      else ever has.  And that’s why 
      you’re all here... to see if I 
      cracked it.  If I overcame the 
      unfinished science and -- well, 
      youthful hubris -- of five years 
      ago.  Unfortunately, I did not.

INT. HUNT PHARMEACUTICALS BOARDROOM - SAME

The company brass, including C.C. and that prick Dean 
Kensworth, watch the press conference on TELEVISION.

             DR. HERD
	(ON SCREEN)
      I leave that elusive panacea to a 
      mind greater than my own -- if it 
      exists -- but here, now, I seek to 
      give the memory of those 2,147 men 
      and women the next best thing.  

Dean glances with a Machiavellian confidence at C.C.

But C.C. is stone-faced.

                                      26.

INT. HUNT WING - PRESS THEATER - CONTINUOUS

             DR. HERD
      If I cannot cure their bodies, 
      perhaps I can heal their minds.  
      Perhaps I can banish for once and 
      for all that heartbreaking look in 
      their eyes.

Dr. Herd takes a deep breath...

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      For five years, secretly and 
      without the knowledge of this 
      medical center’s board or its 
      benefactors, I have led a massive 
      research project under the guise of 
      inventing a machine -- a scanner --
      powerful enough to detect cancer 
      earlier than ever before.  In fact, 
      the machine I developed does 
      nothing of the sort.  It is, for 
      all intents and purposes, far, far 
      more impressive.

Dr. Herd pauses to gather his notes when--

             REPORTER
      --Are you saying you 
      misappropriated funds earmarked for 
      cancer research?

             DR. HERD
      I suppose so, yes.

There is an immediate mood change in the room... Reporters 
all YELL over each other.  Dr. Herd motions for quiet.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      Please, please.  If you’d all turn 
      your attention to the monitors.

Suddenly, MONITORS set around the room pop on, DISPLAYING:

SUBJECT 17

The same VIDEO Dr. Herd showed Ronald the night before:

AN UNCONSCIOUS MAN on a sleek white slab.  Above him, just a 
hint of some kind of incredibly powerful MACHINE.

             TECHNICIAN
	(VIA MONITOR)
      TFS at full power.  Clear the room.


                                      27.

This time, like the rest of the world, we’ll SEE THE VIDEO...

             DR. HERD
      The machine you’re seeing in the 
      top of the frame is called a 
      Tunneling Fluorescence 
      Spectrometer.  It is four-thousand 
      times more powerful than an MRI and 
      capable of detecting the collision 
      of two atoms from as far as six 
      miles away.

ON THE MONITORS: The WHIR of machinery builds, timed to a 
slow-thumping EKG.  The heartbeat REVERBERATES in the room.

             TECHNICIAN
	(VIA MONITOR)
      Ending mechanical ventilation.

             DR. HERD
      This is video of Subject 17.  His 
      EKG is directly tied into the TFS 
      machine and in fifteen seconds his 
      heart will stop.  Please pay 
      attention.

THE AUDIENCE clamors... are they about to broadcast footage 
of a man dying?

ONSCREEN: The TFS glows as the EKG flatlines and suddenly--

THE SCREENS ALL BURST WITH WHITE LIGHT

Which quickly dissipates to reveal...

ENERGY, FLOATING ABOVE SUBJECT 17... ENERGY IN AN AMORPHOUS 
BUT FAINTLY HUMAN FORM.  IT HANGS IN THE AIR FOR A FEW 
SECONDS BEFORE CONDENSING INTO A POINT AND DISAPPEARING...

And now we’re back on the AUDIENCE... absolutely perplexed 
and unsure about what they just saw.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      I have discovered proof of the 
      human soul.

Fire.  The Wheel.  Gunpowder.  Electricity.  Flight.


		CHAOS
	Fuck ‘em.

Erupts amongst the reporters.  Fighting to be heard:

                                      28.


             REPORTER #2
      Is this some kind of joke?

             DR. HERD
      No.

The reporters are having trouble processing.

             REPORTER #3
      How do we know this footage hasn't 
      been doctored?

             DR. HERD
      I’m glad you asked.

Dr. Herd hits a button on his podium and behind him--

THE WALL OF IONIZED GLASS DEFROSTS

Turning the wall into a WINDOW.  A window into--

“THE CHURCH”

This room, this half of the complex, built for this one 
purpose.  This wall of glass, built for this one moment.

Every reporter, every camera, now perfectly positioned to 
film the imminent death of SUBJECT 23 -- Adam Daley -- on the 
white slab under the sleek TFS machine.  Hooked up and ready.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      This is Subject 23.  He is being 
      kept alive by our machines.  Please 
      put on the glasses provided 
      underneath your seats.  It’s going 
      to get very bright in here.

Ronald, in the back of the room, doesn’t move.  Instead, 
while everyone around him puts on thick, black glasses...  

He just closes his eyes.

INT. NEWS VAN - SAME

Bob stands over the technicians watching the broadcast...

             BOB
      Is he going to kill a man on 
      national television?

INT. “THE CHURCH”

Adam Daley, unconscious and close to the end, lies on his 
death bed as the TFS powers up above him.

                                      29.

IN THE CONTROL ROOM

Jane stands over three scrubbed TECHNICIANS manning controls.

             JANE
      Cut mechanical ventilation.

THE VENTILATOR

Pumping breath into Adam’s chest terminates.

ON THE PRESS SIDE

It almost looks like they’re watching a 3D movie, riveted by 
the machine and the body of Subject 23.

THE EKG of Adam’s heart monitor VIBRATES the subwoofers in 
the wall as the heart slows down and suddenly... STOPS...

THE WORLD GOES NOVA

AS THE TFS MACHINE EXPLODES WITH ENERGY, RIPPING DOWN INTO 
ADAM’S BODY AND EXPLODING OUT IN A TSUNAMI OF LIGHT.

And as the light disintegrates, there, hanging over Adam...

IS HIS SOUL

CLEAR AS DAY, VISIBLE AND CRACKLING WITH RESIDUAL ENERGY.  A 
BEAUTIFUL RAINBOW OF BRIGHT COLORS...  

It floats peacefully as time seems to SLOW DOWN.

Mouths hang agape amongst the press as WE STAY SLO-MO:

INT. BENTON ACADEMY - SCIENCE CLASSROOM 

Ashley and her fellow high school seniors watch the first 
live images of a human soul...

INT. MONROE WEAVER’S OFFICE

Monroe Weaver (the psychic medium from TV) and his rotund 
secretary, DOLORES, are stunned... But almost... vindicated.

INT. FATHER REESE’S OFFICE

Father Reese has his hand to his mouth as he takes it in...

EXT. NYC - TIMES SQUARE

Hundreds of people, gazing up at the press conference on the 
intersection's iconic JUMBOTRON...

                                      30.

INT. “THE CHURCH”

And just like that, the soul of Adam Daley CONDENSES down and 
blasts at light speed out of our existence, leaving only a--

CRACKLE OF ENERGY

And that’s it.  A singular moment of pure clarity.

In the calm before the storm, Dr. Herd and Ronald LOCK EYES.  
Dr. Herd nods, a small thank you...

AND THEN EVERY REPORTER

Is on their feet.  Screaming to be heard.

IN THE BACK

Ronald watches the insanity around him when he’s tapped on 
the shoulder.  It’s Jane.  She motions for him to follow her.

EXT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Jane leads Ronald toward a back exit, all business.

             JANE
      I thought it best you leave before 
      they found out that was your 
      brother in there.  We have a car 
      waiting to take you wherever you’d 
      like.  Here.

She hands him a PILL BOTTLE.

             JANE
	(CONT’D)
      Get some rest.

INT. BROADCAST STUDIO - MORNING

Marilyn, disheveled, rushes past various televisions 
displaying the live press conference.

             ASIAN REPORTER/MIA
	(ON SCREEN)
      ...mean that when we die our soul 
      goes to some form of afterlife?

ONSCREEN: The glass behind Dr. Herd has RE-IONIZED, returning 
to its frosted state; presumably for removal of Adam’s body.

             DR. HERD
	(ON SCREEN)
      I imagine that’s still a question 
      for endless debate.  But the energy 
      does disappear moments after 
      leaving the body, leading me to 


             DR. HERD
	(ON SCREEN)
	(CONT'D)
      believe it must travel somewhere, 
      assuming the first law of 
      thermodynamics still applies.

                                      31.

Marilyn approaches a group of station employees.  Among them 
stands her Cameraman, his eyes glued to the monitor.

             MARILYN
      Should have been us there.

             CAMERAMAN DAN
        (beat; turns)
      Are those the same clothes you were 
      wearing last night?

             MARILYN
      Fuck you, Dan.

             ANOTHER REPORTER
	(ON SCREEN)
      ...Can you tell us anything about 
      the test subject?  Subject 23?

INT. “THE CHURCH” - SAME

Dr. Herd looks over and sees Ronald’s seat IS EMPTY.

             DR. HERD
      We will be releasing footage and 
      information on 22 of the subjects 
      who took part in this study, each 
      of whom was volunteered by their 
      immediate family after all other 
      means of saving them had been 
      exhausted...

EXT. HOUSE OF BLUES - PARKING LOT - MORNING

A TOWNCAR pulls up to the concert venue.  It looks completely 
different in the harsh light of day.

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
      As for Subject 23, his name is Adam 
      Daley, age twenty-four.

Ronald exits the car, grabs his jacket and walks through the 
empty lot, lost in thought.

             REPORTER
	(V.O.)
      The singer?

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
      Yes.  He was brought in at 9:53pm 
      last night locked in a comatose 
      state.  His symptoms continued to 

                                      32.


             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT'D)
      deteriorate until we pronounced him 
      brain dead at approximately 12:14 
      this morning.

Ronald approaches the ONLY CAR in the parking lot.

And that car is a DELOREAN.  “Great Scott” indeed.

INT. BENTON ACADEMY - SCIENCE CLASSROOM - SAME

             REPORTER
	(ON SCREEN)
      --Was it a drug overdose?

Students are in SHOCK, none moreso than Ashley.  She begins 
crying, remembering that moment right before Adam collapsed.

That moment where she was the last thing he ever saw.

Some DICK STUDENT near Ashley mimes SNORTING COKE and then 
grabs his chest in pain.  His friends snicker.

Ashley abruptly grabs her books and rushes out of the 
classroom.  She can’t take anymore.

             DICK STUDENT
      What’d I say?

INT. “THE CHURCH” - MORNING

Dr. Herd is wrapping up...

             DR. HERD
      ...At the time of death the machine 
      sends out a burst of neutrinos.  
      But I’ll let my colleague from MIT, 
      Dr. Michael Groff, explain the TFS 
      device further.
        (beat)
      I’d like to finish on a personal 
      note.  Our society is obsessed with 
      death.  The pain and suffering of 
      others has become fodder and sport.  
      It is my hope that this discovery 
      fundamentally forces us to question 
      who we are as a people.  And where 
      we want to go from here.  We all 
      have a soul.  What we do with it, 
      is up to us.  

INT. HUNT PHARMEACUTICALS - BOARDROOM - SAME

Dean and all the other board members turn to C.C.


             DEAN
      Well I’d say we got our money’s 
      worth, wouldn’t you, C.C.?

C.C. seethes.

INT. RONALD'S DELOREAN - DAY

                                      33.

In contrast to the exterior, everything inside looks modern, 
save for the lovingly recreated flux capacitor.

             THE PRESIDENT
	(VIA RADIO)
      --We should embrace this revelation 
      with open hearts and minds.

In a daze, Ronald pulls into a driveway...

EXT. RONALD’S HOME - CONTINUOUS

A modest two-story house.  The grounds -- high bushes and a 
sloped driveway -- give a modicum of privacy for L.A.

             THE PRESIDENT
	(V.O.)
      Dr. Herd has given us hope, not 
      just for our souls, but for 
      humanity itself and the future of--

INSIDE THE GARAGE

Ronald closes the DeLorean’s signature door.  In the 
reflection of the car’s downward-swinging window he notices:

A TARP, covering a pile.  It’s been undisturbed for awhile, 
but Ronald walks over and pulls it off to reveal-- 

INSTRUMENTS.  Guitars.  An upright piano.  All pushed into a 
corner.  He’s ignored this pile, every single day, for years.

But today is not like those other days.

On the drums are various STICKERS for Adam’s band.  

In fact, the very evolution of Great Scott out of this garage 
and onto our radios is in these stickers.

UNTIL A SQUEAL comes from down the driveway.  Ronald turns...

As a REPORTER and his crew hop out of a NEWS VAN.

             REPORTER
      There he is!  Mr. Daley!  Can we 
      have a word?

The reporter has started up the driveway...


             RONALD
      What are you doing?

             REPORTER
      We’d just like a word.

                                      34.

That’s when the sound of a HELICOPTER appears... and Ronald 
realizes he hadn’t anticipated the coming media storm.

             RONALD
      Please, you can’t be here.  Tell 
      them that too.

He motions to another news team just arriving.  Distracted, 
the reporter doesn’t notice Ronald click his garage remote.

The last thing we see as the garage WIPES THE SCREEN are...

Two more news vans screeching to a halt.

                                  CUT TO:

AN ANSWERING MACHINE

The red screen flashes FULL as Ronald’s finger hits “play”--

INT. RONALD'S LIVING ROOM

Ronald steps away from the machine to drop off his keys.

             ANSWERING MACHINE
      Tuesday, 10:37pm.

The home’s decor is clearly from another era.  Someone else 
decorated... and Ronald just never bothered to change it.

             ASHLEY
	(VIA MACHINE)
      Mr. Daley, it’s Ashley.  I was 
      hoping we could talk.

Ronald stops in his tracks at her voice.  Walks back.

             ASHLEY
	(VIA MACHINE)
	(CONT’D)
      I just... I know something’s wrong, 
      that something happened at the 
      concert tonight to Adam.  I don’t 
      know, I tried your cell, left a 
      message there.  Just, I’m sorry, I 
      didn’t mean to bother you twice.  
      Sorry.

BEEP.  Ronald suddenly realizes HE DOESN’T HAVE HIS CELL.  He 
pats his pockets... it’s not there.  Then...


                                      35.

             ANSWERING MACHINE
      Wednesday, 6:53am.

             PRINCIPAL GARRETT
	(VIA MACHINE)
      Hey, Ronnie.  It’s Principal 
      Garrett.  I heard about your 
      brother on the news.  I hope he 
      pulls through.  Don't think twice, 
      I'll get your classes covered this 
      week.  I tried your cell--

Hits DELETE.  The machine BEEPS.

             REPORTER
	(VIA MACHINE)
      Mr. Daley.  Kyle Kennedy, San 
      Francisco Chronicle.  Please...

Ronald deletes the message.

             ANOTHER REPORTER
	(VIA MACHINE)
      Ronald.  Taylor Schwartz, MSNBC...

DELETE.

             BOB
	(VIA MACHINE)
      This is Bob Vaughn from Good 
      Morning America.  I'm calling to 
      see what your reaction...

THE PHONE RINGS

Cutting off the machine.  Ronald debates... but he knows it’s 
a reporter.  Instead, he PULLS THE PHONE LINE OUT.  Silence.

             CNN ANCHOR
	(PRE-LAP)
      Across the world...

CNN (LIVE REPORT)

             CNN ANCHOR
      ...this morning’s announcement has 
      brought people out of their homes 
      and offices and into churches, 
      temples and mosques in record 
      numbers.  Those on the ground are 
      saying they’ve never seen anything 
      quite like it.  In Rome, Vatican 
      City--

B-ROLL of Vatican City, as crowded as Conclave...


             CNN ANCHOR
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      ...Has filled with Catholics 
      looking for a response from Pope 
      Benedict.  Mecca, Jerusalem... 

Mecca, full of Muslims.  Jerusalem, full of... Everyone.

                                      36.

             CNN ANCHOR
	(CONT’D)
      Are also reporting a massive influx  
      of pilgrims.  From Westminster 
      Abbey to the National Cathedral, 
      clergy are attempting to 
      accommodate numbers the likes of 
      which they haven’t seen in decades.

INT. ST. AUGUSTINE’S CHURCH - DAY

There’s an electricity to the SRO audience.  Sally Hunt, on 
her own, finds the last seat in the back row.

IN THE WING

Father Reese stares from behind a beige curtain in disbelief 
at the crowd.  The CHURCH SECRETARY comes over.

             FATHER REESE
        (stuck in the gaze)
      They got here so fast.

             CHURCH SECRETARY
      I called Loretta at First Baptist.  
      Said the fire marshal almost shut 
      them down.  Had to start a separate 
      service in the parking lot.
        (beat)
      So what are you going to say?

Father Reese never breaks his gaze.

REESE AT THE ALTAR

Speaking to the massive congregation.  Improvising, really:

                                  CUT TO:

             FATHER REESE
      Many of you, I’m guessing from all 
      the new faces, haven’t had the 
      privilege of reading the bible.  If 
      you had, two pages in... right 
      there on the second page, you’d see 
      these words: “The Lord God formed 
      man from the dust of the ground and 
      breathed into his nostrils the 


             FATHER REESE
	(CONT'D)
      breath of life.”  For two-thousand 
      years, our church has abided by the 
      idea that our soul was granted to 
      us by God.  The bible says so.  So 
      I don’t know what’s worse.  Being 
      right, or having to be proven 
      right, just for you to show up.

                                      37.

The Church Secretary looks around the room, afraid Father 
Reese is offending parishioners.

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      Now, suddenly, some doctor comes on 
      television and says science has 
      proven what religion has been 
      telling you all along.  He provides 
      a spectacle, he shows you with your 
      own eyes this so-called proof.   
      Well I have seen a magician 
      levitate.  It doesn’t mean man can 
      fly.  But because science decrees 
      it, because you saw it on 
      television, you suddenly believe?  
      To say your faith is true would be 
      a lie.  

Congregants look guilty, like deer in headlights.  

Sally smirks... because everything Reese says is true.

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      Faith is not easy.  Faith requires, 
      inherently, belief without proof.   
      Throw in proof, and it's no longer 
      faith.  It's fact.  I'm ashamed 
      that it requires something like 
      this to fill these seats.  I'm 
      ashamed that this day and age has 
      ripped religion out of your lives 
      and made it a chore.  But above 
      all, I'm ashamed to be right there 
      with you.  I call you faithless.
        (beat)
      So am I.

And you could hear a pin drop.

INT. HOSPITAL CHAIRMAN’S OFFICE - WAITING AREA - DAY

TWO RECEPTIONISTS field calls -- lots of them -- when a 
FIGURE rushes past, hell-bent on seeing the chairman.  

                                UNLIKE IN:


             RECEPTIONIST
      --Oh, Mr. Hunt, I’m--

C.C. ignores her and bursts into the--

CHAIRMAN’S OFFICE

                                      38.

Head of the hospital LAWRENCE ADAMS is behind his sleek desk, 
speaking to Dr. Herd.  They’ve been expecting this...

             C.C.
      What the fuck is going on here, 
      Lawrence?

             LAWRENCE
      Charles, calm down.  Take a seat.

             C.C.
      Calm down?  Fifty-million dollars.  
      A new building.  Where’s the wonder 
      drug you promised me?

Dr. Herd very calmly leans forward.

             DR. HERD
      What we've discovered is priceless.

             LAWRENCE
      Your generous grant was not 
      contingent on the delivery of a 
      cancer therapy.

             C.C.
      He’s a god-damn cancer doctor!  If 
      I build a donut factory, I expect 
      fucking donuts!

             DR. HERD
      You invested in me, C.C.  Look what 
      you’re a part of?  It’s not a 
      matter of dollars and cents.  We've 
      given people a look at the very 
      essence of what makes us human.

             C.C.
      Gosh, Daniel, you’re right, I feel 
      so much better.  You... You know 
      what?  I’m gonna go back, I’m gonna 
      tell that to my shareholders.

             LAWRENCE
      Charles, I'm sure the publicity of 
      your involvement will easily...


                                      39.

             C.C.
      --Pick up the Wall Street Journal 
      tomorrow and tell me about fucking 
      publicity.  

             LAWRENCE
      You have no idea how the market...

             C.C.
      How am I supposed to sell, why... 
      Why would people pay what I make 
      them pay when they don't fear the 
      end result?

             DR. HERD
      And you accuse me of fraud?

C.C. stares Herd down.  Hard.

             C.C.
      You fabricated research, you lied 
      to my face and you engaged in a 
      conspiracy with who knows how many 
      people beyond the other defendant 
      in this room.  When I’m done, this 
      place isn’t just going to have my 
      name on a wing... it’s going to 
      have my name on the fucking deed.

INT. BROADCAST STUDIO - EVENING

Marilyn’s newsroom rival, MIA JANG, sits behind the anchor 
desk, ON-THE-AIR:

             MIA
	(INTO CAMERA)
      Yesterday, many considered him a 
      joke.  But today, Monroe Weaver, 
      the city’s most infamous psychic 
      medium and spiritualist -- known 
      mostly for his late night 
      commercials -- is suddenly being 
      inundated with new believers.

EXT. MONROE WEAVER'S OFFICE - EVENING

Marilyn Koner -- biting back Miacentric bitterness -- stands 
behind a sizable mob.  POLICE perform crowd-control.

             MARILYN
	(INTO CAMERA)
      That’s right... Mia.  I'm standing 
      on La Brea, where a crowd numbering 
      close to one hundred has gathered 
      to see Monroe Weaver, whose 4th 
      floor office is located behind me.


VIDEO FOOTAGE - - EARLIER THAT DAY:

                                      40.

Monroe Weaver tries to push past the crowd into the building.

             MARILYN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Mr. Weaver!  Can you comment on 
      today’s news?

Monroe stops in front of CAMERA.  Does his best to stand 
still amidst the surging crowd.  He speaks with authority:

             MONROE
      Anything that helps build this 
      country’s faith is a step in the 
      right direction.  When I woke up 
      this morning, I knew every one of 
      us possessed a soul full of 
      humanity...

Monroe gets jostled forward.  He quickly regains himself.

             MONROE
	(CONT’D)
      ...I knew every one of us possessed 
      a soul capable of wonderful things.  
      I’ll go to bed tonight still 
      believing the same thing.

EXT. BEACH - EVENING

The sun has just set, it’s getting cold... but Ashley doesn’t 
seem to notice.  She’s in her Benton Academy outfit, knees 
pulled up to her chest, lost in her iPhone...

ON THE PHONE - - Video of Ashley’s FATHER, on a FERRIS WHEEL 
at the famous SANTA MONICA PIER.  He seems mildly terrified.

             ASHLEY’S FATHER
	(ON PHONE)
      Oh, we’re gonna film this?!  You 
      are so kind to me.  

             ASHLEY
	(ON PHONE; O.S.)
      Camera’s rolling!  What have you 
      got to say for yourself Dad?

             ASHLEY’S FATHER
	(ON PHONE)
      Ummm.  I love you.  I love you and 
      I hate heights!  Everyone catch 
      that at home?!  She’s...

The video PAUSES, diminishes off the screen and is replaced 
by a picture of KATE calling.  Ashley hits-- 

IGNORE.  The video of her father on the pier pops back up and 
Ashley REPLAYS it from the beginning...


                                      41.

             ASHLEY’S FATHER
	(ON PHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, we’re gonna film this?!  You 
      are so kind to me. 

CAMERA DOLLIES AROUND a wistful Ashley to reveal the Santa 
Monica Pier -- and its Ferris wheel -- in the distance.

This was their spot.

INT. HIGH RISE CONDO - ELEVATOR - EVENING

A BEEFY DOORMAN in a suit rides up as the numbers tick away.  
He holds a bag of Chinese take out.

INT. DR. DANIEL HERD’S CONDO - EVENING

Dr. Herd sits at the clean, modern counter in sweatpants and 
a tattered T-shirt.  Picks at chow mein with his chopsticks.

A BASEBALL GAME plays on his giant plasma, casting green and 
white across the expensive but barely used furniture.

He reaches for a bottle of water when BEHIND HIM:

A FIGURE

Falls past his balcony.  It’s so fleeting, maybe we imagined--

SCREAMS

Loud, but distant, carried up from the street cause Dr. Herd 
to turn.  He stares out the open sliding glass door.

EXT. BALCONY - SECONDS LATER

Dr. Herd looks over the edge, down 14 floors at...

BROKEN FOLIAGE

Tree limbs snapped off.  As if something heavy fell here.

A crowd gathers, including reporters already present, but Dr. 
Herd can’t see what they’re staring at through the tree.

He looks up at the balconies above his.  Then back down.

And that’s when he hears the sirens.

EXT. RONALD’S STREET - NIGHT

The news vans are still here.  Through the open door of one, 
we see a cameraman sleeping.  Nearby, a few others smoke.

                                      42.

INT. RONALD’S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The television is on and though we’ll see bits of it, we 
mostly hear a DVD of “BACK TO THE FUTURE” playing.

Ronald is splayed on the sofa, in the same clothes he’s worn 
for the past two days.  He holds Adam’s guitar to his chest, 
occasionally strumming as he MOUTHS the words alongside:

             DOC BROWN
	(O.S.)
      Marty... Have you interacted with 
      anybody else today besides me?

             MARTY MCFLY
	(O.S.)
      I’m... yeah, well, I might’ve -- 
      sorta -- bumped into my parents.

             DOC BROWN
	(ON TV)
      Great Scott!

Ronald suddenly STOPS... because he realizes what comes next:

             DOC BROWN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Let me see that photograph again of 
      your brother!
        (beat)
      Just as I thought, this proves my 
      theory... look at your brother.

PUSH IN -- On Ronald... closing his eyes as...

             MARTY MCFLY
	(O.S.)
      His head's gone!  It's like-- it's 
      like been erased.

             DOC BROWN
	(O.S.)
      Erased from existence.

INT. FATHER REESE'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Father Reese wakes up, twisting around in bed to reach the 
phone.  He answers it, groggy.

                        BLACK.  THEN RINGING:

             FATHER REESE
      Hello.
        (beat)
      When?

Reese turns over, finds his bedside clock.

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll be there.


                                      43.

He hangs up, swings out of bed... HOLD on the white sheets:  

There’s a slight STREAK OF BLOOD from the wounds on his back.

EXT/EST. CATHEDRAL OF OUR LADY OF THE ANGELS - MORNING

Possibly for the first time, people are CAMPING out front.  
It’s a festive atmosphere as L.A.’s many ethnicities mingle.

INT. CATHEDRAL HALLWAY - MORNING 

Father Reese is led by a DEACON down the stark, portrait-
lined area separating the church from the office chancery.

Reese should feel at home.  But the portrait eyes follow him, 
indict him.  This is the last place he wants to be.

INT. AUXILLARY BISHOP’S OFFICE - MORNING

Reese is directed into the large, business-like office of 
regional Bishop CARLOS AGUILAR.  From the look on Aguilar’s 
face, meeting Reese like this isn’t uncommon.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
      Have a seat, Franklin.  John, get 
      the door.

Reese can’t help but notice a shopworn STRESS BALL in the 
Bishop’s hand, or the obnoxiously framed HARVARD DIPLOMA.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
	(CONT’D)
      Most people don’t know this about 
      me but I was a history major before 
      I joined the seminary.  Did you 
      know that about me?

             FATHER REESE
        (he did)
      I didn’t.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
      Well, I was, it certainly serves a 
      purpose in this job, since all 
      we’re doing is teaching our brand 
      of history.  Case in point.  For 
      359 years this church told the 
      world that Galileo Galilei was 
      wrong, that the sun revolved around 
      the earth.

Aguilar uses the yellow stress ball as the sun, revolving it 
around his finger like the pompous ass he is.


                                      44.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
	(CONT’D)
      Did you know that?  We took a lot 
      of ridicule on that one.   Then, 
      twenty years ago, the Pope decides 
      to apologize.  Just like that.  I 
      think the point of this story is 
      mostly to say that sometimes, we 
      get things wrong, but hey, 
      occasionally we’ll cop to it.

             FATHER REESE
      Just 359 years too late.

Bishop Aguilar smirks.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
      Now yesterday, just one day ago, 
      the most respected and famous 
      proponent of that which we have 
      spent 359 years losing a battle 
      against came forward and said... we 
      got this one right!
        (beat)
      So what do you do?

             FATHER REESE
      You got some complaints.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
      We got some complaints.

Aguilar sets down the stress ball.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
	(CONT’D)
      How many times have I had to move 
      you?  Three, correct?

Franklin nods.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
	(CONT’D)
      Look.  You know as well as I do 
      this church is in dire straits; if 
      I could have fired you, I would 
      have, but I need you more than I 
      wish I did.  Maybe now, after 
      yesterday, maybe our score will 
      change.  So, for your sake, 
      whatever the problem is -- and 
      hopefully the AA meetings are 
      helping somewhat with the... urges, 
      right? -- maybe you figure it out 
      and you fix it.


                                      45.

             FATHER REESE
      Nothing I said was a lie.

             BISHOP AGUILAR
      You’re wrong.

             FATHER REESE
      Excuse me?

             BISHOP AGUILAR
      I don’t think you’ve ever really 
      doubted your faith.  I think you 
      lied about that.  And now that you 
      know we were right about this, 
      who’s to say we’re not right about 
      heaven.  About hell!  So you were 
      wrong, you did lie.  You didn’t 
      abandon your beliefs.  You just 
      don’t want to believe them anymore.

INT. UCLA CANCER WARD - MORNING

Dr. Herd grabs a CHART off the door of a PRIVATE ROOM...

A nurse is adjusting the I.V. of a restless JEREMY HARRIS 
(28), his black head hairless, his weight next to nothing.

             DR. HERD
      Good morning, Jeremy.

As the nurse leaves the room, Jeremy points to the TV.

             JEREMY
      So I see you took yesterday off.

Dr. Herd puts the chart down.  There’s an ease between them.

             DR. HERD
      Didn’t I make sure nurse Karen was 
      here to take care of you?

             JEREMY
      Only problem is every time she 
      adjusts my pillow I think I’ve 
      finally died and gone to heaven!

             DR. HERD
      How you feeling today?

             JEREMY
      Ehh-- not so good, not so hot.  
      Listen, Doc, I gotta ask, what with 
      all this shit going down about life-
      after-death and souls and such.


             JEREMY
	(CONT'D)
        (then)
      What is your position on 
      circumcision?

             DR. HERD
      Look at this nose... You think I 
      had much of a choice?

                                      46.

Jeremy’s laugh turns painful.  Even joy is now difficult.

             JEREMY
      One more question for ya, Doc.  Any 
      way we can speed this up?

             DR. HERD
      I’ll be out of here in a second.

             JEREMY
      No.  I meant-- this.  I’m just 
      tired of hurting.

This stops Dr. Herd... because how many other people -- 
people who are also hurting -- how many of them...

Want to speed this up?

             DR. HERD
      I’ll see what I can do for the 
      pain.

EXT. BENTON ACADEMY - MORNING - ESTABLISHING

Ivy-covered walls, uniformed students around a quad.

INT. MUSIC CLASSROOM - MORNING

PRINCIPAL GARRETT stands before Ronald’s class...

             PRINCIPAL GARRETT
	(CONT'D)
      We have a lot to talk about, 
      current events being what they are.  
      However, I think we should consider 
      making a class card expressing our 
      condolences for Mr. Daley and I'll 
      take it over to his house later.

A hand shoots up from the back of the classroom.

             PRINCIPAL GARRETT
	(CONT'D)
      Yes, Ashley?

             ASHLEY
      Mr. Daley lives right by me, I can 
      just take it to him.

                                      47.


Some of the kids snicker at the teacher’s pet.

             PRINCIPAL GARRETT
      Well, okay.  You know where...?  
      Okay.  That should be fine.

Kate leans in, whispers:

             KATE
      Mr. Daley knows you turned 
      eighteen, right? 

And then winks at a blushing Ashley.

                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE ON A LAPTOP

             MSNBC ANCHOR
	(O.S.)
      ...Dr. Herd’s announcement has now 
      had a full day to impact investors.

A stock-ticker for Hunt Pharmaceutical Corp. (HPC) shows the 
stock fall in real time: 80.77 -- 80.25 -- 80.20 ...

INT. C.C.'S MANSION - DINING ROOM - MORNING

C.C. sits at the long table, not drinking a cup of coffee.  
He’s too busy watching his net value drop.  The TV drones:

             MSNBC ANCHOR
	(ON SCREEN)
      ...We’re seeing a rise in consumer 
      confidence; that’s translating to a 
      big morning for blue chips.  The 
      one industry trending down, 
      interestingly, seems to be Big 
      Pharma. For more on why we go live--

Sally enters from the sitting room and waits for a greeting.  
Her husband doesn't even look up:

             C.C.
      Where were you yesterday?

Sally looks at the back of her husband's head.

             SALLY
      I went to church.  Like we used to.

Long silence.

             C.C.
      Wonderful.

                                      48.

INT. RONALD'S HOME - AFTERNOON

On the ever-present television is a popular MORNING SHOW:

 RESPECTABLE INTERVIEWER
...but how does this validate 
the Christian world-view 
over, say, the Islamic belief 
in the soul or even...

		FANATICAL GUEST
	--George, George... The true 
	God is the only one who 
        controls death!  Muhammed 
        dies.  Buddha dies.  Jesus is 
        the only spiritual leader who 
        has come back to life!

ON RONALD, eyes red from lack of sleep, sitting on his couch 
staring at the bottle of SLEEPING PILLS Jane gave him.

             FANATICAL GUEST
	(CONT’D)
      You have to examine the science of 
      each belief’s “holy” scriptures.  
      Tell me, where’s the proof that 
      Buddha reached Nirvana?  The Quran 
      gets basic biology and anthropology 
      incorrect!  But the Old Testament, 
      that, George, that is a scripture 
      with a meticulous, accountable 
      history, much of which has been 
      proven fact.  Let’s see the 
      Mormon’s prove--

A LOUD BANG on the back door causes Ronald to slowly pull 
himself from his stupor.  Another bang.

EXT. RONALD'S BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Ashley is at the back door, frustrated, CARD IN HAND.  She 
pounds on the door again.

             ASHLEY
      Mr. Daley!  It's Ashley!

Ashley leans down to slide the card under the door when she 
notices a KEY sticking out half-way from beneath the doormat.  

She uses her foot to scoot the key under the mat just as 
Ronald opens the blinds.

             RONALD
      Ashley?  What are you doing here?

             ASHLEY
      Hi.  I brought you this.

She holds the card up to the glass.

                                      49.

INT. DINING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Ronald scans the card as Ashley trails behind.

             RONALD
      I don't see your name here.

             ASHLEY
      I signed the back.

Ronald flips it; the back is covered in her perfect dot-the-I 
with hearts handwriting. 

             ASHLEY
	(CONT'D)
      I told Principal Garrett I'd bring 
      it by because we're neighbors.

Ronald looks up from the card.

             RONALD
      But we're not neighbors.

             ASHLEY
      Yeah, but that's what I told him.  
      It was only half an hour by bus.

Ronald, stoic, looks back down at the condolence:

             RONALD
      How’d you get past the circus?

He looks up and realizes Ashley isn't in the room.

             RONALD
	(CONT’D)
      Make yourself at home.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Ashley is bent down looking for something to eat in the 
fridge.  Ronald enters and the first thing he sees is--

HER VERY CUTE BUTT, visible around the edge of the door.

       		RONALD
	I think it’s probably best 
	that...

		ASHLEY
	--What do you eat?  All 
        you've got is a jar of 
        pickles.

She holds it up, like a trophy.

             RONALD
      I eat out.


             ASHLEY
      Well then go change or something.  
      You look like someone just died.

                                      50.

There.  It’s out of the way.  The elephant.  Ashley grows 
nervous in the surrounding silence as Ronald soaks her in.

             RONALD
      Give me ten minutes.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

We hear the sound of a shower as Ashley looks through 
Ronald’s pictures, his music collection, stacks of DVD’s... 

She notices the BACK TO THE FUTURE DVD CASE by the 
television.  She picks it up, smiles--

And sees the telephone is unplugged.  She plugs it in, puts 
the DVD back near the TV when...

THE PHONE RINGS

Just like that.  Ashley answers.

             ASHLEY
      Hello?

INT. ST. AUGUSTINE’S CHURCH - CONFESSIONAL - SAME

Father Reese sits in the dark booth, phone in hand.  

             FATHER REESE
      Is this, um, Ronald Daley's home?

             ASHLEY
	(O.S.)
      He’s not talking to any reporters.

And she hangs up.

Reese debates, then redials.

INT. RONALD’S LIVING ROOM

The phone rings and Ashley grabs it...

             ASHLEY
      Look, fuckhole, I said...

             FATHER REESE
	(O.S.)
      I’m not a reporter.  My name is 
      Franklin Reese.  I used to be 
      Ronald’s pastor.


                                      51.

             ASHLEY
      Oh.  Sorry.  He’s in the shower.

             FATHER REESE
	(O.S.)
      Are you his wife?

             ASHLEY
      ...Sure.

             FATHER REESE
	(O.S.)
      If you would, please, it's quite 
      important we speak, have him call 
      me.  310-555-9683.

Ashley takes down the number.

             ASHLEY
      I'll tell him you called.

She goes to hang up the phone when...

INT. CONFESSIONAL

             FATHER REESE
      Wait!

Father Reese leans forward, shadow from the lattice 
crisscrossing his face...

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      Tell me.  Is Ronald... is he okay?

INT. RONALD’S LIVING ROOM 

Ashley is taken aback by the question just as Ronald comes 
in, wearing a sweatshirt and jeans, his hair still damp.

             RONALD
      You plugged in my phone?

Ashley turns, surprised.  Covers the receiver...

             ASHLEY
      Yeah.  Who still has a landline 
      anyway?  Uh, there’s some guy on 
      the phone, says he’s your old 
      priest.  Reese, I think?

Ronald grabs the phone cord and TUGS it out of the wall.

             RONALD
        (calmly)
      We can go now.

                                      52.

INT. HUNT PHARMACEUTICAL HEADQUARTERS - AFTERNOON

C.C.'s Asian secretary, HANNA, speaks on the phone.

             HANNA
      Okay.  Tomorrow at 4.  I'll tell 
      him.

Hanna hangs up as C.C. strides out of his office.  She stands 
and follows, still wearing her WIRELESS HEADSET.

             HANNA
	(CONT’D)
      Where are you off to in such a 
      rush?

             C.C.
      Jesus, Hanna.  I'm stretching my 
      fucking legs.

             HANNA
      Oh, well, Dean called.  He’s set up 
      a meeting with the board of 
      directors tomorrow.

C.C. stops walking.

             C.C.
      Dean told you this?

             HANNA
      Just now.

             C.C.
      He told you?  He didn’t ask you?  
      That little prick.

             HANNA
      What?

             C.C.
      I’m asking if Dean was saying it 
      was already...

Hanna holds up a finger and points to her headset.

             HANNA
      Okay.  I’ll let him know.
        (beat; to C.C.)
      Salazar over at Moody’s just 
      downgraded us from ‘Buy’.

             C.C.
      After one day?  That little prick.

                                      53.

EXT. RONALD’S STREET - AFTERNOON

A handful of news vans are still here... most have left out 
of frustration.  A lone COP CAR makes sure rules are obeyed--

THE DELOREAN

Breaks the law and shoots backwards out of the driveway 
unexpectedly, skidding to a stop as a REPORTER runs over...

Ronald -- the only person inside the car -- throws it into 
drive and guns the engine, swerving to miss the reporter. 

He’s around the corner before the first news van is even on.

INT. DELOREAN - SAME

Ronald looks over his shoulder as he escapes, then takes a 
jacket off the folded down passenger seat to reveal Ashley.

She pushes the seat upright and laughs.

             ASHLEY
      So what happens when this thing 
      hits 88 miles-per-hour?

Ronald, for the first time in awhile... smiles.

INT. DINER - EVENING

Ronald nervously looks around while Ashley glows, somewhere 
between reserved sympathy and pleased-as-punch.

             ASHLEY
      And so I told Jason, you gotta 
      start acting your age.  But then it 
      dawned on me, he’s seventeen, he is 
      acting his age.  Last time I go out 
      with a guy who’s younger than me.

Ronald finally gets the energy to talk:

       		RONALD
	Ashley.

		ASHLEY
	...All they want is sex...

Too bad Ashley doesn’t take notice.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Everything is some silly calculated 
      ploy to get me in bed for, what, 
      two minutes if they’re lucky?

             RONALD
      I’m your teacher, Ashley.

                                      54.


             ASHLEY
      You’re also my friend.

Ronald uncomfortably looks down at his water glass.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      I didn’t thank you for the concert 
      tickets the other night.
        (beat)
      So thanks.

She puts her hand on his.  Ronald pulls his back, paranoid.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      You think we’re gonna be caught?  
      That my mom’ll walk through the 
      front door?

             RONALD
      This was a bad idea.

             ASHLEY
      What was, two adults having dinner?
        (then)
      When my dad died, all I wanted to 
      do was just-- just sit in front of 
      the TV and never leave and you 
      can’t tell me you don’t, just, 
      right now want to get out of this 
      restaurant and sit in front of your 
      fucking TV and sit there forever.        
      I wasn’t even in your class then, 
      but you found me in the quad and 
      you handed me your old iPod with 
      all these bands on it I’d never 
      heard of.  Remember?

The waitress drops off their food...

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you.
        (back to Ronald)
      Do you remember what you said?

             RONALD
      I said, “This is what helped me.”

             ASHLEY
      You didn’t even know me and you 
      were there for me.  So now that we 
      are friends, I’m gonna be there for 
      you and you’re gonna eat that 
      fucking cheeseburger or I will 


             ASHLEY
	(CONT'D)
      Facebook the entire school-- I’m 
      sitting here, in a booth, with you.

Ronald is overcome.  Doesn’t know what to say.  

So he does what she said.  He eats.

                                      55.

                                  CUT TO:

A SYRINGE punctures piebald skin...

INT. DR. DANIEL HERD’S OFFICE - EVENING

Dr. Herd depresses dark liquid into a vein in his inner 
elbow.  He withdraws the needle and applies a band-aid.  

A KNOCK--

Jane enters just as Dr. Herd closes a desk drawer FULL OF 
SYRINGES and vials of serum.

Before Jane says anything, Herd knows:

             JANE
      It’s Jeremy.

EXT. VENICE BOARDWALK - EVENING

Ronald and Ashley walk the beach bum path, the last remnants 
of the setting sun casting long palm tree shadows.

             ASHLEY
      So how come you weren’t the 
      rockstar of the family?

             RONALD
      I was.

             ASHLEY
      What does that mean?

             RONALD
      I became an adult long before I 
      wanted to be.  When it became just 
      me and Adam.  And being a musician 
      isn’t exactly steady work.  So I 
      went to college instead.  Someone 
      had to be responsible. 

             ASHLEY
      Mom had me in college.  Not a day 
      goes by that she doesn’t remind me 
      how I destroyed her “plans.”  As if 
      I had a choice in the matter.

                                      56.


             ASHLEY
	(CONT'D)
        (then)
      Is that why you stopped talking to 
      your brother?

             RONALD
      No... I don’t know.

It’s exactly why.  And Ashley senses it.

             ASHLEY
      Do you ever think about killing 
      yourself?

She just asks.  Blunt.  Ronald is at first put off, then--

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      They sent a psychologist to our 
      classes this morning because 
      everyone’s now suddenly afraid 
      we’re all going to just jump off a 
      building or something.  They say 
      now that we know this isn’t the end 
      -- we think this isn’t the end -- 
      that everyone wants to give it all 
      up and trade in for whatever’s 
      next.  Why do you think so many 
      people can’t stand this place? 

He doesn’t have an answer, so she turns to watch the sun 
disappear into the Pacific.  Ronald watches her for a beat.

Concerned, enamored.  Then, slowly, he turns to the sea.

INT. CANCER WARD - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dr. Herd peers through the doorway window into Jeremy 
Harris’s room.  The entire Harris clan -- mother, father, 
sisters -- stand vigil over the bed crying.

Because Jeremy is dead.

             MONROE
	(O.S.)
      Excuse me.

Dr. Herd steps out of the way of Monroe Weaver, the medium, 
who nods an acknowledgement before stepping into the room.  

Monroe hugs the family.  Comforts them.  As the door shuts, 
Herd’s face appears through the window as -- reflected in the 
glass -- Monroe kneels beside Jeremy Harris...

Takes his lifeless hand...

And begins communicating with the other side.

                                      57.

INT. DELOREAN - NIGHT

Ronald’s DeLorean pulls to a stop in front of Ashley’s house.  
It’s like that awkward moment at the end of a date...

Not that this is a date, of course.

             ASHLEY
      Thanks for, you know, letting me 
      spend time with you.

             RONALD
      I always thought you came by after 
      all those classes because of my 
      brother... because of who he was.

             ASHLEY
      Have you seen him yet?
        (off his confused look)
      Your brother.  When my dad died, 
      I’d wake up in the middle of the 
      night and I’d see him.  Right in 
      that moment before my eyes were 
      completely open.  Like a flash.

             RONALD
      No.

             ASHLEY
      You will.

Beat.  Running out of things to say:

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t come in.

             RONALD
      What?  I wasn’t planning...

             ASHLEY
      That’s my mom’s car there.  I don’t 
      think she...

             RONALD
      Well maybe I should just say hello.

             ASHLEY
      Can you please not?

Ronald eyes her up.  He’ll leave the mother for another day.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      So when are you gonna be back in 
      class.


                                      58.

             RONALD
      Soon.

             ASHLEY
      Thanks for the ride.
        (beat)
      Okay.
        (beat)
      I’m going now.

She gets out, swinging the DeLorean’s door upward.  Laughs a 
little at the crazy car.

INT. ASHLEY & MARILYN’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Ashley quietly closes the front door.  She throws her 
sweatshirt on a hanger and steps into the LIVING ROOM--

             MARILYN
	(O.S.)
      Who the fuck was that?

Marilyn appears.  She puts an earring in, dressed to go out.

             ASHLEY
      What?

             MARILYN
      The man who dropped you off.  Who 
      was he?

             ASHLEY
      Does it matter?  If we’d been five 
      minutes later you’d have been gone-- 
      as usual.

             MARILYN
      How old is he?

             ASHLEY
      Mom--

             MARILYN
      Tell me!

             ASHLEY
      Why, you want him?

Marilyn slaps Ashley on the cheek.  Ashley is stunned.

             MARILYN
      Look what you made me do.
        (then)
      I’m still your mother and it’s my 
      responsibility to make sure you’re 


             MARILYN
	(CONT'D)
      not out hanging around with older 
      men, throwing your life away.  Your 
      father was older than me, remember?

                                      59.

Ashley retreats.  Marilyn’s comment hurt more than the slap.

             ASHLEY
      It was my teacher.  Ronald Daley.  
      My music teacher.  I went over to 
      make him feel better, his brother 
      just died, I know how he feels!

             MARILYN
        (after a beat)
      Did you say Ronald Daley?

EXT. ASHLEY & MARILYN’S HOUSE - SAME

Ronald sits in his car, engine idling softly, lights off.  

He watches Ashley and Marilyn’s heated conversation through 
their living room window.

EXT. HOSPITAL VERANDA - NIGHT

Below, on the property line of the hospital, people have 
gathered in a CANDLELIGHT VIGIL.  A growing line of pilgrims.  

Jane comes out to find Dr. Herd smoking a cigarette.

             JANE
      You know those things give you 
      cancer, right?

             DR. HERD
      That’s funny.
        (beat)
      Did I do the right thing?

             JANE
      Daniel...

             DR. HERD
      --When I stopped researching the 
      cure; when I gave up and turned my 
      attention to the TFS.  Should I 
      have cared less about what happens 
      next and more about what happens 
      here?

Jane reaches over and takes the cigarette out of his hand.

             JANE
      It’s a little late for that.


She drops the cig and snubs it out with her heel.

                                      60.

             JANE
	(CONT’D)
      You were given unique insight, you 
      had to pursue this.  You had a 
      question you needed to answer and 
      nobody can ever blame you for that.  
      The world is rejoicing.  Your 
      legacy is secure.  Isn’t that what 
      you wanted?

Dr. Herd looks out over Westwood, all lit up.

             DR. HERD
      The number of reported suicides in 
      the U.S. and Europe tripled 
      yesterday from the day before.

             JANE
      Those deaths aren’t your fault.

Dr. Herd SIGHS.  Long and deep.  Looks at the candles 
flickering on the ground.

             DR. HERD
      I hope they feel the same way.

EXT. PCH - NIGHT

Ronald’s DeLorean drives back into the heart of the city.  
RAIN begins to drizzle the windshield.

EXT. RONALD’S STREET - NIGHT

The rain falls harder now.  Ronald pulls around the corner 
slowly and sees the news vans are gone, though that POLICE 
CRUISER still waits at the end of the street.

Ronald pulls up to the cop car and rolls down his window.  
The cop does the same.

             RONALD
      Not that I’m complaining but 
      where’d all the news vans go?

             COP
      The Mayor’s wife just killed 
      herself.  Bigger story, I guess.

             RONALD
      Huh.  Thanks.

             COP
      Have a good night, Mr. Daley.

                                      61.

INT/EXT. GARAGE - NIGHT

Ronald closes the car door when he hears--

SPLASHES

On the wet pavement behind him.  He can’t make out whoever’s 
approaching.  It’s too dark.

             RONALD
      You’re trespassing!

             FIGURE
      I’m not a reporter.

The figure steps forward, into the light of the garage:  

FATHER FRANKLIN REESE

It’s been many years but Ronald -- frozen with shock --
instantly recognizes his former priest under an umbrella.

             FATHER REESE
      I just wanted a moment of your 
      time.

             RONALD
      What are you doing here?

             FATHER REESE
      Can we talk inside where it’s not 
      so wet?

             RONALD
      No.

Father Reese nods, lucky Ronald’s even talking to him.

             FATHER REESE
      I read about Adam.  Saw on TV, too.  
      Guess it’s the only thing people 
      are talking about these days.
        (after a beat)
      I’m a bad priest.  I’m a bad man.  
      I stopped believing in the things I 
      was preaching so long ago...

He trails off, wiping some stray water off his face.

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      You can’t begin to know what it’s 
      like to devote yourself so fully to 
      God, only to suffer these feelings 
      inside that no human being should 

                                      62.


             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      ever have.  I’ve done things, so 
      many things.  To you.  To others.
        (beat)
      I didn’t stop because I knew there 
      couldn’t be a God.

             RONALD
      Are you blaming God for what you 
      did to me?

             FATHER REESE
      I can’t blame God.  I don’t know if 
      he even exists.  Two days ago I was 
      positive he didn’t.  Now I’m not so 
      sure.

             RONALD
      It’s been twenty years.  Now!  Now, 
      you suddenly think you have an 
      excuse?

Father Reese nervously fidgets.

             FATHER REESE
      I know how much Adam meant to you.  
      You know I never laid a hand on 
      him.

             RONALD
      Because that’s what the deal was!  
      Keep my mouth shut and... just get 
      the fuck out of my driveway.

             FATHER REESE
      You should have told.  You could 
      have stopped me from...

Ronald steps out into the rain.

             RONALD
      Stopped you from what?  You said 
      I’d be the last!  

             FATHER REESE
      I needed to be stopped.

             RONALD
      I was ten!

Ronald throws Reese to the ground.  Reese starts crying.

             FATHER REESE
      Nobody wants to be a monster.


                                      63.

Ronald kicks him square in the stomach.  Leans down to 
Reese’s ear:

             RONALD
      Come here again and I’ll kill you.

And that’s that.  Ronald goes inside.

Father Reese coughs up blood.  He stands, wipes his chin.  
Looks up at the torrential sky...

             FATHER REESE
        (sotto)
      Just tell me... just tell me what 
      you want from me.  Please.

LIGHTNING sears the sky.  Reese’s eyes grow wide... Almost as 
if... as if he heard an answer to his question.  Assuaged--

He drops to his knees and lets the rain wash over him.

                             FADE TO BLACK.

EXT. HIGH ABOVE LOS ANGELES - MORNING

The sun crests the horizon, sending shards of early morning 
light through the towering skyscrapers of downtown.

EXT. RONALD’S HOME - MORNING

The street and driveway are empty.  Quiet.  “BABA O’RILEY” by 
The Who begins its melodic overture...

A CLOCK RADIO flipping over to 6:00 on the nightstand in the--

                               CUT INSIDE:

BEDROOM

The curtains are open, sunlight pouring in.  Over the music:

             RADIO DJ
	(VIA RADIO)
      Good morning, Los Angeles.  It’s 
      six a.m., say goodbye to the rain 
      and hello sunshine.  

Ronald lays atop his already made bed, eyes open, peering at 
the ceiling.  He makes no movement to turn off the alarm.

Next to the alarm, the bottle of sleeping pills.  Unopened.

             RADIO DJ
	(VIA RADIO)
	(CONT’D)
      You’re listening to “Rob Rowe in 
      the Morning” on KFOG 104.5.  We got 


             RADIO DJ
	(VIA RADIO)
	(CONT’D)
      a little “Baba O’Riley” to get your 
      day jump-started.
        (beat)
      THE WHO!?!?

                                      64.

As piano and drums crash over the synth, Ronald sits up, 
revealing he’s already wearing a simple black suit.

He’s been awake for awhile.

INT. C.C. & SALLY’S BEDROOM - MORNING

Sally too is dressed, seated on her side of the large bed.  
C.C. sleeps soundly, tucked in, back to his wife.

Sally -- her heart heavy -- quietly stands up.

INT. ENTRY HALL - MORNING

Sally carries a small rolling suitcase to the front door.  
From her purse, she removes an envelope with “CHARLES” on it.

She sets it near the keys.  Takes her suitcase.  And leaves.

                                  CUT TO:

A NEWS SHOW -- the kind where multiple guests appear in 
squares as they debate -- plays on a television in...

INT. DR. DANIEL HERD’S OFFICE - MORNING

But it’s MUTED, so we don’t hear the TV.  Just Baba O’Riley.

Dr. Herd is once again INJECTING HIMSELF with some kind of 
liquid.  He unties the tourniquet, depresses the syringe...

And though it’s probably medicine, maybe it’s not--

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
      Out here in the fields
      I fight for my meals...

As Herd finishes his twice-a-day ritual, he looks up at the 
muted news show and see’s one of the shows SPECIAL GUESTS IS:

MONROE WEAVER

Dr. Herd reaches for a remote and RAISES THE TV VOLUME...

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      I get my back into my living.

Except instead of Monroe, it just makes Baba O’Riley louder.

                                      65.

INT. TV STUDIO - SAME

Monroe sits calmly in front of a GREEN SCREEN background.  A 
CAMERA pointed at him for this remote interview.

A LIVE MONITOR -- Shows what home audiences see: Monroe, in 
front of the LA SKYLINE.  He is one of four TALKING HEADS...

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
      I don't need to fight...

The three other BOXES on the show are filled with RELIGIOUS 
OFFICIALS (Catholic, Muslim, Jewish).  The story’s tagline:

“WHOSE BELIEF DOES THIS PROVE?”

The holy men argue, scream and gesticulate over each other in 
a game of who can yell loudest.

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      To prove I'm right...

Except Monroe, who quietly waits his turn.

INT. CLOSET - MORNING

A lone bulb hanging from the ceiling clicks on and Father 
Franklin Reese reaches up and grabs his SHOEBOX.  The one 
where he keeps his pictures, his most prized possessions...

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
      I don't need to be forgiven.

...and his HANDGUN.  He stares at it.  So shiny and deadly.

He drops the shoebox and leaves... with just the gun.

A MOTORCYCLE COP

In the middle of an intersection, holding off traffic as--

                                  CUT TO:

A FUNERAL PROCESSION

Pulls through en route to a CEMETERY.

INT. LIMOUSINE - SAME

Ronald stares out the window at the cop as the limo passes.

Such a big, lonely car for one person.

                                      66.

INT. MARILYN’S BATHROOM - MORNING

Marilyn sits in her nightgown, staring into the mirror.  No 
makeup, just age and the lines that come from it.

She takes a brush of makeup... So begins the process.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Ashley opens the fridge and pulls out a carton of milk.  
She’s wearing white headphones and holding a battered iPod.  

The iconic, first generation type of iPod.

Ashley sets down the iPod and we get a brief glimpse of 
something engraved on the metal back: “HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SON!”

She pours milk over her cereal as she MOUTHS ALONG WITH...

             PETE TOWNSHEND
	(V.O.)
      Don't cry
      Don't raise your eye

She doesn’t see her mother in the other room.  Watching her.  
Debating whether to say anything to her.  Or maybe-- maybe--

Just jealous of her.  Marilyn turns and leaves.

             PETE TOWNSEND
	(V.O.)
      It's only teenage wasteland.

Using her spoon and her hand, she DRUMS perfectly in time 
with Keith Moon’s famous drum fill.

                         SLAM ON THE BEAT TO:

INT. C.C.’S ENTRY HALL - MORNING

C.C. finds the envelope his wife left for him.

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
      Sally, take my hand
      Travel south cross land.

He opens the letter and something shiny falls out--

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Put out the fire
      And don't look past my shoulder.

Hits the floor.  He bends down.  And it suddenly doesn’t 
matter anymore what the note says.  It’s message is clear:

Because C.C. holds his wife’s WEDDING RING.


                                      67.

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      The exodus is here
      The happy ones are near.

C.C. slowly PUTS THE NOTE IN HIS POCKET.  Doesn’t read it.  
Can’t read it.

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Let's get together
      Before we get much older.

He stands up.  Gathers his things and leaves the house.  

No emotion.  Everything just... bottled up inside.

EXT. CEMETERY - MORNING

A caravan of cars snake along the main artery of this 
unnaturally sunny cemetery, past news vans and a crowd of 
Great Scott fans paying tribute to their fallen leader.

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
      Teenage wasteland
      It's only teenage wasteland

Marilyn Koner, along with Cameraman Dan, stand amongst the 
fans behind a police barricade.  The fans call out (MOS) as 
the three remaining band members exit their limos.  

Despite all the noise, all we hear is the music.

TELEVISION CAMERA POV - -

Marilyn reports live as the hearse at the caravan’s front 
pulls to a stop close to the burial site.  

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Teenage wasteland
      Oh, yeah
      Teenage wasteland

RONALD

Joins the band members, Barry and a ROADIE as a pallbearer.

             ROGER DALTREY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      They're all wasted!

The six mourners carry the casket over to the burial site, 
where flowers encompass the excavated grave. Beside the open 
hole sit TWO IDENTICAL TOMBSTONES for:

         JULIE-ANN DALEY     MIKE DALEY


                                      68.

Despite all this formalness, there is no sign of a priest.

BABA O’RILEY grows faster and faster as the coffin approaches 
the grave, dozens of friends watching in the wake.

The mass of people down by the road stand solemnly.  Many of 
them are crying softly.

Father Reese, his clerical collar removed, stands at the back 
of the crowd.  He notices by the front:

Cameraman Dan points his television camera downward for some 
semblance of respect.  Marilyn glares at him: “FILM!”

Ronald and the other Pallbearers reach the grave and lower 
the casket, carefully aligning grooves on its side with the 
mechanical wench that takes the coffin into the earth.

The coffin slowly lowers; ashes to ashes, dust to dust.  
Mourners throw flowers onto the descending black casket.  

One by one they approach, faster and faster as the music 
builds to its blazing CLIMAX.

Ronald stands over the grave.  Watches as the coffin comes to 
a final stop at the bottom.  He throws a single rose into the 
grave as the music comes to a CRASHING END--

                              SLAM CUT TO:

EXT. CEMETERY - LATER

Much of the crowd has dispersed, leaving only a few devoted 
groupies, a few devoted officers and a few devoted mourners.

The funeral is finally over.

Ronald heads to his car, briefly pausing to receive the 
consolation of two older women.

             MARILYN
	(O.S.)
      RONALD!  RONALD DALEY!

Ronald turns and sees Marilyn, standing beside her Cameraman 
back past the now almost nonexistent police barricade.  
Ronald quickens his step over to a limo... damn reporters.

             MARILYN
	(CONT’D)
      Ronald!  I’m Marilyn Koner.  
      Ashley’s mom!

Ronald stops at the car door and slowly turns around.  He 
makes a quick decision and trudges over.

                                      69.


             RONALD
      Put the camera down.

Marilyn nods to Cameraman Dan.  He points the lens down.

             CAMERAMAN DAN
      Camera’s off.

Ronald stays a few feet behind the barricade.

             RONALD
      What are you doing here?

             MARILYN
      I’m reporting on the funeral for 
      channel four news.

             RONALD
      I didn’t know you were a reporter.

             MARILYN
      So I take it then you two didn’t 
      talk about me last night?

Marilyn steps closer, right up to the taped-off barricade.  
Ronald sizes her up...

             MARILYN
	(CONT’D)
      Look, she’s eighteen, I don’t care.
        (beat)
      But the school might.

Ronald sees Dan has the camera on his shoulder, ready to 
record.  Marilyn’s threat is clear:

             MARILYN
	(CONT’D)
      So maybe... just a few questions?

INT. HUNT PHARMACEUTICAL BOARDROOM - DAY

C.C. Hunt is at the end of the expensive mahogany table, 
silently watching Dean Kensworth unceremoniously usurp him.

             DEAN
      ...The fact that Hunt 
      Pharmaceutical's very own CEO 
      funded a research project without 
      applying due diligence to its 
      oversight shows gross negligence on 
      the part of Mr. Charles Hunt.

Dean sits down as all heads look to C.C. for a reaction.  
Slowly, methodically, C.C. stands.


                                      70.

             C.C.
      Seventy-nine years ago my father 
      founded this company.  Thirty years 
      ago he handed it over to me.  Now 
      you expect me to be blamed for 
      something entirely beyond my 
      control?

He looks for sympathy in the faces of the board members.  
Finds none.

             C.C.
	(CONT’D)
      I personally sought to fund 
      research into a cure for cancer, 
      something Dr. Daniel Herd has 
      always been at the forefront of.  
      He has a fucking Nobel Prize, for 
      god’s sake.  I made a business 
      decision -- a good one -- but I was 
      deceived.  The cure to the most 
      vicious disease on the face of the 
      planet would have made us the 
      biggest pharmaceutical corporation 
      in the world.

Dean smirks condescendingly, cutting in:

             DEAN
      We all know you had the best of 
      intentions, Charles.  That’s why 
      we’re not suing you for negligence.

Dean considers this an act of contrition.

             C.C.
      Herd’s paperwork was in immaculate 
      order.

             DEAN
      Or was it that he was your friend 
      and you simply neglected your 
      duties?
        (then)
      This company must put forward the 
      image of responsibility.  And we 
      feel you’re no longer a part of 
      that picture.

C.C. knew things would be bad.  But not this bad.

             C.C.
      So that’s it then?


                                      71.

C.C. strides around the table, toward the large oak doors.  
He starts chuckling to himself as he slowly passes Dean.

             C.C.
	(CONT’D)
      You’re firing me from my own 
      company... You little prick.

He exits.

INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE - DAY

Wearing street clothes, Dr. Herd sits in the patient’s chair, 
carefully reading a file propped on his crossed leg.

DR. BRADLEY MENDELSON, a craggy faced colleague, holds fort 
with a look of consternation.

             DR. MENDELSON
      Well, results of these highly 
      illegal injections appear to be the 
      same as five years ago.  The cancer 
      has disappeared, but if history is 
      any indication, you’ll have bought 
      yourself maybe six-to-eight months.

             DR. HERD
      There’s a five-percent chance 
      you’re wrong.

Dr. Mendelson sighs, throwing his elbows on the desk.

             DR. MENDELSON
      You’re right.  Just imagine if 
      you’d actually kept working on the 
      drug... like we all thought you 
      were.  Who knows where your cure 
      would be by now?

Dr. Herd closes the file.  Doesn’t flinch.

             DR. HERD
      Who knows indeed.

INT. MUSIC CLASSROOM - DAY

A VIDEO PROJECTOR shines on a retractable screen in front of 
the chalkboard.  Principal Garrett is at Ronald’s real desk.

ONSCREEN - - A DISCOVERY CHANNEL SHOW: “Ancient Instruments 
of Belarus” (aka The Substitute Teacher Curriculum)

It’s as boring as it sounds, and most of the students are 
either sleeping or covertly on their cell phones--


                                      72.

Including Ashley, who has hers under the desk and is swiping 
through pictures she secretly took yesterday of Ronald.

The darkness of the room is broken as the door opens and...

Ronald walks into his classroom, still dressed for a funeral.  
Principal Garrett PAUSES the video, leaving up a frozen image 
of old Belorussians playing their lyres as a backdrop for:

             PRINCIPAL GARRETT
      Ronald.  What are you... Why are 
      you here?

             RONALD
      It’s not a weekend, is it?

             PRINCIPAL GARRETT
      Are you sure you’re ready to come 
      back?

             RONALD
      If I wasn’t here, I’d just be 
      sitting in front of the TV.  I need 
      this.

Garrett nods, hands Ronald the REMOTE on his way out.

Ronald steps to his desk and notices -- like the apples of 
yore -- that someone has left an OLD WHITE iPOD on the edge.

His old iPod.  He looks at Ashley, who gives a knowing smile.  
Ronald picks it up and turns to the class:

             RONALD
	(CONT’D)
      Who wants to listen to some really 
      good shit?

INT. C.C.’S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

From his vantage point high above the street, C.C. stares out 
the window at the hive of activity far below.

The office door opens, reflecting C.C.’s assistant softly in 
the floor-to-ceiling Plexiglas.

             HANNA
      Your wife’s not answering, C.C.

C.C. doesn’t turn around.  He’s riveted by the bustle below.

             C.C.
      Try again.


             HANNA
      I’ve called a dozen times 
      already...

             C.C.
      TRY AGAIN!

                                      73.

He bangs a palm against the Plexiglas, shooting a vibration 
across the high-rise view.

INT. MUSIC CLASSROOM - AFTERNOON

Ronald, alone, sits at the piano.  Debating.  And then...

He plays.  Beautifully.  And if we’re perceptive, we’ll know 
the melody.  It’s his brother’s song: “You’re My Last.”

The faint yelling of students filters in as the door opens.

Ronald stops.  Sees Ashley standing across the room.  She 
approaches, her pleated skirt rustling against her legs.

             ASHLEY
      I didn’t mean for you to stop.  
      That was beautiful.

             RONALD
      Thank you.

             ASHLEY
      I was surprised to see you today.
        (beat)
      How was it?

Ronald turns around on the piano bench, facing her.

             RONALD
      It was.  Now it’s over.

             ASHLEY
      Were there a lot of people there?

He studies her, debating whether to say something about her 
mother.  Instead--

             RONALD
      Yeah.

             ASHLEY
      I wish I could’ve come.  I had a 
      math test.
        (beat)
      Okay, I just lied.  I didn’t have a 
      test.  I hate cemeteries.


                                      74.

             RONALD
      Don’t you ever go visit your dad?

Ashley sits down at a desk, legs pointed right at Ronald.

             ASHLEY
      I don’t need to go to a tombstone 
      to visit my dad.
        (then)
      1 to 10.

             RONALD
      What?

             ASHLEY
      1 to 10.  On a scale of how sad you 
      are.  Like an eight?

Ronald thinks for a moment.

             RONALD
      Four.

             ASHLEY
      Really?  Jesus, I like live my life 
      at a constant “four.”

             RONALD
      Being here helps.

             ASHLEY
      Do I help?

             RONALD
      Of course.  Everything.  The whole 
      rou...
        (realizes what she meant)
      --Just, even grading papers helps.

Ashley stands, stepping over to the piano.  The papers we saw 
Ronald grading at the very beginning are still right there.

             ASHLEY
      These are our papers?  What’d I 
      get?

She’s beside the piano, reaching for the papers.

             RONALD
      You can’t look... Ashley, I’ll hand 
      them back tomorrow.

She tries to thumb through the stack, a foot from Ronald.


             ASHLEY
      Come on, stop being so uptight.

                                      75.

             RONALD
      I’m not uptight!

             ASHLEY
      Yes you so are.

             RONALD
      I’m--

Their lips meet.

For a moment, Ronald doesn’t know how to react.  But caught 
up in the moment himself, he closes his eyes.

And for a second, they’re like any two lovers kissing.

For a second.

With sudden realization, Ronald quickly pulls away, the force 
sending him nearly toppling off the bench, hitting his back 
into the piano and scattering papers over the floor.

             ASHLEY
      1 to 10.  How mad are you that I 
      just did that?

Ronald remains silent.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Please talk.  Ronald.
        (then)
      I’m feeling really fucking stupid 
      here.

She starts to softly cry.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      I need to know if that was stupid 
      or wrong or right or... god damnit.
        (yelling)
      TALK!

His neck bends slightly, allowing us the slightest glimpse of 
confused eyes.

             RONALD
      Go home.

             ASHLEY
      Not until you tell me why you 
      kissed back.


Ronald can’t tell her.  He doesn’t even know.

Ashley bends down to pick up the papers on the ground--

                                      76.

             RONALD
      STOP!  GO HOME!

His bark instantly crushes her.

She rushes to the door...

Leaving Ronald even more confused and alone.

INT. MONROE WEAVER’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Dolores, Monroe’s secretary, sits in the empty waiting room, 
talking on the phone as she rubs a finger across her teeth.

She doesn’t hear Dr. Herd open the office door--

             DOLORES (INTO PHONE)
      I don’t know, sweetie.  We had 
      pizza last night.  I know.  I’ll be 
      home in twenty-five minutes, we’ll 
      make something.

             DR. HERD
      Excuse me.

             DOLORES (INTO PHONE)
      Sweetie, I gotta go.  No.  We had 
      pizza last night.  Bye.  Love you 
      too.

Deloris hangs up.  Begins packing away her purse.

             DOLORES
	(CONT’D)
      Press isn’t allowed up here.

             DR. HERD
      I’m not press.

             DOLORES
      There’s no more appointments today.  
      How’d you get past the guard?

She looks up and freezes.  Instant recognition.

             DOLORES
	(CONT’D)
      Good Jesus.
        (beat)
      You’ve been good for business.


                                      77.

             DR. HERD
      I can only imagine.  Is Mr. Weaver 
      in?

             DOLORES
      He’s finishing up with his last 
      appointment.  I can interrupt.

             DR. HERD
      No.  I’ll wait.

Herd sits down and grabs a magazine.  It’s a new edition of 
TIME MAGAZINE.  And his face is on the cover. 

INT. NETWORK NEWS BULLPEN - NEW YORK - NIGHT

Bob (Marilyn’s “dinner” guest) enters the maze of offices and 
meets up with a SEGMENT PRODUCER.  Rapid fire:

             BOB
      Why didn’t anyone call my cell?

             SEGMENT PRODUCER
      I did.  Went straight to voicemail.

             BOB
      Why didn’t anyone call the 
      restaurant?

             SEGMENT PRODUCER
      Do you wanna watch this or not?

They enter an EDIT BAY where FOOTAGE is already cued up:

NATIONAL NEWS BROADCAST:

Sitting resolutely behind his desk, addressing CAMERA...

             NATIONAL ANCHOR
	(ON SCREEN)
      ...has obtained an exclusive copy 
      of the very first interview with 
      Adam Daley’s only living relative, 
      his brother Ronald.  It comes to us 
      from Marilyn Koner at our affiliate 
      in Los Angeles.

INTERVIEW FROM THE CEMETERY:

It’s Marilyn’s ambush of Ronald from that morning.

             MARILYN
	(ON SCREEN)
      What was your first thought when 
      Daniel Herd asked for your 
      brother’s participation?


                                      78.

             RONALD
	(ON SCREEN)
      I... I didn’t have much time to 
      think.

             MARILYN
	(ON SCREEN)
      So he forced you into it?

             RONALD
	(ON SCREEN)
      No.  No, of course not.

             MARILYN
	(ON SCREEN)
      Did you anticipate the reaction?

             RONALD
	(ON SCREEN)
      What do you mean?

             MARILYN
	(ON SCREEN)
      Your brother’s soul was blasted 
      across every TV screen around the 
      world.  Did you realize the impact 
      this would have?

             RONALD
	(ON SCREEN)
      I-- I wish I hadn’t agreed to it, 
      okay?  Is that what you want to 
      hear?

             MARILYN
	(ON SCREEN)
      You don’t believe Adam’s in a 
      better place?

             RONALD
	(ON SCREEN)
      He isn’t here.  That’s all I know.

BACK ON BOB & SEGMENT PRODUCER:

             BOB
      Get her on a plane.  Now.

INT. MONROE WEAVER’S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Dr. Herd looks through the issue of TIME.  Inside are 
pictures from the press conference, plus various diagrams 
showing how the TFS works.  One picture makes Herd pause:

HIM AND HIS WIFE

A candid image of the good doctor from years earlier.  It’s 
hard to recognize because she’s healthy here, but the woman 
on his arm is definitely the woman from the opening scene.

The door to the inner office opens.  Monroe Weaver escorts 
out a middle-aged couple, tissues held to their faces.


                                      79.

They say their good-byes and exit, not noticing Dr. Herd.

But Monroe sure does.

             DR. HERD
      Come into my office.

Monroe laughs a little, sitting down across from Herd.

             MONROE
      You know we’re closed.

Herd holds up the magazine, printed face next to actual face.

             DR. HERD
      You do make exceptions, though, 
      right?

             MONROE
      What can I do for you?

Herd sets down the magazine.

             DR. HERD
      Jeremy Harris was my patient.  I 
      saw you come by yesterday.

             MONROE
      I knew his father-- never met 
      Jeremy, though.  Heard he was a 
      sweet kid... 
        (then)
      He had very nice things to say 
      about you.

Dr. Herd almost laughs-- It’s almost too hard to believe.

             DR. HERD
      How do you do it?

             MONROE
      I close my eyes, concentrate really 
      hard and suddenly I can feel this 
      energy, like vibrations in my head.  
      I just give voice to that energy.

             DR. HERD
      Can anyone do it, you think?  We 
      simply don’t know how?

             MONROE
      What are you asking me, really?

                                      80.


             DR. HERD
      My wife died.  Five years ago.

             MONROE
      Do you want to speak with her?

Herd weighs the offer, then--

             DR. HERD
      Right before she died, she 
      whispered something to me.  Three 
      words.  That’s all it took to make 
      me give up my life’s work and 
      completely change course.  Three 
      words and that’s why they put me on 
      the cover of Time Magazine.

             MONROE
      What did she say?

Three words.  Three words he’s never said out loud:

             DR. HERD
      “Johanna forgives you.”

             MONROE
      Was that your daughter?

             DR. HERD
      She was somebody’s.  I’d just 
      started my first residency, it was 
      raining, I’d been on call for 36 
      hours with no sleep and when a few 
      of the doctors invited me out for a 
      drink I should have said no, but I 
      didn’t, and on my way home I hit a 
      woman with my car.  Nobody saw.  It 
      was an accident.  But I was 
      frightened I’d lose my medical 
      license so I left the scene.

He trails off, looking out the window at the street below.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      The next day I read in the paper 
      her name was Johanna Russo.  When 
      they did the autopsy the coroner 
      found a tumor in her brain that 
      surely would have killed her in a 
      matter of months.  It doesn’t 
      forgive what I did, but... she’s 
      why I became an oncologist.
        (beat)
      “Johanna forgives you.”


             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
        (turns back to Monroe)
      See, Mr. Weaver, the thing of it 
      is, until right now, I’d never told 
      a living soul about that night.  
      Not even my wife.

                                      81.

                                NEW ANGLE:

OUTSIDE LOOKING IN

             DR. HERD
	(THROUGH THE WINDOW)
      Everything I’ve done since then was 
      to answer the question of why my 
      wife said that.  And even now... I 
      still don’t know how she knew.

CRANE DOWN from the office to the crowd of people below, 
keeping Dr. Herd’s silhouette and the window in view.

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      So I guess what I’m asking, really, 
      is do you believe there are things 
      we’ll just never know the answers 
      to?  Are we ever really entitled to 
      absolute clarity?

GROUND LEVEL - - Past the police and Monroe’s devotees we 
find ASHLEY trudging through the milieu.  Her eyes are red.

             MONROE
	(V.O.)
      Some people find their answers in 
      religion.  Some find it in family.  
      Over the past few days, millions 
      have found some form of it thanks 
      to your discovery.  And then there 
      are others, like me... who find our 
      answers within.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET - CONTINUOUS

Ashley turns the corner, leaving Monroe’s building behind. 
Cars whip by on the street. 

             MONROE
	(V.O.)
      I’ll grant you I have a leg up, 
      I’ve always known this isn’t the 
      end.  Mine is an unfair advantage.  
      But anyone who didn’t believe in 
      the human soul three days ago... 
      how could they not?  Rigoletto.  
      Monet’s Water Lillies.  Ray 
      Charles.  They even called his 
      music soul!


A homeless man inside an alcove holds a CARDBOARD SIGN:

                                      82.

FOR GOOD KARMA
YOU’RE GONNA NEED IT!

Ashley takes a moment.  Reads the sign.  She digs into her 
purse for change before silently moving on through the city.

INT.  MONROE WEAVER’S OFFICE

Monroe rises to join Dr. Herd at the window.

             MONROE
	(CONT’D)
      You loved your wife.  You feel 
      tremendous compassion for people, 
      so much so that you have devoted 
      your life to bettering their bodies 
      and minds.  We’ve all made mistakes 
      and done bad things, but I look at 
      you and I see god’s work.
        (beat)
      That’s all the clarity I need.

EXT. BUS STOP

Ashley sits on a bench flanked by advertisements for makeup 
and hair products.

ON THE STREET, coming toward the intersection in the after-
work traffic is a familiar grey Bentley...

INT. C.C.’S BENTLEY

Pulls up to a red stoplight.  Through the driver-side window 
we can see Ashley waiting at the BUS STOP.

C.C. glances over, spots Ashley.  They make eye contact...

And that’s when he suddenly remembers the note in his pocket.

He pulls it out -- suddenly can’t wait -- and reads...

INT. MONROE WEAVER’S OFFICE

They’re standing together, the late-day sun dripping in.

             DR. HERD
      Will what I’ve done even change 
      anything?  Better or worse? 

             MONROE
      It’s scary out there for most 
      people, Dr. Herd.  Once in awhile 
      it’s good to hear someone say 

                                      83.


             MONROE
	(CONT'D)
      everything’s going to be okay.  
      That’s what you’ve done.
        (this one’s for Herd)
      Everything is going to be okay.

Dr. Herd nods, thankful, and heads to the door.

             MONROE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, and Daniel.

Herd turns, his hand on the doorknob.

             MONROE
	(CONT’D)
      Your wife says she’ll see you soon.

INT/EXT. C.C.’S BENTLEY - LATE AFTERNOON

C.C. has finally broken.  Tears stream down his face onto his 
wife’s note.  We catch glimpses of words, wet now in places--

“Lifelong” “Sorry” “Love” “Soulmate”

C.C. smudges “SOULMATE” with his ink stained thumb.

A LOUD CAR HORN

Draws his attention.  The light must have turned green.  He 
hits the accelerator before looking up but...

THE LIGHT IS STILL RED

C.C. realizes too late as--

All around him, a CHAIN REACTION of sound and fury as other 
cars try to avoid him at speed.  From the squeals, the horns--

THE HORN... one in particular causes C.C. to spin around.

Into the intersection a giant MACK-TRUCK barrels down.

SLO-MO

As the massive weight of the truck propels it inevitably 
forward despite screaming brakes.  

There’s no way it can stop in time...

...C.C. watches as it comes ever closer.  Time seems to stand 
still until--

THE MACK SLAMS INTO THE BENTLEY

Flipping the car onto its roof in an end-over-end ballet.  


THE MACK-TRUCK

                                      84.

Sharply turns left, tilting over onto two wheels...

But we only see it through the tumbling windshield of

THE BENTLEY

As C.C. closes his eyes and the world SMASHES TO NOTHING...

                                SLAM CUT:

Sally Hunt, holding a glass with about a mini-bar bottle’s 
worth of whiskey in it, yearning for it... Yearning to fill-- 

IT HITS HER.  Something.  Like a shock to the soul.  She 
drops the glass, spilling the drink over the carpet in the...

HOTEL ROOM

She’s now made her temporary home.  Her hand moves to her 
chest as she sits down on the bed.  And then...

As quickly as the feeling washed over her... It’s gone.

             SALLY
      Charles.

EXT. BUS STOP - MOMENTS LATER

Ashley sits on the bench, shaking furiously with fright...

Because she has been witness to the DEVASTATING CAR-ACCIDENT.  
The Mack-Truck lies only feet away.  Miraculously...

THE BUS STOP IS UNSCATHED

All around her, cars are smashed and lammed.  Smoke and dust 
drift up, the particles catching in the light.

With absolute delicacy, Ashley stands.  She steps carefully 
over the granite chunks and spilled debris lining the street.

In the center of the intersection she stops.

Off to the side a motorcyclist lies unconscious.  More likely 
dead.  People are screaming for help from every direction.  
One pedestrian is on with 9-1-1.

The accident is much bigger than it at first appeared.

Ashley spins and spins as cries grow louder until she sees--

C.C.’S BENTLEY


                                      85.

TOTALLED, now a permanent fixture of the light pole.

Ashley walks over to what was the driver’s side window.  
C.C.’s head rests on the compacted steering column.  Dead.

             ASHLEY
      Help!  Somebody...

SIRENS approaching.  Ashley looks off in the direction of the 
sound.  Looks back at the Bentley--

C.C. LOOKS RIGHT AT HER

He blinks.  Not dead.

Ashley screams -- Backing away -- Faster.  She pulls out her 
phone, finger shaking as she dials:

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Please- Please be there.

A BUSY TONE emanates from the cell phone.

             ASHLEY
	(CONT’D)
      DAMNIT, Mr. Daley!  Plug in your 
      fucking phone!

The destruction finally too much for Ashley to handle, she 
backs away... turns and runs around a corner.  

             AIRPORT ANNOUNCEMENT
	(PRE-LAP)
      The white zone is for the immediate 
      loading and unloading...

EXT. LAX - EVENING

A black towncar pulls up.  The DRIVER opens the back door for 
Marilyn Koner, who rolls a hastily packed carry-on.

As she fishes in her purse for a tip, she notices:

A YOUNG DAUGHTER

Has her six-year-old arms wrapped around her MOTHER’s legs, 
not wanting to leave her.  Her DADDY leans down--

             DADDY 
      It’s okay, Ashley.  We’ll be back 
      in a few days.

Ashley.  The domesticity, the love, the what-could-have-been--

Stops Marilyn.  Fills her with a moment of regret.


                                      86.

But only a moment.  She hands the driver five bucks, grabs 
her bag and heads into the airport as the sound of a JET...

                              TAKES US TO:

A TWILIGHT SKY

As close to heaven as LA smog allows.  Father Reese walks up, 
silhouetted by the patented LA backdrop.

His eyes swirl with their own kind of color; striking, 
determined, sinister.  A man past his breaking point.

EXT. CEMETERY - SUNSET

Reese -- his back to us -- stands at the pile of earthen soil 
marking Adam Daley’s grave.  No headstone is yet in place.

             CEMETERY SECURITY
      Excuse me, sir, we’re closing the 
      gates soon.

             FATHER REESE
        (not turning)
      Thank you.

He doesn’t turn because he’s holding the small HANDGUN, 
mouthing a silent prayer.  After an intense beat:

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      Forgive me.

Pocketing the gun, he calmly walks away as POLICE SIRENS...

EXT. STREET NEAR THE ACCIDENT - EVENING

...From a COP CAR scream down the wrong side of the street--

Because the south lanes are a parking lot.  Nowhere to go.  
Drivers get out of their cars to try and see the holdup...

One of the blocked-in cars is a DELOREAN.  Ronald in the 
driver’s seat.  Looks destroyed.  The worst day of his life.

And now traffic.

He clicks on his radio:

             CAR RADIO
	(V.O.)
      ...the accident is quickly causing 
      major backups all across mid-city. 

                                      87.

INT. TAXI - EVENING

             CAR RADIO
	(V.O.)
      ...Avoid everywhere around La--

The CABDRIVER, a fast-talking odd-job, toggles the volume 
down on his radio.  Father Reese sits quietly in the back.  

             CABDRIVER
      So who died?

             FATHER REESE
      Excuse me?

             CABDRIVER
      Well, I picked you up at a 
      cemetery.  Figure somebody died.  
      Wrong thing to figure?

Reese doesn’t respond.

             CABDRIVER
	(CONT’D)
      I tell ya though.  Those fuckin’ 
      places.  Give me the heebie-
      jeebies.
        (beat)
      I mean, you think you got three, 
      four thousand people underground?  
      Where do they go?  You got this Jew 
      doctor spoutin’ out about heaven, 
      sayin’ hey, we all got a soul.  
      Meanwhile these guys’ in a box 
      shoutin’, hey, I ain’t goin’ 
      nowhere.  I’m right here in a 
      fucking box!

             FATHER REESE
      What do you think happens when we 
      die?

             CABDRIVER
      Who the hell knows.  Who cares.  
      We’re dead.  I’ll know when I die.  
      All I know is when I’m gone, I 
      won’t have to drive this cab 
      through this fuckin’ queer city.  
      No offense.  If it applies.

             FATHER REESE
      Lets just go where we need to go.

INT. “THE CHURCH” - NIGHT

Three cameras.  Studio lights.  The stark white chamber has 
been set-up for a 60 Minutes-style interview with Dr. Herd 
perfectly framed in front of the massive TFS machine.

                                      88.

             INTERVIEWER
      You’ve released information and 
      footage on 22 of the 23 individuals 
      who took part in your study.  
      There’s been rampant speculation as 
      to why you haven’t released any 
      information on one particular 
      Subject, number 9.

             DR. HERD
      We’re dealing with a very 
      complicated piece of machinery 
      here.  The simple truth of the 
      matter is one time out of twenty-
      three, we had a malfunction.

             INTERVIEWER
      What kind of malfunction?

And here, Dr. Herd pauses.  He tries to hide that he has 
something he wants to hide...

--Jane saves him by stepping into the shot...

             JANE
      I’m so sorry to interrupt.  We have 
      a hospital emergency.

INT. RONALD’S HOME - NIGHT

Ronald enters from the garage and is instantly on guard.  
Because MUSIC is playing in the living room...

             RONALD
      Hello!

LIVING ROOM

“YOU’RE MY LAST” by Great Scott is playing on repeat from the 
stereo.  Ronald quickly rushes past to find...

THE BACK DOOR IS WIDE OPEN

The spare key from under the doormat still in the lock.

Ronald grabs the only thing he can think of as a weapon--

HIS BROTHER’S GUITAR


                                      89.

It’ll have to do.  He holds it over his shoulder, cautiously 
approaching the stairs.  Rubs his eyes.  God he’s tired.

INT. HUNT WING - HALLWAY - SAME

Dr. Herd and Jane stand outside by “The Church” control room.

             DR. HERD
      What’s going on?

             JANE
      Take off your microphone.

             DR. HERD
      Oh...

Dr. Herd removes the lavalier and battery.  Turns them off.

             JANE
      Major car accident.

             DR. HERD
      Are we short-staffed?

             HEAD NURSE
      No.  But one of the inbounds is 
      C.C. Hunt.

INT. RONALD’S BEDROOM - SAME

Ronald pushes the door with his foot -- Scans left -- Right.

It’s empty.  His brother’s song plays through the floor.

A SLIVER OF LIGHT

Emanates from under the bathroom door.  Ronald readies the 
guitar as he walks forward--

BANG

He spins around, looking for the cause of the loud noise.  
Sees a tree-branch hit against the window.  Sighs.  Relieved.

Turns back to the bathroom--

ADAM

His brother.  There.  In front of him.

And then he’s not.  Gone in the blink of an eye.

Ronald shakes his head -- So scared he’s seeing things -- But 
still -- There’s something behind that door.


A deep breath.  He opens the bathroom door...

ASHLEY IS UNCONSCIOUS

                                      90.

On the floor.  Pale.  And not breathing.  Ronald’s bottle of 
SLEEPING PILLS empty on the tile.  He grabs her--

             RONALD
      Ashley!

Shakes her.  Tries to wake her...

             RONALD
	(CONT’D)
      ASHLEY!

                              SLAM CUT TO:

MARILYN

Eyes snapping open, a big gulp of business-class air...

INT. AIRPLANE - NIGHT

She tries to shake off what must have been a nightmare... 
probably caused by TURBULENCE.  She tightens her seat belt--

As the little girl from the curb -- ASHLEY -- comes down the 
aisle, away from the lavatory.  Marilyn watches her...

Young Ashley smiles.  Marilyn does too.  And then...

The plane hits a POCKET of cold air, instantly--

ROCKING

Violently.  The cabin rattles, tossing the young girl to the 
side as Marilyn reaches out, grabs her, pulls her tight...

And the world DROPS 200 FEET in a split second, throwing open 
overhead bins and sending anything not bolted down flying.

ENGINES WHINE

Emergency lights flash on.  The plane’s angle crests 
downward.  OXYGEN MASKS drop from the ceiling...

As the cabin seems moments away from RIPPING APART... Under 
the rattle and thunder of a plane hurtling out of the sky...

WE STAY ON MARILYN -- Holding onto this stranger, this crying 
child... Their fate rushing at them at 700 miles-per-hour...

                                    BAM:


As a stretcher slams through the entrance to...

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

                                      91.

It’s a madhouse as C.C. Hunt’s gurney turns a corner.  Dr. 
Herd walks briskly beside an ATTENDING.

             DR. HERD
      Are you experiencing any blurred 
      vision?  Shortness of breath?

             C.C.
      No.

             DR. HERD
      Any pain whatsoever?

             C.C.
      My leg.  This one.

He points to his right leg.  Herd turns to a NURSE.

             DR. HERD
      I want a full-body C.T.  X-Ray of 
      the chest, skull and the right leg.  
      Find Dr. Mendelson, have him do a 
      spinal-tap.

C.C. is wheeled into a room with an MRI... Herd and the 
attending wait outside.

             ATTENDING
      Incredible.  Paramedics said he 
      should be dead.

             DR. HERD
      No he shouldn’t.

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

STAY TIGHT ON Father Reese, distractedly staring out the car 
window at his destination.  His vindication.

             FATHER REESE
      Wait.  Stop.  I’ll walk from here.

             CABDRIVER
      You alright?  Something wrong?  
      Well, guess something’s gotta be 
      wrong.  Comin’ here and all.  You 
      want I should wait around?

             FATHER REESE
      That won’t be necessary.


                                      92.

He hands the driver a fifty and anxiously exits the cab, his 
left jacket pocket weighed down by the concealed handgun.

INT. E.R. WAITING AREA - THAT MOMENT

Ronald stands with a DOCTOR in the crowded waiting room.

             RONALD
      ...when can I see her?

             DOCTOR
      Just have a seat, we’re 
      transferring her to a private room.  

The doctor steps away, giving Ronald a sudden view of that 
familiar muted TELEVISION hanging in the corner showing: 

A NEWS REPORT - - OF A BOEING 737

On a runway, tipped on it’s side, part of it’s wing just... 
gone.  Emergency vehicles ATTACK IT from all angles LIVE:

EXT. DENVER INTERNATIONAL - RUNWAY 34/16

A FIRE-TRUCK zooms toward the battered airplane, smoking from 
its emergency landing.  A flanking ambulance SWERVES to avoid

A TORN-OFF LANDING GEAR

One of the emergency exit ramps has inflated and passengers 
are rushing off the plane to safety.  And it’s all being...

                            BROADCAST INTO:

INT. E.R. WAITING AREA - SAME

Ronald is locked on the silent television.  Almost as if... 

He knows.  He knows Marilyn is on that plane.  But that’s 
impossi...

             YOUNG NURSE
      --Sir?

Ronald looks away.  He does not recognize the young nurse 
from the night he was here for his brother.

             YOUNG NURSE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry-- Were you here four days 
      ago?

             RONALD
      What?

                                      93.


             YOUNG NURSE
      Yeah, I remember you.  I think 
      maybe we have your cellphone.

INT. NURSE’S STATION

The young nurse hands Ronald his phone.

             YOUNG NURSE
      It kept ringing so we turned it 
      off.

She walks away, leaving Ronald to turn on the phone.  While 
he’s waiting for the phone to boot up...

BEHIND HIM

Father Franklin Reese enters the bustle of the E.R. right 
under the nose of a SECURITY GUARD.  Nobody gives the priest 
a second thought.  Nor does Father Reese see:

Ronald, fifteen feet away, bringing the PHONE to his ear.

             FATHER REESE
      Excuse me.

The young nurse returns to her front desk computer.

             YOUNG NURSE
      Is everything alright, Father?

             FATHER REESE
      I need to see Dr. Daniel Herd.

             YOUNG NURSE
      Um... I’m sorry, Dr. Herd is very 
      busy and obviously a lot of people 
      want to speak with him so...

             FATHER REESE
      --You don’t understand, you... I 
      need to speak to him, it’s... 

The young nurse notices Jane escorting the film crew -- from 
the earlier interview with Dr. Herd -- out via the E.R.

             YOUNG NURSE
      Okay.  Just hold for one second.  
      Jane?

Jane approaches...

             JANE
      Is everything alright?


                                      94.

     YOUNG NURSE
This man is asking...

FATHER REESE
I need to speak to Dr. Herd.

             JANE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m Dr. Keaton, I work with Dr. 
      Herd.  Why don’t we step into the 
      hallway.

As she leads the way we watch as Father Reese’s hand goes 
into his pocket.  And wraps around his gun.

             VOICEMAIL
	(PRE-LAP)
      Mailbox full.  First message.

INT. ANOTHER HALLWAY - SAME

Ronald is leaning up against the wall, phone to his ear.

             ADAM
	(V.O.)
      Hey, Ronnie.  The show starts in 
      two minutes and you’re not here so 
      I guess you’re oh-for-seven.  
      Alright, so... it’s cool.

Just hearing his brother’s voice, here, in the place where he 
died, where he became an iconoclast...

It leaves Ronald in SHOCK.

             ADAM
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      I’m gonna, um... no, fuck, no.  
      It’s not cool.  I fucked up, 
      alright, but you can’t keep 
      ignoring me.  I get that you’re mad 
      at me but I am who I am, okay?  I 
      get it, but this being alone thing 
      isn’t going to protect you from 
      losing people.  ‘Cause if you keep 
      this up, I’m gonna stop tryin’ man 
      and you are going to lose me, okay?
        (beat; away from phone)
      Wait, some girls used his tickets?  
      What?  Just give me a second, guys.
        (beat; back to message)
      Fuck.  Come on, there’s still time.  
      Just come to the show, I’ll leave 
      another ticket.  I miss you.  And 
      I’m... sorry for everything.

Ronald pulls the phone away, in tears.  Broken, now, for the 
first time.  Finally crying for his brother.  But then--

             VOICEMAIL
	(V.O.)
      Next message.


                                      95.

             ASHLEY
	(V.O.)
      Um... Mr. Daley?  It’s Ashley.
      I’m sorry to-- I know you’re 
      probably with your brother but...
        (beat)
      ...I just didn’t have anyone else 
      to call.

And with that... his tears stop.

INT. DENVER INTERNATIONAL - CONCOURSE B

Gates 31-33 have turned into a veritable zoo.  Mildly injured 
passengers are treated by a swarm of paramedics.  AIRLINE 
OFFICIALS and FAA OFFICERS are already on scene.

Marilyn watches it all with borderline detachment.  All her 
choices, all her ambitions have brought her here...

To this second chance.

             AIRLINE OFFICIAL
      Ms. Koner?  Have you made a 
      decision?

             MARILYN
      Decision?

             AIRLINE OFFICIAL
      Yes.  We can either get you on a 
      plane or bus back to Los Angeles or 
      you may continue on to New York.  
      Again, if you’re not comfortable 
      getting back on a plane, we’ve made 
      arrangements...

Marilyn stops listening-- she watches as that little girl she 
saved, Young Ashley, sits holding her father.  Safe.

             AIRLINE OFFICIAL
	(CONT’D)
      Ms. Koner?  Where would you like to 
      go?

For Marilyn, there’s no question:

             MARILYN
      New York.  As quickly as possible.

INT. C.C.’S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

C.C. lays in bed, staring out the window while Dr. Herd 
reviews a CT scan on a digital tablet.

                                      96.


             DR. HERD
      We’ll keep you tonight just to be 
      safe, but beyond that leg, you’re 
      the picture of health.

C.C. can’t look Herd in the eye.  He just nods.  

As Herd turns to leave--

             C.C.
      There was a moment.  During the 
      accident when I knew I was going to 
      die.  I watched this truck barrel 
      down on me and I knew and so I owe 
      you an apology.  Because in that 
      moment, I wasn’t afraid.
        (then)
      Just sad.

C.C. finally turns away from the window.  Looks at Herd.

Herd nods.  And then his BEEPER GOES OFF.  He grabs it.  
Whatever it says, it’s confusing.  And very worrisome.

             DR. HERD
      Excuse me.

Herd rushes out.  C.C. turns back to the window... He has 
survived, but from the look of things, he wishes he hadn’t.

The door opens again.

             C.C.
      What’d you forget?

But it’s not Dr. Herd.  It’s C.C.’s wife.  It’s Sally.  She 
sets her overnight bag on the floor.  She’s crying.

             C.C.
	(CONT’D)
      It’s okay.  I’m okay.

             SALLY
      They told me.

             C.C.
      I should be dead three times over.

             SALLY
      Charlie...

She rushes forward.  He envelopes her in a hug.  It’s the 
first affection we’ve ever seen from C.C.


                                      97.

             C.C.
      I haven’t prayed in 38 years.  The 
      last time was right before I asked 
      you to marry me.  We were in 
      Nebraska visiting your parents.  I 
      prayed you would say yes.  I had no 
      idea what I’d do if you didn’t.

             SALLY
      Calm down.  Don’t... It’s okay.

             C.C.
      I prayed again tonight.  In the 
      car.  I prayed that...

             SALLY
      --That I would forgive you.  I 
      know.

C.C. feels he knows the answer.  But he still has to ask:

             C.C.
      How?

             SALLY
      Because.  I heard you.

C.C. takes Sally’s hand.

DR. HERD’S KEYCARD

Held up to a scanner, unlocking the doors to the--

INT. HUNT WING - HALLWAY

Where Herd is met by a SECURITY GUARD.

                                  CUT TO:

             DR. HERD
      Rodney, what the hell’s going on?

             SECURITY GUARD
      It’s Jane.  Some crazy with a gun 
      has her inside The Church.

             DR. HERD
      How’d he get in here with a gun?

             SECURITY GUARD
      He’s... dressed like a priest.  
      Cops are on their way.  But he’s 
      demanding to speak to you.

                                      98.

INT. CONTROL ROOM/”THE CHURCH” - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Herd and the guard enter the hub of “The Church,” with 
its giant windows looking out onto the now famous TFS Device--

WHERE FATHER REESE

Holds Jane around the neck, a gun pointed into her side.

ANOTHER GUARD already in the control room speaks into a mic:

             ANOTHER GUARD
      Okay, he’s here.  He’s here.

The guard nervously stands and let’s Herd come forward.  Dr. 
Herd surveys the scene.  He presses the two-way mic.

             DR. HERD
      This is Dr. Daniel Herd.  I’m here 
      now.  Please let my assistant go.

             FATHER REESE
      I will.  I don’t want to hurt her!  
      But you have to turn it on!

             DR. HERD
      I don’t... turn what on?

             FATHER REESE
      This!  The machine!  I need you to 
      turn on the machine, I need to 
      know.

             DR. HERD
      What do you need to know, Father?

             FATHER REESE
      I can’t be forgiven if I don’t have 
      a soul.  I need to know if everyone 
      has a soul.  It’s the only way.  
      It’s the only way.

             DR. HERD
      Just let Jane go, okay, and I’ll do 
      whatever you want!

             FATHER REESE
      TURN ON THE MACHINE!

             DR. HERD
      I will turn on the machine.  But 
      you need to understand there is no 
      way to see your own soul.  The 


             DR. HERD
	(CONT'D)
      device only works at the moment of 
      death.  

             FATHER REESE
      I know.

                                      99.

Jane WHIMPERS.  Dr. Herd leans back, switches off the mic.

             DR. HERD
      How much longer ‘til the police are 
      here?

             SECURITY GUARD
      Two minutes.  Just stall him.

             DR. HERD
        (tapping mic on)
      Okay, I’ve turned it on but it 
      takes a few minutes to warm up.

Reese takes the gun away from Jane and FIRES two shots 
through the frosted window that divides “The Church.”  

THREE STORIES OF IONIZED GLASS RAIN DOWN...

             DR. HERD
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus!

Reese shoves the now HOT muzzle back into Jane’s side.

             FATHER REESE
      Tell him to turn it on now!

             JANE
      Please, Daniel.  Just turn it on, 
      he wants to use it.  He’s not going 
      to hurt me.

Herd slides over slightly and starts typing into the 
computer.  The machinery powers up...

Reese moves Jane over to the table under the machine.

             DR. HERD
      Please don’t hurt her!

Reese steps back from Jane, but keeps the gun on her.

             FATHER REESE
      Hook me in.

Jane nods.  Begins attaching monitors to Reese.


                                     100.

             DR. HERD
      Oh god.
        (into mic)
      You don’t need to do this.  This 
      isn’t the purpose of the device.
        (beat; debating)
      Listen to me.  There was one 
      subject.  His name was Ian Kester, 
      he was Subject 9.  We have no way 
      of knowing if the machine 
      malfunctioned or not, but when he 
      died, there was nothing.  Nobody 
      knows this.

Father Reese momentarily turns away from Jane... looks 
through the glass into the control room.

             FATHER REESE
      Was he a good man?

             DR. HERD
      He... was not.

Jane finishes attaching the monitors.  Reese looks at her 
with something bordering on gratefulness...

The machine is now at a loud whine.  We can hear Reese’s 
heartbeat pulsate through the speakers.

             JANE
      He was a death row inmate with no 
      remorse.  But that’s not you.  He 
      was an exception.

             FATHER REESE
      I hope so.  Find Ronald Daley.  
      Show him I have a soul.

Jane looks surprised -- Ronald Daley? -- as Reese jams a 
picture into her hand...

On the back, a hastily scribbled address.  On the front, it’s 
the picture of the two altar boys, Ronald and Adam.

             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      Now go.

She doesn’t think twice, bursting into the control room.  
Herd hugs her tight.  She buries her head in his shoulder, 
leaving him to look out into--

“THE CHURCH”

Where Father Reese has the gun pointed at this head.


             FATHER REESE
	(CONT’D)
      Our Father in heaven, hallowed be 
      thy name.  Your kingdom come...

                                     101.

The door to the press theater -- now visible through the 
destroyed window of glass -- BURSTS OPEN and police swarm.

Reese, strapped to the table, under the POWERED-UP MACHINE, 
takes his gun away from his temple and points it at the cops.

        	COP
	PUT THE GUN DOWN!

It’s a cacophony.

The screaming police.

The WHINE of the TFS.

		COP #2
	DROP YOUR WEAPON!

The thunderous heartbeat of Father Reese’s final seconds.

EVERYTHING SLOWS DOWN

As Reese fires a bullet above the cops, triggering...

RETURN FIRE

And in that mere moment before death, Reese closes his eyes.

As a bullet slams into his heart...

THE TFS IGNITES

Sending energy, so much energy, straight into Father Reese, 
blowing out the room in a blaze of light and power...

So very, very bright...

                            RESOLVING INTO:

The faint undulation of an ELECTROCARDIOGRAM.

PAN OVER to a beautiful woman lying asleep in bed, the glean 
slowly returning to her skin.  Her face is serene.  Angelic.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

Ashley’s eyes flutter open as she tries to get her bearings.  
Immediately, she senses a presence, turns to find...

RONALD

FINALLY SLEEPING SOUNDLY.  At some point in the night, he 
pulled a chair over next to her bed.  Ashley tilts her neck--


                                     102.

Sees Ronald’s hand is intertwined with hers.  Holding tight.

THE DOOR OPENS

Dr. Herd steps in, followed by Jane.  Herd holds a FOLDER 
filled with several 8x10 IMAGES, the edges just visible.

Ashley turns to them and weakly smiles. 

Dr. Herd takes in the peaceful tableau.

And makes a decision.

He smiles back at Ashley, mouths: “I’ll come back.”

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Herd and Jane exit the room.  As Herd passes a janitor’s 
GARBAGE BIN, he tosses the folder in.  Jane smiles.

HOLD ON THE BIN, where one image has slid from the folder: 

FATHER REESE AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH

There, hanging above him, frozen in time--

Is his soul.

             INTERVIEWER
	(PRE-LAP)
      Dr. Herd, one final question.

TELEVISION INTERVIEW:

The 60-Minutes style sit-down Herd filmed in “The Church.”

                                  CUT TO:

             INTERVIEWER
      What’s next?  What do we as a 
      people do with this discovery?

             DR. HERD
      We live.

             INTERVIEWER
      Care to elaborate?

Dr. Herd chooses his words--

             DR. HERD
      None of us know what happens next.

                                  CUT TO:


BLACK.

                                     103.

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      All we know is... there must be 
      something.

And then the door opens on RONALD’S GARAGE, illuminating the 
sticker-covered old band equipment.  Ronald sizes it up...

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
      I refuse to believe this is it.

Ashley gets on a bicycle outside her COLLEGE DORMITORY, waves 
to some friends in UCLA sweatshirts and pedals off...

             DR. HERD 
	(V.O.)
      But that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t 
      seize every opportunity we can...

C.C. and Sally hold hands on their TERRACE, drinking coffee, 
enjoying breakfast, enjoying each other...

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      ...To make the most out of this 
      life.

Marilyn at the New York anchor desk for a NATIONAL MORNING 
SHOW.  A picture of Dr. Herd over her shoulder reads: 

Dr. Daniel Herd
1947 - 2014

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      So be bold.  Take chances.

Jane stands in front of the TFS DEVICE.  The machine that 
started it all.  She wipes a tear from her eye...

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Live, and don’t waste a single 
      moment.

EXT. RONALD’S HOME - MORNING

Ashley rides her bike up the driveway to find that inside:

RONALD’S GARAGE

All of Adam and Ronald’s old BAND EQUIPMENT is set-up.  
Dusted, cleaned, gleaming in the light.

And sitting behind the drum-set is Ronald.


             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
      Because no matter what you 
      choose...

                                     104.

Ashley takes headphones out of her ears.  We hear a BUILDING 
MELODY of guitar and piano coming from her iPod...

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      No matter the path you take... 

Ronald holds up his drumsticks.  Smiles at her.

She smiles back.

             DR. HERD
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Everything is going to be okay.

Ronald clicks his sticks in perfect time to the now familiar 
opening of Great Scott’s “YOU’RE MY LAST”...

             RONALD
      One, two... One! Two! Three! Four!

                 THE END

                             SLAM TO BLACK.

