               DIABLO RUN

                 by

         Shea Mirzai & Evan Mirzai

Adam Marshall
Caliber Media Co.
310-786-9210
adam@calibermediaco.com

             ¡TODO O NADA!

                                      2.

EXT./INT. BLACK CADILLAC ESCALADE - HIGHWAY - DAY

Behind the wheel of this 2002 rap video music staple sits 
PATRICK, early 30’s, with a DGAF attitude.  

He’s the President of the Fraternity who never grew up.

Riding shotgun is STEVE, early 30’s, and the polar opposite 
of Patrick.  He wears a polo shirt tucked into his pants. 

The guys are on the road from sunny San Diego.

Steve’s face is buried in his iPad.

             PATRICK
     Are you seriously going to read the 
     entire trip?

             STEVE
     I’d let you borrow it, but being 
     literate would help.

             PATRICK
     Fuck you.  I read all the time.

             KEVIN
	(O.S.)
     Cereal boxes don’t count.

KEVIN, early 30’s, chimes in from the back seat.  He’s the 
meekest of the group with gender-neutral eyeglasses, but that 
doesn’t stop him from challenging the big dog.

             PATRICK
     You only read French Vogue, 
     dickdouche.  Go back to sleep.

             KEVIN
     I do not.

Yes, he does.

Kevin surreptitiously stuffs a few decidedly unmanly reading 
materials into the top of his bag on the seat next to him.

             PATRICK
        (still driving)
     Look, if we’re gonna talk about 
     something, can we please talk about 
     the trip?  We’re almost to Tijuana 
     and we only have three days to 
     enjoy it.

                                      3.

             STEVE
        (locking his iPad)
     Two.  We have two days to enjoy it.

             PATRICK
     What’d I say?

             STEVE
     I’m serious.  I warned you before 
     we left.  Friday and Saturday in 
     Tijuana and then we head right back 
     Sunday morning.  

Patrick and Kevin mouth along the following words with Steve:

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     I finally made VP.  I can’t miss my 
     first day.

             PATRICK
     Bank jobs are for pussies, why do 
     you have to care about work so 
     much?

             STEVE
     Some of us live in the real world, 
     Pat.

Patrick makes no bones about it.

             PATRICK
     You needa get laid, fool.

That hits a chord.  We can tell from Steve’s reaction that 
it’s a been a while.

             STEVE
     I do get laid.  
        (beat)
     I’m just in a dry spell.  

             PATRICK
     This isn’t a dry spell, it’s a full 
     on fucking famine.

             STEVE
     I’m in my 30’s now.  There’s 
     nothing wrong with being choosy.  
     We can’t all hump bar skanks behind 
     Chili’s.

             PATRICK
     Dude, twice that happened.  Get 
     over it.

                                      4.

             KEVIN
     I agree with Steve.

             PATRICK
     Nobody asked you, showtunes.

Patrick FLOORS the gas and the Caddy burns up the highway.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. ARAIZA MOTEL - TIJUANA - LATER THAT DAY

The guys park their SUV in front of the ARAIZA MOTEL and 
climb out.  It’s basically the Mexican version of a Days Inn.

             PATRICK
     I need a burrito and a toilet.

             STEVE
     You’re gonna use them at the same 
     time, aren’t you?

             PATRICK
        (adjusting his package)
     YOLO, bro.

             KEVIN
     I have some energy bars in my 
     bag...

             PATRICK
     Nobody wants your vegan shit, Kev, 
     stop trying to push your agenda on 
     us.

A Mexican STREET KID comes up to them trying to sell TICKETS 
to something.

             STREET KID
     ¿Senores aqui para Diablo Run?

Patrick doesn’t give him the time of day.

             PATRICK
     Not in this economy!

             STEVE
        (to Patrick)
     You don’t have to be a total dick.
        (to Street Kid)
     What’s the Diablo Run, little man?

The boy excitedly hands him a FLYER.

                                      5.

             STREET KID
     ¡Mira, mira!

             PATRICK
        (annoyed)
     We don’t have time for this.  We’re 
     gonna miss check-in.

He shoves Steve forward.  

Steve puts the flyer into his back pocket without looking at 
it.

             STEVE
        (trying to be nice to the 
         kid)
     Adios, muchacho.

The Street Kid moves on to his next mark.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Okay, I’m thinking we get some 
     cocktails and lay out by the pool.  
     This is my last weekend before I 
     say goodbye to the next decade.

             PATRICK
     And you want to spend it at a motel 
     pool?  Did you pack your sarong, 
     too?

             STEVE
     Well, what’d you have in mind?

             PATRICK
     Don’t ruin the surprise.  Let me be 
     your guide to the wonderful world 
     of Meheeco.

Patrick leads the guys inside the motel with their bags slung 
over their shoulders.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. ARAIZA MOTEL - HALL WAY

MUSIC CUE: “LITTLE GREEN BAG” - by George Baker

The guys STRUT down the hall in SLOW MOTION.  

The Reservoir Dogs they are not, but they are the coolest 
yuppies you’ll see in the motel this weekend.

                                      6.

Patrick takes out the ROOM KEY CARD and smoothly TWIRLS it in 
one hand.

Then Kevin HALF-TRIPS and kills the illusion.

They come to their room, 6C, where they find --

JESSICA, 27, a fiery redhead and easily the sexiest white 
woman this side of the border.

A LARGE SUIT CASE sits on the ground next to her.

She tries JAMMING her own key into the door slot, and when it 
refuses to open, she starts KICKING IT OPEN.

The cheap door is seconds away from splintering apart.

ON THE GUYS:

             PATRICK
     Woah...
        (seductively)
     Can I help you, Senorita?

Jessica, realizing she’s being watched, drops the kickboxer
act and turns her head to look. 

             JESSICA
        (cool as ice)
     Door’s stuck.

She turns around without another word and delivers one more 
hallway shaking blow.

Patrick obviously finds power sexy.

             PATRICK
     Let me help you with that.

Patrick rears back and kicks the door, too.

It doesn’t even rattle.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (embarrassed)
     Wow, they sure build ‘em solid down 
     here.

             JESSICA
        (unimpressed)
     Thanks, I’ve got it.

Steve has been taking it all in.  He’s smitten to say the 
least.

                                      7.

             STEVE
        (piping up)
     Actually, Miss, I think you have 
     the wrong room.  This one’s ours.

He holds up their RECEIPT.

Jessica makes eye contact.  

She likes what she sees, but does her best not to show it.

             JESSICA
        (checking her card)
     6D. One door down.  I’m sorry, I 
     can be so careless.

Patrick can’t believe Steve is taming the shrew.

Like, for real.  He’s really doing it.

             STEVE
     That’s okay.  We all make mistakes.  
     I work in a bank, I see them all 
     the time.

             JESSICA
        (mock scared)
     Oh no, an evil banker.  Please 
     don’t foreclose on me.

             PATRICK
        (genuinely confused)
     Wait, what’s going on here?  What 
     am I seeing?

Steve doesn’t seem to be aware that (somehow, someway) 
Jessica is actually flirting with him.

             STEVE
     I just made VP.  That stands for 
     Vice President, you know.  I’ll see 
     what I can do...

             PATRICK
     It took him like 8 years, FYI.  So 
     it’s not that impressive.

             JESSICA
        (to Steve)
     I like a persistent man.

             STEVE
        (still not getting it)
     That’s me.  

                                      8.

             STE VE
	(CONT'D)
        (beat)
     Anyway, your room’s right down the 
     hall.  We just passed it.

             JESSICA
     Thanks.  
        (beat)
     I’m Jessica.

             STEVE
     Nice to meet you, Jessica.  I’m 
     Steve.  This is Patrick and Kevin.

Steve’s innocuous innocence is working for him.  Despite 
herself, Jessica warms up to him.

             JESSICA
     Well, Steve, I could use a hand 
     with my bag.

             PATRICK
     I’ve got two right here.  And I’ve 
     been told I have magic fingers.

             JESSICA
     Well, then you should have no 
     trouble carrying your own bags.  
        (to Steve)
     How about it?

             STEVE
     Sure, I’d be happy to.

Steve picks up the bag.  It’s way heavier than it looks.  

He walks Jessica down the hall to her room.

Patrick slides his key in the door and lets himself and Kevin 
in.

             PATRICK
        (to Kevin)
     Whatever, she was an obvious lez.

             KEVIN
     I’m pretty sure she’s strictly 
     dickly.

             PATRICK
     You would know.

ON STEVE AND JESSICA DOWN THE HALL:

Jessica’s slides her KEY CARD into the door and it instantly 
BEEPS green.

Steve struggles to hand over the bag.  Jessica takes it 
without breaking a sweat.

                                      9.

             JESSICA
     Thanks for the help.

             STEVE
     Maybe I’ll see you around?

             JESSICA
     Yeah, maybe.

She closes the door with a coy look on her face.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. ARAIZA MOTEL - THE GUYS’ ROOM

Steve walks in to find the guys settling in.

It’s not a luxury suite by any means, but what loser stays in 
their motel room the entire trip?

There are TWO BEDS and a COUCH. 

             KEVIN
     Steve, that was so cool!  You’re 
     like Johnny Depp.  
        (wistful)
     Or Taylor Lautner.

             PATRICK
     Tone down the mo-factor, Kev.  
     We’re in TJ now.

Kevin hurls himself onto the first bed like a kid at Summer 
Camp.  One with less molestation, of course.

             KEVIN
     I call top bunk!

             PATRICK
        (to Steve)
     Why did he have to come again?

             KEVIN
     You know I can hear you, right?

Patrick looks directly at Kevin.

             PATRICK
     Yes, I said it loudly.

Steve, always the peace maker, tries to settle things down.  

                                      10.

             STEVE
     Let’s just unpack and head out.

             PATRICK
     Great idea.

Patrick slams his bag onto the second bed and opens it up.

It’s literally nothing but LIQUOR BOTTLES AND CONDOMS.

             STEVE
     Travelling light?

Patrick scoffs.

             PATRICK
     We’re here for two days.  All I 
     need is the clothes on my back and 
     enough booze to get the clothes off 
     some other backs, naw mean?

             STEVE
     Please don’t say “naw mean”.

             KEVIN
     I agree.  It’s vaguely racist.

             PATRICK
     Your face is vaguely racist.

             KEVIN
     That doesn’t even make sense.

             PATRICK
     It doesn’t have to.

Steve moves to the dresser and meticulously starts unpacking 
his clothes.  

It looks like he’s brought enough for a whole week.

He stuffs SIX PAIRS OF PERFECTLY ROLLED UP SOCKS into the top 
drawer.

He pulls out a ZIPLOC BAG of what looks like KITTY LITTER and 
puts it in the drawer, as well.

                                      11.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (excited)
     Dude, you brought blow?  I didn’t 
     know you had it in you.  That’s so 
     fuckin’ sick!

Steve closes the drawer.

             STEVE
     It’s not blow. 

             PATRICK
     I know every drug known to mankind.  
     Lemme see.

Patrick pushes past a protesting Steve, opens the top drawer, 
and takes out the baggie.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     There’s enough of whatever this is 
     to kill a Mexican horse.

Patrick holds it up to the light.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     What is it?

             STEVE
     It’s my Dad.

Patrick lets out a little yell and instantly HURLS the bag 
out of his hands.  

Steve catches it.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Be careful!

             PATRICK
     Why would you bring that?!

             STEVE
     Why would I bring him.  
        (beat)
     And you wouldn’t understand.

             PATRICK
     No, seriously, answer the question.

Steve lets out a little sigh.

             STEVE
     Look, growing up, my Dad never took 
     a vacation.  

                                      12.

             STE VE
	(CONT'D)
     He worked hard all the time.  One 
     of the reasons I agreed to this 
     stupid trip was so that I could 
     spread his ashes.  I wanted to give 
     him the great time I couldn’t when 
     he was alive.

Kevin is welling up.

             KEVIN
     That’s so beautiful, Steve.

Even Patrick seems a little touched.  Until:

             PATRICK
     Whatever, man.  Just cram him in 
     the room-safe.  He’s freaking my 
     shit.

Steve sees the wisdom in this and does as he’s told.

Patrick looks visibly relieved when Steve locks the safe.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
     Out of sight, out of mind.  
        (beat, to the guys)
     And now, out of body.

Patrick carries on and sets up THREE SHOT GLASSES on the 
TABLE by the couch.

             STEVE
     Wait, safety first.  Everyone make 
     sure they have their passports, 
     ID’s, and cash in case we get 
     separated.

Steve pats down each pocket making sure he has everything.

Kevin does the same.

Patrick looks at them.  What knobs.

             PATRICK
     Are we done?  We’re already behind 
     schedule.  We’ve been in Mexicali 
     for fifteen minutes and we’re not 
     knee-walking drunk yet.

Steve and Kevin walk over and pick up their glasses.

They each hold up their shot for a TOAST.

                                      13.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     To Steve’s last hurrah!

MUSIC CUE: “PARTY UP” - by DMX

CUE DRINKING MONTAGE: As day fades to night, the guys get 
fucked up in every bar and cantina within a two mile radius.

--They start by getting blasted in the motel bar.  They’re 
the loudest, sloppiest group in the place.  TOURIST FAMILIES 
and Native Speakers alike hide their children in pure fear.

--The guys roam the streets winding up at THE SLOPPY 
SOMBRERO.  They slam more shots in between scarfing down 
quesadillas.

--As they move on, the class of venue gets lower and lower 
(even for TJ) until they wind up at:

EXT./INT. EL GALLO BAR - NIGHT

The guys, led by Patrick, are drunk.  Sloppy drunk.  Vacation
drunk.  The kinda drunk where you don’t give a fuck because 
you’re an American with big balls and no one can touch you.

They stand outside EL GALLO, the diviest dive bar in all of 
Tijuana.  The NEON SIGNS flashing out front show pictures of 
ROOSTERS in action poses.

             STEVE
        (slurring)
     Patrick, did you bring us to a gay 
     bar?

             KEVIN
     Dude, I’m sooooo down!

             PATRICK
     Ha, I knew it!  No, boys, this 
     isn’t what you think it is.

A VENDOR walks by selling CERVEZAS out of a little 
fridge/cart thing.  Patrick grabs one and DOWNS it.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     To infinity and beyond!

Patrick BOLTS inside and Steve and Kevin stumble in after 
him.

                                      14.

INT. EL GALLO BAR - CONTINUOUS

Inside, the place is fucking BARTER TOWN.  

There’s straw all over the floor and ANGRY MEXICAN MEN from 
all walks of life hooting, hollering, and throwing PESOS into 
the middle of:

AN OCTAGON.

The bright lights coming from above cast WEIRD SHADOWS 
everywhere.

How do you say sinister in Spanish?  Because this is it.

Inside the ring, two OPPONENTS KICK, CLAW, and PECK the shit
out of each other.

This is a COCKFIGHT.  

If it took place in Thunderdome.

Two gigantic ROOSTERS fight each other tooth and beak.  

Patrick has already made his way ringside.

             STEVE
        (sobering up from the 
         carnage)
     How could you bring us to a place 
     like this?

Patrick yells out to a passing WOMAN CARRYING A TRAY:

             PATRICK
     Tamale!

Kevin practically trips all over Patrick.

             KEVIN
        (slurring his words)
     Ask her if she has any vegetarian 
     optionsss!

             PATRICK
        (to Kevin)
     I’m not fucking asking that in a 
     place like this!  
        (to Woman)
     ¡Tamale aqui!

The woman sees Patrick and hands him a tamale in exchange for 
some sweaty cash.  

Patrick tears into it.  Kevin looks drunkenly disappointed.

                                      15.

             STEVE
     This is wrong, we should leave.

             PATRICK
        (chewing)
     Dude, live a little.  I Yelp’ed the 
     shit out of this place.  They fight 
     to the death here.

Steve tries PULLING on Patrick’s sleeve when, suddenly, one 
of the roosters lets out a sharp death rattle as its opponent 
tears its throat out.

The house lights go down. Steve and the guys freeze.

A SPOTLIGHT comes on as:

A MEXICAN EMCEE, looking like the ringleader of the most 
horrifying circus ever, walks into the middle of the octagon.

A low CHANT begins to emanate through the crowd.

             EMCEE
        (in Spanish)
     Now for the main event, the moment 
     you cabrons have all been waiting 
     for...In this corner, welcome, 
     PLUMAAA DELLLL MUERTE!

A second SPOTLIGHT shines down on the other side of the ring.  

The BIGGEST COCK you have ever seen (haha) comes stomping out 
of the gate.

PLUMA DEL MUERTE is a big, bad rooster from Hell.  

It locks eyes with Kevin across the crowd.  Seeing straight 
into his soul.  Something clicks.

             KEVIN
        (sotto)
     Oh, shit...We’re having a moment, 
     aren’t we?

             EMCEE
     And in this corner, weighing in at 
     72 pounds...ELLLL POLLLOOO LOCOOOO.

EL POLLO LOCO is given the same SPOTLIGHT treatment from the 
opposite side of the ring.

But this isn’t a chicken.  

                                      16.

It’s a MAN!  

Well, technically.

El Pollo Loco is a LITTLE PERSON wearing FULL BODY ARMOR and 
carrying a NASTY KNIFE.  He struts into the middle of the 
ring to raucous applause!

             STEVE
     What the hell is going on?  What 
     are we watching here?!

             EMCEE
        (in an accented Michael 
         Buffer voice)
     Let’s get ready to rrrrrrrumble.

He rolls his R to perfection.  The crowd goes nuts.

El Pollo Loco has Moves Like Jagger.  

He breakdances in the middle of the ring and wields his knife 
like a fucking samurai sword.

Kevin, still drunker than anyone here, begins to sweat.

             KEVIN
        (sotto)
     He’s gonna kill him!

The Emcee signals for the match to start.  PESOS rain down 
into the ring. 

The BELL dings.

MUSIC CUE: “MAMA SAID KNOCK YOU OUT” - by LL COOL J

El Pollo Loco and Pluma Del Muerte each get in a good lick.

Pluma draws first blood.

Pollo retreats and touches his face.  There’s a deep scratch 
on it.  He dabs the wound with two fingers...

AND THEN LICKS THE BLOOD CLEAN.

The crowd is whipped into a frenzy.

Pollo CHARGES Pluma and drops a ROUNDHOUSE KICK to its head.  
The bird goes down hard; it’s slow to get back up, but it 
gathers itself and spins away.  

Pollo senses his opportunity.  He zens out, raises his knife 
in front of him, and RACES towards the dazed bird.

                                      17.

In the crowd, Kevin makes a snap decision.  He grabs a PONCHO 
off a SWEATY FARMER next to him...

AND BOLTS INTO THE RING.

As Steve and Patrick (on his second tamale) shit a collective 
brick, Kevin WRAPS up the bird in the soiled poncho and races 
out the back door SCREAMING:

             KEVIN
	(CONT’D)
     MEAT IS MURDER!!!!

The record literally scratches, the house lights come up, and 
every Mexican Man in the place stares at Steve and Patrick 
with the cold-blooded eyes of killers.

             PATRICK
     ¡ÁNDALE!

Patrick tosses his tamale and runs across the bar towards the 
back door Kevin exited through.  Steve is right behind him as 
they bail into the TJ streets.

EXT. TIJUANA STREETS - CONTINUOUS

The guys are forced to split up as what feels like the entire 
town chases them through separate back alleys.

Patrick runs for dear life until he sees a WHOREHOUSE; it’s a 
little hovel with neon signs of boobies and what have you.

With no other choice, he slams inside to escape the crushing 
crowd.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CASA DE CULO

To Patrick’s surprise, the whorehouse is relatively empty for 
a Friday night.

Thinking he’s made it, Patrick creeps inside.  Until he finds 
the exact reason for the lack of business.

A LEGLESS OLD HOOKER SITS IN A WHEELCHAIR TWEAKING HER 
TORTILLA-SIZED NIPPLES.

She WHISTLES at him.

Literally witnessing a fate worse than death, Patrick runs 
back outside and PUKES HIS GUTS OUT.

                                      18.

Luckily, the mob has already passed him by.  He’s safe.

Traumatized, but safe.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. TIJUANA STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Steve runs with the crowd still HOWLING behind him.  He turns 
a corner and comes upon another PACKED BAR and decides to 
blend into the group waiting outside.

He controls his breathing and pulls his collar up, trying 
desperately to hide in plain sight.

It seems to work as the mob runs past looking for Kevin and 
their beloved Pluma Del Muerte.

A group of WASTED FRAT BOYS and SORORITY GIRLS bump into 
Steve.

             FRAT BOY
     Dude, are you stoked for the show?!

His friends let out a giant YELL OF EXCITEMENT.

Steve just wants to get inside.  The line starts moving.

             STEVE
     Uhh, fuck yeah, I am?

The Frat Boys let out another CHEER and get even giddier as 
they approach the door.

Steve is a five dollar cover from sweet sanctuary.  

He hands it to the SAD MAN running the door and heads inside.

The place is a smokey mess.  Steve walks further into the bar 
only to literally see:

TWO GROWN MEN DOUBLE PENETRATING A DONKEY.

The animal brays in delight/terror.

Steve runs outside and continues down the street back to the 
motel.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     I FUCKING HATE MEXICO!!!

                                  CUT TO:

                                      19.

EXT. TIJUANA STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Kevin, weighted down by the kicking and clucking Pluma Del 
Muerte, slows as his legs begin to tire.

The mob is right behind him.  He hears them screaming for 
blood in the distance.

Sensing the end, Kevin clutches the bird and prepares for the 
beating of a lifetime until his drunken eyes fall on the open 
door of a rundown house.

He heads inside and comes to face to face with the cast of 
MACHETE.

INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Mexican LEATHER gangbangers look up from chopping COCA.

The leader, a man known only as EL HOMBRE, looks up.

             EL HOMBRE
     Look what the gato dragged in.

             KEVIN
     Please, help!!

Kevin GASPS FOR AIR.

             KEVIN
	(CONT’D)
     I’m an American!

The group lets out sadistic laughs, an understanding moving 
across them.

             EL HOMBRE 
     No shit?

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - TIJUANA STREETS

El Hombre and a few choice GANGSTERS come out onto the front 
porch to find the angry crowd from EL GALLO waiting for them.

The Emcee fights his way to the front.

             EMCEE
        (in Spanish)
     Give us the bird!

A dead silence passes between both factions.

                                      20.

El Hombre raises his hand slowly, and curls it into a massive 
middle finger.

             EL HOMBRE
        (in Spanish)
     Here’s your bird.

With his other hand, he pulls out a SIX-SHOOTER that even 
RoboCop would have trouble lifting and fires it into the air.

The crowd gets the message.

             EMCEE
     ¡Gracias!

They BOLT.

El Hombre and his men head back into the house.  

The door SLAMS SHUT.

                             SMASH CUT TO:

EXT./INT. ARAIZA MOTEL - THE GUYS’ ROOM

Steve, looking like shit, finally stumbles back into the 
room.

Patrick arrives seconds after.

             STEVE
     Where’s Kevin?

Patrick is still drunk, but that’s the least of his problems.  
He’s too tired to care at the moment.

             PATRICK
     He’s on the other bed, 
     whogivesashit.

Patrick weakly points to a mound on the second bed that 
roughly resembles someone in the fetal position.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     When he wakes up tomorrow, I’m 
     gonna kick his PETA-loving ass.  I 
     hate animals.

Patrick plops down on the sofa and knocks the fuck out.

Steve’s stomach turns at the word “animal”.  

                                      21.

Remembering the donkey show, he goes to the bathroom, wraps 
himself around the toilet, and vomits the bad memories away.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. ARAIZA MOTEL - THE GUYS’ ROOM - THE NEXT MORNING

The morning sun pours into the room.  

Sunlight being the hung-over man’s natural enemy, Patrick 
stirs when it cruelly hits his face.

He reaches for a TEQUILA BOTTLE on the table next to him.  He 
croaks out a:

             PATRICK
     Hair of the dog.

And takes a deep slug.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Kev, I hope that chicken was worth 
     your life.  We’re leaving you 
     buried up to your eyeballs in the 
     desert.

No answer.

Patrick gets angry.  He gets up and throws the sheets off 
Kevin’s bed looking for a fight.  

But under the blankets is merely a CLUMP OF PILLOWS.

Kevin is missing.

Shit.

Patrick is confused.  He stumbles over to the bathroom where 
he finds Steve still clinging to the toilet for dear life.

His pants and boxers are down revealing his PASTY WHITE ASS.

Patrick gives it a slap.  Steve jolts awake.

             STEVE
     Stop it!  What time is it?

             PATRICK
     Time to get the day started by 
     ramming a traffic cone up Kevin’s 
     ass.  
        (beat)
     Where is he?

Steve pulls up his pants.  He puts the toilet lid down, takes 
a seat on it, and starts rubbing his temples.

                                      22.

             STEVE
     What do you mean?  You said he was 
     on the bed.

             PATRICK
     No, I guess I was wrong.  It was 
     just some pillows and shit.

             STEVE
        (looking up at Patrick)
     Kevin didn’t come back last night?

The gravity of the situation finally seeps in.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     We have to find him.  He could be 
     hurt.

BEEP BEEP.

Steve’s iPhone registers a TEXT MESSAGE.

BEEP BEEP.

Patrick’s phone also receive a text.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     That has to be Kev.  He’s probably 
     lost and scared shitless.  I knew 
     this weekend was a bad idea.

Steve brings out his iPhone and plays an MMS movie.  He and 
Patrick watch as:

ON THE SCREEN: Grainy footage shows Kevin tied to a chair, 
beaten to a bloody pulp.

Steve and Patrick each sharply take in air.

El Hombre’s face appears.  He looks into the screen, and in 
heavily accented English:

             EL HOMBRE
     We have your cock-loving little 
     buddy, amigos.  Americans talk too 
     much.  Thank him for your phone 
     numbers.

Kevin lets out a MUFFLED SCREAM through a PULP FICTION BALL 
GAG stuffed in his bloody mouth.

                                      23.

             PATRICK
        (sotto)
     What is this?

El Hombre continues.

             EL HOMBRE
     50,000 American in 36 hours or KFC
     here gets fed to the coyotes.  No 
     cops, no tricks.  We’ll send you 
     the address for the drop off point.  
     No dinero, no muchacho.

             PATRICK/STEVE
     Oh, shit!

             EL HOMBRE
     We know who you are and where you 
     are.  
        (beat)
     Don’t fuck with us, gringos.

The MMS video ends.  Patrick and Steve stare at each other in 
stunned silence.

KNOCK KNOCK.  

The guys visibly FLINCH.

Someone is at the door.

A near catatonic Steve opens it.  A member of the STAFF 
stands there with a box sloppily-labeled KEVIN.  

Steve takes it and closes the door on the STAFF MEMBER 
holding their hand out for a tip.

Steve sits on the bed. Patrick walks over and Steve opens the 
box like he’s defusing a bomb.

Inside...

IS THE SEVERED HEAD OF PLUMA DEL MUERTE.

They SCREAM their fucking nuts off.

                             SMASH CUT TO:

INT. ARAIZA MOTEL - HALL WAY

Jessica, wearing a cute sun dress, walks past the guys’ door 
having just left her own room.  

                                      24.

Hearing the screams, she pauses, a look of concern on her 
face.  

She raises her hand to knock on the door, but thinks better 
of it and continues on her way.

She has more important things to do.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. TIJUANA STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Jessica leaves the motel and walks down the crowded streets.  

She’s all alone, but from the way she carries herself you can 
tell she’s not the least bit worried.

Almost like she’s home.

She continues on.  Knowing exactly where she’s going, never 
once seeming unsure or looking around to gain her bearings.

She passes through a little STREET MARKET.

Before leaving, she stops by a SWEET OLD WOMAN selling 
CANDLES and FLOWERS.

She indicates a MODEST BOUQUET OF FLOWERS and pays way more 
than they could possibly cost.

The Sweet Old Woman takes the money and thanks her profusely, 
BOWING until she leaves.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. OLD CATHOLIC CEMETARY - LATER

Jessica comes to an OLD CATHOLIC CEMETARY in a quiet part of 
town.

She heads inside and gravely reads the stones finally coming 
upon one lonely plot.

The name written on the marker is the only NON-MEXICAN name 
in sight because:

“HERE LIES JOHN COMPTON - Beloved Father and One Hell of a 
Racer.” 

Jessica lays the flowers on the grave and kneels down beside 
it.

                                      25.

                                  CUT TO:

             JESSICA
     Miss you, Daddy.

EXT./INT. ARAIZA MOTEL - THE GUYS’ ROOM

The guys are now in a FULL BLOWN PANIC.

             STEVE
     What the fuck are we gonna do?  I 
     think I’m gonna shit my pants.

             PATRICK
     Wouldn’t be the first time.

             STEVE
     Now, really?!

             PATRICK
     Insulting people is my defense 
     mechanism!  Don’t judge me!

Steve WHIPS out his phone and starts dialing Nueve Uno Uno.

Patrick grabs Steve’s phone, throws it down, and STOMPS all 
over it.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     They said no cops!

             STEVE
     You couldn’t just hang up?!  That 
     was a 4S!

             PATRICK
     I wasn’t thinking!

             STEVE
     What’re we gonna do?

             PATRICK
     We need to calm down!

             STEVE
     I agree!

They force themselves to calm down.  

Only their PANTING BREATHS can be heard in the room.

Suddenly, Patrick GRABS Steve.

                                      26.

             PATRICK
     Just calm down, man!

Steve looks at Patrick.

             STEVE
     I am calm!

             PATRICK
        (beat)
     Okay, maybe I need to calm down...

             STEVE
     The cops will know how to help.

             PATRICK
     Wake up, this place is crawling 
     with Federales.  They’ll probably 
     join the kidnappers and shove all 
     kinds of burritos up our asses!

             STEVE
     We have to call them.

             PATRICK
     I said we can’t!

             STEVE
     Why not?!

             PATRICK
     I have a ton of bench warrants out 
     on me.  If we call them, I’m gonna
     get arrested.  And I do not want to 
     spend time in a Mexican jail!

             STEVE
     So?  Then you drive back, I’ll call 
     them.

             PATRICK
        (sotto)
     You can’t do that either.

             STEVE
     What?

             PATRICK
        (louder)
     I said you can’t do that either!  I 
     might, err, definitely, have used 
     your name for some of my more 
     ignoble crimes...

                                      27.

             STEVE
     What kind of crimes, Patrick?

             PATRICK
     It rhymes with...mail-fraud.

             STEVE
     Oh my God! Were you ever going to 
     tell me this?!

             PATRICK
     Obviously not!  

             STEVE
     Wait, if we’re secret fugitives, 
     how did we get past the Border 
     Guards?

             PATRICK
     I bribed them.  You didn’t think it 
     was weird they didn’t ask for your 
     passport?

             STEVE
     I thought they were just sloppy...

             PATRICK
     Steve, please.  Big picture here.  
     We’re just gonna have to pay them.

             STEVE
     Where are we gonna get 50k?  I have 
     nothing in my savings.  I was 
     counting on my pay raise to kick in 
     to get me out of the red.

Steve is spiraling looking for a way out.  This isn’t pretty.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     We can sell your car.

             PATRICK
     I’m not selling the Caddy.

             STEVE
     You’re right, it’s not worth that 
     much anyway.

             PATRICK
     Dude, Kelly Blue Book says --  
     Right, it’s not worth that much.

             STEVE
     We’re fucked, aren’t we?

                                      28.

             PATRICK
     No.  Kevin is fucked.  No one told 
     him to kidnap a god damn Teenage 
     Mutant Ninja Chicken!

             STEVE
     He wouldn’t have done it if you 
     hadn’t have dragged us to that 
     hellhole.  We shoulda just stayed 
     at the pool like I said.  Or better 
     yet, never come here anyway.  What 
     was I thinking, I can’t miss work 
     on Monday!  This is my life here!

BEEP BEEP.

Steve’s iPhone rings from the floor. 

The screen is cracked, but it still works.

Expecting a call from El Hombre, Steve bends down and shakily 
raises the phone to his ear.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Hello..?

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. BANK - OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT - SAN DIEGO

A bank president, think ELLIS from DIE HARD, sits behind a 
too-big desk and a name plate that reads JACK PERRY, III.

             MR. PERRY
     Steve, you there?

Perry plays with a paperweight on his desk.

                                INTERCUT:

INT.  ARAIZA MOTEL - THE GUYS’ ROOM

             STEVE
     Shit! 
        (mouthing to Patrick)
     It’s my boss!
        (beat)
     Uh, yes, sir.  I’m here.  Just 
     going over some reports for Monday.

                                      29.

             MR. PERRY
     Good man, working on the weekend.  
     Just wanted to tell you we need you 
     about an hour earlier on Monday.  
     Orientation stuff.

             STEVE
     Can’t wait, sir.

             MR. PERRY 
     Perfect, see you Monday, Mister 
     Vice President.

Steve mumbles some meek gibberish before hanging up.

             STEVE
     Great, Kevin is gonna die and I’m 
     gonna lose my job.

Patrick eyes the floor.

Steve finally cracks.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     WHAT’RE WE GONNA DO?!

             PATRICK
     I don’t know!

Steve jams his hands into his back pockets in total defeat.

He feels something in one of them and pulls out:

The DIABLO RUN FLYER from yesterday.

He CRUMPLES it up and throws it on the floor.

With nothing else to do, Patrick picks it up and starts 
reading.    

He scans the flyer and catches glimpses of:

“OFF-ROAD RACE”

“1,000 MILES”

“32 HOURS”

“NO RULES”

“WINNER TAKE ALL”

And most importantly:

                                      30.

“FIRST PRIZE - 1,000,000 PESOS”

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     How do you feel about dune buggies?

Steve looks at Patrick like he just asked to blow him.

             STEVE
     What the fuck are you talking 
     about?

Patrick hands him back the flyer.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (reading)
     One million??  

             PATRICK
     We can make the ransom money and 
     then some.  We can live like 
     fucking kings!

             STEVE
     It’s in pesos, you moron.  

             PATRICK
     Oh.
        (beat)
     Well how much is that in First 
     World money?

             STEVE
     Based on current currency exchange 
     rates --

Steve does some quick math in his head.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     About 77 grand.

Patrick lights up.

             PATRICK
     I can put dubs on the Caddy!

Steve looks like he’s about to choke a bitch.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I mean, after we save Kev, of 
     course.

                                      31.

             STEVE
     Are you even listening to yourself?  
     We don’t know the first thing about 
     racing.  We could all wind up dead.

             PATRICK
     We don’t have a lot of options 
     here, Steve.  We’re already in it.  
     It’s sink or swim.  Sometimes in 
     life you just have to make lemonade 
     out of lemons.

             STEVE
     There are safer ways to make 
     fucking lemonade, dude!

             PATRICK
     Look, I believe in us.  We’re a 
     team.  We always have been.  We’ve 
     been buds longer than we’ve had 
     pubic hair.  If we’re all gonna
     die, we might as well do some 
     living before then.

Steve is beginning to waffle.

             STEVE
        (disbelieving)
     You really want to join Mexican 
     Death Race 3000??

             PATRICK
     You don’t?!

             STEVE
     I want to save Kevin.  I want to go 
     back in time and cancel this 
     fucking trip.  And I want to make 
     it back to America in time to start 
     my new life.  I want a lot of 
     things.  A Death Race is pretty low 
     on the list.

             PATRICK
     If you can think of a better way to 
     get the money to save Kev, I’m all 
     ears.

Steve looks around the room desperately trying to think.  His 
eyes fall on the box.

The one with the dead chicken head in it.

             STEVE
     Start your engines.

                                      32.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. TIJUANA STREETS - OTHER SIDE OF TOWN

Going off the flyer, Steve and Patrick head to SIGN-UPS for 
the race.  

The “address” is a BUS STOP that would look shitty in 
Downtown LA.

An OLD MAN WITH AN EYE PATCH holding a CLIP BOARD stands 
there with a THREE-LEGGED CHIHUAHUA.

             PATRICK
     We have until Sunday at 8 to give 
     the money up for Kevin.  All we 
     have to do is win the race and he’s 
     home free.

             STEVE
     What if we lose?  It’s off-road.  I 
     can barely drive stick.

             PATRICK
     Kevin’s a dead man anyway.  What 
     choice do we have?

             STEVE
     I hate you so much, Patrick.

             PATRICK
     Hey, “hate” is a pretty strong 
     word.

Steve approaches Eye Patch.

             STEVE
     We’d like to register for the race, 
     please.

Eye Patch eyeballs, ahem eyeball, them.

             EYE PATCH
        (in heavily accented 
         English)
     Entry fee.

The guys shake out their pockets.

No cash.

                                      33.

             STEVE
     Do you accept Traveller’s cheques?

Eye Patch answers by SPITTING OUT A LONG STREAM OF TOBACCO.  

The Chihuahua LAPS it up greedily.

             PATRICK
     Ewwwwwww.

             STEVE
        (to Eye Patch)
     So that’s a firm no?

Eye Patch points at Patrick’s WATCH.  It’s a nice one.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Why would you wear that to TJ?

Patrick rips the watch from his wrist.

             PATRICK
        (angrily)
     Obviously to use as an entry fee in 
     a death race to save my closeted 
     former friend from getting beheaded 
     in the desert.  Why else?!

Patrick begrudgingly hands the watch to Eye Patch who pockets 
it in one smooth motion.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     That’s fucking silver.  Take care 
     of it.

Eye Patch pulls out TWO BLIND FOLDS.  A BUSTED DOWN VAN pulls 
up from around the corner.

             EYE PATCH
     Put on.

             STEVE
     Can I ask why?

             EYE PATCH
     Race start in secret location.

The guys BLINDFOLD themselves with looks of sheer terror.

             STEVE
     We’re gonna die out here, aren’t 
     we?

                                      34.

             PATRICK
     I just hope Kevin goes first.

The guys cinch their blindfolds and hop into the VAN as it 
whisks them away to the infamous Diablo Run...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - LATER

Kevin sits tied down to a chair just as he was in the video 
El Hombre sent earlier.

He looks like shit.  The hangover of all time coupled with a 
very bad beat down.

We’re talking black eyes, a missing tooth, and maybe even a 
partially-barfed up heart.

He groggily comes to.

             KEVIN
        (weakly)
     Please... Let me go.

The gangbangers in the room, still sorting their DRUGS, look 
up.

Each man grins like he hasn’t eaten in a weak.

             KEVIN
	(CONT’D)
     Please... Wat --

SLAP!

El Hombre comes from out of nowhere and BITCH SLAPS KEVIN 
BACK TO SAN DIEGO.

             EL HOMBRE
     ¡Silencio!

Kevin recovers.  He spits out a STREAM OF BLOOD and, what the 
hell, maybe another TOOTH.

             KEVIN
     My friends will give you whatever 
     you want.  Just please stop hitting 
     me...

             EL HOMBRE
     You need to learn the rules of the 
     casa, ese.  You habla when habla’ed
     to.  Comprende?

                                      35.

Kevin nods a fearful YES.

             EL HOMBRE
	(CONT’D)
     We make this easy.  We get the 
     money, you get to walk.  If you 
     still can.

Kevin visibly GULPS.

             EL HOMBRE
	(CONT’D)
     If not, we feed you to Los Perros!

Kevin looks behind El Hombre to a KENNEL FILLED WITH VICIOUS 
PITBULLS.

One of the GANGBANGERS throws in what remains of Pluma Del 
Muertre and the dogs go FUCKING NUTS TEARING IT TO SHREDS.

             EL HOMBRE
	(CONT’D)
     We get them from Michael Vick!

Kevin PEES HIS PANTS.

Again.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - DESERT RALLY POINT

The guys roll up in the beaten-down van.  It comes to a 
lumbering stop.

Their TUBBY DRIVER gets out, opens the door, and all but 
kicks them out.

Steve yanks off his blind-fold.  Patrick follows suit.

             STEVE
     Oh, good Christ...

WIDE TO REVEAL: The guys are surrounded by the Mexican 
equivalent of a Super Bowl Tail Gate party on acid.

MARIACHI BANDS are everywhere.  It looks like every other 
person is carrying an ACCORDION and singing their brains out.

VENDORS selling all kinds of food push in and out of groups 
of people of all shapes and sizes.

The CRUSH OF PEOPLE is horrific.  

Like a Black Friday crowd collectively sweating it out in the 
107 degree heat.

                                      36.

Steve turns around to ask their Driver a question.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Sir, how do we get started?

He’s answered by BURNING RUBBER as the Driver and his shitty
van peel out.

The guys wilt.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Let’s just go this way.

Steve starts moving north.  He turns to look back to make 
sure Patrick is still following him.

He is, but mostly because he doesn’t have a clue where he’s 
going either.

Steve turns back and walks right into GABRIEL, a suave yet 
dangerous Spaniard who definitely looks like he appreciates 
his personal space.

             GABRIEL
        (in an Antonio Banderas
         accent)
     Watch where you’re going!

             STEVE
     I’m -- I’m sorry, sir, I didn’t see 
     you there.

             PATRICK
     Chill out, Zorro.

Gabriel’s eyes tighten.  

He’s PISSED.

In one smooth motion, he shoves Patrick backward and, holy 
shit, pulls a SWORD out from under his poncho.

Gabriel slices it through the air in champion fencer fashion 
before pointing it right at Steve’s throat.

Everyone around them takes notice and a RING OF DEATH forms.

BLOODLUST permeates the air.

             GABRIEL
     I’ll show your friend what Zorro
     can do.

                                      37.

A light TRAIL OF BLOOD DRIPS DOWN STEVE’S THROAT as Gabriel 
pushes the blade in ever so slightly.

Steve shuts his eyes tight and prays for mercy before --

He hears the COCKING OF A SHOTGUN and an audible GASP from 
the crowd.

Steve dares to open one of his eyes.

Gabriel has lowered his blade.  

A FIGURE CLAD ALL IN BLACK with a matching BLACK MOTORCYCLE 
HELMET stands holding a sawed-off shotgun to the side of 
Gabriel’s head.

The Figure says something in Spanish.

Gabriel holds his ground for another second before pulling 
back his sword and resheathing it under his poncho.

He gives one last look to the Figure and stomps off.

The crowd dissipates as the Figure walks over to Steve.

             STEVE
     Uh, thank you.  

The Figure doesn’t move a muscle.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Oh God, does this mean I’m your 
     bitch now?

The Figure takes a step back.  Unclasps their helmet, and 
raises it.

A swath of RED HAIR cascades out of the helmet.

It’s Jessica.

             JESSICA
        (shaking her hair out)
     Only if you wanna be.

Patrick’s jaw hits the dirt.  

But not before Steve’s.

             STEVE
     It’s you!

             JESSICA
     What are you doing here?

                                      38.

She waves a hand indicating all...this.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     This isn’t exactly a tourist spot.
        (beat)
     And wasn’t there three of you?

Patrick steps forward.

             PATRICK
     The Bieber-fan was kidnapped.  Some 
     Cholos are holding him for ransom.

Jessica doesn’t look surprised.

             JESSICA
     Narco-terror is pretty bad around 
     here.  Why aren’t you with the 
     police?  No offense, but if the two 
     of you don’t want to die you picked 
     a really bad place to get 
     margaritas.   

             STEVE
     We’re not here for margaritas.  
     We’re here for the race.

A look of concern flashes across Jessica’s face.

             JESSICA
     Look, you don’t wanna be here.

             STEVE
     We don’t have a choice.  We’re 
     gonna win the race and use the 
     prize money to get our friend back.

             PATRICK
     How hard could it be?  We used to 
     off-road all the time in SD when we 
     were kids.

             JESSICA
     You have no idea what this is.  The 
     Diablo Run is a death race.  For 
     real.  That man you just pissed off 
     is  Gabriel.  He’s won 9 out of the 
     last 10 races.

             STEVE
     Is he your...boyfriend...or
     something?

                                      39.

             JESSICA
        (eyes to the distance)
     He’s my father’s killer.

             PATRICK
     Your father?

             JESSICA
     He was the only other man to win 
     the race in the last decade.  He 
     broke Gabriel’s winning streak so 
     he fucking killed him for it.

             STEVE
     Why isn’t he in prison?

             JESSICA
     Gabriel is a legend around here.  
     Even if there was any proof, 
     nothing would happen to him.

             PATRICK
     You just had a gun to his head, why 
     didn’t you just blow him away?

Steve looks surprised at Patrick’s casual murder talk.

Jessica puts on her helmet back on.

             JESSICA
     Because beating him will hurt him 
     even more.

She flips down the visor and stalks past them.

             PATRICK
     I am so hard right now.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. RACER RENTALS

Steve’s eyes land on a FADED SIGN.  It reads:

RACER RENTALS

And it stands in front of what can only be described as a 
Jawa Junkyard.

             STEVE
     We need some wheels.

                                      40.

INT. RACER RENTALS - CONTINUOUS

The guys head inside.  Weak salsa music filters in from a 
busted-ass radio.

They find a very small man filling out one RACING FORM while 
fanning himself down with another.

This is JAIME   ESCALANTE. 

No relation.

And definitely nowhere near as inspiring.

             STEVE
     Excuse me, sir.  Do you rent cars 
     for the race?

             JAIME
        (looking up from his form)
     Jou?  Jou guys are racing?

             STEVE
     Why else would we be here?

Jaime can’t think of one god damn reason why, but there’s 
money to be made and he knows it.

             JAIME
     What are jou looking for?

Jaime heads out back, not waiting for the guys to follow, 
where a FLEET of racing vehicles in all stages of decay 
stand.

There’s rusted out hulks from nearly every era here.

             PATRICK
     What’s the cheapest one you can 
     rent us?

             JAIME
     For two thousand American, you can 
     have this beauty.

Jaime walks them up to the bastard offspring of HERBIE THE 
LOVEBUG.

             JAIME
	(CONT’D)
     She may not look like mucho, but 
     she got it where it counts.

                                      41.

             STEVE
     We were thinking of something a 
     little more...economical.

Jaime’s face implodes in on itself when he hears the E word.  
These guys are broke jokers.

             JAIME
     Maybe jou better off just watching, 
     huh?

Jaime heads back into the storefront.  Steve and Patrick 
follow again.

             STEVE
     Look, we’re racing one way or the 
     other.  Can you help us or not?

             JAIME
     Not.

             STEVE
     What if you sponsor us?

             PATRICK
     Actually, that’s not a bad idea. 
     Give us one of these, and when we 
     win, we’ll give you a share of the 
     purse.

             JAIME
     What makes jou think jou’ll win?

             STEVE
        (determined)
     Because we have to.

             JAIME
     Not good enough.

Jaime holds up his RACING FORM.

             JAIME
	(CONT’D)
     Gabriel always wins.

             STEVE
     He’s been beaten before.

Something about the way Steve says this gives Jaime pause.

Patrick senses an opening.

                                      42.

             PATRICK
     We’ll give you half.  What do you 
     have to lose?

Jaime looks intrigued.  Steve SHOVES Patrick from behind.  
They go into a bro-huddle.

             STEVE
        (loud whisper)
     What the fuck are you doing?  We 
     need every cent to get Kevin!

             PATRICK
        (equally loud whisper)
     We’re not gonna pay him, you 
     goober.  No one down here sticks to 
     their word.  Trust me.

Steve plays it cool.

             JAIME
     I’ll need some collateral.

             STEVE
        (without hesitation)
     Pat, leave your credit cards.

Steve shakes his head wildly.

             PATRICK
     Dude, no way.  My Mom will eat my 
     liver if she loses her miles.

             STEVE
     Fuck your, Mom.  Leave ‘em.  
     They’re maxed out anyway.

             PATRICK
     How do you know that?

             STEVE
     I ran your credit the last time you 
     asked me for money.

             PATRICK
     Dude, uncool.

Patrick digs out his wallet and SLAPS FOUR CREDIT CARDS onto 
the counter.

             JAIME
        (taking the cards)
     I might have something then.

                                      43.

EXT. RACER RENTALS - BACK LOT

The guys come face to face with a:

TRUGGY.

Part truck, part dune-buggy.  And all attitude.

20 years ago.

Now it’s a piece of shit.  

But it has four wheels and an engine.

Good enough.

             STEVE
     Sold!
        (beat)
     Do you think we need insurance?

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - DESERT RALLY POINT

The Truggy CHUG-A-LUGS it’s way to the STARTING LINE.

It moves like a SHOPPING CART with one busted wheel.

Steve is in the driver’s seat and Patrick sits shotgun.

The enormity of the moment really hits them as they’re locked 
into their RACING STALL.

All around them racing teams from Tim Burton’s wet dreams 
prep their vehicles (all of which have modifications that are 
anything but street legal).

STADIUM-STYLE SEATING carved straight into the CANYON WALLS 
surround the opening gate of the race.  They’re packed with 
screaming SPECTATORS. 

A HUSH falls over the crowd as a man dressed in a SUIT way
too nice for the desert steps up to the center of a raised 
DAIS.

This is JUAN JOSE HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ, the Race Master.

He looks like Scarface’s better-dressed uncle.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     Ladies y hentlemen.  Welcome to the 
     2012 Diablo Run!  One thousand 
     miles of death, destruction, and 
     mayhem!

                                      44.

Steve looks up.  He has to yell to be heard.

             STEVE
     What’d he say?

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     Each cursed soul here must face 
     1,000 miles of the hardest, most 
     unforgiving desert in the world!

TECHNICIANS begin to move through the assembled racers.

A lowly tech with THICK GLASSES grabs Steve’s arm and 
violently slaps a strange-looking device onto his wrist. 

             PATRICK
     The fuck is that?

             STEVE
        (looking at his new 
         “watch”)
     I have no idea.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     Each racer is having a GPS
     transponder strapped to their 
     wrist.  But each comes with a 
     little C4 surprise!

Hernandez-Hernandez picks up his showmanship.

             PATRICK
        (to Steve)
     Wait, did he just say C4?

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     Like always, cheating will not be 
     tolerated.
        (holding up one of the 
         wrist devices)
     Veer off course and --

             CROWD
     BOOOOOOOOM!

The same tech works his way around the Truggy and slaps an 
identical device on Patrick’s wrist.

             PATRICK
        (to the tech)
     I’m almost positive he said C4!

The man answers by crossing himself.

                                      45.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     To win the race, you need three of 
     these!

THREE BIKINI-CLAD BEAUTIES strut onto the stage.

You can almost hear the crowd’s collective BONER.

Each women holds up a little MARKER - a medallion stamped 
with the logo of the race itself.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
	(CONT’D)
     The first team to cross the finish 
     line, back here, with all three 
     markers will be declared the 
     winner.

The crowd screams again, the anticipation is palpable.

The course flashes onto the screens of the GPS units as they 
power on.  Steve and Patrick look at them and try their best 
not to freak out.

1,000 miles in the Mexican desert looks way worse than it 
ever sounded.

The THREE MARKERS flash on their screens, indicating the 
location of each one.

             PATRICK
     Uhh, we might be in over our heads 
     here...

             STEVE
     I think I feel my penis crawling up 
     inside my body.

Steve looks over to the empty STALL next to them.

A BLACK NINJA BIKE ROLLS UP NEXT TO THEM.

Jessica sits on top of it REVVING her engine.  

She’s still wearing her helmet, but there’s no mistaking the 
mane of red hair falling down her shoulders.

She turns her head.  Still wearing her visor, she somehow 
manages to lock eyes with Steve.

She SALUTES him and he wordlessly nods back.

On the dais, A LEADER BOARD powers on a massive LCD screen 
behind Hernandez-Hernandez.  It lists every team entered in 
the race.

                                      46.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     ¡Todo o nada!

The crowd repeats the slogan back, louder.

             CROWD
     ¡Todo o nada!

Hernandez-Hernandez RAISES A FLAMING TORCH and swings it 
down.

Then the sound drops out.

And all that’s heard is an EAR-PIERCING BLEEP.

The STARTING LIGHTS FLASH GREEN in front of the RACERS and --

EVERY SINGLE CAR, TRUCK, BIKE, and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION 
GUNS IT OUT INTO THE DESERT!

                             SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - CONTINUOUS

Steve and Patrick are in the thick of it as the pack races 
out onto MILE ONE of one thousand.

All around them, the guys see:

--A PINK LIMO driven by a gang of BLACK THUGS.  Using 
hydraulics, the car manages to drop it like it’s hot while 
still pushing almost 100 mph.

--A TRICKED-OUT DUNE BUGGY, way better than the guys’ sad 
little Truggy, tears up the dirt.  Two guys looking like the 
hosts of AMERICAN CHOPPER, with handle-bar mustaches, haul 
ass inside it.

--A RICE ROCKET with a crazy JAPANESE DRAGON MURAL going 
from hood to trunk.  A posse of Yakuza-types are inside it 
screaming out loud and slapping their doors.

--A SMART-CAR looking like a ROCKET ENGINE has been shoved 
up its ass.  The more discerning viewer will notice El Pollo
Loco CRACKING HIS KNUCKLES inside it.

--Jessica hauls ass on her Ninja bike, darting and weaving 
in the mayhem.

Steve and Patrick feel their balls drop when their eyes 
settle on:

                                      47.

--GABRIEL.  Now dressed all in black, like Jessica but even 
scarier, he’s crammed into the cockpit of a one-seater, four-
wheel ATV MONSTER.

It’s so advanced, it’s come back from the future to kill John 
Connor.

He guns it and SPEEDS AHEAD.

The guys are toast as they quickly fall to the end of the 
pack, struggling to keep up.

The TRUGGY has shit for shocks.

Steve and Patrick bounce around like Kardashian titties.

THUMP THUMP THUMP.

             STEVE
        (yelling)
     What’s making that noise?

             PATRICK
     What?!

             STEVE
     I said what’s making that noise?!

             PATRICK
     What noise?!

THUMP THUMP THUMP.

             STEVE
     That noise!  Something is rattling 
     around in the back.

Steve keeps his foot permanently MASHED ON THE GAS PEDAL.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Take a look back there, we don’t 
     need any dead weight.

             PATRICK
        (still yelling)
     Right away, Captain.

As Steve continues to bravely push the TRUGGY to its limits, 
Patrick unbuckles and TWISTS AROUND IN HIS SEAT.

He looks in the REAR CARGO AREA and moves a TARP.  It goes 
FLYING OUT THE BACK.

Steve yells behind him:

                                      48.

             STEVE
     Don’t litter!

Patrick answers by SLAPPING HIM IN THE BACK OF THE HEAD.

The Truggy SWERVES; Steve recovers.  

Patrick goes back to his work and finds a FOOTLOCKER rolling 
around.

It’s marked MEDICO in faded letters.

THUMP THUMP THUMP.

             PATRICK
        (to Steve)
     It’s some fucking first aid box, 
     I’m gonna ditch it!

A MONSTER TRUCK comes too close and easily overtakes them.  
It SPEWS dirt in its wake.  

Steve has to grit his eyes, and his teeth, as he moves them 
through it.

             STEVE
     Do it fast, we’re falling behind!

Patrick awkwardly grabs the footlocker by two hands and tries 
to lift it out, but it’s too heavy.

             PATRICK
     How many ace bandages do people 
     need?!

He crawls back and gets all the way in the back, trying to 
lift with his knees, when he notices another TARP.  He lifts 
it and sees what looks like:

TWO LARGE OXYGEN TANKS.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I found something else!

Steve can’t hear him over the howling wind; it’s too loud and 
he’s too focused.  

The TRUGGY hits a BUMP and Patrick almost goes flying out the 
back like the tarp from earlier.

He recovers and notices NOZZLES AND HOSES running from the 
tanks.

They’re both connected to a HALF-BROKEN LEVER.

                                      49.

             STEVE
        (yelling back)
     We have no chance in this thing.

Curious, Patrick ignores Steve as he reaches out and TOGGLES 
the lever.

Suddenly, the TRUGGY jumps into HYPERSPACE as two WHITE 
PLUMES of, yep, NITROUS OXIDE GAS EXPLODE from the rear of 
the vehicle.

Steve and Patrick can’t find their voices to yell as the 
TRUGGY blows past the competition.

All of it.

Every other vehicle around them fades into BLURS as Steve 
somehow manages to keep the runaway TRUGGY on course.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - FURTHER BACK

Jessica watches as Steve and Patrick hurtle to the front of 
the pack and stay there.

But she doesn’t care.

Her visored vision falls on Gabriel.  

She pulls up next to him, timing her approach as she threads 
in between the other racers.

She comes up right in his peripheral line of sight.  If 
Gabriel sees her, he doesn’t give her the time of day.

Until he RAMS her that is.

These two have bad blood.

Lots of it.

Jessica recovers and turns her eyes forward to steer.  She 
slips her hand into a VEST POCKET and pulls out: 

A BURNED KEY CHAIN.

The letters J and C, for her father John Compton no doubt, 
are the only markings left legible.  

She pulls up to Gabriel again and throws the key chain in his 
lap.

                                      50.

Gabriel palms the key chain and holds it up in font of his 
GOGGLES.

He cracks an evil smile revealing a serious set of chompers.

Jessica PULLS HER BIKE UP ON ITS REAR WHEEL and races ahead, 
kicking up dirt to fill his ugly mouth.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. OPEN DESERT RUN - LATER

The Nitrous tanks finally SPUTTER OUT and the TRUGGY returns 
to its normal speed.

It’s RATTLING even more than it was before, but it’s holding 
together.

Patrick collapses back into the passenger seat.  He and Steve 
both look like they’ve been through a wind tunnel.

Steve finds his voice.

             STEVE
     Can you warn me before you do that 
     again, please?

             PATRICK
     Dude, don’t look at me.  I didn’t 
     know what I was touching.

             STEVE
     So next time, don’t touch anything.

The GPS units on their wrists starts to FLASH.  They're 
nearing the first MARKER.

             PATRICK
     Why would they put the first marker 
     so close to the beginning?

             STEVE
     Obviously because half the people 
     die getting out of the gate.  I 
     can’t believe we even made it this
     far.

BOOM.

THE TRUGGY IS RAMMED FROM BEHIND.

The guys look behind them to see a WHITE FORD BRONCO 4x4 
right on their tails.

                                      51.

             PATRICK
        (screaming)
     OJ Simpson is trying to kill us!

             STEVE
     Everyone is trying to kill us!

The Bronco pulls up alongside them.  A couple DELIVERANCE 
looking mother fuckers grin and flash their corn-niblet
teeth.

The Bronco rams them from the side this time.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     What do we do?!

             PATRICK
     Ram ‘em back!

             STEVE
     What’re you talking about?!

             PATRICK
     Fuckin’ a!

PATRICK REACHES OVER AND GRABS THE WHEEL.  

He yanks it to the right and they SLAM THE BRONCO back.

The hillbillies obviously didn’t expect a fight.  They come 
in for one more SMASH, but this time --

THE GRILLS ON THE FRONT OF EACH VEHICLE GET LOCKED TOGETHER.

Steve PULLS on the wheel with all his might.  Nothing budges.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Look!

Patrick points ahead.  

They are heading right for the mouth of a canyon.  There’s a 
narrow gap between TWO MASSIVE ROCK WALLS.

Room enough for one.

And it’s coming faster than a virgin on Prom Night.

Both trucks try pulling away from each other again, but 
they’re still locked together tight.

The Hillbillies’ faces, what can be seen from their cabin 
anyway, show the first traces of fear.

                                      52.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I can do this.

Patrick unbuckles again.  He crawls over the WINDSCREEN with 
one hand gripped tight on it.

             STEVE
     What’re you doing?!  Get back in 
     here!

Patrick HALF-CRABWALKS across the hood, using his right foot 
to repeatedly kick the BUMPER off the TRUGGY.

Steve is turning white behind the wheel.  The rock walls are 
fast approaching.

They’re almost at the mouth of the canyon.  A burst of 
ADRENALINE fuels Patrick and he keeps kicking.

ONCE.

TWICE.

THREE TIMES NICE.

BOOM!  The bumper goes flying off!  

The Bronco pulls away with it as Steve BLASTS the Truggy into 
the canyon.

The Bronco isn’t so lucky.  

IT COLLIDES INTO THE WALL AND EXPLODES ON IMPACT.

THE NEWLY-MADE FIREBALL PLUMES OVER THE CANYON WALLS.

Patrick crawls back into his seat.  The Truggy never slowing 
down.

It’s eerily quiet with the walls cutting off the screaming 
wind.

             PATRICK
        (beat)
     I think we just killed them.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - DESERT RALLY POINT

Juan Jose Hernandez-Hernandez reclines in his BOX SEAT near 
the dais he entered upon.

                                      53.

He lasciviously feeds grapes and nacho chips to one of the 
RACER GIRLS lounging in his lap. 

A ROAR OF EXCITEMENT goes through the spectators as, up on 
the LEADER BOARD, the graphic representing the BRONCO goes 
dark.

Hernandez-Hernandez grabs his mic.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
     Congratulations to our patrones who 
     bet on TEAM ALABAMA-JAMA to meet 
     their muertes first!

Another loud ROAR.  Hernandez-Hernandez SLAPS the ass of 
another Racer Girl slinking by.

             HERNANDEZ-HERNANDEZ
	(CONT’D)
     ¡Delicioso!

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - LATER

Back in El Hombre’s house of horrors.

Kevin is all alone.  Unconscious and still strapped to the 
chair.

The house is empty, El Hombre and his muchachos are nowhere 
in sight.

Kevin groggily comes to and finally seems to realize no one 
is watching him.

Well, almost no one.  The pit bulls are disconcertingly 
staring at him.

Familiar feathers line their cage...

Kevin starts ROCKING himself back and forth trying to loosen 
the thick rope around his wrists.

He rocks a little too hard and FALLS BACKWARD.

He hits his head, but the chair mercifully comes apart on 
impact.

Remember, hecho en Mexico.

Kevin can’t believe his luck.  He slides his arms back and 
manages to scramble away from the remnants of the chair.

His arms are still behind his back, but he’s able to stand.

                                      54.

Sweet freedom!

Kevin RUNS out the front door --

And then walks slowly back in.

Once he crosses the threshold, we see why.

THE BARREL OF EL HOMBRE’S GUN IS IN HIS MOUTH.

He and his men have returned.  

The gangbangers have food from Taco Alley in their hands.

             EL HOMBRE
        (mocking)
     We didn’t know what to get you.

El Hombre still holds the gun in Kevin’s mouth.  And he keeps 
it there until Kevin wisely finds another chair to sit in.

El Hombre says something in Spanish and one of his men re-
ties Kevin.

He starts sobbing quietly again.

El Hombre throws him a taco.

             EL HOMBRE
	(CONT’D)
     Want something to drink, gringo?

Kevin sees SODAS in some of the guys hands.  Parched, he 
licks his lips.

             KEVIN
     A Coke would be nice.

Everyone laughs, but there’s nothing friendly about it.

El Hombre grabs a baggie of cocaine off a nearby table and 
BLOWS THE CONTENTS in Kevin’s face.

He now looks like he spent the weekend at Lindsay Lohan’s
house.

             EL HOMBRE 
     Have all the coke you want, cabron!

The room erupts into more laughter as Kevin slowly starts to 
trip balls.  

His eyes turn into saucers.

             KEVIN
     I feel wiggly...

                                      55.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - LATER

Steve and Patrick, still inexplicably in the lead, BURST out 
of the cramped canyon and find themselves on the outskirts of 
a RING OF MESAS.

Their GPS UNITS go nuts.

             STEVE
        (eyeing his wrist)
     Wherever that first marker is, 
     we’re right on top of it.

             PATRICK
     I think I see something.

Steve speeds up even more and the guys do indeed spot 
something in the distance:

AN OASIS AT THE RIM OF A MESA.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     That has to be it.

             STEVE
     We must be near Ensenada by now.

Steve pulls them up to the oasis, verdant PALM TREES surround 
a pool of water.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     This must lead out to the ocean.

Patrick hops out of the Truggy.  Steve puts it in neutral 
and, yes, hits the E-BRAKE like the perpetual tool he is.

EXT. DESERT OASIS

A CRYSTAL CHANNEL cut right into the rock leads to an estuary 
of sorts.

In the distance, the FIRST MARKER hangs above the water from 
a low-standing palm tree.

             PATRICK
     Well, go get it.  The rest of those 
     speed freaks are right behind us!

                                      56.

             STEVE
     You go get it.

             PATRICK
     I can’t go in there.  You know I’m 
     afraid of the water.

             STEVE
     What is it you can do?

             PATRICK
     I can suck my own dick.

             STEVE
     Because no one else will.

             PATRICK
     Don’t be jealous.  It took years to 
     perfect.

Steve gives him a look and kicks off his shoes.  He wades 
into the water.

             STEVE
     Get the car ready.

Steve starts swimming as he moves deeper into the water.  
Patrick heads back to the Truggy.

Waiting for Steve, Patrick gets bored.  He finds the 
FOOTLOCKER once again and opens it.

             PATRICK
	(O.S.)
     Holy shit!

             STEVE
        (still swimming)
     What?

ON PATRICK

             PATRICK
     I think Scarface drove this thing 
     before we did.

Patrick looks down into the open FOOTLOCKER.  

Definitely not First Aid supplies, IT’S PACKED WITH WEAPONS 
OF ALL KINDS.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
     Surprised that turd didn’t charge 
     more for this stuff.

                                      57.

Patrick holds up a GRENADE CLUSTER: basically five hand 
grenades haphazardly DUCT-TAPED together.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
     Whoa...

ON STEVE

Steve continues to swim towards the marker.

Something BRUSHES HIS LEG.

He thinks nothing of it until something else brushes his leg.

Curious, Steve stops and DOGGY PADDLES.  He dips his head 
under the surface where he finds:

A SCHOOL OF HUNGRY HAMMERHEAD SHARKS.

Steve tries very hard not to panic.  

             STEVE
        (whisper-yelling)
     Patrick!  Patrick!  Help meeee!

Patrick doesn’t hear him.  He’s still fiddling around with 
the weapons locker.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
     I can’t die like this.

Steve is coming apart at the seams, but he keeps it together.  
He begins slowly back-stroking his way towards dry land.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (frightfully)
     It’s just like Sea-World.  It’s 
     just like Sea-World.  It’s just 
     like Sea-World...

Patrick finally notices him and gingerly walks over to the 
shore, still holding the grenade-cluster.

             PATRICK
     What’re you doing?  The marker is 
     back that way.

Steve doesn’t answer and Patrick figures out why when THREE 
DORSAL FINS JUT OUT OF THE WATER.

                                      58.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (loud as shit)
     SHARKS!!!!!!!!

Steve, still paralyzed with fear, looks at Patrick like he’s 
going to murder him.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     They’re right behind you, swim, you 
     beautiful bastard, swim!

Steve gives up any sense of composure and SWIMS FOR HIS LIFE.  
He kicks up water in every direction.

The three Dorsal Fins are closer than ever, they line up in 
attack formation.

You can almost hear the theme song from JAWS.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I’ll save you, Steve!

Patrick yanks on the cord tied to ALL FIVE GRENADE PINS and 
HURLS the cluster into the water behind Steve.

KA-FUCKING-BOOM!

Steve runs out of the water and collapses as the oasis turns 
into Old Faithful.

Only Steve’s frantic panting can be heard as the water starts 
BUBBLING.

Count ‘em up.

17 DEAD HAMMERHEADS FLOAT BELLY-UP TO THE SURFACE.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Fuck yeah!  Extreme Fishing for the 
     win!

Steve looks like he has a permanent case of PTSD.

VROOOOOOM.

The sound of the other racers fast approaches.  Patrick looks 
at the water and swallows hard before he takes charge.

He grabs a tarp out of the Truggy and wraps it around Steve.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (helping Steve into the 
         car)
     Okay, buddy.  

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     The big, bad racers are on the way 
     and we need to get the fuck out of 
     here.

                                      59.

Patrick sweetly helps Steve into the passenger seat and 
buckles him in.

Patrick grabs a PISTOL from the footlocker and swims back 
into the water.  

Caught between the racers and the sharks, Patrick chooses the 
fucking sharks.

He closes his eyes and crawls into the water avoiding the 
hammerhead carcasses until he’s right under the marker.

He jumps up and grabs it.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Gotcha bitch!  
        (to the dead sharks)
     Don’t mess with Texas!

Patrick holds the marker between his teeth and the gun above 
the water’s surface as he paddles back with one hand.

Just before he reaches the shore, the BIGGEST HAMMERHEAD YET 
breaches the surface and comes at him with its JAWS GAPING 
OPEN.

EXTREME SLOW-MOTION as Patrick reacts without thinking.

He fires the pistol without aiming and the hammerhead lets 
out a thundering growl before it CRASHES into the water right 
next to him.

Patrick sees why when it listlessly floats by him:

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Awww, gross! Right in the fuckin’
     eyeball!

The hammerhead’s right eye looks like someone popped a giant 
zit.  Nothing but blood and puss remain.

Patrick gets back onto dry land and looks at the water not 
believing what he just did.  He hops behind the wheel of the 
Truggy.

He PEELS OUT and the guys are fucking outta there.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      60.

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OASIS - MOMENTS LATER

A PICK-UP TRUCK MOUNTED ON TANK-TREADS comes to a stop.

It’s carrying a team of ANGRY RUSSIANS; these guys don’t fuck
around.

Seeing the worst aquatic disaster since WATERWORLD, they 
realize the marker has already been taken.

             DRIVER
     Chush' sobach'ya! [Bullshit!]

They floor it ahead in hot pursuit of whoever took it.

ON STEVE AND PATRICK

Patrick drives while Steve cries like a little baby.

             STEVE
     I’ve never seen anything die 
     before!  Now the blood from a car 
     full of hillbillies and a school of 
     sharks is all over me! 

Steve rubs his hands like he’s trying to wash them.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     The blood’s not coming off!

             PATRICK
     Steve, I need you to pull it 
     together!  

             STEVE
     I don’t even like watching horror 
     movies, I’m a god damn pacifist!

             PATRICK
     This is war, and the pacifists 
     always die first.  Be cool, man!

Steve sucks in air and starts to calm down.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     That’s it buddy, you’re safe now.

PING!

A BULLET RICOCHETS OFF THE TRUGGY’S CHASIS.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Maybe not!

                                      61.

Steve and Patrick look into the Truggy’s cracked REARVIEW 
MIRROR and see the Pick-Up Truck Tank in hot pursuit.

One RUSSIAN hangs out the passenger side window while ANOTHER 
rides in the bed.

Both carry AK-47’s and both look rather pissed off.

Their guns continue barking fire in Russian:

RAT-A-TAT-TAT, COMRADE!

             STEVE
     They’re after the marker!

             PATRICK
     I can see that!

Suddenly, Steve’s iPhone rings.  He grabs it while keeping 
his head down.

Patrick is doing his best to avoid the hail of Eastern 
European gunfire.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Better let this one go to 
     voicemail!

             STEVE
     I can’t! It’s my boss again!
        (answering)
     Hel --

Patrick RIPS the phone out of Steve’s hand and SCREAMS INTO 
IT.

             PATRICK
     He’ll call you back!

CLICK.

             STEVE
     Now Perry’s gonna think I’m 
     ignoring his calls!

             PATRICK
     Dude, fuck that shit right now!

Another VOLLEY annihilates the Truggy’s back tire.  It BLOWS 
OUT, but Patrick doesn’t dare stop.

He tries desperately to keep them on course while outrunning 
them, but it’s no use.

                                      62.

The Russians are gaining.

The Shooter riding in the bed gets Steve’s head in his 
sights...

His finger SQUEEZES the trigger, but his shot goes wide when:

A CHAIN WRAPS AROUND HIS GUN ARM AND HIS WHOLE BODY GETS 
YANKED RIGHT OFF THE TRUCK.

The now-airborne Russian goes screaming to a high-speed death 
when the chain unfurls from around his arm.

It’s being swung like a whip in the hand of:

JESSICA

Riding her bike from out of nowhere.

She gets alongside the Pick-Up Truck Tank and WHAPS the chain 
across the hood in a very mean intimidation game.

Patrick and Steve are literally driving blind as their eyes 
stay glued behind them on the female version of GHOST RIDER: 
SPIRIT OF VENGEANCE.

Jessica swings the chain again and it SHATTERS THE WINDSHIELD 
into a spider web-cracked mess.

Jessica peels off as the truck hits a natural rock ramp and 
GOES FLYING INTO A CHASM JUST AHEAD.

Jessica doesn’t flinch as the truck crashes and goes nova.  

She kicks the throttle and blows by the Truggy.

But not before YELLING OUT:

             JESSICA
     Follow me!

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - DESERT RALLY POINT

All eyes are once again drawn to the LEADER BOARD as another 
one bites the dust.

The graphic representing the Russians, aka TEAM COLD 
WARRIORS, goes dark.

                                      63.

They join ALABAMA-JAMA and a couple others teams we won’t 
have the misfortune of meeting.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - LATER

LOUD SINGING can be heard from inside the house.  Along with 
HOOTING, HOLLERING, and a few CAT CALLS.  Because...

INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

KEVIN IS HIGH AS SHIT.

MUSIC CUE - “YOU’RE THE ONE THAT I WANT” - by John Travolta  
and Olivia Newton John

Kevin sings both parts.

He’s doing a one-man, acapella version of GREASE.

             KEVIN
        (crazed singing)
     You better shape up ‘cause I need a 
     man and my heart is set on you!

El Hombre and his men throw coins and paper money at Kevin 
who doesn’t even know where he is anymore.

He’s actually quite good considering he’s ingested enough 
blow to kill a baby hippo.

             EL HOMBRE
        (dying of laughter)
     Maybe we don’t give him back after 
     all!

The thugs laugh even harder as Kevin hits his crescendo.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - AVE - MID-DAY 

Steve and Patrick limp along in the wounded Truggy.

Jessica, just ahead of them, mercifully brings them to a PIT 
AREA.

Everything looks like shit; there’s MECHANICS and CAR PARTS 
everywhere. 

                                      64.

And a healthy smattering of spectators eating, drinking, and 
screaming.

Steve and Patrick come to a stop and a PIT CREW with crappy 
clothes and even crappier equipment comes up to them to 
replace the tire.

As they get to work, Steve and Patrick mumble a few graciases
and head over to Jessica.

             PATRICK
     Thanks for the help back there.

             JESSICA
     Don’t mention it.

OFF JESSICA noticing a stain across Patrick’s crotch. 

He quickly turns and walks off.

             PATRICK
     Uh.  I’m gonna go take a leak...

ON STEVE AND JESSICA

             STEVE
     They have pit crews on this thing?

             JESSICA
     Thousand miles is a long way to go 
     without gas.

Other RACERS pull in for refueling.  

Gas, bullets, or both.

             STEVE
        (still slightly shaking)
     Those psychos almost killed us back 
     there.

             JESSICA
     It only gets harder from here on 
     out.  
        (beat)
     Do yourself a favor, don’t tell 
     anyone you’ve got the first marker.

             STEVE
     That won’t be hard.

                                      65.

             JESSICA
     I’m serious.  I doubt anyone even 
     realizes you two pussies have it.  
     Just keep it that way.

             STEVE
     Did you just say pussy?

Jessica digs TWO WATER BOTTLES out of her bike’s saddle bags.  
She throws one to Steve and gestures for him to sit on a 
nearby bench with her.

They sit.

             JESSICA
     Why are you here?

             STEVE
     I told you.  To save my friend.

             JESSICA
     No, why are you really here?  
     There’s easier ways to get money.

Steve is intimidated.

And turned on.

He’s intimi-turned-on.

             STEVE
     I don’t know how to answer that.

             JESSICA
     This race meant everything to my 
     dad.  He’s why I’m here.

             STEVE
     Were you two close?

             JESSICA
     I was raised in his garage.  I can 
     strip an engine in five minutes 
     flat.

The Pit Crew has jacked-up the Truggy.  It looks like it’s 
about to fall down as the oblivious crew swaps out the tire.

Jessica shouts at them:

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     ¡Cuidado!

The Pit Crew is cowed by her tone, they get back to work.

                                      66.

             STEVE
     I was close with my dad, too.  Even 
     though I didn’t get to see him that 
     much.

             JESSICA
     He’s gone, too, huh?

             STEVE
     Yeah, a few months ago.  Heart 
     attack.  Right out of the blue.  He 
     worked so hard and he didn’t even 
     get to enjoy it.
        (beat)
     He almost made it to see me get my 
     promotion.

There’s a moment between these two.

But it’s gone just as fast as it came when Patrick stumbles 
back to them.

             PATRICK
     All my dad ever taught me was that 
     fat chicks are an easy lay.

             JESSICA
     Charming.

Jessica finishes her water, stands up, and moves to put her 
helmet back on.

Steve rises abruptly and stops her before she gets back on 
her bike.

             STEVE
     Wait!

Jessica slows her roll.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Join us.

             JESSICA/PATRICK
     What?

             STEVE
     We have no chance in this thing 
     without you.  We need your help.

                                      67.

             PATRICK
        (false bravado)
     No offense, but Danica Patrick here 
     doesn’t look like she can handle 
     our ride.

Jessica walks wordlessly up to Patrick.  She shoots out her 
hand and gets Patrick’s balls in a VICE GRIP.

             JESSICA
     I can handle a lot of things.

As Patrick turns interesting shades of red and purple, Steve 
doubles his attack.

             STEVE
     We have the first marker.  Help us 
     get the other two.  When we cross 
     the finish line, you win the race 
     and we keep the money to save 
     Kevin.

Jessica looks tempted.

             JESSICA
     I could just take the marker from 
     you right now, if I wanted to.

Patrick whimpers.

             STEVE
        (firmly)
     Yes, you could.

He then looks directly into Jessica’s eyes.  Another moment 
passes between them.

She releases Patrick’s nuts and he lets out an audible GASP.

             JESSICA
     I take lead.

Steve smiles from ear to ear as Patrick tries to find his 
voice.

             PATRICK
        (strained)
     Happy to have you.

The Pit Crew lowers the Truggy, it’s back wheel now fully 
repaired.

Jessica leaps on her bike and tears out.  

                                      68.

Steve pushes Patrick into the car and they take off after 
her.

                                FADE OUT.

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - NIGHT

The sun is down and night has set in.

Jessica cuts a path with the lamp on the front of her bike.  
The Truggy powers along behind it.

They’ve been on the road for hours.

It’s dark.

And cold.

Suddenly, the guys’ GPS units start BEEPING in tandem again.  
The second marker is close.

Jessica pulls up along side them.

             JESSICA
     The marker is right around here.  
     Let’s get it and get the hell out 
     of here.

             STEVE
     I don’t see anything.

             JESSICA
     Just keep your eyes open.

Jessica takes lead again and shines her light up ahead.

She stops when she sees the SECOND MARKER resting in the sand 
just ahead.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
     Can’t be this easy.

             STEVE
        (yelling)
     You find it?

             JESSICA
        (yelling back)
     Looks like it.

Jessica hops off her ride and approaches the marker.  

                                      69.

ON THE NINJA BIKE as it almost unnoticeably starts to sink...

Ahead, Jessica bends down to pick up the marker, but the 
thing is apparently stuck in the ground.

She heaves with all of her might and pulls up the 
marker...along with THE CLENCHED FIST IT’S ATTACHED TO.

SHE GASPS AND STEPS BACK TO FIND HERSELF SINKING.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
     What the hell...

Patrick and Steve come closer.

             PATRICK
     What’s she doing?

Before she realizes it, Jessica is knee deep in:

             JESSICA
     Quicksand!

Steve and Patrick park the Truggy and run to the rim of the 
giant quicksand pit Jessica has accidentally just driven 
into.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     Little help?

Jessica tries to remain as calm as possible while Steve and 
Patrick panic like teenage girls.

Jessica sinks lower.

             STEVE
     What do we do?!

             JESSICA
     Throw me a line.

             STEVE
     We don’t have one!

             JESSICA
     You better think fast, I literally 
     don’t have all night.

Jessica raises her arms as she sinks up to her shoulders.

Her ninja bike has already been swallowed up.

                                      70.

             STEVE
     I got it!  Pat, gimme your belt!

STEVE RIPS OFF PATRICK’S BELT and feebly throws the other end 
of it to Jessica.

It takes a couple of pathetic attempts before she grabs onto 
it.

Steve pulls the belt.

Patrick pulls Steve.

Jessica is freed up to her waist.

But the belt SNAPS!

Steve and Patrick tumble backwards onto the ground.  Steve is 
on top of Patrick.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Dude, do you have a boner right 
     now?

             PATRICK
     It’s the adrenaline!

             STEVE
     Unbelievable.

             JESSICA
        (voice rising)
     Can we talk about Patrick’s rager
     later, I’m up to my tits in 
     quicksand here!

Jessica starts sinking again.

             STEVE
     I’ve got an idea.

Steve strips out of his pants.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Patrick)
     Take ‘em off.

Patrick tries hiding his hard-on with his hands.

             PATRICK
        (embarrassed)
     Dude!

                                      71.

             STEVE
     Take ‘em off!

             PATRICK
     Fine!  Just don’t try and look at 
     my dick.

Patrick clumsily kicks off his pants.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (to Jessica)
     Same goes for you, eyes up here, 
     honey.

             JESSICA
     Your shriveled penis doesn’t sound 
     too appealing right now anyway.

Jessica is almost up to her neck.  She finally seems a little 
rattled.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
        (panic rising)
     Now or never, Steve!

Steve finishes tying their jeans together.

As he and Patrick stand in their shirts and underwear, Steve 
throws the knotted jeans to Jessica.

They resume the position.

Steve pulls the pants.

Patrick pulls Steve.

And Jessica slowly but surely is pulled out of the muck 
before she’s buried alive.

She comes free with one final POP and collapses on solid 
land.

With the marker clutched in her gloved hand.

Steve and Patrick fall on their asses next to her.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
        (panting)
     You can put that thing away now.

Patrick balls his pants up and holds it in front of his 
groin.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      72.

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - NIGHT

MUSIC CUE: “IMMIGRANT SONG” by Trent Reznor and Karen O

Gabriel tears through a pack of other racers lit by the glow 
of the moon.  

He doesn’t so much as blink as he takes them out one by one.

He pulls up alongside a CONVERTED YELLOW SCHOOL BUS before 
shredding its wheels SPARTACUS STYLE with his ATV’s bladed-
hubcaps.

He takes out the BACK and FRONT right side tires in the span 
of about three seconds.

THE BUS CRASHES OUT.

Gabriel pulls up alongside his next victim, a DUNE BUGGY 
driven by a group of ANGRY AFRICANS.

He pulls a GRENADE from the bandolier he wears over his 
poncho and LOBS IT INTO THE DRIVER’S LAP.

IT BLOWS UP ON IMPACT.

He comes up behind a smaller ATV.

With one hand on the wheel, he pulls out a LONG WHIP.

With a flick of his wrist, he ensnares the ATV RIDER AND 
PULLS HIM OUT OF HIS SADDLE.

BUMP

GABRIEL DRIVES RIGHT OVER THE POOR BASTARD.

Although he does finally show some emotion.

A cold-blooded grin.

He REVS into the lead.

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - DAWN

Jessica is now behind the wheel of the Truggy.

Even more time has gone by.

The sky is pink, purple, and orange.  

                                  CUT TO:

                                      73.

It would be beautiful but for the crazy fucks turning each 
other into road kill all around them.

Steve rides shotgun.  His eyes are red-rimmed from a lack of 
sleep.

Patrick, on the other hand, SNORES loudly in the back.

It sounds like a couple of pigs fucking.

             STEVE
     If you want, I can take the wheel 
     for a while.

             JESSICA
     We’re in the pocket; somehow we’re 
     still out front.  I don’t wanna 
     risk it.

Steve goes back to awkwardly trying to think of something 
clever to say.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
        (sweetly)
     But thanks for offering.

Steve brightens.

             STEVE
     Oh, don’t mention it.

The silence resumes.

Until it’s cut by a BUZZING NOISE.

An engine.

A close one.

Gabriel is hot on their tails!

             JESSICA
     Fuck, I was hoping he was further 
     back.

             STEVE
     Patrick, wake up!

Steve slaps the shit out of Patrick who snaps awake.

             PATRICK
     Jesus, don’t wake me up like that.  
     I almost scissor kicked your balls.

                                      74.

             STEVE
     We have bigger problems.

Patrick finally catches on when Gabriel rips right up next to 
them.

He tries to shred their tires as well, but Jessica manages to 
avoid his wheels of death. 

It looks like Gabriel tries again to come in for the 
finishing blow, but, instead, he zooms ahead and disappears 
out of sight.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     He could’ve taken us out right now.  
     Why didn’t he?

             JESSICA
     Because he’s going for the third 
     marker.  

Jessica tightens her grip on the wheel.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     And he wants me to know it...

             PATRICK
     So?  He needs the first two to win 
     and we have those.

             JESSICA
     Which means he’ll be coming to get 
     them.  
        (beat)
     And he won’t be very nice about it.

Jessica seethes.

The Truggy SHAKES.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     Fuck.

             STEVE
     What now?

Patrick leans forward as Jessica indicates the WATER GAUGE.

             JESSICA
        (shifty eyes)
     We’re running too hot.

Jessica indicates a SHALLOW GULCH just ahead of them.

                                      75.

She pulls over.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     We need water.

She reaches in back and throws a GAS CONTAINER at Patrick.

             JESSICA
	(CONT’D)
     Fill ‘er up.

             PATRICK
     Fine.  But only because I want to.

Patrick gets out and heads to the gulch.

             STEVE
     I’ll go help him.

Steve follows suit.  Just as he closes the door, Jessica 
calls out to him.

He turns around.

             JESSICA
     How much did your father mean to 
     you?

             STEVE
        (beat)
     Everything.

             JESSICA
     Mine too.

JESSICA STOMPS ON THE GAS PEDAL AND DRIVES AWAY LIKE A BAT 
OUT OF HELL.

Patrick walks up.

             PATRICK
     She going to get help?

             STEVE
     You can’t be this dumb.  She just 
     ditched us!

             PATRICK
     Well, how far can she get with an 
     overheating car?

Patrick holds up the GAS CONTAINER.

             STEVE
     She tricked us, the car’s fine!

                                      76.

             PATRICK
     Why? What did you say to her?

             STEVE
     I told her I wanted to lick her 
     butthole.

Patrick pauses.

             PATRICK
     How is that a bad thing?

             STEVE
     I didn’t say anything, you idiot.  
     I can’t believe she just left us 
     here to die.  
        (wistful)
     I thought we had something.

             PATRICK
     Had something?  You sound like a 
     nut-bumper.  We’re the walking dead 
     right now, can we focus on that?

SQUAWK!

Yes, the BUZZARDS are already circling.

Steve and Patrick look up.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I thought that shit only happened 
     in cartoons.

Patrick sits down on his ass with his hands in his lap.

Steve starts pacing.

He breaks out his cracked cell phone.

No Service.

He jamms it back in his pocket.

             STEVE
     I don’t know what the fuck we were 
     thinking doing this.  Kevin’s in 
     serious trouble.  Let’s flag the 
     next racer down and see if we can 
     call the cops.  I don’t care about 
     bench warrants.  It’s not worth 
     Kevin’s life.

Patrick suddenly looks very guilty.

                                      77.

Steve catches on.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (restrained anger)
     There aren’t any bench warrants, 
     are there?

             PATRICK
     Well, not technically...

Steve reaches the breaking point.

HE LUNGES DOWN AT PATRICK AND YANKS HIM UP BY THE NECK.

Steve looks like a man possessed as he CHOKES the life out of 
Patrick.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (garbled)
     Ste-e, st-p!  Yo-’re ki-l --ng me!

Steve keeps on choking Patrick until, almost blue, Patrick 
KICKS STEVE IN THE NUTS and he finally lets go.

Both guys try to catch their breath.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I only said that to keep us in 
     Mexico!

             STEVE
     What the fuck is wrong with you? 
     Why would you do that?!

             PATRICK
     I didn’t wanna go back to SD.  
     You’ve got your new job and a new 
     life.  
        (lower)
     I don’t have anything.

Steve softens a bit.  

But not by much.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I wanted one amazing weekend with 
     my bros before settling into my 
     life as a permanent loser.  I 
     didn’t see any other way.  I wasn’t 
     expecting it to be like...this.

                                      78.

             STEVE
     You want me to feel sorry for you?  
     I didn’t tell you to lose every 
     shred of ambition you ever had.
        (beat)
     You weren’t born a loser, you just 
     grew into one.

That last part hurts.  More than the choking.

Well, almost.

Steve just starts walking.

             PATRICK
        (suddenly scared)
     Where are you going?

Steve spins around.

             STEVE
     I’m walking back!  

Steve keeps on going.

Patrick’s emotions get the better of him.

This is the first time we’ve seen the vulnerable guy hiding 
behind all the fake swag.

             PATRICK
     Fine! Go! Go back to your fucking
     office and your suburban life.  
     Just leave me behind, because you 
     already did years ago!

Patrick picks up the GAS CONTAINER and THROWS IT INTO THE 
GULCH.

SQUAWK!

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE

Kevin is now doing a ONE MAN CONGA LINE.  El Hombre and his 
men are SHOOTING AT HIS FEET to keep him dancing.

             KEVIN
        (sing-song)
     Can you feel the rhythm?! Can you 
     feel the rhythm?!

One of the bullets goes wide and BLOWS OFF KEVIN’S PINKY TOE.

                                      79.

He doesn’t even notice.

But he does look a bit gimpy now.

He keeps dancing.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - ROCK CANYON

Steve walks aimlessly.  His shirt is tied around his head.  
He looks like a sweaty-ass LAWRENCE OF ARABIA.

We don’t know how long it’s been, but he’s in pretty bad 
shape.

He struggles to read directions from his GPS unit.  Every few 
paces, the unit beeps a warning that he’s heading off course.

             STEVE
        (fretting about the unit)
     Blown apart by a fucking Casio.

More BUZZARDS trail him from above.  One POOPS on his 
shoulder.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Are you fucking kidding me?

Steve bends down and picks up some rocks.  He throws them at 
the birds.  They circle away, but they don’t give up the 
hunt.

Steve keeps walking and eventually SEES A SETTLEMENT IN THE 
DISTANCE.

Licking his cracked lips, he feebly tries to pick up his 
pace.

EXT. KUMEYAAY SETTLEMENT - HIGH NOON

Steve stumbles into the middle of a KUMEYAAY SETTLEMENT.

These are INDIGENOUS PEOPLE native to this part of Mexico.

MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN of all ages look on Steve with 
mistrust in their eyes.

Steve looks like a zombie ripped right out of the grave as he 
lurches forward.

                                      80.

He eventually trips and falls flat on his face.

The Kumeyaay let him lie there...except for MAYA, a beautiful 
girl no older than 19.

She kneels by his side, turns him half over, and dribbles 
some water onto his parched lips.

             MAYA
     Are you okay, Señor?

STEVE POV

He only sees Maya’s face silhouetted by the blazing sun 
behind her.

             STEVE
        (weakly)
     Thank you...

Maya helps Steve to his feet.

             MAYA
     Let’s get you out of the sun.

She helps him into a nearby PUEBLO as the rest of the 
townspeople look on.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. MAYA’S PUEBLO - CONTINUOUS

Steve and Maya sit at a table in the middle of this humble 
abode.

Nothing says money inside, but the place is still very homey.

We pick up on Steve in the middle of his story.

             STEVE
     Then she just stole the car and 
     blew dirt in my face.

Maya handles Steve’s tale of terror pretty well all things 
considered.

             MAYA
     The Diablo is dangerous.  Count 
     yourself lucky.

                                      81.

             STEVE
     Lucky?  My friend is gonna die and 
     the other one is...probably gonna
     die, too.  I need help.  Do you 
     have a phone?

Maya shakes her head no.

             MAYA
     We don’t have electricity here.  
     Many of us want to integrate with 
     the rest of Mexico...but our 
     leaders won’t allow it.

             STEVE
     Won’t allow it?

             MAYA
     They want to preserve our native 
     identity.

             STEVE
     No offense, but you speak English 
     pretty well for a “native”.

             MAYA
     Not all of us share the desires of 
     our leaders.

             STEVE
     Can you take me to one of them?  
     Maybe they can help me.

Maya suddenly looks nervous.

             MAYA
     It may be your only hope...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. VILLAGE SQUARE - THE BIGGEST PUEBLO

Maya and Steve are inside a pueblo clearly belonging to a 
head honcho of some sort.

It’s still not much, but it’s the nicest dwelling here.

Gravel floors and everything.

Maya brings Steve before DON RIO who looks like he’s dressed 
more for KWANZA than desert life.

                                      82.

He wears an ORANGE AND GREEN TUNIC and a matching FEZ he 
probably stole from Farrakhan.

             STEVE
     Uh, hola?

Don Rio says nothing.

Maya handles the introduction in fast-paced Spanish.

Don Rio doesn’t budge.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Please, like I told Maya, I need 
     your help.  My friend’s life is at 
     stake.

             MAYA
        (to Steve)
     I thought you mentioned two?

             STEVE
        (beat)
     I don’t really care about the other 
     one anymore.

Don Rio finally speaks up.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     As Maya has told you, we don’t have 
     any phones.  We cannot help you.

Maya translates.  Which she will keep doing for the rest of 
this scene.

             STEVE
     There must be something you can do.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     What will you do for us?

Steve thinks.  It suddenly comes to him.

             STEVE
     I work for a big American bank.  
     NAFTA is a bitch, maybe I can help 
     your settlement get loans? You can 
     modernize.

Maya translates.  Don Rio looks indignant.

                                      83.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     We do not want to modernize.

             STEVE
     I’m not telling you to join Mexico.  
     But the money could help you get 
     some amenities.  Solar panels, 
     water treatment facilities.  
     Toilets.

Don Rio’s eyes perk up.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     Toilets, huh?

Maya and Steve share a look.  Maybe they have something here.

             DON RIO
	(CONT’D)
        (in Spanish)
     We may have a way to help you, 
     Americano.  But we must first know 
     if your heart is pure.

             STEVE
     I’ll do anything.

Don Rio strokes his chin.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     Good.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. BRUJO HUT - LATER

Steve, Maya, and Don Rio sit in a semi-circle in front of a 
BRUJO.

Don’t get the wrong idea, he’s more like a witchdoctor than 
anything else.

The Brujo is imposing.  With long, braided hair and the kind 
of weathered skin you’d find on a couch in a cigar bar.

He grinds some UNKNOWN SUBSTANCE using a mortar and pestle 
while whistling without any discernible rhythm. 

When he’s finished, he pours the contents into a cup, blows 
on it, and hands it to Steve.

                                      84.

He motions for Steve to drink.

             STEVE
     Uh, anyone else wanna go first?

Maya translates.  Both Don Rio and the Brujo stare daggers at 
him.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     How bad could it be?

Steve downs the mixture.  He pleasantly nods, it’s actually 
not that ba --

STEVE PUKES UNCONTROLLABLY AND PASSES OUT.

With the others watching, Steve sinks into the ground. 

The fuck?

                                 FADE TO:

EXT. FANTASY WORLD

Now Steve’s naked in a pink ocean. 

With a pink sky. 

Swimming with PINK DOLPHINS. 

One of the dolphins comes up under him and Steve rides the 
dolphin.

As they glide through the water, the dolphin turns its head 
slightly.

And speaks.

             DOLPHIN
     You see, Steve, we're all one. We 
     all share the same need for 
     shelter, warmth, fulfillment. The 
     secret of happiness lies not in 
     conquest, but in empathy.

The dolphin is suddenly SPEARED in the back and ripped out 
from under Steve.

It’s drawn up into the belly button of what appears to be a 
very large and very naked man, though his face is obscured.

             STEVE
     Dad?!

                                      85.

In a BOOMING VOICE:

             STEVE’S DAD
     Hi, son.

Steve bobs in the water.

             STEVE
     What’re you doing here?

             STEVE’S DAD
     I’m always here.

Steve likes hearing that.

             STEVE
     I got the promotion, Dad!  Like we 
     always talked about.

             STEVE’S DAD
     That doesn’t matter anymore.

             STEVE
     It doesn’t?

             STEVE’S DAD
     Don’t waste your youth like me.  
     Life isn’t about promotions.  It’s 
     about kindness.
        (beat)
     And music.

             STEVE
     I need help, Dad.

             STEVE’S DAD
     You don’t need anything.  You just 
     need to win.

             STEVE
     Win?

             STEVE’S DAD
     Bye, son.

Steve’s Dad turns slowly in the water causing a MASSIVE TIDAL 
WAVE.

             STEVE
     Wait, where are you going?  Have 
     you been okay?  What’s Heaven like?

                                      86.

             STEVE’S DAD
        (departing)
     It’s great.  Parking’s a bitch, 
     though.

He vanishes into thin air as Steve faces the oncoming rush.

             STEVE
     Parking?!

                             SMASH CUT TO:

INT. BRUJO HUT

Don Rio and Maya are holding Steve down as he positively 
freaks the hell out.

The Brujo has seen all this before.  He has a smoke in the 
corner.

Steve’s eyes snap open and he suddenly seems to remember 
where he is.

Don Rio looks down at him.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     It is done.  We will help you.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. KUMEYAAY SETTLEMENT - CORRAL

Don Rio and Maya circle SOMETHING UNDER A TENT in the middle 
of a wide corral.

             DON RIO
        (in Spanish)
     We saved every extra peso for this 
     in hopes of one day winning the 
     Diablo.  To bring honor and esteem 
     to our people.

Don Rio nods at Maya who PULLS AWAY THE TENT REVEALING:

A RACER that makes the MACH FIVE look like a pile of shit.

Speed Racer can eat a dick.

Steve looks stunned.

                                      87.

Room enough for three and painted ELECTRIC BLUE, it’s all 
chrome and steel.

The words EL RAYO (THE THUNDERBOLT) are written along the 
side in ACID YELOW.

             STEVE
        (to Maya)
     If this thing can move as fast as 
     it looks...I can still catch 
     Jessica and save Kevin.

             MAYA
     And the other one.

Steve shrugs.

             STEVE
     Yeah, maybe.

Don Rio throws Steve THE KEYS.  He catches them.

He walks over and places one hand on Don Rio’s shoulder.  The 
men share a mutual look of admiration.

If not understanding.

Steve digs out a BUSINESS CARD.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     Here’s my card.  Find a phone and 
     call me.  I promise to do whatever 
     I can.

Maya translates and Don Rio takes the card.  The men shake.

Maya gives Steve an unexpected kiss.

             MAYA
     Good luck, Americano.  Win it for 
     us!

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - LATER

MUSIC CUE: “BORN TO BE WILD” - by Steppenwolf

Steve sits behind the wheel of EL RAYO looking like an 
absolute bad ass.

About damn time.

                                      88.

He tears out into the desert after Jessica before his face 
cracks.

EL RAYO has one hell of a fucking engine.  Steve is topping 
out at just over 250MPH.

As he quickly covers lost ground, he comes upon the all-too-
familiar spot that Jessica ditched them at.

Now with even MORE BUZZARDS circling over head.

Seriously, there’s like 20 of those fuckers now.

Steve pulls up to the gulch.

He walks over to the little stream and sees what the buzzards 
are after.

PATRICK

His skin is ATOMIC RED from a nuclear sunburn.  

It looks like he hasn’t moved an inch.  

Steve stands over him and Patrick feels a cool shadow fall 
over his face.

He opens his eyes and looks up.

Steve comes into focus.

             PATRICK
        (weakly)
     Kill... me...

Instead, Steve opens a CANTEEN from the Kumeyaay AND DUMPS 
WATER ONTO PATRICK’S FACE.

He coughs and sputters while trying to drink as much as he 
can.

Steve helps him up.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (unbelieving)
     You came back for me.  
        (beat)
     And you pimped your ride..?

             STEVE
     We’ve been friends for almost 
     twenty years.  I wasn’t gonna leave 
     you to die of exposure.

Patrick is weak, but he’s gaining his strength back as he 
GUZZLES MORE WATER.

                                      89.

             PATRICK
     You always were (gulp) a pussy.

Steve laughs it off.  Almost like old times.

             STEVE
     Look, we can still catch Jessica, 
     get the markers, and win this 
     fucking race for Kevin.  
        (beat)
     Are you in?

             PATRICK
        (with new energy)
     Hell to the yeah!

             STEVE
     Great!

Steve gives Patrick a celebratory SLAP on his barbecued back.  
He lets out an inhuman scream straight from the pits of Hell.

The buzzards fly the fuck away.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. LA REFORMA CALDERA - LATER

LA REFORMA CALDERA, a wide expanse of volcanic rock 
crisscrossed with lava flows running along the coastline.

The entire area is inundated with a FAINT SMOKY VAPOR.

It’s the last major obstacle before the finish line.

Gabriel darts between the lava flows, expertly dodging each 
terrifying tract.

Around his neck is THE THIRD MARKER.

The son of a bitch already has it!

Gabriel pulls behind a DOME of cooled magma and lies in wait 
as the familiar whine of the Truggy comes within ear shot.

Gabriel softly revs his engine, timing everything perfectly.

Just as Jessica passes the dome, Gabriel speeds out:

AND T-BONES HER!

                                      90.

CRUNCH!!

Both vehicles go spinning out.

The Truggy whirls around until its back tires are caught in a 
lava flow.

It’s front end is smashed in.  The wheel is damaged beyond 
repair.

An EERIE SILENCE falls over the two as each takes the full 
shock of the impact...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. DESERT RALLY POINT

ON THE LEADER BOARD 

Which has gone surprisingly dark.

The graphic for TEAM PUSSY LIQUOR (really, Patrick?) winks
out.

Only TEAM GABRIEL (too cool for a nick name) and a few other 
stragglers remain.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. LA REFORMA CALDERA - CONTINUOUS

Unfortunately for Jessica, Gabriel is the first to regain his 
bearings.

He gets out of his ATV, which surprisingly has sustained 
little damage, and walks over to the remains of the Truggy.

Half of which is slowly catching fire and starting to smoke.

Jessica snaps into consciousness and sees Gabriel 
approaching.

She lunges for him, but gets stuck.

             JESSICA
     You son of a bitch!!

Her legs are caught in the crumpled wheel well.  She can’t 
free herself and this just pisses her off even more.

Gabriel reaches beside her for the FIRST TWO MARKERS.

                                      91.

Jessica grabs them and hangs on for dear life.

But Gabriel is stronger.

HE RIPS THEM AWAY FROM HER AND SPITS IN HER FACE.

             GABRIEL
        (with venom)
     La Bastarda...

Jessica watches impotently as Gabriel walks back to his ATV
and saddles up.

She screams unintelligibly and pulls on her legs until they 
bleed, but she’s not going anywhere.

Gabriel patronizingly throws back HER FATHER’S KEY CHAIN and 
peels out.

             JESSICA
     I’M GOING TO KILL YOU DEAD, 
     GABRIEL.  DEAD!!

Gabriel doesn’t stick around to listen.

Jessica starts to weep as the Truggy continues to burn...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN

Steve and Patrick have hit Warp Factor 10 and are blazing by 
every racer left behind.

Steve almost expertly follows in the wake of an EL CAMINO ON 
MONSTER TRUCK TIRES.  

He pulls up right behind it, gooses it, and leaves it in the 
fucking dust.

Moving on, the Japanese Yakuza guys Tokyo Drift their rice 
rocket right in front of them.

They’re not even a challenge, Steve cuts them off and forces 
them to spin out.

             PATRICK
        (holding on for dear life)
     What happened to you out there?

Steve looks over with a maniacal but confident look in his 
eye.

                                      92.

             STEVE
     I learned to win!

             PATRICK
        (checking his GPS watch)
     Keep going straight!  The last 
     marker is right ahead.

             STEVE
        (holding up his wrist)
     We don’t even need these anymore.
        (eyes on the horizon)
     We’ll just follow all the wreckage.

Gabriel has been busy.  Flaming hulks line up almost like a 
path of bread crumbs to LA REFORMA CALDERA.

Steve punches it and guns it right into the mouth of the 
volcano range.

EXT. LA REFORMA CALDERA

With no one left behind them, Steve slows down as he and 
Patrick negotiate the tricky terrain.

             PATRICK
     Since when does Mexico have fucking
     volcanoes?

             STEVE
     We can wiki it later, just keep 
     your eyes open.

The guys push on and notice a COLUMN OF SMOKE emanating from 
behind a very large dome of cooled molten rock.

They drive around it and finally see:

THE TRUGGY.

And Jessica.

Both in critical shape.

Steve slams on the breaks and gets out.  Patrick right behind 
him.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     So we meet again.

             JESSICA
     Aren’t you a sight for sore eyes.  
     Help me!  I’m stuck in this thing!

             STEVE
     Why should I?

Jessica certainly wasn’t expecting that kind of response.

                                      93.

             JESSICA
     Please!

             STEVE
     First tell me why you left us.

POP.  Another tire blows.  The Truggy crumples into itself 
even more.

             JESSICA
     I had no choice.  I didn’t stand a 
     chance against Gabriel with you 
     guys as dead weight.

             STEVE
     Looks to me like you don’t stand a 
     chance now.

             PATRICK
        (to Steve)
     I admire you so much right now it’s 
     actually bordering on lust.

Both look to Patrick like, “shut the fuck up”.  

He does.

             STEVE
     You know, someone once told me, 
     when you seek revenge, you have to 
     dig two graves.  One for your enemy 
     and one for yourself.  It looks 
     like you’re half way there.

Lava is seconds away from reaching the fuel line.  And 
everyone knows it.

             PATRICK
        (quietly)
     Where’d you hear that?

             STEVE
        (also quietly)
     Crouching Tiger?

             JESSICA
     Steve, I’m sorry.  
        (beat)
     It was for my dad.

                                      94.

Steve remembers the dolphin’s wise words.

             DOLPHIN (V.O.)
     The secret of happiness lies not in 
     conquest, but in empathy...

Steve nods at her.  Getting it.

             STEVE
     Pat, grab Jessica.  I’ll pry the 
     steering column off her.

             PATRICK
     But you just said --

             STEVE
        (strongly)
     Do it!

Patrick doesn’t argue.  He and Steve get to work and they 
manage to free her.  They run a safe distance back to El Rayo
as

THE TRUGGY EXPLODES IN SPECTACULAR FASHION.

WRECKAGE FLIES EVERYWHERE.

The three duck while metal and all kinds of shit rains down 
everywhere.

When it’s over, they all stand up.

             PATRICK
     The markers!

             JESSICA
     They aren’t here.  Gabriel has all 
     three and he’s on his way to the 
     finish line.  He’s won.  Again...

Steve gestures to El Rayo.

             STEVE
     We’re not beat yet.

Jessica looks impressed by the new ride.  If she could pop a 
she-boner, she would.

Steve extends his hand to Jessica.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     No more tricks.  No more double 
     crosses.  
        (beat)


                                      95.

             STE VE (C ONT’D )
     Let’s beat Gabriel and do it
     together.

Jessica takes his hand with hers.

She then pulls him forward AND THEY SHARE THE KISS OF A 
LIFETIME.

With plenty of tongue.

After a good ten-second Frencher, they come up for air.

             JESSICA
     Whatever happened to you, it’s a 
     major turn on.

Steve slaps her on the ass.

             STEVE
     Thanks, babe.

They get in El Rayo.  Steve slides in behind the wheel like 
he’s been driving it all his life.  Jessica sits shot gun.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Patrick)
     Get in, nutbag.

Patrick’s eyes fall on some still-flaming wreckage.

It’s the WEAPONS LOCKER.

             PATRICK
     Just let me get one last thing...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. MEXICAN BADLANDS - OPEN DESERT RUN - THE HOME STRETCH

The desert is quiet except for the sounds of nature.  

Bird calls, bug noises, rabbits melting.

The usual.

But the peace is annihilated as Gabriel soars down the home 
stretch.  Just a handful of miles from the finish line.

A poor DESERT TORTOISE makes for an organic speed bump.  

With no hope of escape, Gabriel squashes it under his wheels.

He didn’t even swerve.  What an asshole.

                                      96.

Gabriel still shows no emotion.  All three markers DANGLE 
FROM A CHAIN AROUND HIS NECK.

He’s going to win.

Like always.

EXCEPT MACHINE GUN FIRE RAKES THE AIR ABOVE HIS HEAD.

Checking his mirrors, he sees El Rayo coming right behind 
him.

Steve drives, Jessica sits next to him, and PATRICK STANDS UP 
BEHIND THEM EMPTYING HIS NEW (OLD) MACHINE GUN.

             PATRICK
     The truck did come with an 
     insurance policy!

Patrick can’t aim for shit, but Steve and Jessica let out 
cries of pure adrenaline.

Gabriel looks mildly annoyed.

He grabs a couple of METAL BALLS from a side compartment and 
hurls them behind him without even looking.

IN MID-AIR, THE BALLS UNFURL INTO WICKED SPIKE STRIPS AND 
PEPPER THE DESERT GROUND.

Steve jukes and jinks like it ain’t no thang avoiding 
potential disaster.

They come up right next to Gabriel.

Patrick gets him square in his sights:

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Eat hot death, suck-a-duck!

HE PULLS THE TRIGGER.

Click! 

The gun is empty.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Whoops!

Gabriel RAMS INTO THEM.  Steve fights for control.

Both vehicles are still going at MAX SPEED.

                                      97.

The Desert Rally Point is in front of them.  They’ve come 
full circle and they’re the only ones in sight.

Jessica screams over the chaos to Steve.

             JESSICA
     Get along the other side of him!

Steve floors the gas and shoots in front of Gabriel.  He 
slows down JUST ENOUGH to let Gabriel pull parallel to them.

Jessica looks him dead in the eyes 

AND JUMPS OUT OF EL RAYO ONTO GABRIEL’S BACK.

With strength she didn’t know she had, Jessica overpowers him 
and RIPS THE THREE MARKERS FROM AROUND HIS NECK!

Steve moves up alongside the ATV again and Patrick PULLS HER 
BACK INTO EL RAYO.

Her booted feet drag along the sand, but she makes it to 
(relative) safety.

Gabriel finally cracks and lets out a ROAR that can easily be 
heard over the blaring engines.

Steve gives El Rayo all he’s got and they burn desert dirt 
towards the finish line.

Gabriel doesn't give up.

He pulls out a HAND-CANNON and starts taking POT-SHOTS.

PATRICK TAKES A BULLET TO THE SHOULDER AND SCREAMS LIKE A 
LITTLE BITCH!

             PATRICK
     He shot me in the fucking arm!

A second shot BLOWS OUT A BACK TIRE and they almost spin out.

The finish line is closer and closer.

Patrick, pissed and bleeding out, stands up again.

AND PULLS A MOTHERFUCKING BAZOOKA OUT OF THE WEAPONS LOCKER.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     I was saving this baby for a 
     special occasion!

Jessica covers her ears and Steve tries his best to cover at 
least one of his while still driving the car.

                                      98.

PATRICK SCREAMS AND FIRES THE ROCKET LAUNCHER.

AN RPG MISSILE GOES FLYING.

THE WRONG FUCKING WAY.

The idiot was holding it backwards!

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (disappointed)
     Awwwww, goddamit!

The missile explodes harmlessly way off in the distance.

Gabriel brutally laughs, steadies his aim, and BLOWS OUT 
ANOTHER TIRE.

Patrick falls into the backseat.

They’re close to the finish line.  But if Gabriel gets lucky 
one more time, they’re dead in the water, uh, dirt.

Steve is done taking chances.

He pulls something out of his pocket.

Patrick sees what it is and instantly pulls his legs up into 
his chest.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     You brought that with you this 
     whole fucking time!

             JESSICA
     Brought what with you?

Steve ignores them both.  

He holds the object in front of his face and kisses it.

It’s a baggy of some very familiar ashes...

             STEVE
     I love you, Dad!!

STEVE THROWS THE BAGGY OF ASHES OUT OF EL RAYO.

The sound drops out as the baggy of Steve’s Dad flies through 
the air --

AND LANDS RIGHT SMACK IN GABRIEL’S UGLY FUCKING FACE!

             GABRIEL
     ¡Mis ojos!

                                      99.

Gabriel’s eyes and mouth are covered in a thick coating of 
what used to be Steve’s Dad.

He panics for the first time, unable to see.

His ATV goes wildly off course.  

He has no idea where he is or where he’s going, but his 
adrenaline won’t let him slow down.

The GPS Unit strapped to his wrist starts beeping wildly.

BEEP

BEEP

BEEP

The tones keep increasing in pitch and speed until the GPS
Unit flashes a warning Gabriel can’t possibly see.

-OFF COURSE-

More BEEPING.  

Then: BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOMMMMMMMM!

The ATV and Gabriel’s body, both flaming like mini-
supernovas, GET LAUNCHED SCREAMING INTO THE AIR.

Steve, Patrick, and Jessica, with the three markers, limp 
past the finish line back where they started.

Juan Jose Hernandez-Hernandez screams in ecstasy from his 
dais and declares them the winner as the CROWDS OF SPECTATORS 
GO FUCKING APE-SHIT!

It’s impossible to hear anything clearly.

The crowds pull the three out of the car and bring them 
bodily up to Hernandez-Hernandez and his bikini chicks who 
very sexily pop the GPS bombs off their wrists.

Hernandez-Hernandez proudly presents them with a SUITCASE 
PACKED WITH 1,000,000 sweet, sweet pesos.

Cameras flash as people take pictures.  Everyone wants a 
piece of our heroes.

Steve finally notices the time.  

It’s already past seven.

                                     100.

             STEVE
        (fighting to get to 
         Patrick)
     Dude, we have less than an hour to 
     get to Kevin.  We have to go.

Patrick is being felt up by some MEXICAN GROUPIES.  He’s 
smitten and only half-listening despite presently losing 
blood.

             PATRICK
     Can he take a rain check?

Steve grabs Patrick and PULLS HIM THROUGH THE CROWD.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Dude, ughh, my arm!

Jessica is with them.

             STEVE
     We have to get back to TJ.  Do you 
     know the way?

             JESSICA
        (hustling)
     Of course.

             STEVE
     Great, we need new wheels, too.

They push out of the crush of people.

Suddenly, Jaime Escalante pulls up in a BEATER CAR and gets 
out screaming at them.

             JAIME
     You no return my truck, you give me 
     my money now.

             STEVE
        (to Jessica, annoyed)
     We don’t have time for this.

Jessica puts Jaime in a sleeper hold and pockets his keys.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
        (looking down at Jaime)
     You can keep the credit cards, 
     señor.

They pile into the beater car and zoom back to Tijuana.  

                                     101.

Patrick grips the suitcase to his chest like a life-
preserver.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. TIJUANA STREETS - RUNDOWN HOUSE/INT. JAIME’S BEATER CAR

Steve, Patrick, and Jessica pull up to the Rundown House that 
poor Kevin has been trapped inside of for far, far, far too 
long.

Steve turns to Patrick in the back seat.

             STEVE
     You’re sure this is the address?

             PATRICK
     Please don’t make me text them 
     again.  This is it.

Steve turns to Jessica next to him.

             STEVE
     You ready?

             JESSICA
     For this?  You bet your ass.

             STEVE
     Good.  Wish me luck and keep the 
     engine running.

Jessica pulls him into another hot kiss.

             JESSICA
     Make sure you come back, cowboy.

Steve gets out and Patrick, wrestling with the suitcase, 
follows behind him.

             STEVE
     No.  Leave the money.

Patrick looks confused.

             PATRICK
     But how are we gonna pay them?

             STEVE
        (forceful)
     Leave. It.  

                                     102.

Steve walks straight into the house without waiting for 
Patrick.

INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE

STEVE SLAMS OPEN THE DOOR AND WALKS INSIDE.

             STEVE
     Where is he?

El Hombre and his men look up from drinking, playing, cards, 
thugging it up, etc.

             EL HOMBRE
     Ah, el gringo.  Your buddy is right 
     here.

Kevin is passed out in the dog kennel.  He’s nearly naked and 
the PIT BULLS are licking his unconscious face.

But at least he’s still smiling.

             STEVE
     Hand him over.

El Hombre rises slowly.

             EL HOMBRE
     What was that, vato?

             STEVE
     I said hand him over.

Steve is a changed man.  He’s been through Hell and back 
(literally) and isn’t about to let this greasy fucko dictate 
the terms of anything.

Anything.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     The money is out front.  Give me my 
     friend and you’ll get your ransom.

El Hombre is intimidated by the new Steve.  He’s trying hard 
not to show it.

He nods slightly and says something in Spanish to one of his 
friends.

They pick up Kevin and hand him over to Steve who throws the 
little guy over his shoulder.

                                     103.

             KEVIN
        (disoriented)
     I wanna be on top this time...

Steve doesn’t break eye contact with El Hombre.

             STEVE
     Right this way.

Steve leads everyone outside to:

JESSICA 

Standing up through the sun-roof of Jaime’s shitty car.

HOLDING THE BAZOOKA AND AIMING IT RIGHT AT THE HOUSE.

Sure it’s empty.  But they don’t know that.

             EL HOMBRE
        (to Steve)
     Are you fucking loco, ese?

             STEVE
     You’re goddamn right I am.  Let us 
     go right now or my girlfriend 
     starts barking fire.

             EL HOMBRE
     But she’ll kill you, too.

             STEVE
     Does it look like I’m afraid to 
     die? 

No. It doesn’t.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
     If you think I won’t tell her to 
     shoot, take one look at me.
     Because I fucking will.

El Hombre just about pisses his dirty-ass pants.

             EL HOMBRE
        (cracking)
     Take your friend and the cherry 
     tomato and get the fuck out of 
     Tijuana, ese.

             PATRICK
        (confused)
     Cherry tomato?

                                     104.

Remembering his gnarly sunburn.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
     Ohhhh, right.

             STEVE
     Gladly.

Steve, still carrying Kevin, and Patrick slowly get back into 
the car.  Jessica doesn’t move a muscle until El Hombre and 
his gang go back in the house.  

They peek out through the windows. Steve drives off as 
Jessica keeps the bazooka trained on the house.

Just before they’re out of reach, she blows them a sexy kiss 
and winks.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT./INT. BLACK CADILLAC ESCALADE - HIGHWAY - SUNSET

The gang, now complete with Kevin wrapped in a blanket and 
nursing from a water bottle, happily head home to America 
where this kind of shit doesn’t happen.

Well, mostly doesn’t happen.

Steve’s iPhone beeps with an email from his bank.

             JESSICA
     Who’s it from?

             STEVE
     My boss.

Steve types out a reply and hits send.  

There’s a curious smirk on his face.

             JESSICA
     What’d you tell him?

             STEVE
     I told him I fucking quit.

MUSIC CUE: “HIGHYWAY TO HELL” - by AC/DC

             THE END

                             CUT TO BLACK:

