               DOGFIGHT

               Written by
                   
               Nicole Riegel  

               Story by

        Nicole Riegel and Lance Drake

Anonymous Content  
Nicole Romano  
310-558-6044

                      DOGFIGHT 

OVER BLACK

BOOTS hit the ground and run, POUNDING hard against the 
pavement, HEAVY BREATHING.

A CAR DOOR opens and SLAMS shut.  TIRES squeal on the 
street and drive closer until we reveal...

INT.  CAR - NIGHT

AIDEN, 14-15, a bruised and reckless youth sits in the 
backseat.  He wears a gold necklace, smokes a joint and 
spits blood from his mouth.  A gun lays beside him. We 
don’t see the DRIVER in the front seat.

               DRIVER
	(O.S.)
      Here.


The Driver tosses a roll of CASH into the backseat.

EST./INT.  TRAILER HOME BEDROOM - NIGHT

JO, a 12-13 year old boy with a sweet face, wakes to 
FLASHING police lights.  A curious and perceptive kid, 
wise beyond his years, Jo moves closer to his window to 
investigate when his brother Aiden crashes down on him 
from outside.  

Aiden is all electric energy.  He speaks fast and with 
confidence.  

               AIDEN
      How long have they been here?

               JO
      Few minutes.  

As Jo closes the window, he sees the neighbor girl the 
same age, HOLLY, a lonely, longing girl-next-door with a 
crush, watching from her porch with a pair of hunting 
binoculars slung around her neck.

               AIDEN
      Mom call the cops?  Fuckin’ bitch.

Jo studies Aiden’s busted knuckles, pulls a dirty shirt 
from the floor and wraps Aiden’s hands.

               JO
      What happened?

They huddle in Jo’s bed.  As Aiden tells the story, Jo 
hangs on his every word. 

                                        2.

               AIDEN
      So there was this guy.  Big, slow mother 
      fucker, you know.  He looked familiar but 
      I couldn’t place him.  He knocked me down 
      in one punch.  

               JO
      Did you hit him back?

               AIDEN
      I’m laying there to let him think he won.  
      Then he kneels down to get one more in.  

               JO
      What happened?

               AIDEN
      I waited.  Then I peeked and I remembered 
      where I saw him.  He was that fat fuck 
      from juvi.

               JO
      Then what?

               AIDEN
      I popped him.  Right in the nose.  Blood 
      everywhere.  Threw up his dinner. 

               JO
      Did he go after you?

               AIDEN
      Hell no.


Aiden tosses the roll of CASH to Jo and Jo counts it.

               JO
      Four-hundred dollars.  

               AIDEN
      There’s more where that came from.

               JO
      How’d you get this?

               AIDEN
      I took it.


Aiden takes the cash back but peels off a few twenties and 
tosses them to Jo.   

                                        3.

               JO
      I could get two bikes.

               AIDEN
      What the fuck are you gonna do with two 
      bikes?

               JO
      Have two fuckin’ bikes.

               AIDEN
      Could have a new life. 

Aiden gives Jo a few playful shoves.

Jo notices the cow lick in Aiden’s hair.  He licks his 
hand and smashes it down.

Aiden puts Jo in a playful head lock.

They hear FOOTSTEPS approaching the room and stop playing.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Shit.


Aiden stuffs all of the cash in Jo’s sheets and jumps over 
to his bed, trying to get under the covers.

RITA, their mother, barges in with a POLICE OFFICER behind 
her.  She’s been crying.  She pulls Aiden up by his arm.  

               RITA
      Get out.

               AIDEN
      I didn’t do nothin’--

               RITA
      Out.

               JO
      He didn’t do nothing’ Mom.

               RITA
      --Shut up.  Where were you?

               AIDEN
      Don’t fuckin’ yell at h--

Rita SMACKS Aiden across the mouth.  In a knee-jerk 
reaction, Aiden SMACKS her head but the Officer intervenes 
and drags Aiden from the room.

                                        4.

               RITA
      Where have you been?  Why are you 
      bleeding?

               AIDEN
      Don’t yell at him.

               RITA
      Out now.

               AIDEN
      You fuckin’ get out.  You don’t care 
      about us.

               RITA
      I care, Aiden!  

               JO
      Mom--

               RITA
      Jo, go to bed.

               JO
      He didn’t do nothing wrong--

               RITA
      Go to bed.
           (to Aiden)
      You were supposed to be here watching 
      him.

               AIDEN
      You’re the mom.  You watch him.

               OFFICER
      Move it.

               AIDEN
      I hate you.

               RITA
      I hate you.



Rita stops herself, almost covering her mouth.  It slipped 
out.  

The Officer and Rita move Aiden out of the room and close 
the door.  Jo hears the fighting continue but stays to 
guard the money.

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
      Mom, don’t.  Mom, I’m sorry.

                                        5.

               RITA
	(O.S.)
      I can’t do this.

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
      It won’t happen again.  I’ll be good this 
      time.  I messed up.  I messed up is all.  

               RITA
	(O.S.)
      Stop it.

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
      I don’t wanna go back there. 

               RITA
	(O.S.)
      What am I supposed to do with you?  What 
      am I supposed to do?

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
      Mom, please.

               OFFICER
	(O.S.)
      Want us to take him?

A long beat.  It’s quiet.  A DOOR SHUTS and a CAR drives 
away.

Jo pull the money from the sheets and hides it in a slit 
in his mattress.  Sneaks out of bed and cracks open the 
door.  Jo sees Rita wiping her eyes and HUMMING as she 
cleans Aiden’s busted face in the living room.  A familiar 
routine.

Her HUMMING carries us into...

EST./EXT. - BOONE COUNTY, WEST VIRGINIA - AFTERNOON

Open WIDE on winding hollers deep in the forgotten 
Appalachian hills.   

We PAN past one closed mom n’ pop shop after another: a 
BOTTLING FACTORY with a torn and faded American flag, thin 
streams of SMOKE from the auto factories streak the grey 
sky.

Jo walks with Aiden who now wears a TRACKING DEVICE around 
his ankle.  The brothers collect aluminum cans and bottles 
in a small wagon. 

EXT.  BOTTLING FACTORY - BACK LOT - LATER THAT DAY

The place overflows with pop cans, bottles and garbage 
bins.  

                                        6.

Jo and Aiden wait as OLD MICK, a man of few words but a 
face with a story to tell, weighs their load and then 
shells over six greasy singles to Jo.  

Jo gives three dollars to Aiden and pulls their empty 
wagon across the gravel lot.

EXT.  STREET - DUSK

Aiden trashes the street as he and Jo walk, kicking 
aluminum cans, spitting, knocking over trash cans.  Jo 
pulls the wagon and continues picking up aluminum cans. 

               AIDEN
      I’m gettin’ out. 

               JO
      Where are you going?

               AIDEN
      Somewhere that every time somethin’ bad 
      happens, people don’t assume it’s me.

               JO
      But it is you.

Aiden gives Jo a playful shove but Jo doesn’t push back.

               AIDEN
      How do you stand it here with her?

               JO
      She’s our family.

               AIDEN
      She gave fuckin’ birth to us but she’s 
      not our family.  She’s stuck here and she 
      wants us to be stuck here with her.  Not 
      all boys our age have to turn in fuckin’ 
      pop cans for extra cash.

               JO
      We made thirty bucks this week.

               AIDEN
      She’s probably why Dad left.

               JO
      You don’t even know him.

               AIDEN
      ‘Cause he checked outta this shithole 
      soon as he could. 

                                        7.

Jo pulls the wagon near some shade along the wood line.  

Aiden and Jo crush the cans to the back of the wagon to 
make room for more. 

Up ahead, a few BOYS leave the woods.  They stare at Aiden 
as they laugh and whisper.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      What are you looking at?

               BOY 1
      Nothing.

               AIDEN
      You were looking at somethin’.

The Boys push past Jo. 

               BOY 2
           (mumbles)
      Fag.

The Boys erupt in laughter. 

               AIDEN
      What’s that?

               JO
      Aiden.



Aiden is face to face with Boy 2.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      We don’t want any trouble.

               BOY 2
      I said F-


Aiden POPS the Boy in the jaw.  Blood spurts all over his 
face.  This kid can throw a punch. 

               AIDEN
      Say it again.   

Jo jumps in front of Aiden, keeping him at bay.  The BOYS 
run away.  Aiden is ready to go after them but Jo blocks 
him.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Swing by 1226!  Finish it, bitch!

                                        8.

Aiden pushes past Jo and starts after them, but the boys 
are already halfway down the road. Aiden turns back to Jo 
only to catch a glimpse of Jo as he runs into the woods. 

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Aiden pushes through the trees and brambles but falls 
further and further behind Jo. 

               AIDEN
      Jo, come back!

As Aiden pushes forward he hits a steep hill. He quickly 
and carefully presses forward, slipping every now and then 
but finally breaking through the trees and onto...

EXT. LOOKOUT ROCK - CONTINUOUS

A vast expanse of rock overlooking the town with a small 
lake 100 feet below.

Aiden pushes up to the peak and runs SMACK into Jo.

               AIDEN
      Don’t ever do that to me again.  I had 
      those guys.

Aiden pushes Jo forward, towards the edge.

               JO
      Aiden, stop it--

               AIDEN
      Block me.

               JO
      Stop.

               AIDEN
      Come on.  Block it.  

               JO
      Leave me alone.

               AIDEN
      Block your face, Jo.  I can’t always be 
      here to do it for you. 

               JO
      You’re hurting me!  

Aiden stops.  Jo curls onto the ground, crying but trying 
to hide it from Aiden.

                                        9.

               AIDEN
           (softer now)
      Jo?

           (beat)
      Jo, come on, you know I’d never hurt you.  

Jo relaxes.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      You know that, right?
           (off Jo’s nod)
      You just gotta stick up for yourself.  
      Can’t let people talk to you like that or 
      they’ll keep doing it.  That’s how this 
      place is.
           (pulls him close)
      Love you.  You know that, right?

Jo playfully punches back at Aiden but the playfulness 
turns serious as Aiden takes in the view.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Doesn’t look like such a shit hole from 
      the top of Lookout, does it?

Aiden slowly steps forward, toward the ledge

               JO 
      It might get better here and you won’t 
      have to leave.

               AIDEN
      Those punks, Mom, fuckin’ cops and people 
      at school--

               JO
      Get back, Aiden.

               AIDEN
      The whole town.  It’s never gonna change.

               JO
      Why not?


Aiden reaches the edge, turns towards Jo and flashes a 
mischievous grin.  

               AIDEN
      Doesn’t want to.

                                       10.

Aiden lets himself fall backwards over the edge.  JO 
LUNGES after him.

In the water below:

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Get in here, Jo!

Jo collapses on the ledge, relieved but angry.

               JO
      That’s not funny.

               AIDEN
      Get your scrawny ass in here!

Jo climbs down from Lookout Rock, sliding down a small 
hill, slipping into the water from a lower point.  

EXT.  TRAILER/HOME - NIGHT

Aiden, in wet clothes, pulls the empty wagon across the 
front yard.  Jo lags behind, jumping into the wagon and 
surprising Aiden.

Aiden runs ahead to the front door, pulling Jo in the 
wagon then tipping it over, dumping Jo on the ground.

The brothers laugh, leaving the wagon and walking through 
the front door.

EXT.  WOODS - LOOKOUT ROCK - NEXT DAY

A wagon full of crushed, aluminum cans is parked.  

From above, a SCREAM grows closer followed by a LOUD 
SPLASH.    

In the water, Aiden surfaces.  Across from him, Jo treads 
water.  Aiden swims to him.  The brothers have fun dunking 
each other in the water.

Aiden climbs out of the lake and Jo follows. Both boys run 
soaking wet up to the top of the hill.  Aiden does a front 
flip off the top. Jo moves to the edge and hesitates for a 
moment. He closes his eyes for a moment but when he opens 
them, Aiden is nowhere to be found.  

On the banks below, Jo hears RUSTLING and FAINT VOICES.

                                       11.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Jo slides down the hill to the bank and follows a MUFFLED 
CONVERSATION.  Up ahead, a MAN with a ghoulish burlap sack 
on his head, black slits for eyes, holds Aiden captive and 
cuts the tracker off his ankle.

They spot Jo.

               AIDEN
      Get out of here, Jo!

Jo turns back and SLAMS into a second masked FIGURE who 
carries him to Aiden.  He notices a “Z” shaped scar on the 
neck of the man holding Aiden. 

The FIGURE holding Jo inspects Jo’s muscles and hands, 
pushes back his lips and inspects his teeth.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Leave him alone.

Jo notices military DOG TAGS dangling from the Figure’s 
neck.

The Figure smashes a damp cloth against Jo’s nose then 
drops him.  Jo grabs for Aiden’s arm.  It’s just out of 
reach, but then-- 

AIDEN IS YANKED OUT OF THE FRAME FROM BEHIND as the men 
pull him through the woods.

               JO
      Aiden.  
           (weaker)
      Aiden.

Inky black overtakes Jo as he passes out. 

CUT TO:

                   TWO YEARS LATER

INT.  LOCAL SHERIFF’S STATION - DAY

Jo, now 14-15, walks in carrying a stack of newspaper 
clippings.  This once sweet face is now full of hard 
determination and focus.  Jo slides the clippings to the 
CLERK behind the front window.  He knows his way around 
the station. 

                                       12.

The Clerk halfheartedly flips through Jo’s news clippings 
on missing boys. 

               CLERK
      He’s not in right now.

The Clerk hands Jo a binder but Jo waits for the Clerk to 
file the clippings before leaving the room.

INT.  BREAK ROOM - DAY

Jo flips through a binder of missing kid mug shots.  One 
of them in AIDEN.  Outside, neighborhood KIDS PLAY across 
the street but Jo doesn’t care.  This is the only place he 
wants to be.  Jo checks the clock on the wall: 4:00 PM.

INT. FRONT DESK - CONTINUOUS 

The Clerk hands Jo the phone.   He calls his Mom.

               JO
      Are you up?  Okay.

Hangs up.

DETECTIVE DAVIS, 35, clean and sharp, steps from his 
office.  Davis doesn’t fit in this station.  Everything 
from his pronunciations to his fancy thermos screams big 
city cop. 

               DAVIS
      How’s your mom?

               JO
      Better.

               DAVIS
      What do you got this week?

INT.  DAVIS’ OFFICE - DAY 

Jo spreads newspaper clippings of missing boys on the desk 
for DETECTIVE DAVIS.  Jo knows these clippings backwards 
and forwards.  They have become his obsession.  Davis 
looks at Jo fondly, he has wanted to crack cases this 
badly before too. 

               JO
           (re: clippings)
      Both of these boys were seventeen and 
      found two years apart.

                                       13.

               DAVIS
      These are isolated incidents.

               JO
      They’re in the same state.

               DAVIS
      I said you can keep coming here if you 
      have proof.

               JO
           (opens mug shot binder)
      This guy was charged at the same time 
      this boy went missing.  And he’s wearing 
      dog tags.
           (off Davis’ look)
      The men who took Aiden had dog tags.

               DAVIS
      It’s a stretch.

               JO
      It’s the truth.

               DAVIS
      I didn’t say it wasn’t.

               JO
      Are you going to look into these boys?

Davis collects Jo’s clippings and closes the binder.

               DAVIS
      No.

               JO
      Why not?

               DAVIS
      Because it’s not in my jurisdiction and 
      because I have other problems like drugs 
      circulating this county and keeping 
      teenage boys in school.

Davis escorts Jo out of his office. 

INT. FRONT DESK/LOBBY - DAY

               JO
      He had dog tags.

                                       14.

               DAVIS
      And that detail is in the report.  I’ve 
      been following your brother’s case for 
      two years now.  Every print and hair 
      follicle is on my radar and I let you 
      come here because I like you.
           (to Clerk)
      Do I let people I don’t like come here?

The Clerk shakes his head.

               DAVIS
	(CONT’D)
      There you go.


SHERIFF BRUCE, 40’s, grizzled face, a direct man who walks 
in the room like he owns it. 

               BRUCE
      What’s he doing here?

               DAVIS
      Leaving.

               JO
      The man who took Aiden wore dog tags.

               BRUCE
      Christ, get him outta here, Davis.  You 
      see the paper work we’ve got back there?

Davis follows Bruce.

               JO
      These boys are connected.

               BRUCE
      That would make things more interesting, 
      wouldn’t it? 
           (beat)
      Davis.  My office.  Now. 

Bruce walks away.  Davis escorts Jo to the door. 

               DAVIS
      If you want to bring me some actual tags 
      with a social I can run, be my guest but 
      I don’t think there’s anything else I can 
      do for you.  Do you?

               JO
      Your job.

Jo bustles past Davis, slamming the door on the way out. 

                                       15.

EXT.  WOODS - DAY

Jo is at the site of Aiden’s abduction.  He sweeps the 
area.  It’s clear this is habitual.  Jo finds nothing. 

EXT.  STREET - DAY

Jo walks alone through town past the places he used to go 
with Aiden, past the bottling factory with the same wagon, 
collecting aluminum cans and removing damaged flyers about 
Aiden.  

Further down the road, he sees an old BLACK TRUCK.  A BOY 
jumps in the passenger seat.  Jo clocks it, but it doesn’t 
raise a lot suspicion. 

A police cruiser slows beside him. Davis inside.

               DAVIS
      Need a ride?

               JO
      I’m workin’.

               DAVIS
      Being interrupted at work doesn’t feel so 
      good, does it?

               JO
           (continues walking)
      I lost my brother.  I don’t really care 
      who I interrupt to find him.  

               DAVIS
      Looked into your articles.  They’re all 
      seventeen.

Jo stops.

INT.  DAVIS’ CAR - DAY

Davis offers Jo chewing gum but refuses.  He turns on the 
radio but Jo switches it off.

               JO
      What do we do next?

               DAVIS
      I investigate the other boys that fall in 
      my jurisdiction and look for patterns.

                                       16.

               JO
      What kind of patterns?

               DAVIS
      Proximity to one another, backgrounds.
           (beat)
      Tell me more about Aiden

               JO
      He’s fun.  We always had fun.

               DAVIS
      He spent a lot of time in juvi.

               JO
      There’s more to him than that. 

They reach Jo’s house.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      What do we do after you find clues on the 
      other boys?

               DAVIS
      I follow them.  See where they lead.

Jo steps from the car.  Davis pops the trunk and Jo 
removes the wagon and trash bag of aluminum cans. 

               JO
      He’s not dead.  

               DAVIS
      How do you know?

      Because I do.

               JO
INT.  TRAILER - NIGHT

Rita, now a mess with years of grief on her face, is 
asleep on the couch in a work uniform with a cigarette 
still burning in her hand.  She’s surrounded by sleeping 
pills and alcohol bottles. Jo puts out the cigarette and 
wakes his her.  

               JO
      Mom.  Mom.

Rita wakes.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      You said you were up.

Jo flicks the light switch but there is no response.  Jo 
lights a CANDLE. 

                                       17.

               RITA
      I don’t feel so good, sweetie.

               JO
      You said that last time.

               RITA
      How was school?

               JO
      It’s Saturday.  Mom, get up.

Jo checks the cabinets but all he finds are bread and fast 
food condiments.  He takes out the bread and closes the 
door. 

EXT.  HOLLY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

The porch is cluttered with hunting gear and meat packing 
paper.  A skinned and gutted BUCK hangs in the back yard 
from a tree.

Jo knocks on the door.  Holly, now 14-15, answers.  Her 
hands are oily and red from packing meat.  She’s still 
reserved but warm with Jo. 

               JO
      Your brother had a good season.

               HOLLY
      We did alright.  He always finds the best 
      bucks around Wolf Pen.

               JO
      Wondering if I could buy some off him.

               HOLLY
      Hang on.


Jo waits.

Holly’s brother DAVE comes to the door.  Holly watches Jo 
from the background. 

               DAVE
      How much you got?

               JO
      Mom gets paid on Friday.

                                       18.

               DAVE
      Come back on Friday.

INT.  JO’S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Jo spreads the condiments on bread.

               RITA
      You making peanut butter and jelly?

               JO
      More jelly than peanut butter.

A KNOCK at the door.  Holly stands holding wrapped 
venison. 

               HOLLY
      Should get you through the week.  Go on.

Jo takes it.  Holly leaves.

He dumps the bread from the pan, drops a chunk of the 
venison into the skillet and flips the SIZZLING meat. 

Through the window, Jo watches Holly argue with her 
brother as she returns to her house.

INT.  TRAILER - NIGHT 

Jo cuddles with his Mom on the couch as she watches game 
shows on TV. 

               RITA
      I tried to go in today. 

Jo looks at Rita and holds her closer. 

INT.  JO’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jo wakes to SIRENS outside.  He sticks his head out the 
window, excited until the cars pass.  Holly is outside 
watching the POLICE CARS race through the holler. 

               HOLLY
      Heard he was only sixteen.

               JO
      Who?

               HOLLY
      Boy they found.  It’s all over my 
      brother’s CB.

                                       19.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Jo rushes through the room, pulling on a coat.

               RITA
           (half asleep)
      Jo?

               JO
      I’ll be back.

Jo’s out the door. 

EXT.  BOTTLING FACTORY - PARKING LOT - NIGHT 

Jo runs to a large CROWD of local law enforcement and 
NEIGHBORS, all trying to sneak a better view.  Jo pushes 
through the crowd, reaching the front.  He is momentarily 
frozen as...

TWO DEPUTIES lift the small, pale corpse of a dead, naked 
BOY, 13, from the garbage bins.  His body is stiff, head 
shaved and a tiny, black TRIBAL MARK is tattooed on his 
face.

It’s not Aiden.

Jo’s body relaxes.  

Two Deputies stretch yellow tape in front of the garbage 
bin, separating the crowd from the dead boy.  

Everyone in the crowd tries to bully their way to the 
front of the yellow tape, pushing Jo to the back of the 
crowd near Bruce and Davis.

               DAVIS
      Missing two years ago on the dot, 
      Sheriff.  I want to call in state.

               BRUCE
      This boy ain’t our jurisdiction.

               DAVIS
      He was found in it.

               BRUCE
      I don’t know how you did things up north.  
      But we don’t sniff shit outside our 
      jurisdiction.

A stare down between Bruce and Davis.  Davis walks away, 
passing Jo.  Jo starts to speak to him-- 

                                       20.

               DAVIS
      Not now.


Jo starts to leave, but clocks a MAN beyond the crowd, 
wearing a hooded hunter’s jacket and skulking in the 
shadows of Old Mick’s bottling factory beside an OLD BLACK 
TRUCK.  Jo has seen this truck before. 

As the Man moves closer to the crowd circle, Jo studies 
him: Thick, black tobacco oozes from the Man’s chapped 
lips, disappearing into his heavy, blackish beard.  

A “Z” shaped tattoo inked on his neck beside a chain that 
hangs down, leading to a pair of DOG TAGS. 

Jo stops.  This is Z, the man who took Aiden.   

Z scans the crowd until his eyes fall on JO.  They share a 
hard look.  

Quickly, Z leaves the crowd circle. 

Jo aggressively darts toward Z, through the crowd circle, 
ducking underneath the yellow tape, running through the 
crime scene-

SMACK! Jo is slammed down to the ground by a DEPUTY.  He 
looks up to see Z’s hooded jacket disappearing into the 
crowd.  Jo loses him.

               DEPUTY
      ‘Said stay back.  ‘The hell you think 
      you’re doing?  

The Deputy pulls Jo up from the ground and shoves him to 
the other side of the yellow tape.

Jo looks around for Z, noticing the black truck is still 
parked near the bottling factory.  He runs to it. 

Jo reaches Z’s truck, looking through the windows.  The 
truck is empty.  He scans the area for Z and sees another 
CAR speed into the gravel lot and park.  It’s Rita.

Jo stays low beside the tail gate as Rita runs to Bruce.

               RITA
      Is it him?

               BRUCE
      No.


                                       21.

               RITA
      Are you sure?  I heard on the radio that 
      he was sixteen--

               BRUCE
      It’s not him, Rita.

The CRUNCHING of FOOTSTEPS across the gravel reaches the 
driver’s door.  Jo peeks around the truck.  It’s Z.

Jo stays low, gripping  the tail gate of the truck.  He 
hears Z unlock the door, climb in and SLAM his door shut. 

Jo looks back to his mom.

Rita moves through the crowd, on the brink of tears,  
helpless as she searches for Jo.

               RITA
      Jo.  Jo?

Z REVS THE ENGINE.  SMOKE CHOKES from the loud muffler, 
hitting Jo in the face.  

Jo keeps his hand on the truck.  Looks at Rita.  Back to 
the truck.

In the last second, Z HITS THE GAS as Jo climbs into the 
truck bed, flat on his stomach, looking out from the truck 
at his mom who gets further and further away...

Jo tucks himself to the back of the truck bed, closing his 
eyes real tight. 

EST./EXT.  TRUCK - NIGHT

Z’s truck drives through town, turning onto a ramp and 
speeds down the highway.

INT.  TRUCK BED - LATER THAT NIGHT

Jo wakes to the sound of a GAS PUMP.  He peeks from the 
tarp.  Nothing looks familiar.  He sees a sign: 

INDIAN CREEK NEXT RIGHT

WOLF PEN 61 MILES

Jo ducks back under as the nozzle CLICKS closed. Z climbs 
back into the truck and peels out of the lot.  

INT.  TRUCK BED - LATER THAT NIGHT

                                       22.

Jo stays buried beneath a tarp in the back of the truck 
bed.  The sound of the TIRES speeding across smooth 
concrete shifts to HARD GRAVEL as the truck turns.  Jo and 
sees a WOLF PEN sign but Z turns onto a dirt road with no 
signs in sight. 

EXT.  TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

The truck drives past a lake and through a long stretch of 
dirt road that becomes increasingly narrow until BRANCHES 
SCRATCH the sides of the truck.

The skinny hollow opens up to an expansive field. 

INT.  TRUCK BED - CONTINUOUS 

Jo feels the truck slow to a stop.  A DOOR SLAMS and he 
hears Z walk away.  Jo climbs out of the truck.  

EXT.  FIELD - CONTINUOUS

Jo surveys the land but nothing looks familiar.  No signs 
or markers.  He’s far from home but the distinct sound of 
INSECTS in the pines tell him that he is still in West 
Virginia.  He hears a CREEK and runs to it.

EXT.  CREEK - CONTINUOUS

Jo runs along the creek, unsure of what he will find.  It 
leads him to FOUR SHACKS with open doors.  He hears the 
voice of Z behind him.  Jo jumps down into the creek.

BOXES are carried in and out of the labs by MASKED MEN.  

Z directs TRUCKS that come and go to the shacks after 
being loaded with boxes. 

Inside a lab, SHADOWS mill about. 

Jo doesn’t understand what is going on but knows that he 
shouldn’t be here.  He suddenly notices a BLOODHOUND 
guarding one of the shack doors and snarls at Jo. 

               BOY 1
	(V.O.)
      What is it, boy?

A Boy exits and looks to the creek.  No one is there.  He 
looks up and sees Jo running in the distance.  He releases 
a loud WHISTLE then starts back toward the lab.

                                       23.

               BOY
      Z!


EXT.  FIELD - CONTINUOUS 

Jo runs through the foliage but Z’s BLACK TRUCK CHARGES 
INTO THE FRAME.  

BRIGHT HEADLIGHTS track Jo across the field.  

Jo forges ahead on pure adrenaline until the FENDER nudges 
his back and THRASHES him to the ground. 

Z parks the truck.  Jo tries to stand but Z holds Jo 
against the truck at knifepoint.

               Z
      How’d you get here?

Jo is momentarily frozen.  Just as Z presses the knife, 
another PICK-UP TRUCK coasts past and stops.

He can not see the MAN in the truck, only a silhouette in 
the darkness, PURR of the engine, and the orange slit and 
crackle of cigarette paper burning from his lips.

               MAN
      Bring him.


A burlap sack is thrown over Jo’s face.

SMASH CUT TO:

INT.  HOLDING CELL - NIGHT

Jo is pushed down on a bench.  The burlap sack is lifted 
from his head.  Z leaves. 

Jo turns to find himself down the long double barrel of a 
rifle.

On the other end is TIMMY DIRT, 16, muscular, intense, 
shirtless with ammo strapped across his chest, half his 
face is tattooed.  Jewelry slung over his neck.  Alpha of 
the pack.  

               TIMMY
      Shirt.


Jo is scared and confused but Timmy squeezes the trigger 
and Jo obeys.

                                       24.

               TIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Shoes.

Jo removes his shoes.


               TIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      How old?

               JO
      I’ll be fifteen in May--

The door CREAKS open.  A man steps into the room (Note: 
This is the FIGURE from the woods in the opening sequence 
and the man from the truck) Timmy lowers the gun in the 
man’s presence. 

               MAN
      No need for that.

Jo studies the man as he approaches. 

A master-of-ceremonies, early 30’s, worn trousers, black 
boots lathered in thick polish.  A MILITARY CREST is 
tattooed on his arm and patches of marred skin.  He wears 
a GOLD BAND on his finger, a handkerchief hangs from his 
back pocket.  

He runs his hands through his slightly gray-streaked hair.  
Working hands-- dry like sand paper with open cracks. 
Dark, sunken shadows around his eyes that fix on you.

This is FORRESTER.

               FORRESTER
      Tim’s got an unusual way of greetin’ 
      people.

Jo doesn’t move or speak.  He’s too shocked and trying to 
process everything.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
           (to Timmy)
      Go.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Come on now, Forrester, I was just saying 
      hello--

               FORRESTER
      Go.


Timmy leaves.  Forrester extends a hand to Jo but Jo 
doesn’t move.

                                       25.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Come with me.  

Forrester and Jo study each other.  Jo looks around for a 
way out but his eyes fall back on Forrester.

INT.  BARN - NIGHT 

Jo follows Forrester past horse stalls. 

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry ‘bout the scare in the field 
      earlier.  We don’t get a lot of visitors 
      Real strict ‘bout trespassin’.
           (beat)
      What do they call you?

               JO
      Jo.

Forrester studies Jo’s face, considering it.

               FORRESTER
      I like it.


Forrester walks to the end of the barn and opens a stall 
door.  Jo catches up and sees a horse stall with a 
mattress and pillow.

In the stall beside him, two boys, LIL’ SNACK and DEACON, 
around the same age as Jo sit on a mattress with a small 
TV propped on a hay bale.  They play a VIDEO GAME.   

               JO
      I don’t think I’m supposed to be here.

               FORRESTER
      Where are you supposed to be?

Forrester and Jo share a look.

               JO
      I should go.

               FORRESTER
      Nights are tricky in these woods.

Jo is exhausted.  He looks around at the comfortable, warm 
barn.  Finally, he walks toward the mattress.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
           (to Deacon and Lil’Snack)
      This is Jo.  


                                       26.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      He’s gonna be staying with us tonight.  
      Make sure he gets some supper before he 
      leaves in the AM.

Lil’ Snack nods. 

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Holler if you need me.

Forrester closes Jo’s stall door.  Jo sits on the mattress 
and holds the fresh clothes.  Deacon presses his face 
against the stall. 

               LIL’ SNACK
           (to Deacon)
      He’s not playing.  You’re up, Deacon. 

               JO
      Where am I?

               DEACON
      The Shelter.  This is Lil’ Snack. 

               JO
      What’s the Shelter?

               LIL’ SNACK
      Best place ever. 
           (beat)
      Deac, you’re up.

Jo curls up in the corner of his stall and bites his 
nails.

               DEACON
           (whispers)
      Don’t chew.  You can use them to scratch. 

Deacon returns to the video game.  Jo puts on clean 
clothes and settles in. 

INT.  BARN - NIGHT

Jo is fast asleep.  He wakes to a horrific NOISE of BOYS 
outside the barn.  He looks around, scared and trying to 
process.  Deacon and Lil’ Snack ignore him, rushing past 
his stall and outside.  

               JO
      What’s happening?

Jo peeks through the boards of his stall. 

                                       27.

FROM JO’S POV: A group of SIX BOYS are packed together in 
a circle.  A boy, ANIMAL, 16, stands across from  

AIDEN-- now 16, muscular, a broad chest draped in tattoos.  
His head is shaved, a boiling temper.   

Jo can’t look away.  There is a part of Jo that doesn’t 
believe this is Aiden, but it is him. 

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

               AIDEN
      You told me it was all there.

               ANIMAL
      I counted it twice.

               AIDEN
      Then you can’t fuckin’ count.

Forrester steps between Aiden and Animal. 

               FORRESTER
      Family first.  Fighters second.

               SHELTER BOYS
      Always a man!


Forrester steps back.

AIDEN charges his opponent low and hard.  He throws a 
series of VICIOUS PUNCHES.

               AIDEN
      You let me go on that drop anyway, didn’t 
      you?

               ANIMAL
      I didn’t know.

The CROWD OF BOYS go nuts, wanting to see a fight.

INT.  BARN - CONTINUOUS

As Jo watches Aiden fight, he is both frightened and 
fascinated.  

                                       28.

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

Aiden KICKS Animal forward in the tailbone.  Animal’s chin 
hits the dirt in a audible CLICK as his TEETH CUT into his 
gums.  Blood laps out onto the ground.  Aiden backs off.

               FORRESTER
      Finish it.


Aiden knocks Animal down one last time.  

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Get him up.


Z helps Animal walk away from the fight as the Boys CHEER 
for Aiden.

INT.  BARN - CONTINUOUS

Jo rushes out of his stall.

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

Jo catches up to the the Boys gathered around Forrester.  
Timmy and Aiden stand beside each other,  slapping each 
other on the back and bump fists, like brothers.  

Aiden spots Jo--an instant look of relief and happiness 
hits both brothers in the exact same moment.  Aiden 
quickly shifts his expression, looking away like Jo is a 
stranger.  Jo is confused but follows Aiden’s lead.  

Forrester steps in the middle of the boys. 

               FORRESTER
      Alright, alright.

The Shelter Boys quiet, giving Forrester their undivided 
attention as he speaks with evangelical fervor. 

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      We have another shipment coming up.  Need 
      to be more vigilant with our packaging so 
      we’re not out here beating each other’s 
      asses each week.  Don’t get sloppy on me.  
      Our buyers notice if we’re one bag short.

               TIMMY DIRT
      That’s ‘cause we got good shit.

The Boys high five and fist bump each other.  Forrester 
looks at the boys.  They grow quiet again.

                                       29.

               FORRESTER
      We’re taking things back a step in our 
      process on this next one.  I want older 
      boys on this next drop.  Timmy.  Aiden.

Forrester walks past Animal and Cowboy.

      I want younger boys keepin’ a close watch 
      on detail, everything from cook to drop.  
      I don’t want to see you stuffin’ bags or 
      checking temps.  Not one bag should be 
      transported out of these woods that ain’t 
      ready.

The boys nod along with Forrester.  They understand.

Forrester moves to Jo, Deacon and Lil’ Snack.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      We have newcomers.  Welcome.
           (beat)
      I recognized something in you or you 
      wouldn’t be here.  
           (beat)
      We all come from the same place as you.  
      Places where we’re bred to stay at the 
      bottom.  Here at the Shelter, we make the 
      rules. The Shelter is a place where you 
      can fight for the things you want.  You 
      can spend your days however you want and 
      not according to anyone else’s standards.

Jo is confused by all of this.  He looks to Deacon and 
Lil’ Snack who are nodding along with Forrester and the 
other boys. 

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      If you want to go squirrel huntin’ all 
      day, get on with it.  
           (beat)
      Wanna work in the gardens for a couple 
      hours then spend your week in the pond 
      with your friends.  Go on.  
           (beat)
      In our woods.  At our Shelter, we’re 
      rewarded for our hard work.  Outside 
      these woods, no one’s gonna give it to 
      you.

Forrester directs his attention to Jo who is becoming more 
interested in Forrester’s speech.

                                       30.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      There are two commandments we live by 
      here at our Shelter.  Number one.  Fight 
      for everything.  Fight and by-God 
      Almighty, everything you will receive.  
      Number two.  You will not do anything to 
      disrupt the order and way of life that 
      everyone here has fought to sustain.  And 
      now, more than ever, every detail 
      matters.  
           (beat)
      This is our time.  Our place. 
           (beat)
      When we want something at the Shelter, we 
      fucking take it.

Jo is now immersed in Forrester’s sermon.  

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Take it.  
           (CHANTS intensify)
      Take it.    

TIGHT on the faces of the boys as they chant “take it.”

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

Jo follows Deacon and Lil’ Snack back to their barn as he 
looks around for Aiden.  He spots Aiden walking alone into 
the woods and runs after him.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Jo catches up to Aiden.

               JO
      Aiden.

Aiden stops in his tracks and turns to Jo. 

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      You’re alive.

               AIDEN
      What are you doing here? 

               JO
      I’m here for you.  Is this where they 
      took you?

                                       31.

               AIDEN
      Worry about your-own-fuckin’-self.  You 
      can’t be here.

Aiden pulls Jo further into the woods.

               JO
      Stop it.  What are you doing?

               AIDEN
      I’m getting you out.

Timmy catches up to Aiden and hands him a joint. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      Hey man, that fight was dope.  Did you 
      see Animal--
           (notices Jo)
      This little bitch bothering you?  

               JO
      He’s my brother.

Timmy laughs and pushes Jo around, he lives to taunt the 
other boys.  

Jo smacks Timmy’s hand away from his face. 

Timmy backs off of Jo. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      What the fuck’s he goin’ on about?

Forrester approaches the argument.  All three boys are 
quiet.  

               JO
      I’m his brother.

Forrester looks at Aiden, then looks at Jo.  

               FORRESTER
      This true?


Aiden looks defeated but still trying to find a way out of 
this situation, possible answers racing through his mind.  
Jo stands his ground.  

               AIDEN
      Yeah.


CUT TO:

INT.  HOLDING CELL - NIGHT

Timmy guards the door with Aiden.  COWBOY, 16, inspects 
Jo’s clothing while Forrester watches.  

                                       32.

               FORRESTER
      Sorry about all of this but we can’t risk 
      someone disrupting our community. 

               COWBOY
      He’s clean.


               FORRESTER
      How did you know your brother was here?

               AIDEN
      He--


Forrester throws Aiden a hard look.  Aiden doesn’t speak.  

Forrester look at Jo.

               JO
      I guessed.

               FORRESTER
      Did someone send you? 

               JO
      I saw the tags and I climbed in the truck 
      to see if they would lead to Aiden.

               FORRESTER
      Did you tell anyone you were leaving?

               JO
      No.

               FORRESTER
      Mom?  Dad? 

               JO
      I don’t have a dad. 

               FORRESTER
      Why not?

               JO
      Don’t know him.  Don’t care to.

               FORRESTER
      Why’s that?
               JO
      Already made my way.

Forrester’s expression shifts upon hearing this, relaxing 
a little bit.

                                       33.

               FORRESTER
      If I let you leave, how do we know that 
      you won’t tell people about this place?

               TIMMY DIRT
      He’s a snitch.

               JO
      No, I’m not--

               COWBOY
      You’re a snitch and pussy and you’ll 
      never hack it--

Jo takes a swing at Cowboy.  Misses.  Cowboy DECKS Jo in a 
hard HIT.

Aiden starts to intervene, Jo gets back up and throws his 
first PUNCH, sending Cowboy against the wall.  

Timmy presses a shirt against Jo’s head and aims the gun 
against it.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Think he’ll make a mess?

Forrester grabs the rifle from Timmy.

               FORRESTER
      Get out.  You know better.  

Timmy has a grin on his face as he leaves with Cowboy.  Jo 
can’t stand him.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      What do you want?

               JO
      I’m not leaving him.

               AIDEN
      He can’t stay here--

               JO
      I’m not leaving you.

Forrester studies Jo and is moved by Jo’s loyalty to his 
brother. 
                                       34.

               FORRESTER
      Set him up in the elder barn.

Forrester walks out.  Jo is pleased with himself but Aiden 
is furious and follows Forrester.

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

               AIDEN
      We don’t have room in the elder barn.

               FORRESTER
      Make some.

               AIDEN
      He doesn’t fit.

               FORRESTER
      Why don’t you want him here?

               AIDEN
      He’s not like us.

               FORRESTER
      Do you want to lead?

               AIDEN
      Yeah, but--


               FORRESTER
      Do you want to lead?

               AIDEN
      Yes.


Their eyes are hard on each other. 

               FORRESTER
      He stays or he dies.

Forrester stares at Aiden, watching Aiden’s expression 
shift and soften.  Finally, Aiden looks away, accepting 
that Jo is here to stay.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Boys here respect you.  They fear Timmy 
      but they respect you.  I can’t blame him 
      for wanting to follow you.  Remember, no 
      one makes it through this lifetime alone.  
      You wanna show me somethin’?  

Forrester cups the side of Aiden’s face with his hand.  
It’s a tender moment.

                                       35.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Show me you can lead. 

Forrester walks away.  Aiden sees Timmy lurking nearby.  
Timmy boils with jealousy.

EST./EXT.  THE SHELTER - DAY

Aiden gives Jo a tour of the Shelter: a contained village 
that rests in miles of abandoned farm land.  The closest 
towns are an hour away but the a person would have to be 
searching for the Shelter to find it.  

Coal sheds, chickens feed around pens, Gothic feed mill 
and garages.  They pass gardens of corn, green beans and 
cabbage tended to by Forrester’s Boys.

               AIDEN
      We take turns working the gardens.  We 
      eat the food and sell the rest to markets 
      outside the county.  

EST./INT  ELDER BARN - CONTINUOUS 

An abandoned hay barn filled with hip-hop music, video 
games and alcohol.  

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      This is where we sleep, smoke, whatever. 

               JO
      Are you happy here?

               AIDEN
      I’m finally with people like me.  No one 
      wanted any of us.  Except Forrester.

               JO
      What’s the deal with him?

               AIDEN
      Forrester’s all about making your own 
      world.  That’s why he made this place.

RIP ROARING ENGINES cut through the hills.  Timmy Dirt 
rides a four wheeler.

               JO
      Who’s he?

               AIDEN
      Timmy Dirt.  He was here before me.  
      Taught me everything. 

                                       36.

               AIDEN
	(CONT'D)
           (beat)
      Don’t fuck with him, okay?

               JO
      Why?

               AIDEN
      Because when he fights, he doesn’t stop.

They continue walking. 

EXT.  THE BIG HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Aiden and Jo stand at the bottom of a hill, looking up.  

A two-story house protected by a barbed wire fence.  An 
American flag and single rocking chair on the porch.  None 
of the boys work or play near this house.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      That’s where Forrester lives.  No one 
      goes up there.

               JO
      What do you guys do all day?

Aiden considers this, the very thought excites him.

               AIDEN
      Live.


EXT.  SHELTER -  DAY

We PAN a row of DIRT BIKES.  

Jo runs his hand along one of the bikes then look to 
Aiden.

               AIDEN
      Better than two bicycles, huh Jo?

Timmy mounts his dirt bike, slaps the helmet on his head 
and REVS the engine.  Timmy STAMPS his foot down on the 
GAS and he’s off.

SMASH CUT TO:

                                       37.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

All seven Boys on dirt bikes RACE INTO THE FRAME.  This 
sequence feels like an adrenaline rush with bikes WHIZZING 
past each other.   

Timmy and Aiden lead the pack, each inches ahead of the 
other at difference times.  Timmy CUTS OFF Aiden and goes 
full speed ahead.  He makes a SHARP TURN, racing straight 
ahead at the creek-- IN THE AIR.  UP AND OVER...

Timmy CRASHES down on the other side of the bank, an 
impressive landing.  

Aiden and the other boys make the jumps over the creek.  
Aiden pops up his helmet as they wait on Jo and Deacon.

               AIDEN
      What the fuck, Tim.  He won’t do that.  

On the other side of the creek, Jo and Deacon stop their 
bikes.  Deacon removes his helmet and starts walking his 
dirt bike.  Jo watches Timmy and the other Boys make fun 
of him on the other side.

Jo HITS the gas, full speed ahead at the creek.  He’s UP 
IN THE AIR--  

CRASHES AGAINST the muddy bank, inches from the other 
side.  He stays on the ground and hears Aiden calling out 
to him.

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Jo?  Jo you okay?  Jo.

Jo lifts his helmet and surveys his crash.  He looks up to 
Aiden on the bank.

               JO
      Ready to go again?

Aiden smiles back at Jo.

EXT.  ELDER BARN - DAY

Jo and the Boys pass a joint and play video games on a 
flat screen in the barn.  Aiden finally watches Jo teach 
Deacon how to use his controller.

                                       38.

EXT.  GARDEN - DUSK

Jo, Deacon and Lil’ Snack help Forrester pull vegetables 
from the garden.  Forrester shows them how to crush the 
cabbage heads.  He lifts a big slate of ROCK and SMASHES 
it down onto the cabbage, breaking the cabbage heads into 
pieces.  

               FORRESTER
      Then we gather all these up and put ‘em 
      in a stew.  Go ahead.

The boys take turns crushing the cabbage heads.

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
      Hey Jo!


Jo turns back and sees Aiden in fake war gear.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Capture the flag.  You in?

Jo looks to Forrester.  Forrester nods.  Jo runs after 
Aiden.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT

Jo, Cowboy and Aiden are on a team.  Aiden has a bb gun 
slung over his shoulder.  Aiden hands Jo a camo stick.  

               AIDEN
      Put this on. 


Jo rubs the camo stick all over his face.  The boys 
huddle. 

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      We have three flags.  We’re red.  They’re 
      blue.  First one to capture all three of 
      the other team’s flags, wins.  

               JO
      Is that real?

               COWBOY
      They’re just bb’s. 

Cowboy flashes a SCAR on his ankle.

               COWBOY
	(CONT’D)
      You can pick ‘em out.

                                       39.

Jo looks suddenly ill.

               AIDEN
      Don’t worry.  Timmy has the gun on their 
      team and I can handle him.

A LOUD SQUAWK SOUND ECHOES through the forest.

               COWBOY
      They’re ready.

               AIDEN
      Cowboy take Animal.  Jo go to the lake.  
      I’m gonna chase Lil’ Snack in your 
      direction.  You grab his flag and run 
      straight back to me, okay?  

Jo nods.  Aiden releases a loud SQUAWK SOUND back to the 
other team.  It’s on.  

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Jo runs in the direction of the lake.  He hears someone 
behind him.  Turns back and a BB SHOT PLUNKS into a nearby 
tree. 

EXT.  DIFFERENT SECTION OF THE WOODS - CONTINUOUS

From behind a large, rotting log, Lil’ Snack watches 
Cowboy.  He sees the exposed red flag and begins to sneak 
closer him.  

A BB SHOT sinks into his leg.  Lil’ Snack WAILS and goes 
down.  He hears SOMETHING runs past him.  It’s Aiden.

Lil’ Snack limps away from Cowboy in the direction of the 
lake.

EXT.  LAKE - CONTINUOUS

Jo waits by the water.  Two boats are tied to a small 
dock.  

Suddenly, Lil’ Snack bustles out of the woods, holding his 
hand over his wound.  Jo runs to Lil’ Snack and GRABS his 
blue flag.

From the woods, Aiden walks with the bb gun aimed at Lil’ 
Snack.

                                       40.

               AIDEN
      Go back to your home base.

Lil’ Snack returns to the woods.  Jo is pumped up from the 
rush of the game.  

               JO
           (re: flag)
      I got it.  He wasn’t going anywhere.  Did 
      you see him?

Aiden slings the gun over his shoulder and goes to the 
dock, pulling a BLACK PLASTIC TOOL KIT BOX from 
underneath.  He opens it to reveal CASH.  He grabs three 
bound wads of money and stuffs them in Jo’s pockets while 
keeping an eye on the woods.

               AIDEN
      I’ve been saving this.  I’m the only one 
      who knows about this money.  

               JO
      What are you doing?

               AIDEN
      Takes thirty minutes to get across the 
      water.  I can buy you about twenty so 
      paddle like the fuckin’ wind. 

               JO
      What is this?  What about the game? 

               AIDEN
      It’s no fuckin’ game.  

Jo knows that Aiden is serious but he doesn’t understand 
what is happening.  As Aiden speaks, he unties a rope on 
one of the rowboats and guides Jo into it.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      This is enough to get you outta town, 
      away from Mom.  Find a farm, offer to 
      work for cheap for a while.  Don’t tell 
      anyone about this place--

               JO
      I’m not leaving--

Jo refuses to get in the boat.

               AIDEN
      I said you couldn’t stay here.  You saw 
      me, but don’t remember this place.  

                                       41.

               JO
      I like it here.  I don’t understand-

               AIDEN
      It’s not what you think.  I can’t be 
      responsible if something happens to you.  
      Now go. 

Jo steps into the boat.

               JO
      Nothing is going to happen to me.

               AIDEN
      I said go.


Jo starts to climb out of the boat.  Aiden FIRES A BULLET 
near Jo, making Jo drop low in the boat.  Jo looks back up 
at Aiden.

               JO
      You’re my brother.

Jo stares at Aiden with tears welling in his eyes.  

               AIDEN
      That wasn’t my choice.  

This is the one that stings Jo.  Jo studies Aiden, then 
pulls a paddle from the boat.  

Aiden runs back into the woods.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Aiden walks back to their team’s home base and fights back 
the emotion.  From behind, Timmy points his GUN at Aiden’s 
head.

Aiden stops while Animal snatches Aiden’s flag.

               TIMMY DIRT
      We win, bitch.

All of the boys come out from hiding and walk back toward 
the Shelter.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      You shot my boy, here.  

Lil’ Snack limps through the woods.

                                       42.

               COWBOY
      Where’s Jo?

               AIDEN
      He’s out. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      Told ya he was gonna puss out.

               AIDEN
      Yeah.  Fuck him.

The DINNER BELL CLANGS in the distance.  The Boys run to 
it.

INT.  CHOW HALL - NIGHT

Forrester’s boys are in the middle of a late night dinner.  
They talk LOUDLY as they brag about the game.  Forrester 
and Z sit a table across the room.   

               TIMMY DIRT
      Alright, alright, but who’s team won?

               COWBOY
      Let’s not forget who got shot in the 
      fuckin’ leg?

               TIMMY DIRT
           (mimics)
      Lil’ Snack came limpin’ through the woods 
      like--

The DOOR SWINGS OPEN.  Jo walks in.  

Everyone turns to look at him.  No one says anything.  
Aiden is surprised and upset to see Jo. 

Jo rips off his red flag that no one captured.

               JO
      Were you fuckers just gonna leave me out 
      there?

A beat.  All of the Boys LAUGH at Jo.  Jo walks to Aiden 
and stands before the table.

               FORRESTER
      Get him a plate.

Jo squeezes in between Aiden and Timmy.  Jo and Aiden look 
at each other.  Jo isn’t going anywhere.  

                                       43.

EXT.  POND - DAY

The boys take turns swinging from a rope and dropping into 
the water.  Deacon swings from the rope but is too afraid 
to let go.  The boys YELL for Deacon to drop into the 
water.

On a nearby bank, partially obscured by weeds and foliage, 
Forrester sits against a tree, barefoot with his flannel 
shirt open.  He’s buried in a book.  The pages are dog-
eared like he’s been studying it.  Even though he is 
relaxing, his presence is scary.

SPLASH! Deacon finally drops into the water in front of 
Forrester but Forrester is unflinching, nose deep in the 
book.

TWO MEN approach the pond, a pair of brothers, RJ and 
GARRET TIPTON, two scary, intense metal heads.  

Forrester’s eyes shift to Tipton Brothers.  Then back to 
his book.

Jo clocks how unnerved the Boys are by the Tipton brothers 
as they stop playing and climb out of the pond.

               RJ
      Easy.  We’re not here to hurt nobody.  
      Are we Garret?

               GARRET
      I don’t reckon.

Forrester SNAPS his book shut.

He stands in front of the Boys, defensive and annoyed.

               RJ
      We had an agreement.  
           (beat)
      You got three more weeks to make good on 
      that.  When your family shows up short, 
      one ounce, two ounces.  Makes no 
      difference.  Does it Garret?

               GARRET
      Nope.

               FORRESTER
      You thinkin’ of biting the hand that fed 
      you?  ‘Cause I don’t play by those rules.

                                       44.

               RJ
      Rules are changin’.
           (beat)
      Keep those bags full. 

Forrester and the boys watch RJ and Garret disappear back 
through the woods.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

The boys and Forrester walk back through the woods.  Jo 
lags behind with Aiden.

               JO
      What was that about?

               AIDEN
      Neighbors.


EXT.  GARDEN - DAY

Deacon and Jo pick cabbage.  Forrester watches over them.  
They have a couple full wagons.  Aiden interrupts.

               AIDEN
      We’re ready.


Forrester nods to a wagon.  Aiden pulls it away.

               FORRESTER
      Take Jo with you.

               AIDEN
      I have Timmy and Animal.

Forrester stares at Aiden.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon, Jo.

EXT.  WOODS - WOODEN SHACKS - CONTINUOUS

Jo follows Aiden to four familiar shacks half a mile from 
the Shelter.  Jo has been here before when he first 
climbed out of Z’s truck.

               AIDEN
      This is where we work.  

                                       45.

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      We get supplies, cook, break and weigh 
      it.  You’ll start out packaging it.  We 
      supply for two distributors.  You’ll only 
      meet them when Forrester sends you on an 
      exchange.  The distributor sells to 
      people in the county.  It keeps some 
      income circulating for us but it’s not 
      what we’re about.

               JO
      Is that who those guys from the other 
      night are?  

               AIDEN
      They help us move stuff and take a 
      percentage. 

               JO
      Why were they mad?

               AIDEN
      Forrester was behind on product for the 
      Tipton brothers to sell and never caught 
      up on his debts.

               JO
      What if the police catch you?

               AIDEN
      They won’t. 

               JO
      Is this how you have all of that cash--

               AIDEN
      That’s between us.  I might not always be 
      living here and when I’m ready to go, 
      we’ll be set up.  

Aiden takes Jo outside to a couple wagons packed with 
cabbage from the gardens.  Aiden reaches underneath the 
cabbage heads, pulls back a flat piece of ply wood, 
revealing plastic bags of meth beside wads of CASH.  

EXT.  FEW MILES OUTSIDE OF THE SHELTER - DUSK

Jo, Aiden, Timmy, Animal, Cowboy, Deacon and Lil’ Snack 
cut through the woods and weave around each other on the 
back of DIRT BIKES.

                                       46.

               AIDEN
	(V.O.)
      We go into a town near Wolf Pen, about an 
      hour out.  We never go further than Wolf 
      Pen.  

EXT.  LAKE - CONTINUOUS 

Two small row boats are parked at shore.  The boys park 
their dirt bikes along the bank and climb inside the boat.

They row across the expansive lake.

               AIDEN
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Only drifters and seasonal hunters are in 
      Wolf Pen so there’s little chance of 
      getting caught.

EXT.  A TOWN - NIGHT

Timmy and Aiden lead the boys to a PHARMACY.  Cowboy stays 
outside at the door. 

               AIDEN
	(V.O.)
      Take a lot of everything. We can’t knock 
      off the same place for a few months 
      later.

Timmy pulls a heavy stone from his bag and launches the 
ROCK INTO A STORE WINDOW.

A SECURITY ALARM WHOOPS as the boys climb through the 

INT.  PHARMACY - CONTINUOUS

Aiden and Jo stuff BATTERIES into their backpacks. 

Timmy uses a small DRILL from his bag to unlock the 
prescriptions area.  He packs VICODIN, OXYCONTIN, small 
orange bottles and syringes into his bag.

Jo hears SIRENS, stops moving.

               COWBOY
	(O.S.)
      Gotta go.


Timmy climbs out a window.

A COP nears the entrance doors.  Jo stands, unsure what to 
do.  Aiden goes to the window.  

                                       47.

               AIDEN
      Jo!

               TIMMY DIRT
	(O.S.)
      Come on.

               AIDEN
      Hurry up.




Aiden climbs out the window.

EXT.  PHARMACY - CONTINUOUS

Aiden falls to the ground from the window, joining Timmy.  
They start to leave but Aiden waits for Jo.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Fuck it, let’s roll.  He’ll be fine.

Aiden leaves with Timmy. 

INT.  PHARMACY - CONTINUOUS 

Jo knocks over an aisle divider and climbs it to window 
and throws himself outside.

EXT.  ALLEY - CONTINUOUS 

Jo ducks in the alley until the SIRENS PASS.  He steps 
from hiding and spots the woods in the distance.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS 

Jo runs until he sees the lake.  Aiden, Timmy and Cowboy 
are already in the boats.  

Jo jumps in the water.  

EXT.  LAKE - CONTINUOUS

Jo swims to the boats and Aiden pulls him in.

EXT.  WOODS - METH LAB STATIONS - DAY

Jo helps Aiden and Timmy unload stolen supplies from the 
pharmacy: tubes, pill bottles, trays.  They unload plastic 
barrels from Z’s truck. 

                                       48.

INT.  METH LABS LAB - NIGHT 

Z and the other boys measure ingredients and set timers.  
Aiden helps Jo and Deacon pack meth into small plastic 
bags.  

Jo drops a bag of product.  

He tries to scrape it back into the bag but most of it 
falls between the cracks of the floor boards.  He looks 
around.  No one sees it.

He panics, scraping the spilled drugs into the cracks.

EXT.  GARDEN - DAY 

Jo, Deacon and Lil’ Snack pull heads of cabbage from the 
garden and load them into a small wagon.

EXT.  WOODS - METH LAB STATIONS - CONTINUOUS

Jo and Aiden load the drugs into the bottom layer of the 
wagon and cover it with a pile of cabbage.

               AIDEN
      Did you count it?

               JO
      It’s all there.

EXT.  TIPTON PROPERTY - DAY

Aiden unloads the wagon and Jo stacks the product near the 
an old, vandalized SCHOOL BUS with the bus doors open.  
Garret cleans his gun on top of the bus, glancing at Jo.

As Jo stacks the product, he notices other plastic bags of 
product are stacked inside the bus.  The product is a 
different coloring than Forrester’s product and wrapped in 
different packaging.  

Jo moves closer to it, trying to investigate further.

               AIDEN
	(O.S.)
      Jo, let’s go.


Jo finishes unloading the product, taking one last glance 
at the Tipton’s stash.  He walks back to Aiden.

                                       49.

               RJ
      Forrester still giving out twenty five 
      cents on every dollar?

               AIDEN
      More than that.

               RJ
      Used to seem like a lot to me too.

               AIDEN
      Forrester took care of you and you 
      screwed him over.

RJ places a revolver underneath Aiden’s chin.

               RJ
      That how he sees it?  
           (beat)
      Where’s Forrester now, Shelter boy?

A LOUD POP from Garret’s gun.  Aiden FLINCHES.  Opens his 
eyes, realizing he’s still alive in RJ’s grip.

               RJ
	(CONT’D)
      Let me know when you don’t wanna be 
      someone’s boy no more.

RJ releases him.  Jo and Aiden leave.

EXT.  SHELTER - NIGHT

The Boys celebrate around a fire.  MUSIC blasts from the 
speakers as some of the Boys dance and smoke.  Aiden sits 
with Jo. 

               JO
      Did those brothers used to live here?

               AIDEN
      Supposedly they grew up here and when 
      they hit eighteen, they broke out on 
      their own.  

               JO
      I’d go with you.

               AIDEN
      I think you’d go anywhere with me.

                                       50.

               JO
      Not back to Old Mick’s.

               AIDEN
      Yeah no shit.  That place smelled like 
      piss. 

They both LAUGH. 

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      Old Mick’s, Mom’s, the whole dump is just 
      a reminder that I’m nothin’.  I don’t 
      ever wanna see it again. 

Jo studies Aiden. 

Nearby, Forrester sits on a ROCK and rolls some weed for 
the boys and passes it around but Forrester never smokes 
it.  Forrester passes it to Jo.  This is an intimate 
moment between them. 

               FORRESTER
      How do you like it?

               JO
           (coughing)
      Strong.

               FORRESTER
      The Shelter.

               JO
      I love it here.  

Forrester studies Jo.

               FORRESTER
      I want to give you something.

INT.  BARN - CONTINUOUS

Jo sits on a hay bale beside a travel tattoo machine.  
Forrester wipes the needle with his handkerchief.  

               FORRESTER
      I know that people have failed you.  
      People have failed me too.  But you have 
      to let it go or it eats at you like a 
      poison.  Let the pain go.  

Forrester twists the needle and tightens it down.

                                       51.

               JO
      What’s that?

Forrester FLIPS the switch on the machine.  The tattoo gun 
BUZZES.  Jo lurches back as the BUZZING needle nears his 
face and cuts his tender flesh.  

               FORRESTER
      Go away from the pain.
           (holds Jo in place)
      Train your mind.  

Jo focuses on a nearby dirt bike as Forrester tattoos him.  
The sound of the WHIRRING NEEDLE goes silent as Jo goes to 
a place in his mind that is quiet and clear.  

Forrester finishes the tattoo and stands Jo in front of a 
side mirror on the dirt bike.  Jo studies TWO TEARS 
tattooed on his face. 

Forrester hands Jo his flask.  

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Now you’re my family. 

Jo takes a sip.

From the barn entrance, Aiden peeks.  It hurts him to see 
Forrester close with another boy.  He runs away.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Aiden runs through the woods until he reaches the lake.

EXT.  DOCK - CONTINUOUS

Aiden stashes more money in his secret tool kit.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Aiden walks back to the Shelter but sees a FIGURE 
barreling through the woods.  The figure moves closer to 
reveal ANIMAL-- bloody face, shaking hands, BROKEN 
FINGERS.  He drops to Aiden’s feet, WAILING in pain. 

               AIDEN
      Who did this to you?

               ANIMAL
      We shorted the Tiptons.  It hurts so 
      fucking bad.  My pocket.

                                       52.

Animal motions to his pocket and Aiden pulls a note from 
it.

EXT.  SHELTER - NIGHT

Forrester stands before the boys and reads the note to 
himself: TWO BAGS SHORT.  48 HOURS.  He rips it to pieces 
and throws it down. 

               FORRESTER
           (yells into the woods)
      This ain’t how it’s done!  You hear me? 

Jo watches Animal in pain and feels tremendous guilt.  He 
steps forward. 

               JO
      I did it. 
           (beat)
      I spilled two bags.

               AIDEN
      He means we were two short in the lab.

               FORRESTER
      What?

               AIDEN
      I was distracted.  I shorted Jo’s wagon.  

               JO
      I was short.  Not him.

               AIDEN
      Shut up, Jo.  You don’t know what you’re 
      talking about.

               FORRESTER
      What happened?
           (to Aiden)
      You.

Timmy glares at Aiden.  He knows that Aiden is covering 
for Jo. 

               AIDEN
      We messed up in the lab.  I take 
      responsibility for it.  It won’t happen 
      again--  

                                       53.

               FORRESTER
      You think this is a game?  This is how 
      you eat, son.  This is a special set up 
      you have here--

               AIDEN
           (resentful)
      Not special enough.

Forrester grabs a handful of dirt.

               FORRESTER
      This place isn’t special enough for you?

               AIDEN
      That’s not what I meant-

               FORRESTER
      You wanna eat this?  I give you more than 
      this.  When you short them two bags, your 
      lack of attention to detail shorts all of 
      us.
           (beat)
      Tim.

Timmy looks at Forrester.  Forrester keeps his eye on 
Aiden as he hands Timmy the clump of dirt.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Feed him.

Timmy carries the handful of dirt to Aiden.  Aiden looks 
to Forrester.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      No one else is going to eat it.  I want 
      you to feel really special. 

Aiden puts his mouth on the dirt.

Timmy shoves it in Aiden’s face.  The boys watch in 
disgust as Aiden devours the dirt, choking and swallowing 
it.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Do you appreciate the food and life you 
      have here?

               AIDEN
           (choking)
      Yes.  I’m sorry.

                                       54.

               FORRESTER
           (re: boys)
      Don’t apologize to me, apologize to them.

               AIDEN
           (choking)
      I’m sorry.

Forrester nods to Timmy.  Timmy releases Aiden.  Aiden 
spits out some dirt.  Forrester holds Animal’s battered 
hands and walks him to the barns.

Once Forrester is out of sight, Jo tries to comfort Aiden 
but Timmy pushes him away.

               TIMMY DIRT
      You’ve done enough.  

Aiden walks away with Timmy.

INT.  ELDER BARN - LOFT - NIGHT

Jo wakes to CRYING below.  He sneaks from his bed and 
peeks downstairs: Forrester cleans Aiden’s dirty, bruised 
face. 

               FORRESTER
      I make an example of you because I know 
      you can handle it.  I can’t be this tough 
      on the others.  

EXT.  SHELTER - METH LAB STATION - DAY

Aiden packs bags of product into two wagons.  When the 
wagons are full, Jo stacks cabbage onto the product, 
concealing it.

               JO
      I’m sorry.

Aiden stops.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      I never meant to get you in trouble.

Aiden packs in the last bag and starts back for the lab.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Aiden and Timmy pull the wagons.  Jo and Deacon follow 
them.  

                                       55.

They reach a back road that snakes off the main road into 
a dark, narrow holler.  A dumpy TRAILER surrounded by 
weeds is visible, just off to the side of the holler.     

               TIMMY DIRT
      Who’s goin’?


Deacon keeps his head down.  Jo steps forward.

Timmy pulls a SINGLE-ACTION REVOLVER from the back of his 
pants.  He flicks open the cylinder.  It’s loaded with 
five rounds.  Spins and SNAPS it back.  He knows his way 
with a gun.  He hands it to Deacon.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      If you have to.

Deacon takes the gun by the barrel, holding it with both 
hands.

Aiden and Timmy walk through the back road hollow, pulling 
the wagons.  Jo follows them, leaving Deacon at the edge 
of the road with the revolver.

Aiden and Timmy lead Jo to the trailer.  A CHEVY EL CAMINO 
with tinted windows is parked beside the trailer.

               AIDEN
      Think they’ve been here long?

               TIMMY DIRT
      We’re here now.

Jo helps Aiden and Timmy and remove the cabbage heads,  
revealing product packed into the wagons.  

               AIDEN
      Wait here.


Aiden and Timmy pull the wagons to the trailer and KNOCK.  
The door swings open.  Aiden and Timmy load the wagons 
inside, leaving Jo beside the El Camino in the front yard.  

EXT.  ROAD - AN HOUR LATER

The boys walk away from the trailer, pulling the wagons 
along the road.  

Behind them, a CAR approaches and coasts alongside them.  
TWO TEENAGE GUYS, 18 and 19, with a case of beer, stick 
their heads out the window and speak with a drunken slur.

                                       56.

               PASSENGER
      Can I buy some cabbage?

               TIMMY DIRT
      You couldn’t afford it.

               PASSENGER
      Come on, give us some cabbage.

               DRIVER
      What’s with the tattoos?  
           (laughing)
      Where can I get one of those?

Timmy throws a hard look at the drunk Passenger.  The boys 
keep walking.

The Passenger CHUCKS a beer can at Aiden.  Timmy drops the 
wagon handle.

               PASSENGER
      Didn’t see you there, man.

The Driver stops the car, gets out and walks to Timmy and 
Aiden.  Jo and Deacon stay close to the wagons. 

               DRIVER
      What are you doing with wagons of 
      cabbage?

               PASSENGER
      They’re goat-fuckin’ farm kids.

The Teenage Guys LAUGH at them.  The Driver grabs for a 
head of cabbage but Timmy steps in front of him. 

               DRIVER
      Can’t you spare one?

The Passenger CHUCKS another beer can out the window.

               DRIVER
	(CONT’D)
      Give you a beer for one.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Sure.


Jo, Aiden and Deacon look at each other.

Timmy reaches for a head of cabbage.  Turns back toward 
the Driver.  BLAM! Throws a FIST into the Driver’s face.  
BLOOD SPURTS! BUSTING him right in the nose.  The Driver 
WAILS in pain and slumps onto the hood of the car.

                                       57.

The Passenger leaps from the car to defend his friend.  As 
he barrels toward Timmy and Aiden, he knocks over a wagon, 
spilling cabbage heads and revealing bound wads of CASH.

The Driver and Passenger clock the money.

               PASSENGER
      ‘The fuck?


Jo scrambles to pack the cabbage back into the wagon.

The Passenger lunges for Timmy.  Jo drops the cabbage and 
joins Aiden at Timmy’s side.

In an instant, Aiden, Jo, Timmy and the Passenger are in a 
messy brawl, pushing, throwing sloppy punches at each 
other.  The Passenger draws back his fist at Jo- 

               DEACON
	(O.S.)
      Get back in the car.

Everyone freezes.  They turn back to see Deacon aiming the 
revolver at the Passenger.

               DEACON
	(CONT’D)
      Get back.  

The Passenger looks at Deacon.  Looks back to Timmy, Aiden 
and Jo staring at him.  He slowly steps back, helps his 
friend into the car. 

               JO
      You heard him. 

The Passenger jumps back into his seat and SLAMS his door.  
The guys speed away through the holler and out of sight.

Aiden, Jo and Timmy stare at Deacon.

               AIDEN
      Holy shit, Deac.

               JO
      What the hell was that?

Deacon lowers the gun.  Timmy walks to Deacon and takes 
the revolver, flicking the cylinder.  It’s empty.  

Deacon pulls five bullets from his pocket.

               DEACON
      It’s not like I was gonna kill anybody.

The boys burst out LAUGHING.  

                                       58.

Timmy grabs the bullets from Deacon.  He loads the 
revolver and tucks it in his pants.  Jo, Aiden and Deacon 
finish loading the spilled cabbage into the wagon.

The boys walk along the road together in the direction of 
the Shelter. 

INT.  CHOW HALL - DAY

Jo sits with Aiden, Cowboy, Deacon, Timmy, Animal and Lil’ 
Snack.  They whisper so that Forrester can’t hear them 
across the room.  Timmy speaks excitedly as he recounts 
the story.

               TIMMY DIRT
           (mimics Deacon)
      He raised the gun like this.  “Get in the 
      car,”  Those fuckers sped off and I 
      opened the cylinder-
           (smacks Deacon’s arm)
      This dipshit took out all of the bullets.

The Boys LAUGH along with Timmy.  Jo looks at Deacon who 
isn’t laughing with them.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      I’m telling you guys, if I hadn’t popped 
      that fuckin’ guy, we would have been 
      fucked. 

               JO
      But he got rid of them.  Didn’t you Deac?

Deacon perks up a little.

               TIMMY DIRT
      With an empty gun.

Timmy mimics Deacon swatting at the boys with an empty 
gun.  As Timmy fake-hits Animal and Cowboy, all of the 
Boys LAUGH.  Except Deacon and Jo.

               JO
      We get it.

Timmy stops joking with the Boys, sharing a hard look with 
Jo.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      You told the story ten times. 

Forrester stands to clear his plate.  Jo and Deacon 
follow. 

                                       59.

INT.  TRUCK - NIGHT

Cowboy drives while Aiden, Jo, Timmy, Deacon and Animal 
ride in the truck bed and bust mailboxes with a baseball 
bat.  Animal’s broken hand is still wrapped.  They are 
deep in farm country with very little chances of getting 
caught. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      You’re up.


Deacon refuses the bat.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      Did all the action at the drop wear you 
      out?

               DEACON
      I just don’t want to.

Aiden hits the next mail box.  Hands the bat to Jo but Jo 
refuses it.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Maybe if I gave you a fuckin’ glock, you 
      could swat a mailbox with that.

               JO
      Lay off.

               ANIMAL
      Be sure to take the bullets out first.

               JO
      Shut up, Animal.

Timmy CRACKS another mail box, hands it to Deacon.  Again, 
Deacon refuses.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      He said no once.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Don’t you make your own decisions, Deac?  
      Or does Jo control when you can sleep and 
      jack off too?  Maybe we should just drop 
      Jo off right now.

               JO
      Yeah, maybe you should.

Timmy lowers the bat, sharing a hard look with Jo.

                                       60.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Know what I think?

               TIMMY DIRT
      What’s that?


               JO
      I think you’re jealous that Deacon got 
      rid of those guys, not you.  And he 
      didn’t have to bust his hand to do it.

All of the boys look back and forth between Timmy and Jo.  

               TIMMY DIRT
      If you wanna go, go.  But I’m not 
      threatened by Deacon.

They stop at another mail box at the end of a long gravel 
drive.  Jo takes the bat from Timmy.  CRACKS the mailbox 
off the post in one clean swing. 

Jo drops the bat at Timmy’s feet.

               JO
      Maybe I’m the threat. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      Cowboy.  Hook a right.

The truck pulls onto a main road.  

Timmy points out a gas station in the distance.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      Pull up.

               JO
      This is stupid.  We’re gonna get caught.  

EXT.  GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS 

Cowboy drives closer to the gas pumps. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      Closer.

               DEACON
      We shouldn’t be here.

               JO
      You’re the fuckin’ shit, Tim.  We get it.  
      Let’s get outta here.  Aiden, talk to 
      him.

                                       61.

Cowboy drives past a MAN pumping gas, closing in on him.  
Timmy brings the bat way back behind his shoulders, 
holding it in place.  

               TIMMY DIRT
      Ten points.


WOOSH!  He swings the bat, CRACKING the Man in the head.  

Deacon SCREAMS.  

Cowboy PEELS out of the gas station, burning rubber. 

Aiden and Jo are horrified and duck down in the truck.  
Animal and Lil’ Snack are momentarily frozen.  Timmy sits 
back down in the truck, holding the blood-stained bat.

               ANIMAL
      Holy shit.

               AIDEN
      Go, go, go!

               DEACON
      Oh my god, oh my god.

               JO
      What the fuck.

               AIDEN
      Go!  Drive!


Jo sees a SMEAR OF THE RED on the tail gate.  He touches 
it, confirming it’s the MAN’S BLOOD.  He frantically wipes 
it back onto the truck.

               DEACON
      Oh my god, oh my god.

               JO
      Pull over.

Cowboy speeds faster, turning onto the first back road 
they pass. 

               DEACON
      Is he dead?


Nobody responds.  Timmy drops the bat at Jo’s feet.

                                       62.

INT.  ELDER BARN - NIGHT

Jo, Aiden, Cowboy and Animal sit wide-eyed and silent, 
processing what just happened.  Nobody speaks.  Deacon 
rests his head on Jo’s lap, CRYING as Jo comforts him.

Across the loft, Timmy listens to music through his head 
phones.  He gives Jo a long stare, a mischievous grin 
forms. 

INT.  METH LAB STATIONS - DAY

Z watches over the boys as they cook and package the 
drugs, paying close attention to their every detail.  
Deacon breaks the meth obsessively until it’s almost a 
fine powder.

               Z
      What’s this?


Z throws it out.

               DEACON
      Sorry.

               Z
      Don’t be sorry.  Get it right.  This is 
      our last drop to catch us up. 

               JO
           (to Deacon)
      You okay?

Timmy eyes Jo, then bumps into him as he passes.

               TIMMY DIRT
      I’m gonna fuck you up.

               JO
      Go to hell, Dirt.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Would love to.

EXT.  METH LAB STATIONS - CONTINUOUS

Jo and Deacon pack the wagon.  Jo notices Deacon’s shaking 
hands.

               DEACON
      We should’ve gone back.  

                                       63.

               JO
      It’s over so just forget it.

               DEACON
      We killed that guy.

               JO
      Stuff goes down all the time here, why 
      are you acting like this now?

               DEACON
      We don’t kill people.  Do we?

Jo considers this, affected by this question.

               JO
           (re: drugs)
      It’s all there.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT

Aiden and Timmy pull wagons through the woods.  Deacon and 
Jo lag behind with rifles for the lookout.

Timmy drops the wagon handle and veers off into the woods 
to pee.  Aiden and Jo follow.

               TIMMY DIRT
           (to Deacon)
      Stay with the stuff.

Deacon waits with the wagons. 

EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT  

Aiden and Timmy pull the wagons.  Deacon and Jo wait in 
the woods.  

Timmy turns back to Deacon.

               TIMMY
      You wanna go with me?

               DEACON
      Me?

               TIMMY DIRT
      Yeah.

               AIDEN
      What are you doing?

                                       64.

               TIMMY DIRT
      He’s never been.  Gotta learn sometime.  
      You cool with it?

               AIDEN
      Yeah.  I’m cool.

Timmy leads Deacon onto the road toward the Tipton 
property.

EXT.  WOODS - LATER THAT NIGHT

Jo and Aiden watch the road with their rifles ready.

               JO
      Something’s wrong.

               AIDEN
      Shut up.

               JO
      He hates Deacon.  Let’s walk to the sign 
      and check.

Jo hears the sound of a wagon tracking across the gravel 
as Timmy comes into view.  Timmy and Aiden start walking 
back to the Shelter.  Jo rushes Deacon.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Everything okay?

               DEACON
      Yeah.

               JO
      I don’t think you should be going with 
      him. 

               DEACON
      He told me you’d say that.

               JO
      I don’t trust him--

               DEACON
      Why?  Because he picked me for once 
      instead of picking on me? 
           (beat)
      Let me handle myself, Jo.

Deacon pushes past Jo, joining Aiden and Timmy.

                                       65.

EXT.  SHELTER - NIGHT

The Boys wake to a GUNSHOT blowing out a window in the Big 
House.  The Boys, Forrester and Z run outside.

Garret Tipton steps into view and throws two bags of meth 
at Forrester’s feet. 

               GARRET
      There’s dog shit in that product.

Forrester opens one of the bags then pulls it away from 
his face because of the stench.

               GARRET
	(CONT’D)
      Think this is a game?  

               FORRESTER
      My boys wouldn’t do that.

               GARRET
      Deal’s off.


Z reaches for the gun tucked behind his belt but a BULLET 
from an unknown place WHIZZES past him.  Everyone stops, 
looking around for the shooter.  (RJ is firing shots from 
somewhere nearby in the surrounding woods.) 

               GARRET
	(CONT’D)
      Easy, RJ. 

               FORRESTER
      What’s that mean?

               GARRET
      Means we’re finished because you don’t 
      take paying your debts seriously.  You 
      might work with kids, but we don’t. 

               FORRESTER
      You don’t have any product without us.

               GARRET
      You think I can’t cook that skid row, low 
      grade shit?  I wrote the fuckin’ recipe.  
      We’re separate businesses now.
           (beat)
      Deal’s off. 

Garret turns his back on Forrester.  Forrester makes a 
grab for Z’s gun but is interrupted by a BULLET from RJ 
that grazes his arm.

                                       66.

The Boys and Z stop.  A moment of silence.  Everyone looks 
at each other.  Garret turns back, facing Forrester, 
clocking his blood-stained sleeve.  

Forrester does not flinch.  He looks at Garret, reading 
him.  The look chills Garret to the bone.  These men have 
history.  Garret’s expression shifts, recoiling a bit, 
then slowly steps backwards.  Then, he turns and runs back 
into the woods. 

Forrester holds the damaged product in the air.

               FORRESTER
      Who did this?


The Boys look at each other.

Timmy TACKLES Deacon.  Jo tries to pull Timmy off Deacon. 

               DEACON
      I didn’t do anything.

               TIMMY DIRT
      You’re lying.  I took him on his first 
      drop today.  I was just trying to help 
      him out.  He’s the only thing we did 
      differently.

               DEACON
      I didn’t do anything. 

               JO
      I packed the wagons.  Everything came 
      straight from the lab. 

               TIMMY DIRT
      He was the only one alone with it. 

               FORRESTER
           (to Jo)
      Is this true?

               TIMMY DIRT
      Tell him Jo.  He was the only one left 
      alone with the wagons.

               JO
      Fuck you.

               FORRESTER
      Was he?

               JO
      He’s doing this to get at me-

                                       67.

               FORRESTER
      Was he?

               JO
      Yeah, but-

Timmy charges Deacon in a quick blow, tackling him to the 
ground.  

The Boys are fascinated by the fight.  Jo lunges forward 
to stop the fight but Aiden restrains him.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      You set him up.  Stop it!

Timmy straddles Deacon, PUNCHING him until Deacon’s head 
goes limp.  Then, Timmy raises Deacon’s head in his hands 
and SLAMS it down, BANGING it against the ground.

Deacon squirms underneath Timmy, dirt CRUMBLING, FAINT 
WHIMPERS as he presses his hands against Timmy’s chest, 
but it only moves the fight closer to a pile of CINDER 
BLOCKS and SAND BAGS.  This fight is horrific.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      You won Timmy.  You win.

Timmy and Deacon are now a couple feet from the cinder 
blocks and sand bags.  Deacon moves his hands up to 
Timmy’s throat but he can’t push Timmy off him. 

Deacon stretches his arm out for help, his FINGERNAILS 
SCRATCHING against a sandbag, trying to hold onto 
something.  

Deacon’s eyes shift from the sand bag up to Jo.  

They lock eyes.

Jo pushes Aiden’s arm off him, unrestrained but not moving 
forward.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      He’s killing him.  
           (to Forrester)
      Do something.

Forrester looks at Jo, then folds his arms.

Deacon stops fighting back as Timmy raises his head one 
more time, holding it. 

His eyes shift up to Timmy, pleading, his mouth trying 
speak.

                                       68.

               DEACON
      I’m s-...sor-


He can barely get his voice to say it, then: 

Timmy CRACKS Deacon’s head down on the edge of a cinder 
block followed by a spatter of RED across Timmy’s face.

               JO
      DEACON!  

Jo drops to his knees, frozen.  

Silence in the circle.  Everybody stares at Deacon, 
processing, waiting...

Deacon doesn’t move. 

INT.  CHOW HALL - DAY

It’s quiet and mournful.  Boys sits at tables with food on 
their plates.  Forrester takes his first bite, the boys 
begin eating.  Jo eyes Deacon’s empty seat at the table.  
Picks up his tray and moves to the end of the table to sit 
alone.

A long beat.

Aiden leaves Timmy to sit with Jo.  

Forrester clocks this.  He stands with his drink.  

All eyes turn to Forrester.

               FORRESTER
      Deacon fought back.  He didn’t walk away.

Jo looks to Timmy.  Timmy picks dirt off his sneakers.  

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      We’ll remember him for his resilience 
      through a vigil to guard the Shelter. 

Jo walks out.  Aiden starts to go after him but Forrester 
motions for Aiden to let him go.

EXT.  SHELTER - LATER

The Boys guard the perimeter of the Shelter with their 
rifles.

                                       69.

               COWBOY
      What do the Tipton’s mean, “the deal’s 
      off”?

               ANIMAL
      Forrester must think they’re gonna try 
      something soon.

               AIDEN
           (to Jo)
      Are you okay?

               JO
      We didn’t even bury him.  

The Boys are quiet.  Nearby, Jo watches Forrester pick an 
ear of corn from the garden and walk to his house.   

Jo breaks from his duty and follows Forrester. 

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Timmy set him up to get at me.

               FORRESTER
      We can’t change anything now.  We all 
      lost him, Jo.

               JO
      Timmy didn’t.  Timmy doesn’t care.

               FORRESTER
      Why don’t you go on in the elder barn and 
      take some time for yourself.

Jo stops.  Forrester keeps walking toward his house.

               JO
      You let him die.

Forrester turns back, trying to restrain himself.

               FORRESTER
      So did you.


Jo watches Forrester walk up the hill and go into his 
house, closing the door behind him.

Jo crosses the fence and climbs the hill to Forrester’s 
house.  

From their perimeter spots, the Boys stare at Jo as he 
walks up the hill.

                                       70.

INT.  BIG HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The soft TICK-TOCK of a cuckoo clock on the wall.

Faded portraits from Afghanistan, postcards from Japan 
that are signed by women and kissed with lipstick, a bowl 
of copper chevrons and medallions.

In front of a huge window rests Forrester’s chair-- a 
lumpy, brown creaking leather chair with a bowl of peanut 
shells on the night stand beside it. 

From a window, Forrester watches Jo walk onto his porch.

EXT.  BIG HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 

Jo KNOCKS on the door.  

Forrester opens it, leaning against the door frame with 
suspenders strapped over his white undershirt.  He holds 
the ear of corn, SHAVING off flakes with his pocket knife 
and eating them. 

               JO
      Where did you take Deacon?

Forrester throws down the ear of corn and FLIPS his knife 
back into its sleeve. 

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Why can’t we bury him?

Forrester stares at Jo, reading him.  Jo takes one step 
back, but Forrester is quick.  He lunges at Jo, dragging 
him off the porch. 

Forrester drags Jo down the hill, holding a tight grip on 
his arm and shirt.  Jo squirms beside Forrester, trying 
gain his footing and free himself.

They reach the bottom of the hill.  

Forrester releases Jo, throwing him to the ground.  

Jo starts to get up but Forrester STAMPS his big, black 
boot on Jo’s chest, pinning him to the ground.

Jo looks around.  All of the Boys have left their post and 
gathered at the bottom of the hill.  Jo looks back to 
Forrester.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      You’re a murderer. 

                                       71.

Forrester looks at the Boys.

               FORRESTER
      Hold him.


All of the boys, except Aiden, hold Jo down to the ground.  
Aiden places a hand on Timmy, trying to stop him.  Timmy 
shrugs Aiden’s hand off him and helps the other boys 
restrain Jo.

Animal, Lil’ Snack and Cowboy look back at Aiden.  Aiden 
hesitates, then steps forward and helps them.

Jo tries to get up but he’s outnumbered.  He looks to 
Aiden but Aiden looks away.

Nearby, Aiden’s DIRT BIKE.

Forrester grabs the dirt bike.  He turns ON the ignition 
and lowers the SPINNING back tire of the dirt bike inches 
from Jo’s face. 

Jo feels the heat from the burning rubber as the sound 
ACCELERATES like a chain saw.  It’s the most intense sound 
VIBRATING in his ears.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      You’ll know things when I want you to 
      know them.

Forrester lowers it again.  The hot rubber SKIMS the tip 
of Jo’s nose, Jo turns his face to the side but his eye is 
wide on the tire.   

Aiden presses Jo’s arm against the ground, looking back 
and forth between the tire and Jo’s face, panicked, he 
releases Jo’s arm, refusing to be a part of it, but not 
stopping it.

Lil’ Snack holds Jo’s leg down, but looks away.  Timmy 
holds Jo’s other leg, grinning with fascination as the 
tire moves closer to Jo.

Finally, Forrester releases the gas in a cathartic MURMUR.  
He tosses the dirt bike back in the grass.  The Boys 
release Jo.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Get him off my lawn.

Aiden helps Jo off the ground.  

INT.  ELDER BARN - NIGHT

Aiden cleans the dirt and blood off Jo’s face.

                                       72.

               AIDEN
      You probably made it worse.

               JO
      He killed someone.  

               AIDEN
      I didn’t see you jump in the fight.

               JO
      I didn’t think Deacon wanted me to.

               AIDEN
      What am I supposed to do?

               JO
      Leave.  Right now.  Get out of here with 
      me.

               AIDEN
      Do you think we can walk out and not get 
      caught?  Timmy is already onto you.

               JO
      Then we get rid of him.  Without Timmy, 
      no more boys get killed here and it will 
      be easier for us to get away.

               AIDEN
      How would we get out?

Jo looks away, considering this.

               JO
      One last run.  The next time we leave for 
      supplies, we get rid of him, take your 
      savings, leave everything else behind and 
      get out.

Aiden considers this.  He continues washing Jo’s face.

               AIDEN
      I don’t know if I can do that to him.

               JO
      He’d do it to you.

Aiden stops.  A beat.  He looks back to Jo.

                                       73.

               AIDEN
      Next run. 


INT.  DAVIS’ OFFICE - POLICE STATION - DAY

CLOSE on photos of blown up pixilated faces of the Shelter 
Boys at the gas station.  

Davis and his partner BEN FORD hunch over a monitor and 
watch TAPE from the Shelter boys’ hit and run at the gas 
station.

               DAVIS
      There.

               FORD
      Telling me some boys in the boonies 
      killed this guy?

Ford pulls another photo with a clearer view of all the 
boys in the truck and compares it to a photo of AIDEN.

               DAVIS
      Sonofabitch.

               FORD
      Do we know him?

Davis pulls out a mug shot book filled with photos of 
missing kids.  Davis points to Aiden’s head shot with a 
photo of Jo beside him.  (This is the book Jo looked 
through in the beginning.  He’s now in it.) 

               DAVIS
      Remember the other missing kid, Jo?  Used 
      to hang around the station.

               FORD
      Looking for his dead brother, yeah.

Davis drags his finger back to Aiden’s mug shot. 

               DAVIS
      That’s his dead brother.

               FORD
      No shit.

               DAVIS
      Get me any information on the areas 
      surrounding that gas station.  Maps of 
      everything in a thirty mile radius.  

                                       74.

Davis stares at the other blurry images of boys in the 
truck.

EXT.  DOCKS - DAY

Timmy and Aiden take some of the rope from the boats that 
are tied to the dock.

               AIDEN
      How much do we need?

               TIMMY DIRT
      Enough to wrap around the barrels.  

Aiden cuts another piece of rope and tosses it to Timmy.

               AIDEN
      I’ll get this last one and catch up.

               TIMMY DIRT
      See you over there.

Aiden watches Timmy disappear into the woods.  He pulls 
some money from his pocket and stashes it in his secret 
tool kit beneath the dock.  Just as Aiden puts the kit 
back in place...

               TIMMY DIRT
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Hurry up, bitch.

Aiden spins back around, drops the tool kit.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      What’s that?

               AIDEN
      Tools.

               TIMMY DIRT
      For what?

               AIDEN
      In case something goes wrong on the 
      dolly.

Timmy knows Aiden is acting strange.  He’s curious about 
the kit.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Cool.

Aiden walks away.


                                       75.

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      Aren’t you bringing it?
           (picks it up first)
      I got it.

Aiden nervously watches Timmy carry his savings in the 
kit.

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

Jo, Timmy, Aiden and Cowboy climb into the bed of Z’s 
truck.  Jo sees Timmy carrying the tool kit.  Jo and Aiden 
share a hard look.  Forrester closes the tail gate.  Lil’ 
Snack and Animal stay behind with Forrester.  

               FORRESTER
      I’ll be here to unload when you get back.

INT.  TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Z drives the Boys through a holler.  The tension builds as 
the tool kit SLIDES around the truck bed.   

Finally, Aiden STAMPS his foot on the kit.  He picks it 
up.

               COWBOY
      How many batches you think this’ll cook?

               TIMMY DIRT
      It’s gonna be a good fuckin’ year boys.

EXT.  GRAVEL PARKING LOT - DAY 

Z stops the truck.  In the distance is a road kill 
compost: a silhouetted building in the middle of nowhere.  
One truck is parked outside the compost.  Several empty, 
plastic barrels are stacked against the compost.

The boys unload a METAL DOLLY from the truck.  Aiden keeps 
the tool kit with him.  

               AIDEN
      Watch the door.

Cowboy stakes the door while Jo, Timmy and Aiden go 
inside.

INT.  ROAD KILL COMPOST - CONTINUOUS 

Dark with no windows.  The back door is open.  One huge 
metal bin full of dead animals but we don’t see them.  

                                       76.

Beside it, plastic barrels are sealed shut and filled with 
the liquid remains that used to be the road kill.

Against a wall, Jo spots barrels marked “LYE” and goes to 
them.

Aiden shakes the ladder.  It’s wobbly.  He starts to climb 
with the tool kit but Timmy cuts him off.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Someone has to be up here to baby sit the 
      brothers.

Timmy grabs the tool kit but Aiden won’t let go of it. 

               TIMMY DIRT
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll probably need this, right?

Aiden shares a hard look with Timmy.  Timmy lets Aiden 
take the kit.

               AIDEN
      Go ahead. 


Jo and Aiden set the dolly beside the sodium hydroxide 
barrels.  

From the TOP OF THE LADDER-- Timmy sees a SHADOW near the 
back door and signals the boys.

ON THE GROUND FLOOR-- Jo and Aiden tilt the barrel and 
roll it on to the dolly.  They dolly the barrel to the 
front door and TAP.

Cowboy opens the door.

               COWBOY
      There’s a guy back there.

Jo and Aiden push the barrel out of the compost.

From the TOP OF THE LADDER-- Timmy opens the kit and sees 
the money.

AT THE FRONT DOOR-- Aiden and Jo hear a WORKER stamp out a 
cigarette, close the door and walk toward them.  Aiden 
nods to Jo.  They rush to the ladder.

From the bottom of the ladder, Aiden motions for Jo to 
wait as the BACK DOOR CLOSES followed by the sound of 
FOOTSTEPS.  

Aiden looks up and clocks Timmy staring at his savings in 
the opened kit.  Timmy and Aiden share a hard look.

                                       77.

               TIMMY DIRT
      Think you’re leaving us, bitch?

Aiden looks to Jo, nods.  

Together, they push the ladder, knocking Timmy to the 
floor and dislocating his leg.   

Aiden runs to Timmy.  Timmy tries to stand but he can’t.  
He touches his head, a gash from the fall.  

Aiden GRABS his money and Timmy’s gun.  He WHIPS Timmy in 
the face with the gun and runs away just as the Worker 
catches them. 

               WORKER
      Who the hell are you?

The Worker pulls out his phone, keeping Timmy pinned to 
the ground and watching Jo and Aiden escape through the 
back door.  

               WORKER
	(CONT’D)
      Hey! 

EXT.  ROAD KILL COMPOST - BACK SIDE - CONTINUOUS

Jo and Aiden burst out the back door with Aiden’s savings.  
Jo looks around.  Against the compost, a pile of cinder 
blocks.  Jo drags a couple cinder blocks against the door 
and runs into the field.

               AIDEN
      The lake’s back that way.

               JO
      We’ll cut through the woods. 

Aiden and Jo run through the field.  Twenty meters ahead, 
the wood line.  

They run faster.  Ten meters.  Seven.  Almost.  

Behind them, Z’s truck cuts across the field. In the truck 
bed, Cowboy waves for them to stop.

Aiden stops.  Jo is at the wood line.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Keep going!

The truck reaches Aiden and Jo.

                                       78.

               COWBOY
      Where are you going?

               AIDEN
      We couldn’t get out the front door.

               Z
      Get in!


Aiden looks at Jo.  Looks back at Z.  He climbs into the 
truck bed.  Behind them, the Worker escapes the back door 
of the compost.

Jo runs to the truck, climbing inside with Aiden.

               COWBOY
      Where’s Timmy?

               AIDEN
      They caught him.

Z tears across the field.  Jo looks at the wood line and 
it grows further and further away from them. 

EXT.  METH LAB STATIONS - NIGHT 

As Z’s truck approaches the labs, Forrester stands, 
waiting on them.  

Jo and Aiden help unload the barrel of sodium hydroxide 
from the truck.  Aiden keeps the tool kit with him without 
drawing attention to it. 

               FORRESTER
      How’d it go?

               Z
      We had some trouble.

               FORRESTER
      Where’s Tim?

               Z
      I wasn’t in there but boys are saying he 
      got caught.

               FORRESTER
      What do you mean he got caught?

               AIDEN
      We lost Tim.


                                       79.

Forrester pulls a smashed, cigarette pack from his back 
pocket.  He TAPS it repeatedly in his palm as he stares at 
Aiden.  

Aiden recoils, shifting his eyes to the ground.

INT.  BIG HOUSE - DAY

Jo and Aiden are seated on the couch.  Forrester pulls a 
sharp, steel FIRE POKER from the coal stove.

               FORRESTER
      Why didn’t you help your fallen comrade?

               AIDEN 
      I’m sorry.

               FORRESTER
           (to Aiden)
      You’re his partner.   

               AIDEN
      It happened so fast.

Forrester raises a hand to cut him off.

Forrester probes the orange and black ash in the stove 
then roasts the fire poker in the flames.  He tilts the 
poker, making sure every side is scalding HOT.

He pulls the poker from the stove.

               FORRESTER
      It’s important to know who we can and 
      cannot depend upon in the field.  

Forrester sits in his chair and tests the fire poker 
against the edge of his wooden table.  The hot poker 
SIZZLES into the wood.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Ring the dinner bell.

Aiden and Jo share a quizzical look.  Then, Aiden rises.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Not you.

Aiden sits down.  Jo goes to the door.  Stops.

               JO
      It’s my fault too.

                                       80.

               FORRESTER
      Ring the bell.

               JO
      I let you down--

               AIDEN
      Ring the bell, Jo.

Jo flees from the house.

EXT.  BIG HOUSE PORCH - CONTINUOUS

As Jo runs down to the bottom of the hill with Aiden’s 
horrific SCREAMS behind him.

Jo reaches the dinner bell and CLANGS it.

INT.  CHOW HALL - NIGHT 

All of the boys sit in front of their plates in silence.  
Forrester, Aiden and Timmy are missing.

The chow hall doors swing open.  Forrester walks in with 
BLACK ASH all over his hands as he piles food onto a 
plate.

He takes a BITE.  The boys eat.

INT.  ELDER BARN - LATER THAT NIGHT 

All of the boys are tucked in their bunks asleep.  Jo 
notices that Aiden’s bunk is empty.

INT. HORSE STABLES - CONTINUOUS  

On the front of the barn is a sign that reads “KEEP OUT.”

Jo enters.  He follows WHIMPERS past the vacant stalls.

               JO
      Aiden?  Aiden, is that you?

Jo peeks between the boards.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      What did he do to you?

Aiden’s face is marked with charred ash and dried blood 
from the fire poker that has been branded on his face.

                                       81.

               AIDEN
      The tool kit is still in Z’s truck.

               JO
      We can’t stay here.  Are you okay--

               AIDEN
      All that matters is you put the tool kit 
      back. 

Jo tries to pry back some of the boards on the stall.  
Aiden looks over Jo’s shoulder then moves to the back of 
the stall.

Jo turns around.  Forrester stands, having just entered 
the barn. 

INT.  BIG HOUSE - NIGHT

Forrester sits in his chair across from Jo.

               FORRESTER
      You’d do anything for him, wouldn’t you?
           (beat)
      It was that same loyalty that moved me to 
      let you stay here. 

               JO
      Let him out. 

               FORRESTER
      Aiden can go whenever he chooses.

               JO
      Is that why he’s locked up?

               FORRESTER
      Let him go.  See if he leaves.  

Forrester leans back, studying Jo.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      I like you, Jo.  Always did.

Jo stands, defiant and ready for a fight.  Forrester 
remains calm, watching Jo’s expression shift into a 
sincere plea. 

Jo holds out his hand.  

               JO
      Let us go.

                                       82.

Forrester looks at Jo’s hand.  He doesn’t shake it. 

               FORRESTER
      You’re in the gardens this week.

EXT.  DOCKS - NIGHT

Jo hides the tool kit full of Aiden’s savings underneath 
the dock.

EXT.  GARDENS - DAY 

Jo picks corn from the gardens.  He’s covered in sweat and 
dirt after a long day of work.  From the small field of 
corn husks, he can see the

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS 

A patrol car creeps into the holler, past the boys.  
DETECTIVE KENT DAVIS and his partner, DETECTIVE BEN FORD 
step from the car.

               DAVIS
      Morning.


They show identification to Lil’ Snack and Animal.

               FORD
      You boys live here?

Ford nudges Davis, directing his attention to the coal 
sheds.   Davis looks around at the wagons full of cabbage.  
When he turns back, Lil’ Snack and Deacon are gone.

From the top of the hill, Forrester pulls on a shirt and 
walks down the steps.

               FORRESTER
      Can I help you?

               DAVIS
      Detective Davis with state 
      investigations.  This is my partner, 
      Detective Ford.

               FORRESTER
      Something wrong?

Davis looks around, clocking the situation.  He sees 
bikes, a boy’s sneaker, beer bottles, remnants of tenants 
but no people.

Davis holds up photos of Timmy Dirt prior to living at the 
Shelter.  Beyond Forrester, Davis eyes a barn with a sign: 
KEEP OUT.

                                       83.

               DAVIS
      We found a missing boy from our county.  
      Timothy James.  Went missing five years 
      ago at Boone County Juvenile Corrections.  
      Name ring a bell?

               FORRESTER
      No, it sure don’t.

               FORD
      James boy had half his face covered in 
      tattoos and scars.  No one knows what 
      happened to him and he won’t talk.

               DAVIS
      What’s with the boys?

               FORRESTER
      Nephews and neighborhood kids earning 
      extra cash.  Started out with just one or 
      two.  Guess word got out.

               DAVIS
      Do their parents know they’re here?

               FORRESTER
      Assume so.  

               FORD
      What’s your crop?

               FORRESTER
      Cabbage mostly.  I’m the supplier for the 
      Boone County Market.

               DAVIS
      How long have you lived here?

               FORRESTER
      Let’s see.  I moved here in ‘91.  About 
      twenty.

               FORD
      Twenty-one years?

               FORRESTER
      Yeah, you could say that.  Sure.

Davis notices Forrester’s military crest tattoos.

                                       84.

               DAVIS
      Afghanistan?


               FORRESTER
      Two tours.


               DAVIS
      Who owned the property before you?

               FORRESTER
      Built it when I moved here.  I have the 
      deed upstairs if you want to take a look.

Forrester starts up the hill to the Big House, leaving 
Davis and Ford alone.  Davis and Ford walk toward the barn 
with the KEEP OUT sign.  The door is unlocked and cracked 
open.

Davis watches Forrester as he walks onto his porch.  He 
glances back to the barn.

EXT.  GARDENS - SAME TIME 

From a distance, Jo spots Davis and Ford slipping into the 
barn.  He drops his basket and starts running.

               JO
      Hey!

Jo runs down the hill, reaches the bottom.

He runs along the back of the barn.  FROM BEHIND: Z seizes 
Jo, pressing a gun to his temple, pulling him to the back 
of the barn.

EXT./INT. - STABLES - CONTINUOUS 

As the door closes behind Forrester, Davis and Ford slip 
inside the barn.

Davis and Ford walk past all of the stalls, swinging doors 
open.  

INT.  LOFT - CONTINUOUS

Above Davis, Jo sits, Z covering his mouth and pressing a 
gun at his head.  Across from him, Aiden sits with Cowboy 
training a gun on him.

Jo studies Aiden, shifting his eyes to the power cords 
running along the wall, leading down...

                                       85.

INT.  STABLES - CONTINUOUS

Davis reaches Aiden’s stall, pushes the door open.  

It’s empty.

               FORD
      Anything?


Davis stands still, his eyes scanning the barn, careful 
not to miss a detail.

His eyes fall on a VIDEO GAME CONTROLLER in the hay.

He walks closer to it, picking it up.  He studies it, eyes 
shifting from the controller to a POWER OUTLET at the base 
of the barn, CORDS running up along the wall...

The DINNER BELL CLANGS.  Davis spins around FACE-TO-FACE 
with Forrester:  

               FORRESTER
      I’ve got two Tennessee Walkers back there 
      from auction.  
           (beat)
      Haven’t broken ‘em in yet.

               DAVIS
           (re: the bell)
      What’s that?

               FORRESTER
      Time to call it a day.

Forrester hands Davis the property deed.

               DAVIS
      Care if I take a look?

               FORRESTER
      Sure.  Can I see your warrant?

               DAVIS
           (studies Forrester)
      Another time.

EXT.  GARDENS - CONTINUOUS 

Forrester and Davis leave the barn empty-handed as 
Forrester walks David and Ford to their police cruiser.  

               DAVIS
	(CONT’D)
      What’s with the locks?

                                       86.

               FORRESTER
      These hollers are thick with pill poppers 
      and temp labs shootin’ up left and right.

               DAVIS
      I noticed you use limestone cement to 
      build the base of the coal sheds.  Same 
      things they used in the seventies for 
      backwoods cook labs.  They stopped using 
      cement around sheds in the nineties so 
      they could burn evidence to the ground.

               FORRESTER
      Can’t say I’ve ever dropped off illegal 
      substances.  But since you bring it up, I 
      suppose so.

               DAVIS
           (starts his car)
      I didn’t bring it up.  You did.

               FORRESTER
      Hold up.  I think I might have something 
      for you.

Forrester walks away.  Davis and Ford share a look.

               DAVIS
      Did you see the marks on those boys?

               FORD
      Place gives me the fuckin’ creeps.

Forrester returns to the patrol car with a head of 
cabbage.  He gives it to Davis.

               FORRESTER
      No reason why you boys should come all 
      the way out here and leave empty handed.

               DAVIS
           (takes cabbage)
      Thanks.

               FORRESTER
      Yep.


Forrester watches the patrol car disappear through the 
holler. 

INT.  LOFT - CONTINUOUS 

                                       87.

At gunpoint, Jo watches Davis’ police cruiser drive away 
through the Shelter and out of sight.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT

From their positions on the ground, the Boys pull guard 
duty with rifles around the perimeter.  Jo watches Z lead 
Aiden back into the barn.

EXT.  STABLES - CONTINUOUS

Jo is at the barn doors, looking around.  At Forrester’s 
house, the lights are out.  

Jo opens the door, slipping inside.

INT. STABLES - CONTINUOUS

Jo uses a hammer to pull nails from Aiden’s boarded stall. 

               JO
      The cops are onto Forrester now.  I know 
      the cop who came here.  Davis.  He worked 
      on your case.  He’s good.  He’ll be back.

Jo pulls nails from a board, YANKING off the board and 
moving on to the next.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Forrester can either let us go now or he 
      can let us go when the cops bust him.

               AIDEN
      He won’t let us go.

Jo stops prying nails and boards.

               JO
      We can leave in the middle of the night.  

               AIDEN
      What if someone sees us.  They have a 
      truck.  They’ll catch up.

Jo considers this.

               JO
      What if I told Forrester about a new 
      shipment that requires no cooking and no 
      supplies.  Totally free. 

               AIDEN
      What shipment?

Jo leans in closer to Aiden, whispers.

                                       88.

               JO
      The Tipton Brothers have a brand new 
      stash.  A bus load from a new supplier or 
      maybe they’re cooking their own.  Either 
      way, they’ve moved on.  Forrester has no 
      idea. 

               AIDEN
      How do you know this?

               JO
      I saw it on our first drop together.  
           (beat)
      If I told Forrester, it would distract 
      him.  When they go check it out, we run 
      to the lake, take your money and never 
      look back.

Jo and Aiden move closer to each other, growing excited at 
the thought of escaping.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Get out when everyone leaves to go after 
      the stash.

Jo drops the hammer into Aiden’s stall.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      It’s like we planned before except 
      everyone will be out of the way.

Aiden takes the hammer, hiding it in the hay.  He returns 
to the stall, face to face with Jo. 

               AIDEN
      When they leave, I’ll run out and meet 
      you at the boats.

EXT.  SHELTER - NIGHT

Jo walks away from the horse stables and toward the Elder 
Barn.  Lil’ Snack runs to Jo.

               LIL’ SNACK
      Forrester’s lookin’ for you.

                                       89.

EXT.  BIG HOUSE PORCH - NIGHT

Jo sits on the porch steps.  He hears a MUFFLED ARGUMENT 
between Forrester and Z.  An abrupt moment of silence.  
Then, FOOTSTEPS coming closer until...

Forrester swings open the front door.

               FORRESTER
      Get in. 


INT.  BIG HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 

Jo follows Forrester into the kitchen.  Z sits at a table, 
smoking a cigarette.  It’s quiet.  A palpable tension 
between Forrester and Z.  Forrester’s gun rests on the 
table.  Forrester sits in front of it.  Nods to Jo. 

Jo pulls a chair and sits between them.

               FORRESTER
      We have a shipment due to an important 
      buyer.  You’re gonna lead the cook.

Z sucks down his cigarette, biting his tongue.

               JO
      What about the cops?

               FORRESTER
      Taken care of.  They won’t be back.

               Z
      Don’t know that.

Forrester looks at Z.  Z stamps out his cigarette butt.  
Lights up another.

               JO
      They have a whole supply that doesn’t 
      look like our shit.

Forrester and Z share a look.  Then back at Jo.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      I saw it on a drop.  I know where it is.

               FORRESTER
      Where?


Jo looks at Forrester, leveling him with his eyes.

                                       90.

               JO
      The bus.  You should check it out.

               Z
      Bullshit.  

               JO
      They’re your competitor now.  They have a 
      lot.  You’ll need the truck.

Z puts out his cigarette.

               Z
      Our buyers and distributors will 
      understand the situation.  We should lay 
      low ‘til the coast is clear.

               FORRESTER
           (to Jo)
      You go check it out.  Tomorrow.

               JO
      Okay.

Forrester looks at Z.  Looks back to Jo.

               FORRESTER
      Okay.


Z picks up his hat and walks to the door.  Jo follows, 
looking pleased with the outcome.  Forrester FLICKS his 
lighter until the flame catches, lighting his cigarette.  

He takes a drag.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Z, you go with him.

Z and Jo stop at the door.  Z nods and leaves.  Jo looks 
back at Forrester, defeated.

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
      Get out.

EXT.  BIG HOUSE PORCH - CONTINUOUS

As Jo leaves, he peeks into the window:  Forrester hunkers 
down in his leather chair.   

INT.  METH LAB - DAY

Jo loads bullets into a revolver.  Spins and charges it.

                                       91.

He stretches gloves onto his hands.  He pulls a burlap 
sack mask over his head.

Stuffs black trash bags into his pockets.

INT.  AIDEN’S STALL - SAME TIME

Aiden uses the hammer to pry nails from his boarded stall.

INT.  TRUCK - SAME TIME

Z drives Jo through a bumpy holler.

               Z
      One of the boys will be waiting in the 
      lab for the exchange.  Give him the stuff 
      and leave. 

Z comes to an abrupt stop several feet from a rusted chain 
tied between two trees and faded NO TRESPASSING sign.

               Z
	(CONT’D)
      Far as I go.

Jo climbs out of the truck.

INT.  AIDEN’S STALL - SAME TIME   

Aiden pries the last nail, pushing against the board.  He 
hears the barn door CREAKING open, LIGHT spilling in 
through the entrance.

               AIDEN
      Jo?


No response.  SOMEONE approaches, stopping at his stall.  
Quickly, he tucks the hammer underneath the hay.  

The door opens.  Forrester stands. 

               FORRESTER
      Ready to get out of here?

Aiden looks up at him.

EXT.  TIPTON PROPERTY - SAME TIME 

Jo goes to the school bus and tries to open the doors but 
it’s locked. 

                                       92.

Jo goes to the back door of the house and hears LOUD HEAVY 
METAL MUSIC.  SCREAMING and HEAVY BASS POUNDS through the 
house as he enters.

INT.  LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 

RJ plays the air guitar and rocks out to the music while 
doing lines of coke.  He’s a hyper and intense junkie.  A 
half-dressed, strung out WOMAN is slouched on the floor,  
barely awake or barely alive.   RJ’s wallet and a ring of 
KEYS are on a coffee table beside him.  A cabinet full of 
stolen long barrel rifles, automatics and an assault rifle 
is against the wall. 

Garret bursts through the front door and turns off the 
music.

Jo hurries back through the kitchen and hides in the 
cabinets below the sink.  

               RJ
      Where have you been, man?

               GARRET
      I gotta go into town.  You coming?

               RJ
      Yeah.

               GARRET
      I don’t have all fuckin’ day.  Get her 
      outta here.

Garrett goes outside.  Jo hears a DOOR SLAM and the sound 
of RJ walking UP STAIRS while SCREAMING to the music.

Jo crawls out of the cabinets.  The Woman looks at Jo as 
he sneaks past her and reaches over her for the keys.

He freezes, waiting for the Woman to rat him out but she 
just watches him.

Jo GRABS the keys.

INT./EXT.  SCHOOL BUS - CONTINUOUS

Jo tries each key until the right one opens the bus doors.  
He searches for the drugs but sees nothing.  He hears 
VOICES leaving the house and he drops low.

With one hand on a bus seat, Jo notices the seats are 
loose and lifts a seat to reveal neatly stacked, plastic 
bags of meth.

                                       93.

Jo flips up another green seat to reveal more product.

Jo pulls a black, trash bag from his pocket and works his 
way to the front of the bus, flipping seats and packing 
meth.  

Jo checks the driver’s seat.  Turns around-- 

GARRET stands, staring at him.

Jo shuts the bus door as Garret lunges forward.

               GARRET
      Get the fuck out of here!  I’ll fuckin’ 
      kill you.

RJ joins his brother.

               GARRET
	(CONT’D)
      He locked himself in there. 

               RJ
      Who is it?


               GARRET
      One of Forrester’s kids. 

               RJ
      Get the bus keys.

Garret runs inside the house. 

               RJ
	(CONT’D)
      I’m gonna fuckin’ kill you.  You hear me?  

Jo stays flat on the aisle.  Garret returns with a rifle.

               GARRET
      Can’t find ‘em.

               RJ
      They’re on the table.

RJ drags the tip of the rifle barrel along the windows, 
taunting Jo.

The NOISE stops.

Jo listens intently to figure out where they are.  He 
lifts his head in front of a window.

RJ fires a SHOT.  GLASS SHATTERS over Jo as he hits the 
floor again.

                                       94.

Jo follows the sound of footsteps to the back of the bus.  
He hears the brothers BREAKING the lock, PULLING the rusty 
handle.

RJ opens the back door.  BANG!  Jo shoots RJ in the leg 
with a revolver.  

RJ drops to the ground.  Garret kneels to his brother.  RJ 
is alive but bleeds profusely on the ground.

               GARRET
      RJ?  RJ? 


Jo drops the revolver and steps away from it.  He notices 
the faded Shelter tattoos on RJ and Garret.  

Garret looks up at Jo.

Jo jumps out of the bus and runs away toward the property 
entrance.  

Garret stays with his brother trying to cover the wound 
with his shirt.

EXT.  ROAD - CONTINUOUS 

Jo runs to Z’s truck, his hands are trembling.

               Z
      Got it?


Jo tosses the trash bag of meth into Z’s truck then climbs 
into the passenger side, but Z pushes JO out of the truck 
and SPEEDS away with the meth.

               JO
      Z!  Hey!  Z!

From behind, Jo hears FOOTSTEPS gaining speed.  He turns 
back, sees Garret gunning toward him with a rifle.  

Jo runs across the road, into the woods.  

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Jo runs toward the Shelter.  He loses Garret in the thick 
trees.  He looks back but falls down a steep hill.

Jo gets up and continues running.

                                       95.

EXT.  METH LAB - CONTINUOUS 

Z parks his truck and gives the bag of stolen drugs to 
Aiden.

               Z
      Welcome back.


INT.  METH LAB - CONTINUOUS 

Aiden shows BRUCE and his PARTNER (the cops from the 
beginning) the product.  The Partner counts it.  Bruce 
studies one of the bags, clocking the color difference. 

               BRUCE
      Is this a new batch?

               AIDEN
      It’s all here. 

Bruce’s Partner counts the last bag.

               PARTNER
      He’s good.


INT.  HORSE STABLES - CONTINUOUS 

Jo runs to Aiden’s stall.

               JO
      Aiden!

He flings the door open but it’s empty.  He turns back to 
find Forrester at the barn entrance.  Forrester stands, 
looking surprised to see Jo.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Where’s Aiden?

Unseen to Jo, Forrester reaches for his gun tucked into 
the back of his pants. 

Jo steps back.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Did you get the stash?

A series of POPS interrupts the moment.  Forrester and Jo 
look to the barn entrance.  Jo takes off running. 

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS 

Garret stalks through the woods firing an assault rifle 
into the air every few feet.

                                       96.

EXT.  SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

Jo runs past the barns, darting into the woods.

INT.  METH LAB - CONTINUOUS 

Bruce pulls his gun and peeks outside.

               BRUCE
           (re: gun sounds)
      What the hell is that?

Jo barges into the lab and sees Aiden.  Aiden looks at Jo.  
They’re surprised to see each other. 

               JO
      What are you doing?

               AIDEN
      Forrester said you were gone.  

A beat of recognition between Jo and Bruce.  At first, Jo 
is relieved to see Bruce...

               JO
      Where’s Davis?

OFF: Jo realizes-- Bruce is also one of Forrester’s buyers 
and the reason Forrester doesn’t get caught. 

Another BURST OF BULLETS are audible outside the lab.  
Bruce nods, and his Partner walks outside.  

INT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS 

Garret raises his gun to Bruce’s Partner as he comes 
barreling through the woods, a manic and determined look 
in his eyes.

               GARRET
      Give me my stuff.

               PARTNER
      Put that down. 

Garret POPS the Partner in the CHEST, killing him 
instantly.  

               GARRET
      Give me my stuff.

Bruce steps from the lab and pulls his gun as the Partner 
bleeds on the ground.

                                       97.

               GARRET
	(CONT’D)
      My brother’s shot, man.  

               BRUCE
      I don’t have any business with you, 
      Garret.  

               GARRET
      Where’s Forrester?  Are his fuckin’ punks 
      in there?

               BRUCE
      One’s in there.  I don’t have anything to 
      do with your brother.

               GARRET
      I don’t take orders from this place no 
      more.  

Garret steps forward.

               GARRET
	(CONT’D)
      Let the kid out.

INT.  METH LAB - CONTINUOUS

Aiden and Jo scramble to the back of the lab.

               JO
      What did Forrester tell you?

               AIDEN
      Leave me alone.  Everything was good 
      until you showed up.

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS 

Garret walks past Bruce, hand extending to open the lab 
door--

BLAM!  Bruce CLIPS Garret in the back of the neck, just 
above the faded SHELTER TATTOO on his neck.  He stops, 
motion arrested, stumbling forward, eyes frantically 
searching for his shooter.

BLAM! Another bullet SINKS into Garret’s neck, beside the 
first shot, bringing Garret to the ground and killing him.

Bruce keeps his gun raised.

From behind a nearby tree, Forrester emerges and walks to 
the lab.

                                       98.

The lab door swings open.  Jo steps out, staying pressed 
against the lab, clocking Garret’s body, then Forrester. 

Bruce trains his gun on Forrester and Z. 

               BRUCE
      Who’s stuff were you planning on selling 
      me?

Forrester doesn’t respond.  Instead, he pulls a pack of 
cigarettes and lighter from his back pocket.  TAPS the 
pack in his palm. 

Bruce keeps his gun trained on Jo, Forrester and Z as he 
moves toward the lab to recover the drugs owed to him.

Forrester stops TAPPING the pack and selects a cigarette.  
He lights up, taking a long, cool drag. 

               FORRESTER
      Leave my money, Bruce.  I got no problem 
      with you.

               BRUCE
      This isn’t something I can turn my back 
      on.  What am I supposed to do with 
      someone’s else’s product?  

               FORRESTER
      Finish the drop.

               BRUCE
      Who’s stuff are you selling me?

               FORRESTER
      Of all the shit that goes down in your 
      corrupt fuckin’ department, does it 
      matter Bruce?

Bruce squeezes the trigger.  Dead serious.

               BRUCE
      Yeah.  It does.

               Z
      That’s our money.

               BRUCE
      I don’t buy from you guys anymore.  We 
      clear?

Forrester takes another long drag of the cigarette, 
staring at Bruce, mildy-annoyed.

                                       99.

Bruce starts packing his money back into the bags.  He 
leaves the drugs.

Bruce packs the last wad of cash and zips the bags.  He 
starts to walk away.  From behind, Z steps in front of 
Forrester, protective, reaching for his gun.

Bruce spins back, making a quick-draw, PLUGGING a bullet 
into Z’s stomach.

Z looks down at the bloody hole in his gut.  He cups his 
hands over the wound and starts to fall backwards, into 
Forrester.  Forrester pulls him upright, close and 
personal, keeping a TIGHT GRIP on Z’s hunter’s jacket.  
They lock eyes.

Then, Forrester lets him slip to the ground. 

Z dies.

Forrester and Bruce stand across from each other. 

Bruce’s gun is on Forrester.  In front of Forrester, Z’s 
gun is on the ground.

               BRUCE
	(CONT’D)
      Kick it.

Forrester kicks Z’s gun forward.   

Bruce grips his gun a little tighter, his expression 
shifting.  Forrester’s obedience confusing him.

Bruce steps over Garret’s body and walks to Forrester, 
keeping his gun trained on him.

               BRUCE
	(CONT’D)
      Down.

Forrester obeys, dropping to his knees.  

Bruce steps over Z’s body and stops a few feet in front of 
Forrester, scanning Forrester’s body for a hidden weapon.  
He reaches down to retrieve Z’s gun.

SUDDENLY: From surrounding areas in the woods, a series of 
BULLETS WHISTLE through the air, PEPPERING Bruce’s body at 
the same time.

Forrester RAISES A HAND.

The fire fight stops.

Bruce slumps over, his body shredded with lead. 

                                       100.

From the woods surrounding Bruce, TATTOOED FACES and 
CHESTS slowly emerge from the forest, all of FORRESTER’S 
BOYS slowly creep from hiding.

Forrester retrieves Z’s gun and stands. 

Aiden steps from the lab and stands beside Jo.

               JO
      Let’s go, Aiden. 

Aiden moves to Forrester’s side.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      We had a deal.

Forrester holds the gun out for Aiden.  Aiden takes it.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing?  He doesn’t care 
      about you.  He doesn’t care about any of 
      us.  

Aiden walks to Jo with the gun in his hand.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      He’s a liar.

               AIDEN
      Did you think you were going to get rid 
      of me, like Timmy?

               JO
      No.  Look at yourself-

Aiden raises the gun at Jo.  Jo stumbles backwards.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      I’m your brother.  I came here to be with 
      you.  Think.

As Jo speaks, Aiden’s hands begin to tremble on the gun.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Put it down.  Think.  
           (beat)
      He uses you.

Aiden takes his finger off the trigger.

                                       101.

               FORRESTER
      You’ll get in a fight within a week and 
      they’ll take you into another reformatory 
      and tell you all the things you feel are 
      wrong.  Everything was fine until he 
      showed up--

               JO
      He uses you.  Think for yourself. 

Aiden looks to Forrester.  Looks back to Jo.  Aiden wipes 
the sweat and the welling tears from his face, hands 
shaking on the gun still trained on Jo.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t listen to him--  

               FORRESTER
      --You’re dangerous.  That’s why they kept 
      you locked up.

               JO
      We can leave, Aiden.

Aiden considers this, lowering the gun.

               FORRESTER
      If you leave, you can’t come back here.    

Aiden keeps the gun pointed at the ground, begins to cry.  
Jo rushes to Aiden, grabbing the barrel of the gun and 
tossing it to the ground.  He wraps his arms around Aiden, 
pulling him into his chest.  

               JO
      They took you and brainwashed you.

A moment of silence, then Aiden pulls away from Jo’s 
embrace.  Aiden wipes his face, collecting himself.

               AIDEN
      They never took me from you.

Aiden moves back.

               JO
      They did.  I was there-

               AIDEN
      I left you.


A beat.

                                       102.

               JO
      What?

               AIDEN
      I wanted to come here a week earlier but 
      I was under house arrest.  

Aiden turns to walk away from Jo.  Jo grabs Aiden’s arm, 
pulling him back.  Aiden pushes Jo’s hand off of him.  Jo 
shoves him back, his anger boiling.

Aiden wraps his arms around Jo’s neck in a head lock.  Jo 
is scratching, slapping and swatting to break free.  Aiden 
holds Jo low to the ground, leaning into his ear, 
whispering:

               AIDEN
	(CONT’D)
      I was always supposed to be here.

Aiden releases his grip, leaving Jo lying on the ground.  
He picks up the gun and walks to Forrester, pressing the 
gun into Forrester’s hand, holds it there.

               FORRESTER
      Finish it.


They lock eyes.

               AIDEN
      You finish it.  I’m no one’s “boy” 
      anymore.  

Aiden walks past Forrester and Jo.  He picks up Bruce’s 
bag of money and starts walking in the direction of the 
road.

Forrester grips the gun...

               FORRESTER
      Okay.

He raises it...


               JO
      No! 

BANG!  Forrester plugs a bullet into the back of Aiden’s 
head.  A small, RED MIST SPATTERS from the impact as Aiden 
drops to the ground.

Forrester kneels to retrieve his money:

               FORRESTER
      Got the wrong boy that day in the woods. 

                                       103.

Aiden’s dead eyes are wide on Jo.  

Jo is still on the ground, frozen like a statue.  Shocked 
for a moment.  Then, Jo gets up, making a run for Aiden 
but is abruptly clotheslined by Forrester’s gun that is 
aimed at him.

Jo slowly backs away from Aiden’s body.

He turns around and takes off running.  A couple LOUD 
GUNSHOTS fire close to his legs, making him FLINCH.  He 
ducks low, runs harder, weaving through the trees.

Once Jo runs to far ahead, Forrester lowers his gun.  

EXT.  WOODS - CONTINUOUS 

Jo, covered in Aiden’s blood, runs toward the lake.

He reaches the edge and JUMPS

LAKE - UNDERWATER

Jo SCREAMS.

He surfaces and swims to the bank.  He climbs out and 
pushes one of the rowboats into the water.

He looks back in the direction of the Shelter as he sits 
in the boat, drifting aimlessly. 

EXT.  WOODS - LATER THAT NIGHT 

FLASHLIGHTS scans the woods as Forrester’s boys look for 
Jo.

Against a muddy bank beside the dock, Jo stays low, 
pressed against it.  He hears the boys looking for him, 
sees the reflections of their FLASHLIGHTS dotting the 
water.  He hears FOOTSTEPS behind him, he holds his breath 
as his eyes shift up...

Above him, Forrester stands at the edge of the muddy bank, 
staring out at the lake and smoking a cigarette.  He 
releases a HEAVY EXHALE, smoke leaving his lips and 
nostrils.  

Forrester releases a LOUD WHISTLE, calling off the hunt.  

               FORRESTER
	(CONT’D)
           (to the boys)
      We’ll come back.

Forrester walks away.  Below him, Jo relaxes. 

                                       104.

EXT.  WOODS - TREE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Jo, now soaking wet, climbs a tree.   

He sets himself on a thick branch, high above the ground.  
From here, he is concealed by leaves and can see the 
Shelter. 

Jo observes Forrester’s boys collecting weapons and ammo 
of the deceased.  He watches them wrap the bodies of Z, 
Garret, Bruce and his Partner is plastic tarps and load 
them into the bed of Z’s black truck.

His eyes fall on Lil’ Snack wrapping Aiden’s body in a 
tarp and dragging it through the woods and out of Jo’s eye 
line.

Jo hoists himself to a higher branch for a better view.  
From here, he scans the woods for Lil’ Snack but Lil’ 
Snack is out of sight.

EXT.  WOODS - TREE - COUPLE HOURS LATER

Jo sits on a thick branch, resting against the tree trunk. 
He hears the DINNER BELL CLANG and watches the boys and 
Forrester pile into the mess hall for dinner.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT

Jo’s eyes grow heavy as he watches the lights go out in 
the elder barn.  He sees the last light burning in 
Forrester’s house.

It goes out.

Jo starts climbing down the tree. 

INT.  TOOL SHED - NIGHT

Jo steals Forrester’s garden shears, one small jug of 
gasoline and a box of matches.

INT.  ELDER BARN - NIGHT 

The Boys are asleep.  

Jo uses garden shears to slash the bike tires. 

                                       105.

EXT.  SHELTER - NIGHT

Jo uses the garden shears to flatten the tires on Z’s 
truck.  

- Pops the hood.

- CUTS wires near the engine. 

- Takes off his shirt and ties it around a huge stick.

- LIGHTS the end on fire like a torch. 

EXT.  ELDER BARN - CONTINUOUS 

Jo pours gasoline around the base of the entire barn and 
LIGHTS it up.  

He CLANGS the dinner bell.

Forrester’s boys run out of the barn, confused and looking 
around.

               COWBOY
      What the fuck?

The boys watch everything burn: all of their possessions, 
shoes, clothes, guns in the fire, posters and dollar bills 
CURL and filter from the barn, rubber tires on the bikes 
melt.  

LOUD CRACKLING.  HAUNTING BURSTS of HIP-HOP MUSIC SCREAMS 
through the speakers as they melt and burn too.

Lil’ Snack runs to the garden, grabs the garden hose, 
stretching it as far as he can.  He sprays the fires but 
it’s useless.  The damage is too massive and growing.

Cowboy grabs the water hose from Lil’ Snack, trying to do 
a better job.  Lil’ Snack and Cowboy try to pull the water 
hose away from each other.

Animal lunges forward to save his dirt bike in the elder 
barn.  From behind, Cowboy pulls him back, away from the 
flames.

Finally, the boys stand back and watch it all burn.

EXT.  BIG HOUSE - PORCH - SAME TIME

Forrester bursts through the front door, pulling on a 
flannel shirt, just out of bed.  He looks at the WILD 
FIRES SPREADING through the Shelter.  Panicked.  

                                       106.

Frightened.  His eyes fall on JO staring up at him from 
the bottom of the hill.  

Forrester’s expression shifts, his face tightening, eyes 
gleaming and predatory, locking on Jo. 

FORRESTER RUNS DOWN THE HILL, barreling at Jo. 

He reaches the bottom, taking Jo down to the ground with 
all of his weight.  With one hand on Jo’s shirt and the 
other on his pants, Forrester lifts Jo UP.  THRASHES him 
to the ground, laying Jo out flat on his back.

All of Forrester’s Boys stand around to watch the fight.

Forrester stands above Jo, takes off his flannel shirt, 
stretching and cracking his hands, his wide, menacing eyes 
fixed on Jo.

Jo WINCES in pain, squirming and twisting.  He gets on his 
knees.

Forrester KICKS Jo back down to the ground.

Jo props his arm up for support but his armed is kicked 
out from under him.  He falls flat down on his face.

               FORRESTER
      Who else wants to fight me?  Who else 
      wants to be the big dog?
           (beat)
      Anyone? 

Jo is struggling for position, heaving and sucking air, 
hurting everywhere.  He slaps his hands down on the ground 
in push-up position, clambering to his knees until he is 
on all fours.  

Looks up at Forrester.

               JO
      Anyone can be you.

Jo gets back on his feet.

Forrester LUNGES at Jo but Jo ducks out of the way.  

Quickly, Jo runs hard at Forrester, opening his arms.  
SMASH!  CHARGES FORRESTER from behind!

Forrester’s taken aback, loses his footing and falls down.

Jo straddles Forrester, throwing down some PUNCHES.  

                                       107.

BLAM! In one fluid motion, Forrester KNOCKS his head into 
Jo’s face.  Jo slumps over from the impact as Forrester 
starts to crawl on top of him.

They both struggle for position, wrestling and rolling 
across the dirt.  They reach the garden.  

A foot away, a pair of GARDEN SHEARS. 

Forrester wraps his hands around Jo’s throat, squeezes, 
veins in his hands pulsating, killing him.

Jo looks up at Forrester, sucking for air, his face is 
blood red, the life being SQUEEZED out of him.  

His fingertips BRUSH the garden shears.  He squirms, 
inching himself a little bit closer.  And closer.  

He GRABS THE SHEARS! 

Jo drives the blades into Forrester’s gut! 

Forrester releases Jo, rises to his feet, stumbling 
backwards.  He wraps his hands around the garden shears 
protruding from his stomach, swaying back and forth.  He 
looks to Jo.  Then to his big, bloody wound.

He falls to his knees, slumping into the fetal position.

Forrester’s Boys are gathered around, mouths agape, 
watching. 

Beside them, Jo lies on the ground, GASPING for air, 
rubbing at his throat.  

A couple feet away in the garden, Forrester’s ROCK used to 
crush cabbage.

Jo stands up and walks to the rock, lifting it.

He carries the rock to Forrester and stands above him, 
looking down: Forrester lies on his back, bloody hands 
wrapped around the garden shears protruding upright from 
his stomach, soaking in his own blood.  His face is pale, 
gaunt, pathetic, his eyes roaming.

Jo lifts the heavy ROCK, arms quivering and knees buckling 
from the weight.  

Forrester’s eyes stop on Jo as-

JO SMASHES THE ROCK DOWN...

                                       108.

Stopping it inches from Forrester’s face.  He stays in 
place, hands still on the rock.

Tosses it aside.

Jo steps back.  He walks away, leaving Forrester to die.

The Boys follow Jo.  

Jo stops at the wood line.  He looks back, HIGH FLAMES 
separating him from the Boys.

               JO
	(CONT’D)
      Where’s Aiden?

The Boys stare at him.  Lil’ Snack steps forward.

EXT.  WOODS - NIGHT 

Jo runs behind Lil’ Snack, following him along the dirt 
road until he reaches a 

EXT.  CATTLE FARM - CONTINUOUS 

Lil’ Snack leads Jo through a muddy field of Angus cattle.  
The farm is filled with the SUCTION sound of SHUFFLING 
HOOVES sinking into the pasture. 

Lil’ Snack stops at a round hay manger.  Jo looks to Lil’ 
Snack for help but Lil’ Snack runs back to the woods. 

Jo climbs inside the hay manger.  He tosses hay out of the 
manger until he reaches a fresh pile of dirt.  He sticks 
his hands into the pile and scoops out clumps of mud.

Jo steps down into the hole and continues digging until 
his foot touches a plastic TARP.  He maneuvers AIDEN’S 
BODY out of the hole.

EXT.  LAKE - LATER THAT NIGHT 

Jo paddles across the lake in the rowboat.  Inside the 
rowboat, a wagon, the tool kit and Aiden’s body wrapped in 
a tarp and tied with rope.

EXT.  SHORE - NEXT MORNING

Jo wakes in the rowboat.  BIG RIGS on the HIGHWAY are 
audible.

                                       109.

EXT.  ROAD - MORNING

Jo pulls Aiden’s body in the wagon.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - AFTERNOON

Jo pulls the wagon.  

He parks the wagon at the edge of a field and rests beside 
it.  He studies the tarp, folding back part of it, looking 
at the top of Aiden’s head.

He touches his hair.

Jo folds the tarp back in place.  Several feet away, a 
familiar sign reads: NOW LEAVING WOLF PEN. 

EXT.  BOONE COUNTY - HOURS LATER

Jo pulls Aiden’s body along the street.  A couple 
NEIGHBORS stare from their porches and windows. 

One NEIGHBOR calls the police.

Jo pulls the wagon to the front door of his old house. He 
unloads Aiden on the front steps then opens the front 
door.

INT.  RITA’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Jo stands in the door way.  

He sees Rita asleep on the couch in her work uniform.  A 
cigarette burns on the coffee table beside her.  A jar of 
peanut butter still opened on the kitchen counter beside a 
frying pan.  

He steps outside.

EXT.  RITA’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 

Jo places the tool kit with Aiden and sits beside him.  

Jo looks out at the neighborhood and lands on Holly’s 
house.  From behind a window, Holly peeks through the 
blinds, then steps away.

Jo walks to the woods.

A POLICE CRUISER pulls into Jo’s yard.  Davis steps out of 
the car.

                                       110.

               DAVIS
      Jo.


Jo stops at the wood line.  Looks at Davis.  Then Aiden.  
A slight smile forms. 

Davis follows Jo’s gaze to Aiden’s tarp covered body on 
the steps.  When he looks back to the woods, Jo is gone.

EXT.  DEEP IN THE WOODS - CONTINUOUS 

Jo runs fast up a hill, onto some rocks.  This is familiar 
territory.

EXT.  LOOK OUT ROCK - CONTINUOUS 

Jo climbs to the top.  

He doesn’t know where he’s going or what’s going to happen 
to him...

...but he won’t be stuck here.

And we FREEZE on Jo.

                                 FADE OUT:

