                 DUDE

          Written by Olivia Milch

                            OCTOBER 21, 2013

                                 FADE IN:

EXT. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA STREET - NIGHT - JUNE 2006

A parked SUV. Sounds of a grinder, cigarette pack opening, 
paper ripping, licking, twisting, a lighter. Smoke billows. 
Dr. Dre’s “The Next Episode” builds into its opening 
crescendo. As the beat drops, we cut into --

INT. HOTBOXED CAR -- CONTINUOUS

The dashboard and a cellphone glare illuminate the car. 
Gatorade bottles, blunt wrappers, soccer cleats, and cups 
litter the interior. A hand lowers the CD volume and a joint 
is passed. Four female voices start their own verses.

             LILY
      I’m like Sisyphus, I’m bound to 
      push rock, other MCs are such 
      jokes, I call them Knock Knocks.

             CHLOE
      Your mom wears Crocs while she’s 
      sucking cock. I spit so hard you’re 
      gonna need a smock --

             REBECCA
      Horses wear shoes, but do horses 
      wear socks? 

             AMELIA
      Call me fucking Freddy cuz I got it 
      on lock --

These are our four girls. The two in front are LILY WEIL, 
curly brown hair, type-a but more complex than that, absent 
father, powerful-yet-cool mother, always positive, the glue 
of the group, and CHLOE DANIELS, blonde, cool, funny, 
unsentimental, best friends with Lily since AYSO soccer. 

The other girls are AMELIA BERGBAUM-GOLDSTEIN, ambiguously 
ethnic (half-asian, half-black, Jew) elegant yet clumsy, work-
consumed parents who pay her too little attention and too 
much money, and REBECCA VOLLER, a bigger girl with dirty 
blonde hair, philosophical, out-of-it, on scholarship, with 
parents who bust their asses to keep her there. The crew of 
four is very tight but the twosomes break off like this --

Lily and Chloe are in front, Rebecca and Amelia sit in back --

             CHLOE
      I spread dem legs wide like I’m 
      mother-fucking Spock -- 

Chloe makes the Spock finger-spread hand sign --

                                      2.

             REBECCA
      I’ll work your organ like Johann 
      Sebastian Bach. 

             AMELIA
      I smoke weed, don’t fuck with rock. 

             LILY
      My flow’s so regular like a 
      motherfucking clock. 

             CHLOE
      Oh, fuck, it’s almost 8. We should 
      get in there --

The girls spray perfume as they get out of the car, revealing 
their prom get-ups. A limo waits outside of the house --

                                  CUT TO:

INT. PROM LIMO - MAY 2006

The girls ride with four senior boys, in an assortment of 
ironic colored tuxes except THOMAS DANIELS, 18, Chloe’s 
brother tall, blonde, handsome, who wears a classic black and 
white get-up. He’s an all-star, smart, athletic, sweet --

The four girls sit along the back row. Lily turns to them --

             LILY
      I love you, Dudes. I’m so happy my 
      first prom’s with you guys. 

             AMELIA
      And four senior guys...

             REBECCA
        (snapping to)
      These guys go to our school?

             CHLOE
      Thomas’ minions. 
        (a beat)
      But it’s pretty cool they asked us. 

The boys sit along the two seats facing each other, 
shotgunning bears. Thomas does it without spilling a drop.

             LILY
      Okay you guys, picture! Wipe your 
      mouths so you don’t look like you 
      have rabies!

                                      3.

The guys all pose together -- FLASH. 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Now a sibling shot! For your 
      parents. 

             CHLOE
      Ugh, you’re worse than Uncle Jeff. 

Chloe scoots next to Thomas. She gives the finger to the 
camera, then begrudgingly takes a nice shot. 

             THOMAS
      Now one of you girls. 

The girls get together -- 

             THOMAS
	(CONT’D)
      You all look very pretty. 

Thomas scoots next to Lily as Chloe moves to grab a joint 
from the boys in the front. 

             CHLOE
        (to the boy)
      You roll Grandma joints -- all 
      loose and saggy --

Lily turns to Thomas -- 

             LILY
      Thanks for taking us. It means a 
      lot. 

             THOMAS
        (looking at her)
      I could do worse. 

INT. PROM - A COUPLE HOURS LATER 

The limo crew dances to Yung Joc “It’s Goin’ Down” -- Lily 
and Chloe rap to each other --

             LILY AND CHLOE
      ‘...Put it in the air, rep where ya 
      stay, take a step back, blow the 
      kush in their face...’

Lily fans herself, wipes the sweat from her forehead, mouths 
“I’m hot” as she moves outside. Chloe stays with Amelia and 
Rebecca on the dance floor. 

                                      4.

Thomas leaves the bathroom as Lily moves to the door. He 
looks at her, holding his hands up in questioning. She nods 
to the door, he joins her as they move outside.

EXT. ATHLETIC FIELDS - CONTINUOUS

As they walk, Thomas brings out a joint, he nods to move 
under the bleachers. He sparks the joint. Mary J. Blige’s “Be 
Without You” drifts out from the gym. 

             LILY
      I thought I might asphyxiate from 
      all that Axe body spray.

             THOMAS
      “Desperation” by Calvin Klein. 

Lily takes the joint -- 

             LILY
      Are you sad? About leaving?

             THOMAS
      Not really. Are you?

             LILY
      A little. I mean we’ll come visit 
      you at school but, I’m just so 
      happy we have another year. I can’t 
      imagine leaving this place.

             THOMAS
      I think if you do it right, it 
      never really leaves you. 
        (a beat)
      Sorry I just heard that and threw 
      up in my own mouth. 

             LILY
      No, it’s sweet. I hope you’re 
      right.

Thomas looks at her, he leans in and kisses her. They become 
embroiled in a passionate make-out. Lily pulls away --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Not here...

             THOMAS
      It’s prom, we’re under the 
      bleachers. If not now, when? 

                                      5.

             LILY
      It’s just -- I mean what is this? 
      What are we doing -- you leave in a 
      couple months, and Clo -- 

             THOMAS
        (confident, unapologetic)
      Lil, this isn’t a fling. It’s 
      serious, I don’t want to hide. I 
      love you.

They take each other in. Their first romantic “I love you” -- 
he’s wanted to say it for years, she’s wanted to hear it 
since they were kids. At that moment Chloe, Amelia, Rebecca, 
and Thomas’ minions stumble out of Prom. They look around and 
spot Lily and Thomas, their smoke rising from under the 
bleachers --  

             CHLOE
        (old man voice, yelling 
         from across the field)
      Hey! I smell what you kids are 
      smokin! 

Lily looks to Thomas -- 

             LILY
      We have to tell her. 

             CHLOE
      Share with us! Then let’s get some 
      fucking double-doubles!

INT. LILY’S CAR - NEXT NIGHT 

The girls sit in sweats, looking pretty out of it. They recap 
the last night’s events -- 

                              TIME CUT TO:

             CHLOE
      Wait, what happened?

             LILY
      The Bouncer wouldn’t let you in 
      with your In n Out. 

             AMELIA
      Which was unacceptable obviously.

             LILY
      So we hoisted you over the wall of 
      the patio. 

             REBECCA
      And that’s when you landed in the 
      cactus.

Chloe inspects her knee, covered in cactus pricks.

                                      6.

             CHLOE
      Dude, they’re everywhere -- 
        (trails off)
      ...it’s like I was giving blowies 
      in the desert all night --

             REBECCA
      Fuck, it’s almost one. I have work 
      in the morning -- 

             AMELIA
      My car’s at Becks’.

             LILY
      Let’s roll, Dude.

Lily turns up “Circles” by Crime Mobb -- 

EXT. REBECCA’S HOUSE - 130AM

Rebecca’s house is a run-down, single-family home with a pink 
flamingo statue in the yard. Amelia’s beat-up car is on the 
street.  As Rebecca and Amelia get out -- 

             AMELIA
      Love you fools. 

Amelia moves to her car. Rebecca waves from her door --  

             LILY
        (to Chloe, in the car)
      To the homestead?

Chloe nods -- 

EXT. CHLOE’S HOUSE - NEAR DAWN

Lily and Chloe slowly drive down the street towards Chloe’s 
house - Spanish, nothing fancy. Lily turns to Chloe -- 

             LILY
      Clo --

They spot Thomas, Chloe’s brother, getting into his car.

                                      7.

             CHLOE
        (out the window to Thomas)
      Shader-Mc-shaderson, where you 
      going?

             THOMAS
      Your mom’s house. 

             LILY
      Lorraine’s? That’s tight.

             CHLOE
        (talking about her mom)
      She a fine piece of ass. 

Thomas smiles, takes in the girls. There’s an excitement and 
nervousness in Lily’s face that Chloe can’t see -- 

             THOMAS
      Can’t believe school’s in your 
      hand’s now. It’s all downhill.

             CHLOE
      Every year says that. And this 
      bitch’ll be president --
        (saccharine)
      So things will be extra special --

Lily rolls her eye’s at Chloe, turns to Thomas, smiles --

             LILY
      Well, Din Fun dinner tomorrow or 
      something?

             THOMAS
      Definitely. 

             LILY
      Gotta hit all the usual spots this 
      summer before you head off --

Lily’s face asks Thomas if now is the right time, but she 
instinctively starts to roll forward, taking Chloe home -- 

             CHLOE
      Love you, creep face --

Lily still looks at Thomas, her eyes giving the words more 
weight -- 

             LILY
      Love you Thom thom --

             THOMAS
      Love you girls.

                                      8.

                              TIME CUT TO:

INT. LILY’S BEDROOM - NEXT MORNING

Lily sits up in bed, working on college essays. Her desk is 
covered with photos of the girls, from elementary school up, 
photos of her younger siblings, her mom, and a prom photo of 
Lily and Thomas. The phone rings, Lily reaches for it, but 
her mom, Jill, picks up from the other room. Lily can feel 
that something is wrong. Her hands move about the bed, 
organizing the papers, searching for something she cannot 
find, as if the action will stave off the bad news on the 
other end of the line. She hears her mother gasp.

                              TIME CUT TO:

EXT. CHURCH ALLEYWAY - EARLY AFTERNOON 

Church bells -- 

Lily, Chloe, Amelia and Rebecca stand in the alleyway. The 
latter three smoking cigarettes. The church bells ring again. 
Lily, anticipating the need, hands Chloe perfume. Chloe 
spritzes herself. 

EXT. CHURCH ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

Three heavily made-up mourning girls, including ALICIA, a 
frenemy from school, stand in a circle, one of them sobbing. 

             ALICIA
      Right after graduating high school, 
      it’s just so tragic...

Chloe, Lily, Amelia and Rebecca make their way to the 
procession. Two of the mourning girls try to approach Chloe --

             ALICIA
	(CONT’D)
      Chloe, we’re so sor --

Amelia steps in front of them as Lily ushers Chloe into the 
processional. An image from the program sits in front of the 
church -- “Thomas Daniels, 1988-2006. Forever in Our Hearts.”

Lily drops Chloe with her parents, LORRAINE and BILL. 
Lorraine, tears flowing, touches Lily’s face. Lily moves to 
the back of the line, Chloe grabs her hand to stay. Lily 
takes her place behind Chloe, still holding her hand. 

                              TIME CUT TO:

                                      9.

EXT. WEIL BACKYARD - EVENING

Lily, Chloe, Amelia and Rebecca sit on pool chairs, cuddled 
in pairs, wearing their funeral attire. They hit a pipe -- 

             CHLOE
      That was my first funeral. 

All the girls nod. Chloe lays her head on Lily’s shoulder --

             LILY
      His, too.

A beat --

             AMELIA
      I’ve been to one. My great Aunt 
      Ida. She was living in a home where 
      you pushed a button every morning 
      to tell them you were alive.
        (exhaling a hit)
      She was old and took a bunch of 
      pills and in her letter she wrote 
      “PS: sorry I didn’t push the 
      button.”

The girls laugh, the first audible laugh in a long time. 

OPENING CREDITS: DUDE

INT. HOTBOXED CAR -- A YEAR LATER -- MAY 2007

EXT. PATH LESS TAKEN SCHOOL - CONTINUOUS

                              SMASH CUT TO:

Lily’s car drives by the school’s entrance -- CLOSE UP: “Path 
Less Taken School: Making All the Difference since 1971”

INT. LILY’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

The girls do a post-smoke protocol: eye-drops, breath-mints, 
perfume, airing out the car. They pull into Lily’s spot. 

             AMELIA
      Shit, we’re late for yoga --

Amelia and Rebecca run out of the car --

             CHLOE 
      Namast-gay!

             LILY
      Clo -- you have your college 
      meeting, yeah?

                                      10.

             CHLOE
      Yeah, I should roll. 

Chloe gets out, Lily takes one last look in the mirror. 

INT. PATH LESS TAKEN SCHOOL - FRONT OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Hustle and bustle of a school office. Newspaper clippings on 
the wall: Lily and Chloe on the field “Girls Varsity Soccer’s 
Got Balls: Captains Lily Weil and Chloe Daniels Lead Team to 
Championship” and “Cataracts Awareness Week Smokes Records.”

A beautiful black receptionist, CHERYL, sits with acrylic 
nails that ‘clack’ as she slowly types. 

             CHERYL
      Lily Weil, Force of Nature -- get 
      out of her way. 

Lily smiles, moves to the Teacher’s Lounge area and makes 
PROM flyers at the copier ---

GUY, a pear-shaped man with a ponytail, wearing a “I Love my 
Cockapoo” shirt and Vans, pours himself a cup of coffee -- 

             GUY
      Hey, Lil.

             LILY
      Top of the afternoon, Guy.

Guy looks at her again --

             GUY
      Aren’t you supposed to be in my 
      class right now?

             LILY
      Aren’t you supposed to be in your 
      class right now?

             GUY
      This never happened.

             LILY
      What never happened?

EXT. TEACHER’S LOUNGE - FRONT OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Chloe emerges out of the “COLLEGE COUNSELOR’ Office. A large 
woman, wearing chunky rings with a “Geraldine Ferraro” sign 
in her office, gives Chloe a hug she can’t escape. Lily sees 
the goodbye and waits for Chloe, meeting in the hallway --

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Lily holds the flyers and two cups of coffee, she hands one 
to Chloe as they walk the Hall of Accolades -- “Most in 
Touch,” “Deepest Connection.” Lily wears a look of inquiry --

                                      11.

             LILY
      How’d that go? 

             CHLOE
        (a beat)
      Waitlist should find out this week. 
      She just keeps telling me to think 
      positive thoughts.

             LILY
      Sometimes I want to punch her in 
      the third eye. It’s the final 
      countdown: only a matter of days 
      before you know. I, for one, am 
      shitting my brains out waiting --

             CHLOE
      You eat too much salad.
        (a beat)
      If I don’t get in, Santa Barbara 
      wouldn’t be the worst thing --

Lily shakes her head aggressively, the idea is preposterous --

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      Imagine how many times we’ve walked 
      this hall thinking: three months,  
      two months, two weeks...how the 
      fuck did we get here?

             LILY
      “Time has a terrible way of 
      fleeting by...” My mom wrote that 
      to me in a letter when I was 8.

Lily points toward the bathroom --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Gotta dump out. 

The sign on the door doesn’t have a man or a woman, just a 
rainbow colored question mark --

EXT. ALLEYWAY - PATH LESS TAKEN SCHOOL

The “Alleyway” -- the main thoroughfare of Path Less Taken 
School: a hodge-podge of kids sit, play guitar, and move to 
their cars at the end of the day --

Chloe and Lily walk, tailed by SAM, 18, black, tall, lanky, 
with dreads and JARED, 18, dark hair with blue puppy-dogs 
eyes, effortlessly handsome in a vintage tee and chucks.

                                      12.

             JARED
      Wait a sec, girls!

Lily turns around --

             LILY
      Sam, Jared, what’s good?

             SAM
      Create-a-party tomorrow at Carrie’s 
      -- need to spread the word.

Lily nods her head --

             LILY
      I got you. 

Lily gets on the stage, there’s a sound system and mic -- she 
puts on Ice Cube’s “It Was a Good Day.” One audience member, 
a junior, NOAH, tall, hunky, is enwrapped by Lily --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Good afternoon fellow students! It 
      was a good day at Path Less Taken 
      High School, wasn’t it? Cherish 
      these days because we only have two 
      weeks left: the big game, prom, 
      graduation, a period of time 
      mythologized by every movie, a 
      period of time we’ve built up in 
      our minds. We need to savor it! 

POV Sam in the crowd, he turns to Chloe -- 

             SAM
      So, prom -- You guys all going 
      together?

             CHLOE
        (nods to Lily)
      Mein Fuhrer’s orders...

             SAM
      She used to ‘pencil in’ our 
      playdates...
        (a beat)
      It’s a shame. I look fine in a tux. 

Sam’s look suggests he’s not given up, Chloe winks --

                                      13.

             LILY
        (on the mic)
      Prom - May 18th, best night of your 
      life! Buy your prom tickets! Also -- 
      party at Carrie’s tomorrow night!

Lily points at Sam as she descends from the stage, he rolls 
his eyes at her. As she walks past Noah --  

             NOAH
      Hey Lily.

             LILY
      Hey Noah --

Amelia and Rebecca walk up in make-shift yoga clothes but 
something catches Rebecca’s eye --

             REBECCA
      Backpack --

She runs off and gets deep in hair-twirling conversation with 
JOHN BEMIS, 24, the nerdy, elbow-patched teacher -- 

             SAM
      Got to go find Jared a nice young 
      prom date to take his virginity...

Jared punches Sam on the shoulder.

             JARED
      Dude. 

             LILY
      Don’t worry, J, at least you won’t 
      be blossoming into manhood in a 
      Taco Bell parking lot with the help 
      of your Dad’s Zumba instructor.

Jared and Lily pound fists. 

             SAM
      Whatever, Beverly was gentle and 
      informative and I have no regrets.

             JARED
      See you fools tomorrow. 

             LILY
      Peace.

             AMELIA
        (calls out)
      Rebecca! Let’s go!

Rebecca trots over, the four move toward their cars. Lily and 
Chloe throw their backpacks in the car. A large brown bong 
wearing a red tie sits amongst the clutter. 

                                      14.

             CHLOE
      You should hide Donkey Bong better.

             LILY
      We need him around. It’s his last 
      days of high school, too.

The girls move into their respective cars --

INT. AMELIA’S CAR - DAY

Amelia sucks down a cigarette while texting. She turns down 
The Fugees “Ready or Not” as her phone rings. Rebecca sits in 
the passenger seat, an unlit cigarette hangs from her mouth 
as she contemplates the world.

             AMELIA
      Hello. Yeah, Father, how are you?
        (a beat)
      Divorce meeting tomorrow, remember?
        (into phone, yelling)
      Well, Dad, why don’t you call her!? 
      All right, Dad, See you TOMORROW.

Amelia throws her phone, lights the cigarette in Rebecca’s 
mouth. Amelia’s phone buzzes - Text from: Dad - “Your mother 
is a bitch.” Amelia starts to type, Rebecca grabs it --

             REBECCA
      Everything okay?

             AMELIA
      You know what’s fun? Planning two 
      birthday dinners and two graduation 
      dinners, I swear to fucking god I’m 
      gonna have to have two weddings --

             REBECCA
      But you’ll get two blenders?

Amelia tosses her cigarette --

             AMELIA
      What were you talking to Mr. Bemis 
      about?

             REBECCA
      I gave a great Kant Presentation -- 
      then found this in my locker --

                                      15.

Rebecca pulls out a piece of notebook paper --

             AMELIA
      “I KANT stand this KUNT.”
      That’s actually pretty clever. 

Rebecca shoots her a look -- 

             REBECCA
      Well, Mr. Bemis said my unpacking 
      of Kant’s third formulation of the 
      categorical imperative was 
      enlightened --

             AMELIA
      He meant your unpacking of his 
      dick.

Rebecca looks off, dreamily. Amelia pulls a fast turn  --

             REBECCA
      Woah, Tokyo Drift!

INT. DRUG DEALER’S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON

BIFF, 20s, a mullet, stands in front of a row of packed 
bongs. Chloe steps up to the bong as Biff shows his weed 
jars, the bubbling of her hit underscores his weed ‘menu’ --

                                  CUT TO:

             BIFF
      I got that that NorCal PurpSkerp, 
      way danker nugs than the OG, Pluto 
      Sativa, you’ll feel like a trans-
      neptunian object, Stawberry Cough, 
      or that Barrack O’bubba Kush I know 
      you’re political and shit --

             CHLOE
      Get some Cough --

             BIFF
        (sad)
      Your bro’s favorite, too.

Chloe shakes her head and goes back to her hit --

             LILY
      Quad Dinosaur and Eighth of Cough. 
      Maybe a little sample salad of the 
      rest, for your favorite stones?

Lily hands him a stack of cash.

                                      16.

             BIFF
      I’ll throw in some oils and 
      Listerine strips. You’ll dig.

Chloe exhales a huge cloud of smoke, enveloping Biff and 
Lily. Biff is in awe of Chloe --

EXT. LILY’S BACKYARD - LATE AFTERNOON

Lush green plants, cascading Bougainville. Four well-used 
deck chairs sit poolside. The girls pass around a joint. 

                                  CUT TO:

             LILY
      Okay -- Highs and lows?

They all stumble to recall their days --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll go first -- high would have to 
      be prom-planning and, lows, well --
      Only having two more weeks in high 
      school with you guys.

             AMELIA
      Becks’ high was eye-fucking Mr. 
      Bemis for 30 full seconds --

Lily tries to high-five Rebecca, she’s busy with a rebuttal --

             REBECCA
      And Amelia’s high was pose banging 
      Aaron Jakes’ in yoga.
        (gets into cat/cow)
      ‘How does this back arch look?’
        (mimes a blow job)
      ‘How bout this?’

Rebecca bows, Amelia shoots her a look --

             LILY
      Dude, Aaron Jakes? The sophomore 
      who wears the puka shell necklace?

             CHLOE
      Have his balls even dropped yet?

             AMELIA
      Yes --

             CHLOE
      Into your mouth?

                                      17.

             AMELIA
      Accidently. He could be fun for 
      prom...

             LILY
        (suggestive)
      Have you guys given any thought to 
      going to prom together? Just the 
      girls... 

             AMELIA
      Eh, I want a real date. I mean, one 
      with a penis.

             LILY
        (hopeful)
      There’ll be plenty of guys to 
      satisfy us at After Prom. 

             AMELIA
      Sorry, Slutty B. Anthony. This 
      isn’t just about girl power and 
      getting laid. And if I recall, you 
      had a prom date -- 

Lily gives a tense look to Amelia -- 

             LILY
      Ugh, fine, you guys are such girls. 

Chloe exhales a hit --

             CHLOE
        (to Lily)
      No, they’re normal. 

Rebecca holds the joint from its underbelly, smiling --

             REBECCA
      You think it’s normal to invite Mr. 
      Bemis to the graduation party here?

A frenzy of barking dogs -- JILL, 50s, Lily’s mother, elegant 
in a perfectly tailored suit struts into the backyard --

             JILL
      What about a party here?

Rebecca drops the still-lit joint on the floor --

             LILY
      Graduation party. Don’t worry, I’m 
      planning the whole thing.

                                      18.

             JILL
      I’m sure you are -- how’s 
      Senioritis treating you girls?

             LILY
      School was great! Prom --

             JILL
      Who has a cigarette for me?

Amelia reaches into her pack and hands her one --

             JILL
	(CONT’D)
      This is a disgusting, terrible 
      habit and I want you to quit. 

Jill lights the cigarette, inhales, closes her eyes -- they 
stare at her coolness in awe -- she looks down at them --

             JILL
	(CONT’D)
      Little girls, not so little 
      anymore. 

Jill  brushes back Lily’s hair -- JAMES, 14, Lily’s brother, 
brunette, some baby fat, in quasi-skater clothes, runs over --

             JAMES
      Yeah, now they’re just a bunch of 
      washed-up skanks.

             LILY AND JILL
      Excuse me?!

             JAMES
      Senior girls are washed up. 

             JILL
      What does that make me?

             JAMES
      The most beautiful dinosaur I’ve 
      ever seen. 

James kisses his mom on the cheek. 

             JILL
      I’ve got to get your sister -- give 
      me some perfume --

Lily reaches in her purse and gives her mom the bottle --

             LILY
      She knows you smoke --

                                      19.

             JILL
      When you are a mother you’ll 
      understand the importance of 
      keeping up appearances for your 
      children -- and then slowly 
      revealing all your flaws as they 
      get old enough to handle it. 

             JAMES
      I can’t wait to be a mother.

Jill douses herself in perfume and leaves, James in tow. The 
girls resume the relaxed stance taken when an authority 
figure leaves inebriated teenagers --

INT. LILY’S ROOM - LATER

Lily sits amidst photos of the girls, elementary through high 
school, making a collage. Nate Dogg’s “Never Leave me Alone” 
plays from Lily’s computer. Jill, pajama-clad, bursts in --

             JILL
      I fucking hate Fox News. I fucking 
      hate them. You know what I want to 
      say to them: ‘Blow me! Blo-ww me!’

Jill plops on Lily’s bed and Lily laughs and shakes her head.

             JILL
	(CONT’D)
      Are you making a ransom note?

             LILY
        (refocused on cutting)
      It’s for the girls.

Jill picks up a photo from elementary school --

             JILL
      Look at how cute you all are! It 
      makes me sick.
        (a beat)
      And then how skanky you were. 

             LILY
      Fifteen’s rough. 

             JILL
      How’s everyone?

             LILY
      Good. Excited. Chloe’s still 
      waiting to hear from NYU, so that’s 
      a bummer.
        (a beat)

                                      20.

             LILY
	(CONT'D)
      Speaking of which, you think you 
      can make those calls to your guy at 
      NYU, it’s down to the wire.

             JILL
      Wasn’t she feeling good about UCSB?

             LILY
        (pleasantly assured)
      Us going to school together, near 
      each other, it’s part of the plan.

             JILL
      My little cruise director -- 
      ‘plans’ don’t -- it’s just, people 
      change, especially in college --

             LILY
        (prescriptive)
      I think this obsession with college 
      is unhealthy -- people treat high 
      school like it’s this waiting room 
      for life. But it is life. 

Jill’s moved on, noticing a legal pad on the side table --

             JILL
        (reaching for it)
      What’s this you’re writing?

             LILY
        (nodding to the pad)
      For Clo. Tomorrow’s Thomas’ 
      birthday - He’d be 19. I just want 
      us to talk about it -- but I’ve got 
      some nice things planned and -- 

             JILL
      Do you want to talk about it? 

             LILY
      I’m...fine. But she’s...so strong. 
      I just want to be there for her. 

Lily sighs, Jill strokes her hair back -- 

             JILL
      It’ll be a hard day. I’ll make sure 
      to call Lorraine --
        (a beat)
      Now may I have some weed please?

                                      21.

INT. CHLOE’S HOUSE - MORNING

POV Chloe, walking downstairs, headphones in -- 2Pac’s “I 
Ain’t Mad at Cha.” She pauses at the fridge -- a letter “UCSB 
Pre-Frosh Orientation Weekend - May 18th.” Her DAD, tall, 
blonde, hands her breakfast. He’s chipper in a sad way --

             DAD
      Made it special for you today 
      sweetheart.

She takes the food, pulls down her headphones.

             CHLOE
      Sorry, what?

             DAD
      You seen your mom?

Chloe moves to the hall as her dad returns to the dishes.

INT. CHLOE’S HOUSE - THOMAS’ BEDROOM - MORNING

Chloe opens the door. It’s untouched - a drum set, baseball 
trophies. Her mom, Lorraine lies quietly crying on his bed.

Chloe lies beside her mother. Lorraine wraps a tight arm 
around her. For a few moments, just silence and tears. Then --

             LORRAINE
      I thought I might wash them today.

             CHLOE
      You don’t have to.

             LORRAINE
      I know. 

Chloe kisses her as she rises. Lorraine holds Chloe’s hand --

             CHLOE
      I gotta go to school now, ma.

             LORRAINE
      I know. 

EXT. CHLOE’S HOUSE - MORNING

Chloe walks to the mailbox. She opens it, spotting the edge 
of a large purple NYU envelope. As Lily walks the driveway, 
carrying coffee and flowers, Chloe slides the mail in her 
bag. Chloe meets Lily in front of Thomas’ beat-up, rusty car.

                                      22.

             CHLOE
      What’s all this?

             LILY
      Flowers for your parents. Coffee 
      for you -- how you feeling?

             CHLOE
      Fine, Dr. Phil, thanks. 

             LILY
      Dude, today’s hard, it’s okay to 
      feel sad.

Chloe sips her coffee, looks her bag, eyeing the envelope --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Can we sit for a sec? 

They sit on the steps, Lily pulls out the legal pad pages --

             CHLOE
      Did you write me a poem?

             LILY
      Sort of. It’s bad, I just wanted to 
      do -- Can I read you a little?

Chloe nods --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      The leather had grown faded and 
      wrinkled from no sunscreen. The 
      speakers with something on the tips 
      of their tongues, waiting for power 
      to amplify sound.

Lily looks up at Chloe, then the driveway --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      The lighters reminisced about being 
      held, resigned to the lonely abyss 
      between seats. When the wind blew 
      the moonroof cringed, his smell 
      escaping. The trimmers in the shed 
      looked on, thinking selfishly that 
      after years of neglect they might 
      be of use, cutting off the vines 
      that had grown on the rusty car.

             CHLOE
      Lil --

                                      23.

             LILY
      I’m almost finished --

             CHLOE
        (shaking her head)
      I’m done. I don’t care about what 
      the ‘trimmers’ think. I don't want 
      to hear some free association about 
      my brother’s car --

             LILY
      I knew this was shitty. I just 
      thought...maybe today --

             CHLOE
      He wasn’t here yesterday. He isn’t 
      going to be here tomorrow. Today 
      isn’t special.

             LILY
      Yeah, of course, I’m so sorry.

Lily starts to put away the piece of writing --

             CHLOE
      That’s for me, right?

             LILY
      Well...it was. But clearly --

             CHLOE
      I want to read it, just not...now.

Chloe extends her hand. Lily reluctantly hands her the pages.

             LILY
      We can stay in tonight, hang out. 
      We don’t have to go to Carrie’s. 

Chloe stands up and walks towards Lily’s car --

             CHLOE
      No, dude. I want to go out and get 
      fucked up. 

Lily follows behind her, walking quickly to meet her --

INT. PRINCIPAL’S OFFICE - MORNING

JERRY, 60s, tall, blonde shaggy hair, sits at his desk. 
Musical instruments and pictures of kids pepper his office.  
Lily walks in with the ease and comfort of habit --

                                      24.

             LILY
      Morning, Jerry, what’s doin --

             JERRY
      Just dealing with --

Jerry motions a ‘swing it like a helicopter’ above his head --

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      -- helicopter parents -- 
        (reading from the screen)
      ‘Hi, I’m Tina Bound, parent of Sky 
      Bound, I’m curious about where we 
      should place value -- S.A.T.s, 
      A.C.T.s, A.P.s, G.P.A.s, E.X.C.R.s’

             LILY
      How about they place value on their 
      kid’s happiness?

Lily takes a seat on his couch and pulls out her notebook.

             JERRY
      How you doing?

             LILY
      I’m great.

             JERRY
      You’ve seemed a little ‘wound-up’ 
      lately? 

             LILY
      Wound-up is my default. So I wanted 
      to go over some things for prom 
      before student council --

             JERRY
      Me too.

             LILY
      Tom from the tablecloth rentals 
      place quit busting balls on prices?

             JERRY
      I want to talk about delegating.

Lily cringes at the word --

             LILY
        (crack addict like)
      Don’t do this to me, Jerry. It gets 
      done faster and better when I do 
      it. You know I’m good for it.

                                      25.

             JERRY
      You’ve got to share this process 
      with Student Council. Especially 
      Noah --‘cause it looks like he’ll 
      be taking over next year.

As if having an allergic reaction to talk of the future --

             LILY
        (running out)
      Next year? I don’t live in the 
      future! No day but today!

INT. BIOLOGY ROOM - SCHOOL - DAY

Chloe sits in a beanbag chair next to Sam. She stares off 
while Guy, the hippie science teacher, riffs. 

             GUY
      My buddy was in jail at San 
      Quentin. He was jonesing for some 
      blow. In those days I had a pretty 
      good arm. So I loaded up a tennis 
      ball with grade A quality snow, 
      hurled it over the wall. Worked 
      great. Let’s get these drug 
      presentations started! PCP? 

Sam tries to get Chloe’s attention to make a joke, but she’s 
somewhere else. She gets up, approaches Guy’s desk --

             CHLOE
      I have to use the bathroom.

             GUY
      Can it wait?

             CHLOE
      You want blood on that beanbag?

He nods, not adjusting his volume to consider privacy -- 

             GUY
      Menstruation is a miracle, I’m 
      jealous I can’t experience it. Take 
      your time. 
        (a beat)
      Okay, who’s up? Angel dust?

EXT. BIOLOGY ROOM - SCHOOL - DAY

Chloe past the bathroom, out the doors that lead outside. 

EXT. ATHLETIC FIELDS - SCHOOL - DAY

Chloe approaches a bench. She sits, running her fingers over 
a plaque “In loving memory of Thomas Daniels, 1988-2006.” She 
takes out her flip cell phone, and puts it on speaker --

                                      26.

             THOMAS’ VOICE
      Yo, Clo, still at Lil’s? Swinging 
      by to get you girls in thirty. But 
      I’m only driving you to this party 
      if you dress like nuns. K. Love 
      you. Call you when I’m outside. 

Chloe pushes play again --

             THOMAS’ VOICE
	(CONT’D)
      Yo, Clo. You still at Lil’s? --

EXT. STUDENT COUNCIL - DAY

Students file in as Lily makes some notes outside the 
classroom. A shadow blocks her light -- it’s Noah --

             NOAH
      Man, am I excited to hear what’s in 
      store for Prom --

Lily smirks at him, gathers her stuff, stands up. Noah looks 
like Thomas, but with blue eye. His muscular arms protrude 
out of his T-shirt, she trails up to his luscious lips --

             NOAH
	(CONT’D)
      We ought to get in there. 

INT. STUDENT COUNCIL - DAY

Lily stands in front, students sit at desks, Jerry plays 
harmonica in the back. On the board is ‘Senior Send Off 
Sports Bonanza’ and ‘PROM.’

             LILY
      So, Jerry’ll give an announcement, 
      then it’ll be girls soccer, led by 
      yours truly, boys soccer, though I 
      object to that order. Okay? Onto 
      PROM. No more of too-cool-for-
      school shit. The real question is: 
      are you cool enough for school? 

She’s lost her audience --

                                      27.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      I need your guys’ help on this. 
      Noah, check rates at these catering 
      companies. Make sure we got a deal?

Lily hands him a piece of paper --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Try Alphonso at Cafe Food. Call if 
      you need help, or I can just do it.

Jerry’s harmonica crescendos as he shoots a look at Lily --

             JERRY
      Noah -- do you have some agenda 
      items you’d like to address?

Noah walks to the front of the class, standing next to Lily --
He motions to the seat. Lily rolls her eyes and sits -- 

             NOAH
      There’s a lot to do for Prom, but 
      the important thing is your date.

Noah pulls a ukulele from desk. He plays Oasis “Wonderwall” --

             LILY
      What’s going on?

Noah’s singing Marvin Gaye’s Sexual Healing -- a mash up. 
Lily cringes. The SC kids are harmonizing --

             NOAH
        (singing)
      ...and when I get that feeling, I 
      want sexual healing...

A kid pulls out a stand-up bass, playing Wonderwall...

             NOAH
	(CONT’D)
      And maybeeee, you’re gonna wanna 
      prom date me, after all, I’m kind 
      of cute and tall... 

             LILY
        (camp counselor-y)
      Okay, wow -- that was great! 

             NOAH
      Lily, will you be my prom date? 

                                      28.

             LILY
        (to the whole group)
      Maybe you guys should perform at 
      prom! Scheduling email coming 
      tonight! Meeting adjourned. 

The kids pack up, happy with their performance. Jerry 
harmonicas out of the room. Noah stares at Lily --

             NOAH
      I know I’m no Heath Ledger, but -- 

             LILY
      Prom is my prom date -- and it 
      should be yours, too.

Lily marches out of the room, leaving a dejected Noah.

EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - SCHOOL - DAY

Chloe lays on the bench, eyes closed. Sam approaches carrying 
two backpacks. He sets Chloe’s down.

             SAM
      Took the liberty.

Chloe sits up in a daze. 

             CHLOE
      Class already over?

             SAM
      Excellent presentation. I want to 
      sherm my face off.

He sits down beside her.

             CHLOE
      How’d you know I was out here?

             SAM
      You weren’t in the bathroom, or 
      Lil’s car. Hard day?

Chloe half nods. She pulls Thomas’ pipe out of her backpack. 
He smiles and pulls out a small stash. They pack the pipe --

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      To Thomas, who showed us you could 
      be smart, athletic, and high all at 
      the same time. 

A genuine laugh escapes Chloe as Sam passes her the pipe.

                                      29.

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      Where’s Lily?

             CHLOE
      You know...saving the world, one 
      prom at a time. 

He half laughs, takes another hit. He’s nervous --

             SAM
      Speaking of prom...

Chloe tries not to smile --

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      I was worried you might think I was 
      just fucking around earlier --

She shakes her head.

             CHLOE
      Except shit -- well, I might have 
      this prefrosh thing that weekend.

             SAM
        (playing it cool)
      Oh, that’s chill. 

Chloe shakes her head solemnly, with confusion -- 

             CHLOE
      I haven’t decided if I’m going. But 
      if I don’t, I’d love to go to prom 
      with you. 

Chloe gets a call - “Lily.” 

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      Yo.
        (a beat)
      Be right there.

As Chloe answers -- TLC’s “Creep” comes on -- POV Bird’s Eye - 
Chloe and Sam walk toward Lily’s car, past the Alley, where 
the PLT Dance Troupe performs -- they wear the silk pajamas 
and do the dance from the ‘Creep’ video.

INT. LILY’S CAR - AFTERNOON

Lily and Chloe wait for Rebecca down the street --

             LILY
      ...I mean, Dude, a ukulele mash-
      up!? Have some self-respect!

                                      30.

             CHLOE
      He planned the whole thing though -- 
      pretty fucking cute. 

             LILY
      He should have spent his time 
      planning Prom instead of that pussy-
      ass way of asking me.

             CHLOE
      So you’re not gonna go with him?

             LILY
        (overcompensating)
      Um, excuse me, I’m not going to 
      Prom with that twink. 

             CHLOE
      Most girls would kill to have a guy 
      ask them like that.
        (a beat, quiet)
      Just because he’s not Thomas...

Lily takes Chloe’s hand, about to speak, as Rebecca gets in.

             REBECCA
      I just had a serious Craft moment. 

             LILY
        (getting it together)
      You play “Light as a feather, stiff 
      as a board”? I love that game --

Lily puts the car in drive --

             REBECCA
      So I’m sitting in the library...

                              FLASH CUT TO:

INT. LIBRARY - PATH LESS TAKEN - DAY

Rebecca sits at a desk studying. A kid takes a pile of books 
from a shelf -- he makes a pillow with them and begins 
snoring. Rebecca rolls her eyes. Then, Mr. Bemis walks in to 
“Mrs. Robinson.” His sweater vest has croissant flakes on it -
- this make Rebecca tingle. He approaches her table --

             MR. BEMIS
      Hey Rebecca --

He picks up a book “Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason.”

                                      31.

             MR. BEMIS
	(CONT’D)
      Some light reading I see. 

Rebecca blushes --

             REBECCA
      Just don’t want to get off my game. 

             MR. BEMIS
      Sometimes in life, there is no 
      reason. And there’s nothing pure 
      about it.

Rebecca begins to sweat --

             REBECCA
      What’re you doing here?

             MR. BEMIS
      Took over some library shifts. 
      Really trying to finish my 
      terrarium -- spider stuff is 
      weirdly expensive.

Mr. Bemis winks as he sits. He applies return card sleeves to 
the inside of books seductively, staring at her. Each slam of 
his palm to flatten the sticky side’s a thrust deep in her 
heart, building to a climax with the snoring kid. Rebecca’s 
ready to be overtaken by pleasure. She moves to the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Rebecca closes the door, looks under the stall, puts her hand 
down her pants and starts masturbating --

FLASH SHOTS - Rebecca’s Fantasy -- Mr. Bemis, shirtless, with 
a small patch of chest hair, throwing papers up around him -- 
Kant makes it rain from a stack of hundreds next to Notorious 
B.I.G. INTERCUT with Rebecca’s nearly O face --

She slams the plastic door of the stall and breathes deeply. 
She sighs and shakes her head, pulling up her pants. She 
exits the stall and washes her hands -- A GOTH GIRL, 17, 
exits the stall next to her, staring at her in the mirror. 

             GOTH GIRL
      Hey.

             REBECCA
        (small talky, embarrassed)
      What’s up? Warm enough for you? 

                                      32.

             GOTH GIRL
      You ever masturbated to completion 
      next to a total stranger before?

Rebecca considers her --

             REBECCA
      Have you?

             GOTH GIRL
      Only on Tuesdays. 

The Goth Girl shakes out her hands --

             GOTH GIRL
	(CONT’D)
      Bemis is hot, but in my fantasy 
      it’s Gore Vidal and Trent Reznor.

She adjusts her black mesh arm warmers, exits a shocked 
Rebecca.

                              FLASH CUT TO:

EXT. AMELIA’S HOUSE - EVENING

Amelia’s Audi’s in the driveway, a gold Corolla’s parked out 
front. Lily pulls up blasting “I Get Around” by 2Pac.

             CHLOE
	(O.C.)
      So she just knew you were 
      masturbating?

             REBECCA
	(O.C.)
      She knew who I was fantasizing 
      about...

The girls get out of the car --

             LILY
      Masturbating a great burst of 
      energy. A caffeine shot for women. 
      Totally focuses and relaxes you. 

             CHLOE
      I’m never holding your hand again.

INT. AMELIA’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The girls enter an echoing white hallway. A green apple 
Magritte hangs on the wall. ROSA, 40s, the house-keeper, 
works in the kitchen --

             LILY/GIRLS
      Hey Rosa!

                                      33.

             ROSA
      Ello, bellas! Want some prosciutto?

             LILY
      No thanks, we brought you an iced 
      coffee.

Lily hands her the iced coffee, Rosa looks at it strangely. 

             ROSA
      Oh, thank you.

Rosa takes the iced coffee and puts it in the microwave. On 
the fridge is a photo of all the girls dressed as Spice Girls 
from 5th grade Halloween - Rosa is dressed as Scary Spice. 
The girls move towards Amelia’s room.

INT. AMELIA’S ROOM - NIGHT

Destiny’s Child blasts. Chloe straightens her hair, Amelia 
applies make-up. Rebecca, in grannie panties, a bra, and 
Dunks, decides between dresses. Amelia gets a text.

                              TIME CUT TO:

             AMELIA
      If you sent a sexy pic, and you get 
      back “O period K period” what do 
      you respond? 

 Lily grabs the phone from her --

             LILY
      Aaron Jakes is a douche. 

             REBECCA
      Have you seen him again?

             AMELIA
      I’ve only gone over to his house, 
      late night, a few times. Young boy 
      throw down. They do what you say.

             LILY
      Yeah, unless they turn you down.

Amelia shoots her a look -- 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      You’re too good to even give him 
      the chance. 

                                      34.

             CHLOE
      Like Ice Berg Slim said: ‘You can’t 
      need the pussy.’

             AMELIA
      Who’s Ice Berg Slim?

             LILY
      A great American writer and 
      renowned pimp. 

             AMELIA
      Sounds like a type of diet salad.

             REBECCA
      So how’d the meeting go, Meils?

             AMELIA
      Divorce stuff sucks but it’s just 
      my Dad has all this money and 
      refuses to give Rosa benefits. Then 
      I see him and he gives me this.

She holds up a beautiful diamond bracelet.

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      What kind of values do you have? 

She tears up. The girls move into that protective group 
tableau brought upon by the presence of a friend’s tears.

             REBECCA
      You should explain to him why it 
      upsets you -- 

             CHLOE
      No, you can’t. He’s a dick. Might 
      as well just enjoy the perks.

             LILY
      Just protect yourself from 
      internalizing his shit, you can’t --

             CHLOE, REBECCA, AMELIA
      ‘Derive self-worth from the 
      behavior of others.’ 

             CHLOE
      We know, miss ‘One Day at A Time.’ 

             LILY
      As the daughter of an absent father 
      you learn a thing or two about self-
      esteem issues...

                                      35.

             CHLOE
      Always the right catchphrase to 
      explain it all away...

Lily and Chloe have a ‘low-blow?-Sorry-I’m-not-Sorry’ look 
exchange.

             AMELIA
      I’m fine. It’s all good, what is it 
      Lil, ‘good problems to have?’

Lily nods her head and puts her arm around Chloe  -- 

             LILY
      So, I have a little something --

Lily reaches into her massive purse and brings a single slice 
of carrot cake from the coffee shop with a candle --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s Thomas’ favorite. I thought 
      it’d be nice to celebrate him...

Lily lights the candle, starts humming “Happy Birthday” --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
        (under her breath)
      Happy Birthday Dear Thomas...

The song ends. The flame dances. Lily holds it toward Chloe -- 

             CHLOE
      Am I supposed to make a wish?

Lily shrugs, at a loss for words. 

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      Fine. I wish he were still alive.

Chloe blows out the candle. Rebecca, breaking the 
awkwardness, takes a bite of cake.

             REBECCA
        (full mouthed)
      To Thomas.

             ROSA
	(O.S.)
      Taxi’s here, bellas!

             AMELIA
      All right then, let’s put on some 
      slutty dresses and get fucked up.

                                      36.

INT. HUGE MANSION - NIGHT

Juelz Santana “There it Go” blasts. The girls strut in.

EXT. HUGE MANSION - BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS 

The girls survey the party -- a massive yard punctuated by a 
tennis court. They pour shots from a make shift bar --

             LILY
        (intense, to Chloe)
      Let’s get schwatsy faced! Want to 
      take a shot? Or huff some glue? 

             CHLOE
      Dude --

             LILY
      Bath salts? I’ll get weird.

Lily puts her arm around Chloe to appraise the party --

             CHLOE
      I’m really all right. Go do rounds.  

Amelia eyes a circle of skater pot-heads on the grass --

             AMELIA
      Let’s grab that blunt from those 
      Travises.
        (to the boys)
      Travis!
        (a beat)
      Alf doll incoming --

The girls move off, as CARRIE, tiny, very Jewish, walks up --

             CARRIE
      Are you having fun? You think I 
      should make more bagel bites?

Carrie’s holding a tray with two lonely bagel bites. 

             LILY
      No such thing as too many Bagel 
      Bites. I’ll help you.

Carrie smiles, willing to allow her house to be destroyed  
for the brief interlude of acceptance. Lily follows her, 
looking off toward Chloe --

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

Lily and Carrie arrange bagel bites. A GIRL pukes in a vase 
of flowers -- Carrie’s oblivious. The girl wipes her mouth.

                                      37.

             LILY
      Beautiful discreet yuke, girl.

             PUKING GIRL
      Not my first time at the rodeo.

Carrie puts the tray in the oven.

             CARRIE
      15 minutes.

             LILY
      Great, I’ll lap and meet ya back.

Carrie beams as Lily wanders away.

             CARRIE
      Friends...

INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

A kid ‘plays’ “Mario,” the waiting Mario character jumps in 
his ‘idle’ stance. Lily notices MIKE, 18, tall, in a Catcher 
Varsity jacket perusing titles while waiting for the 
bathroom. From his periphery, he sees her watching -- 

             MIKE
      A lot of Wagner biographies. 

             LILY
      Opera fans --

             MIKE
        (still looking at books)
      Or anti-Semites -- 

Lily laughs. Mike just notices he’s talking to a hot girl.

             LILY
      You go to Catcher? What a bummer. 

             MIKE
      You a Path girl? I’m surprised you 
      had time to come here between yoga 
      and burning sage practice -- 

Mike’s turn for the bathroom --

                                      38.

             LILY
      Enjoy yourself.

Mike begrudgingly leaves her. A noise from the loft above --

             NOAH 
        (from the loft above)
      Pssst, Madame President -- 

Lily sighs, and climbs the ladder to the loft, Aaliyah’s “Are 
You That Somebody?” plays on Noah’s phone --

             LILY
      Were you just waiting up 
      here...with Aaliyah? Which 
      admittedly means a lot -- 

             NOAH
      I have an apology joint for you.

             LILY
      What? No I should apologize, I was 
      a bitch earlier, it was sweet -- 

             NOAH
      I was excited, most guys look so 
      cool on the uke. I didn’t mean to 
      embarrass you. 

             LILY
      I’m just not that kind of girl. And 
      I already have dates...

             NOAH
      I thought Prom was your date?

Noah sparks the joint --

             LILY
      I think the girls and I might go 
      together.

             NOAH
      But who would they dance with 
      during slow songs? You’ll be 
      running shit. 

Lily thinks about Prom with Thomas, inhaling, contemplating --

             NOAH
	(CONT’D)
      ...I thought it might be nice for 
      you to have someone to give you 
      their jacket if you got cold...

                                      39.

             LILY
        (to herself)
      Fuck, I’m a bitch. 
        (to Noah)
      That would be nice, you are nice, I 
      just have a lot to do and --

Noah lays a deep passionate kiss on her --

             NOAH
      I’m not that nice...

             LILY
      Woah. That was --

Noah shushes her, and starts kissing her neck -- he’s good. 
Lily closes her eyes, cranes her neck, the female sign for 
openness to further touching. 

             NOAH
      You’re a very powerful woman, but 
      you aren’t very good at letting 
      people help you...

Her chest heaves as he traces her breasts with his 
fingertips. He lays deep kiss on her, biting her lip --

             LILY
      Damn, tiger. 

He slowly takes off his shirt, revealing impeccable abs -- 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
        (Chris Farley voice)
      The Spanish Armada...

He kisses her again as he takes off her shirt, they kiss --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
        (snapping to)
      Hold your horses. We got puking and 
      people and a party goin on, I’m 
      here with my girls and there are 
      bagel bites in the oven! 

             NOAH
      Well, I, uh...

He tries to kiss her, she moves away. 

             LILY
      I don’t hook up at night. It’s 
      dark, you’re probably drunk -- I 
      could be anyone to you. 

             LILY
	(CONT'D)
      If you want to do this, come over 
      in the afternoon. It’s my preferred 
      hook-up time -- better lighting. 

                                      40.

She puts her number is his phone and adjusts her bra, as he 
stares at her. She runs her fingers through his hair, his 
eyes roll back. She climbs down, smiling as she disappears --

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - MANSION - CONTINUOUS

Nas’ “It Ain’t Hard to Tell” plays as Amelia, Rebecca, and 
Chloe sit next to Sam, Jared, 15 other kids passing an 
inflated trash bag from a vaporizer. They’re all tipsy, Chloe 
moreso, but hides it well. Sam talks to Jared, but his hand 
creeps over to hold Chloe’s, the girls notice -- 

             REBECCA
        (re Sam and Chloe)
      Prom king and queen material. If 
      that was still a thing.

             AMELIA
        (nodding to Aaron)
      Meanwhile my only hope is over 
      there getting mouth chlamydia.

AARON JAKES, 16, makes out with a BLONDE GIRL, 15 --

             CHLOE
      Don’t worry about that tiny 
      Tinkerbell cunt!

The vaporizer bag is passed to Amelia, she takes a big hit --

             AMELIA
      Better smoke all the west coast 
      weed we can now. That east coast 
      bud is some schwag-ass shit.

             REBECCA
      Yeah, but also I feel like we’ll be 
      doing cool, brooding, winter drugs -
      - like opium. 

Chloe sits up, drunk, pensive --

             AMELIA
      What’s up?

             CHLOE
      I need to tell you guys something -- 
      I...got into NYU.

They throw their arms up in celebration - Chloe wilts.

                                      41.

             REBECCA
      Clo - that’s great! What’s wrong?

             CHLOE
      I’m not sure I want to be in New 
      York. I think I want to go to UCSB. 
      I can be close to my mom...

             AMELIA
      Have you talked to Lil?

Chloe shrugs sadly. The girls are about to continue their 
line of questioning as Lily opens the door. Sam’s put his 
arms around Chloe, who nuzzles into him, seemingly unaware of 
the intense PDA. Lily approaches them --

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
        (to Lily, distracting)
      They attached a trash bag to a 
      Volcano. It’s amazing. 

Lily takes a big inhale from the inflated bag. She passes it.

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      What happened to your lip?

             LILY
      Younger boy throwdown.

             REBECCA
      You fought a little boy?

Lily gives a ‘sort-of’ gesture, takes in the Chloe/Sam scene.

             LILY
      I miss something?

Amelia and Rebecca shrug nervously. Rebecca stands up.

             REBECCA
      Something feels bad in my vagina. 

She leaves, walking funny, Lily’s focused on Chloe, thinking 
she’s just drunk, not wanting her to embarrass herself --

             LILY
        (louder, to Chloe)
      I know I said that stuff about bath 
      salts and getting weird, but maybe 
      you’re getting a little too weird? 

Chloe turns to Lily, Sam interjects --

                                      42.

             SAM
        (drunk, proud)
      Nothing weird about hanging with 
      your prom date - am I right?

Lily looks at Chloe skeptically. Sam, only half-aware --

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      Who has bath salts? That shit’s not 
      cool, but maybe I could be down.

             KID AT PARTY
	(O.S.)
      COPS! Cops with dogs!!

Everyone scrambles, picking up various paraphernalia. The 
girls move down the hall, towards the back stairs.

             LILY
      Becks! Where’s Becks?!

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Rebecca sits on the toilet, lets out a little fart, her 
stream begins. She pulls out her tampon. She’s about to put 
in a new one -- confusion registers. She pulls out another 
tampon -- she’s disgusted.

From the door on the other side of the bathroom, Amelia, Lily 
and Chloe stumble in like the three stooges --

             LILY
      Becks! Thank god we found you! 
      Cops! There are cops here!

             REBECCA
      I just pulled out two tampons.

             LILY
      Gross, dude.

             CHLOE
      How long were they in there? Were 
      there a bunch of strings? 

             AMELIA
        (laughing)
      Like a loom! Like a modern day 
      Penelope fending off suitors!

             LILY
      Come on, we gotta roll!

Rebecca pulls up her pants and the girls exit --

INT. HUGE MANSION - CONTINUOUS

A steady stream of drunk kids file out past two COPS --

                                      43.

             COP #1
      Get a move on. No more necking and 
      blowing and huffing and fracking..? 
      Is that what they call it?

             COP #2 
      Yeah, well actually fracking’s a 
      really big problem in the Midwest. 
      No more fragle-rocking in here! 
        (whispers)
      My daughter loved that show.
        (yells)
      Everybody get the fuck out!

             COP #1
      Where are their parents? Or at 
      least a housekeeper?

             COP #2
      These kids today have no 
      supervision. No one’s even home to 
      tell them they look loaded when 
      they walk in at 5am. 
        (diagnosis)
      They’re entitled, the surroundings 
      reinforce their entitlement --

Lily, Amelia, Rebecca and Chloe are the last ones to leave. 
The Cops shines a light on their faces --

             COP #1
      Where you ladies going?

Rebecca looks scared, Chloe steps to the front, brazen --

             CHLOE
      My friend Rebecca here had two 
      tampons inside her, and it was 
      quite a struggle to get them out. 

             LILY
      Maybe you have daughters? And you 
      know how difficult tampons can be?

Cop #1 looks at Cop #2 --

             COP #2
      My daughter just turned 13. I spent 
      an hour yelling “Just stick it up 
      there” through the bathroom door. 

                                      44.

             COP #2
	(CONT'D)
      Tampons. 
        (a beat)
      Go ahead, girls, be safe. 

             LILY
      Thank you, Officers. 

The girls head out -- Lily turns back --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      There’s a book called It’s 
      Perfectly Normal. Explains 
      everything from Tampons to 
      discharge. Check it out.

Lily winks at the Cops --

             COP #1
      That’s the most times I’ve heard 
      the word tampon. Ever.

EXT. LILY’S BACKYARD - DAY

Chloe, Rebecca sit in the sunshine. They wear bras to tan, 
Frank at their feet. Lily brings out coffees and croissants -- 
Amelia follows her --

             LILY
      Croissants to soak up the poison 
      rotting in your stomachs?

             REBECCA
      Mr. Bemis loves croissants...

             AMELIA
      I feel like your period is 
      punctuated by two huge dumps, one 
      at the beginning, one at the end.

Rebecca snaps out her agreement -- 

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      Glad I won’t get the curse at prom.

Lily sits next to Chloe, stroking back her hair -- 

             LILY
      Which you are going to with Sam, 
      apparently? Subtle ditch, Judas.

Chloe puts her hand up to cover Lily’s face --

                                      45.

             CHLOE
      Your face. I can’t. Not now. Too 
      hungover. Where’s the tree?

             AMELIA
      I think we’re Treeless in Seattle.

             CHLOE
      Not even One Tree Hill?

             LILY
      Nothing. All I’ve got is these 
      weird weed Listerine strips. 

             REBECCA
      Do those even work?

Lily takes the strips from her purse, hands them out.

             LILY
      We’ll either have really fresh 
      breath or be really high. 

EXT. LILY’S BACKYARD - AFTERNOON

The empty containers of Listerine strips lay open, the girls 
in the throws of a deep trip. Amelia and Rebecca lie on pool 
floats in bras. Lily and Chloe sit, their feet in the pool. 

                              TIME CUT TO:

             LILY
      I Am Legend is how it’ll happen. 
      Someone’ll invent a cure for cancer 
      and the vaccine’ll make everyone a 
      zombie brain-eater. 

             REBECCA
        (a la Ron Burgundy)
      I am....Legend?

             CHLOE
      Okay: Would you rather have penises 
      for fingers or vaginas for ears?

             AMELIA
      Do the fingers get hard?

             CHLOE
      Mm, yes. 

             AMELIA
      You control when they get hard?

                                      46.

             CHLOE
      Pretty much your standard penises --

             AMELIA
      So unplanned wood isn’t out of the 
      question --

             LILY
      But you’re stuck with half a chubby 
      or can you whack off your fingers 
      so you don’t look like you have 
      midget chode hands -- because that 
      would be embarrassing.

             REBECCA
      You guys are such chauvinists: what 
      about Ms. Vagina ears?

             CHLOE
      ‘Dude, what’s wrong, you’re 
      bleeding out your ears.’‘No, it’s 
      just that time of the month.’

             LILY
      Gives ear plugs a whole new 
      meaning.

             CHLOE
      Yeah, tampons.

             REBECCA
      With dick fingers you couldn’t wear 
      rings, but with vagina ears, 
      earrings could be nice decoration.

             LILY
      What if you had dick fingers and 
      vagina ears?

Lily leans her on her hand, miming inserting a penis finger 
into her vagina ear -- her eyes roll back in pleasure --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      I literally fucked my brains out -- 
      Now I’ve got brains coming out my 
      nose, jizz in my head, and I’ve 
      still got to cook dinner. I’m 
      thinking Hamburger Helper. 

Olivia walks outside with Stella the dog. The girls cheer --

             GIRLS
      Liv! What’s up! How are you?

Olivia’s unaccustomed to the enthusiastic welcome. She sits --

                                      47.

             OLIVIA
      I’m doing well. You all look tired.

             REBECCA
      Couldn’t be better, thanks --

             AMELIA
      Liv, liv -- you’re in sixth grade?

             OLIVIA
      Yeah.

             AMELIA
      Oh, sixth grade!

             CHLOE
      The best fucking year!

             OLIVIA
      I hope not. 

Stella’s sniffing at the Listerine strips - sticking out her 
tongue and picking up a few strips. She sneezes --

             OLIVIA
	(CONT’D)
      No, Stella, no. Lil, I think Stella 
      finished your breath strips. 

Lily perks up -- Olivia picks up the empty containers. 

             LILY
      Oh no. Steeeeellllaaaa! 

             OLIVIA
      You guys really like fresh breath.

Chloe looks Stella deep in the eyes and pets her --

             CHLOE
      You’re about to go on a journey.

             OLIVIA
      Journey to where?

Chloe looks at Lily --

             LILY
      Like the Native American Journey 
      stuff you do in Sixth Grade.

                                      48.

             OLIVIA
      I hate that stuff. Our teachers 
      give us these stupid names: Wet 
      Beaver or Morning Wood --

Lily stares Stella deep in the eyes, Frank sits next to her --

             LILY
      How you feeling girl?

             STELLA THE DOG
      Tripping balls. Huge, sweaty balls.

Stella lifts up one foot to move, sways a little. Her eyes 
are totally bloodshot. Her tongue hangs out of her mouth. 

             FRANK THE DOG
      You’re gonna get through this. 
      We’re just a bunch of people who 
      love ya like crazy. 

             LILY
        (whispering)
      Her breathe smells like someone 
      hotboxed a toothpaste factory. 

They all crack up -- except Lily, who’s stern and concerned.

             CHLOE
      It might not seem funny to you now, 
      but it really is. 

Chloe gets a text -- she sighs --

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s my mom. Something about the 
      car, I got to roll -- 

             LILY
      I’ll come over later?

             CHLOE
      Dude, you have to deal with this.

INT. KITCHEN - AMELIA’S HOUSE - MORNING

Amelia sits on the counter with OJ and a Champagne bottle. 

                              TIME CUT TO:

             AMELIA
        (operatic singing)
      Glug, glug, glug, in my glass, then 
      my stomach and I will piss you out!

                                      49.

Rosa, the house-keeper, enters --

             ROSA
      No school Miss Amelia? More cramps?

             AMELIA
      No, Rosa, my great-grandmother 
      passed away. My mom BBM’ed me.

             ROSA
      Dios mio. I’m sorry.

             AMELIA
      Yeah, me too. I mean, she was a 
      real bitch, but it’s still sad. 

Amelia finishes her glass, reflects --

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      Do people just keep dying Rosa?

             ROSA
      I’m afraid they do. That’s why you 
      must live fully everyday. 

Amelia contemplates her glass --

             AMELIA
      Do you live fully everyday? Here?

             ROSA
      Our circumstances may be different 
      ‘Melia, but time is the secret 
      subject of both our stories.

Rosa approaches Amelia and places her finger on her lips --

             ROSA
	(CONT’D)
      But we must never say its name --

             AMELIA
        (a beat)
      You’re right, fuck Aaron Jakes.

Amelia hugs Rosa tightly --

EXT. SCHOOL ALLEY WAY - DAY

                              TIME CUT TO:

Lily stands behind a table under a banner “PROM TICKETS” -- 
kids approach sporadically -- Noah stands at the other end of 
the Alley, selling tickets, waving at Lily -- 

                                      50.

             LILY
      Prom tickets! Biggest event of high 
      school! Just $15!

Sam stands besides her, under a makeshift sign - “After Party 
Tickets” -- the line is much longer. Sam looks at his phone --

             SAM
      Oh. You want tickets? $40 a piece. 

Lily shakes her head at him --

             LILY
      This is bullshit -- why do they all 
      want your tickets?

             SAM
      After Party’s more important than 
      prom. Prom’s an excuse for girls to 
      get fancy dresses and fake tans.

Sam sees he’s hurt Lily’s feelings --

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      And to make memories in a beautiful 
      atmosphere expertly created by 
      dedicated student council members.

She rolls her eyes --

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      You care too much. They smell it. 

             LILY
      Wanting people to have a good time 
      and be happy is a bad thing?

             SAM
      No -- it’s just that letting people 
      have a good time is better.

Lily considers Sam, after a beat.

             LILY
        (a little pissed)
      It’s fine that you asked Chloe to 
      Prom, but you should have talked to 
      me first. What about bro code?

             SAM
      I’m sorry. I didn’t want to upset --

                                      51.

             LILY
      Whatever, it’s cool, man. I mean, I 
      guess if she won’t go with me, 
      you’re the next best thing...

             SAM
      We good?

They ‘bro hug,’ Amelia stumbles over to them -- 

             LILY
      Meils, you okay?

             AMELIA
      Came to give that little shit a 
      piece of my mind. 

             SAM
        (Midnight Express)
      Oh, Billy. 

             AMELIA
      No, not Billy - Aaron Jakes. You 
      know the little taint-troll?

             LILY
      I got to take this one home --

Lily gets a text from ‘Liv: SOS pick me up!’

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Shit, we got to get Liv.

INT. LILY’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Lily and Amelia see Olivia crying on the curb. Amelia 
struggles into the backseat, Olivia gets in the front. 

             LILY
      Liv, what’s going on?

Lily starts to drive them home --

             OLIVIA
        (sobbing)
      I got in trouble because James 
      wrote something really gross in my 
      paper on governments!

             LILY
      What?

                                      52.

             OLIVIA
      James, he must of, gone on the 
      computer when it was up --

             LILY
      What’d it say?

Olivia looks at her -- 

             OLIVIA
      In the paragraph on oligarchies it 
      said, “I like to sneak in and watch 
      my dad take showers.”

Lily bursts into laughter --

             OLIVIA
	(CONT’D)
      It’s not funny!

Lily strokes her hair back, Olivia shakes off her hand. 
Amelia, stretched out in the back, makes drunk-girl noises. 

             OLIVIA
	(CONT’D)
      He’s so mean -- it really hurts me.

Amelia shoots up for a second --

             AMELIA
      Yeah, Aaron Jakes just can’t keep 
      doing this to so many good women.

Lily signals to ignore her, Amelia collapses back down --

             LILY
      Older brothers are gonna make fun 
      of you. But by doing that, they 
      make the world a less scary place. 
      When people are shitty to you, 
      it’ll roll off your back --

             OLIVIA
      You don’t have an older brother.

             LILY
      Thomas was like an older brother --

             OLIVIA
      He loved you and showed it --

             LILY
      But he gave Chloe hell and isn’t 
      she the strongest person you know?

Olivia takes in the comparison --

                                      53.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      James still sees you as a kid. 
      Soon, you’ll become friends. 
        (a beat)
      And you have to admit, ‘I like to 
      sneak in and watch my dad take 
      showers’ is pretty funny -

Amelia pops up --

             AMELIA
      I DO NOT! That was one time! OKAY?! 
      Who told you guys about that?

Olivia and Lily laugh together, Lily pulls in the driveway --

             LILY
      Liv, I’ll meet you inside. I’ll 
      talk to James, okay?

Olivia heads inside. Amelia climbs in front, head first. 

             AMELIA
      Fuck, I want some froyo. 

Lily looks at Amelia, still drunk -- 

             LILY
      Meils, do you think we’re fucked up 
      because of our fucked up 
      relationships with our dads?

             AMELIA
      You don’t have a relationship with 
      your dad.

             LILY
      You know what I mean.

             AMELIA
      Everybody’s dad screws them up. 
      When I see my dad, it’s like fuck 
      you. But I still want to see him. 

             LILY
      I never expected anything from my 
      dad, so I’ve never felt let down. I 
      can’t, I don’t want to rely on a 
      man. I have you guys.   

             AMELIA
      Eventually someone’ll be worth 
      relying on, until then, we still 
      need to get laid...right?

Lily nods and smiles -- they pull up to Amelia’s house --

                                      54.

             LILY
      See you at the game?

             AMELIA
      Better bet your wooden nickel.

             LILY
      Have Rosa drive you, yeah?

Amelia nods --

             AMELIA
      Rosa’s reliable. 

Amelia gets out of the car --

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      Love you.

             LILY
      Love you, too.

INT. JAMES’ ROOM - WEIL HOUSE - EVENING 

The sounds of “Call of Duty” blast from the TV. James sits, 
transfixed. Lily enters, he doesn’t lookup from the screen --

             LILY
      Dickwad, can we talk for a second?

James does not look at her --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Your little essay addition. You 
      have anything to say about that?

James lifts up his ass cheek and lets out a massive fart --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Ughh. That’s repulsive. 

The second wave of smell hits her.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Dear god, it smells like you ate 
      tuna salad off Ke$ha’s asshole --

James cracks a smile but doesn’t look at her -- she leans 
downs and rips the game console cord from the wall.

                                      55.

             JAMES
      You know how many other peoples’ 
      games you just ruined? Abdul’s 
      going to be so pissed at me.

             LILY
      Cry me a fucking river, Leroy 
      Jenkins -- this is serious. 

             JAMES
      Why? It was a stupid joke. She 
      isn’t going to get in trouble --

             LILY
      You need to talk to her -- she 
      needs you. We’re the only other 
      people in the world who know what 
      we’ve been through --

James listens --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      And soon your friends are going to 
      want to bang her and if you aren’t 
      nice to her, she’ll probably do it. 

James punches her arm --

             JAMES
      Don’t talk about my baby sister 
      fucking guys --

             LILY
      You talked about her peep-holeing 
      her dad, in writing, to her 
      teacher.

             JAMES
      It’s even funnier, because we don’t 
      have a dad. 

They laugh together. Lily gets a text from “Noah: Want to 
hang out a little before the big game?” Lily turns to leave.

             JAMES
	(CONT’D)
      Where you going?

Lily grabs “Leaves of Grass” from the shelf, hurling it --

             LILY
      Read a book --

                                      56.

INT. LILY’S GUEST HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Lily leads Noah into the sun-drenched Spanish hut. As she 
closes the door -- 

             LILY
      How was your day?

Lily gets undressed under his answer --

             NOAH
      Ken was a dick in Academic Journal. 
      There’s this freshman girl who does 
      wear some pretty risque stuff, but 
      he makes these weirdo comments 
      about it, it’s just schevvy -- 

             LILY
      Some of these young male teachers -- 
      they leave high school and graduate 
      college and come right back to high 
      school and they just don’t know how 
      to handle themselves around 
      burgeoning young women -- 

By this point she’s in her bra and underwear, the afternoon 
light illuminating her golden skin -- 

             NOAH
      You are very, burgeoning...

             LILY
      I’ll talk to him. If he has an 
      issue he should have a female 
      counselor speak with her. 

Noah hasn’t heard a word she’s said --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      You’d have missed all this in the 
      dark, drunken stupor of a party. 

He playfully throws her on the bed and lovingly kisses her 
all over, from her toes, up her shins and thighs, her hips, 
stomach. She takes off her bra, he kisses the curvature of 
her breast, runs his fingertips along it --

             NOAH
      I swear to god there’s a secret 
      code to the universe in the angle 
      of that curve, it’s too perfect -- 

             LILY
      Fibonacci's tit -- 

Noah kisses her neck as he slides his hand down to the top of 
her underwear -- 

                                      57.

             NOAH
      May I take these off?

             LILY
      Yes, so hot that you asked. 

Noah starts fingering her, then moves to go down on her. As a 
few seconds, her eyes start to roll back -- 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
        (to herself)
      Fuck me. 

             NOAH
      Ay, ay, captain. 

Lily laughs, spins him around so he lays on his back --

             LILY
      First, reciprocity -- 

We can see Noah’s face and torso and the top of Lily’s 
bobbing head. He’s going crazy --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
        (pausing for a moment)
      Look no hands!

She throws her hands up as her head keeps moving. He laughs. 
Lily reaches for a condom from the drawer --

             NOAH
      Prepared -- 

As she puts it on him  -- 

             LILY
      Would you prefer a dental dam?

             NOAH
      Do I have something in my teeth?

             LILY
      No -- a --

             NOAH
      I was kidding. 

He kisses her passionately as he slides inside her -- 

                                  CUT TO:

                                      58.

INT. AUDI - AFTERNOON 

Noah shifts gears to “My Boo” by Ghost Town DJs, Lily 
rummages through her soccer bag in the back -- 

             NOAH
      Man, Afternoon Delight is the best.
        (a beat)
      You are amazing --

He moves to hold Lily’s hand, she scoots it away 
nonchalantly, grabbing her shin guards from her bag --

             LILY
      Yeah, that was awesome. Now I’ll 
      have so much energy for the game. 

             NOAH
      Very utilitarian of you -- 
        (a beat)
      So I was thinking, some night, you 
      might want to come over, have 
      dinner with my parents, hang out.

Lily takes a deep breath, sighs, and takes Noah in --

             LILY
      I’d love to meet your parents as a 
      mentor, guidance figure in your 
      life -- but they’ll like me, you’ll 
      like that, and start liking me, 
      that’s bad news for everyone --

             NOAH
      I already like you. I don’t want to 
      date you, you’re leaving soon, and 
      my crazy-ex would kill me and you --

             LILY
      The skinny one from Catcher?

             NOAH
      Yeah, Annie. You’re playing her 
      tonight. Be careful, she got wind 
      of this and she’s pissed. 

             LILY
      She farted and she pissed herself? 
      Sounds like I can handle her.  
        (a beat)
      Maybe we can talk about this later? 
      Thanks for coming over.

                                      59.

She kisses him on the cheek. Noah is flummoxed as he watches 
her cross the field --  

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - DUSK

The field lights switch on as Lily exits the car. Green turf 
glimmers under their glare. Lily runs along the field to the 
locker room, her cleats clacking against the concrete.

                              TIME CUT TO:

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - CONTINUOUS

Jerry runs out to the field and grabs the mic --

             JERRY
      The Senior-Send-Off: a reunion of 
      every seasons’ teams to challenge 
      our rival Catcher, a chance to to 
      work toward a collective goal as 
      the isolation of the modern world 
      suffocates our souls. Seniors thank 
      you for your time and love. 

Jerry drops the mic, walks off the field. The captains, Lily 
and Chloe, and ANNIE, skinny blonde, meet the REF for the 
coin toss. The girl’s shake hands -- Annie has spit in hers --

             REF
      Now we want a good clean game --

             ANNIE
      Might be tough with these messy 
      skanks --

             CHLOE
      Excuse me?

             REF
      Call it.


The Ref flips the coin --

             LILY
      Heads.

             ANNIE
      You would. 

             CHLOE
      What does that even mean?

             REF
      Heads it is. 

                                      60.

             LILY
      We’ll take kick off. 

Lily and Chloe run off, as does Annie --

             CHLOE
        (re Annie)
      Is Chloe gonna have to choke a 
      bitch?

             LILY
      Let’s choke them with our balls --

Chloe laughs. Lily and Chloe set up for their kick-off play. 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Last time! Leave it all out there!

The whistle blows. 

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - NIGHT

Montage: building plays, Chloe and Lily mark Catcher girls.

             CHLOE
        (into the ear of her mark)
      Why don’t you want to hold my hand? 

             LILY
        (singing to her mark)
      IIeeII, will always love youuu...

Chloe reaches her hand behind her mark --

             CHLOE
      And that’s my finger up your butt --

The Catcher girl pushes her down, the Ref’s whistle blows --

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
        (from the ground)
      After everything we had together...

Chloe sets up to take a free kick. It’s perfectly timed for 
Lily to get a header, landing the ball in the net. Cheers 
erupt. The girls huddle -- Lily and Chloe in the center --

             LILY
      Nailed it.

             CHLOE
      What can I say, I give great head. 

                                      61.

EXT. SOCCER FIELD - CONTINUOUS

Annie marks Lily, stepping hard on her toe --

             ANNIE
      You know he was over at my house 
      last night -- 

Lily takes her in, trying to focus on the play --

             LILY
      Well, I’m a sharer -- 

             ANNIE
      Stay away from him, cock goblin.

Annie makes runs to goal, slide-tackling the goalie, scoring. 
As she gets up, Annie kicks the goalie in the stomach.

             ANNIE
	(CONT’D)
        (sarcastic)
      Whoops, my bad.

The Catcher girls celebrate with a chest bump. Lily goes over 
to check on her goalie --

             GOALIE
      She cleated me in the ovaries --

             LILY
      Your kids’ll be soccer players!

Lily runs off --

             GOALIE
      Or have Downs Syndrome. 

Lily runs as the ball goes out of play. She looks at the 
clock, 45 seconds left, 1-1 game. Lily takes the throw-in.

Lily throws into Chloe, she heads it back. Lily’s one on one 
with Annie, dribbling up the sideline. Lily Maradona’s, Annie 
falls trying to keep up. An “ohhh” from the crowd --

Lily speeds to goal, Chloe’s at dead center. Lily drops the 
ball at Chloe’s feet, runs past her. Chloe fakes a shot, 
sending the goalie flying -- she taps it to Lily who chips it 
over the goalie’s head. The crowd goes wild --   

ANGLE ON -- Amelia and Rebecca, drunk soccer hooligans --

             AMELIA AND REBECCA
      Ole! Ole! Ole! Lil-y! Chl-oe!

                                      62.

ANGLE ON -- The field celebration. The Path Less Taken girls 
dance and cheer. Lily grabs Chloe and hugs her tight --

EXT. WILD PARTY - NIGHT

A hundred kids surround a lit pool. Smoke rises from each 
seating nook. Montell Jordan’s “This is How We Do It” plays. 
Rebecca talks to a football player -- 

             REBECCA
      It’s interesting your favorite 
      movie’s the Matrix, some say it was 
      loosely based on Jean Baudrillard’s 
      Simulacra and Simulation -- though 
      he himself refuted the comparison --

Amelia sits next to Aaron Jakes, playfully stroking his hair 
while humoring RONNIE, 17, a Ke$ha-like, tattooed girl --

             RONNIE
      I just think you should be able to 
      see your tattoos. That’s why I 
      don’t get a face tattoo --

Aaron and Amelia exchange a look --

             RONNIE
	(CONT’D)
      Why I got this --

Ronnie displays a “CLASSY” tattooed inside her bottom lip.

             AARON JAKES
      That’s very...artistic?

             AMELIA
      I get it.

             RONNIE
      I take irony really seriously.

INT. WILD PARTY - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Chloe and Lily move inside. Noah and Annie scream at each 
other in the corner -- 

             CHLOE
      I can’t believe what a raging bitch  
      Noah’s ex is -- 

Lily hides the embarrassment and jealousy she feels -- 

             LILY
      Guys like crazy girls. I can’t get 
      involved with that shit. 

                                      63.

             CHLOE
      But he’s sweet, Lil, might even 
      make a good prom date...

             LILY
      I’m not playing “The Boy is Mine” 
      the last week of my senior year. 

Sam grabs Chloe’s hand, signals to Jared to steal Rebecca 
from the football player and Amelia from Aaron Jakes -- 

             SAM
      You guys were amazing out there.

             CHLOE
      You know that moment when you know 
      you aren’t gonna be a professional 
      athlete? I had mine tonight. 

             SAM
      That moment comes later for black 
      people, but yes, I get it. 

Amelia and Rebecca join. Sam pulls out six Ecstasy tablets.

             SAM
	(CONT’D)
      Celebratory roll?

             JARED 
      Drink plenty of water!

They pop the pills.

INT. WILD PARTY - DANCE FLOOR - LATER

They dance hard to ”Grindin’” by Clipse. Chloe grabs Lily, 
miming “water.” They walk to the kitchen.

INT. WILD PARTY - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Lily takes a Brita from the fridge and pours it directly in 
her mouth, Chloe opens her mouth and Lily tries to aim the 
water, spilling a lot on Chloe’s shirt --

             CHLOE
      That’s amazing. On. my. skin. 

             LILY
      It tastes like butter. 

They catch their breath together, Chloe appraises Lily -- 

                                      64.

             CHLOE
      Shit, Lil, I need to tell you 
      something.

             LILY
      You’re gay? Called it!

             CHLOE
      There’s this prefrosh thing at 
      UCSB, it’s this weekend.

             LILY
      It’s prom - so fuck that, right?

Lily goes to give Chloe a high five -- Chloe looks dismayed --

             CHLOE
      I think I’m gonna go. 

             LILY
      Why? You’re not going there.
        (a beat)
      You’re going to get into NYU.

             CHLOE
      I don’t know if that’s necessarily 
      true, I mean so many people apply, 
      and I don’t know if I 100% want to 
      go there.

             LILY
      What?

             CHLOE
      I just, I don’t know what I want.
      And you’re so sure of what you want 
      for me or for us. Maybe it would be 
      better if we had some time apart --

Lily stumbles back, losing her breath again. Sam approaches -- 

             SAM
      The kitchen is not tight. Too 
      confined. So it’s too tight. Too 
      much granite -- let’s dance?

             CHLOE
        (to Lily)
      Dude, I’m sorry.
        (Chloe holds Lily’s face)
      I love you, okay? So much - let’s 
      not fuck up our trip, talk about 
      this tomorrow?

                                      65.

Lily communicates enough assuredness with her eyes for Chloe 
to move to the dance floor with Sam. Then, Lily breaks,  
shuffling to the bathroom, cutting a girl.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Lily slams the door. She’s looks at herself in the mirror, 
her eyes dilated like an animé character’s --

             LILY
      She wants to be on her own. She’s 
      beyond all this now, beyond high 
      school, beyond prom, beyond you.  
        (a beat)
      No! You can’t give up, explain how 
      you feel, how you’re going to make 
      it work. When you said forever you 
      meant it. This is your soulmate. 
      You can’t let her get away. 

             KID IN BATHTUB
      That was beautiful.

Lily jumps --

             LILY
      Shit! I didn’t see you there. 

             KID IN BATHTUB
      I pissed myself. It was kind of 
      warm. Now I’m here. Feels...right.

Lily moves out of the bathroom --

INT. WILD PARTY - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Lily searches the party for Chloe -- Amelia whisper-flirts 
with Aaron Jakes on a chaise lounge, Rebecca sits on a 
football player’s lap on the other side of the yard, Chloe 
makes out with Sam on the dance floor -- 

Lily touches her chest, feeling her heart beating so loud 
someone else could hear it. Ginuwine’s “My Pony” plays. Mike, 
in Catcher gear, finishes a shot, appraises her state --

             MIKE
      Hey, you okay?

             LILY
        (eyes closed)
      My heart’s going to explode.

             MIKE
      What did you eat today? What hurts?

Her eyes open, recognizing Mike from the library at Carrie’s.

                                      66.

             LILY
      I feel a physical pain in my chest, 
      a raging fire in my stomach and a 
      desire to kill someone and die at 
      the same time.

             MIKE
      Are you allergic to gluten?

Lily cracks a smile --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      I believe we’ve met. I’m Mike, from 
      the Library...

Lily nods, he puts out his hand --

             LILY
      Lily. 
        (a beat)
      Sorry for having a P.A.

Off Mike’s blank stare --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Panic attack.

             MIKE
      You don’t have to say sorry for 
      anything. 

Lily stares him down, questioning his line --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Shit. Every time my friend says 
      that it sounds so cool. 

             LILY
      Every time?

             MIKE
      Girls apologize a lot. 
        (a beat, rambling)
      Not that they should. It’s just 
      part of culture and gender norms...
        (another beat)
      Well - whatever you are upset 
      about, I’m sure it’s not worth it -- 

Lily doesn’t respond to the platitude --

                                      67.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Or maybe it is...

Mike takes another shot as Lily surveys the party once more, 
all of her girls in the throws of all-consuming passion, Noah 
and Annie are close-talking in the corner.  She turns back to 
Mike making deep eye contact with him --

             LILY
      All the gin joints in all the towns 
      in the world, you walked into mine.

             MIKE
      I think this is the beginning of a 
      beautiful friendship...

             LILY
      Do you maybe want to get some fresh 
      air? Or go upstairs --

             MIKE
      Yes. 

She takes his hand --

INT. WILD PARTY - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lily and Mike enter the dark room and make out against the 
back of the door. He throws her on the bed. Mike puts his 
wallet, cell phone and condoms on the bedside table. 

             LILY
        (through his kisses)
      I hope those are for a balloon 
      party. We’re not having sex.

Mike, holds her hands above her head, kisses her neck --

             MIKE
      You’re so sexy --  

The white of her eyes glow as she feels if she likes it or 
not. He takes off her dress, kissing her body down her 
stomach and her hips - he goes down on her -- her eyes close 
in embarrassment and attempted pleasure --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      You’re so wet --

After a few moments, Mike’s back on top of her, planting a 
heavy kiss -- then, he’s inside of her -

             LILY
      No. That was tricky, come on, stop.

                                      68.

She halfheartedly tries to push him off -- contemplating the 
choice between struggling and resigning. Mike kisses her 
deeply -- his writhing, sweaty body overpowering her --

             MIKE
      I’m almost finished, I’m gonna cum. 

He lets out a sigh of satisfaction, falling onto her. She 
turns her head, finally able to breathe. Lily pushes him off, 
he rolls over, placated. Lily sits on the edge of the bed --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Wow, that was amazing. 

             LILY
      Can I have my dress?

Mike hands her the dress, she sits with her back toward him.

             MIKE
      Don’t you want to cuddle? 

Lily puts on her dress --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (mocking)
      I feel so used.

Tears have welled in Lily’s eyes, she sniffles -- Lily walks 
with her hand between her legs to the bathroom.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      I was kidding! 

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Lily turns on the sink, sits on the toilet, pees, and wipes. 
She squints her eyes, trying to wrap her head around what 
just happened -- she flushes --

INT. WILD PARTY - BERDOOM - CONTINUOUS

Lily opens the bathroom door --

             MIKE
        (embarrassed)
      Sorry it happened so fast...

Lily shakes her head, moves to the door --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Hold on, wait! 

                                      69.

INT. WILD PARTY - NIGHT

Lily stumbles out of the bedroom, wandering past people who 
look like people she knows, but none of them are her friends. 
Rejoining the party, Lily tries to hold it together --

INT. WILD PARTY - DANCE FLOOR  - CONTINUOUS

Lily moves onto the dance floor, searching for her girls. She 
ducks down, spending a moment in the sea of legs, taking a 
deep breath. She lifts her face, rubbing her closed eyes.

INT. TREEHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Chloe, Rebecca, Sam and Jared smoke in the lavish treehouse -- 
chandeliers, marble floors, glass windows --

             REBECCA
      This is like the Real Housewives of 
      the Keebler Elves --

INT. WILD PARTY - CONTINUOUS

Lily’s near panic. Alicia, frenemy from school, stops her --

             ALICIA
      You look really bad Lil - what’s 
      going on?

             LILY
      You seen Chloe, or Amelia or Becks?

             ALICIA
      I’m pretty sure they left. I saw 
      them all walking outside. They 
      didn’t tell you?

Lily looks at her skeptically, tears in her eyes -- Lily 
walks away, Alicia hair flips away. Lily’s looks at her phone 
-- dead. She moves to a phone in the kitchen.

EXT. WILD PARTY - LATER

Lily sits outside the mansion, crying. “Sapphire’s Cab”, a 
blue taxi, pulls up -- Souls of Mischief “Cab Fare” plays.

INT. SAPPHIRE’S CAB - CONTINUOUS

SAPPHIRE, a big woman (man in drag), drives. She wears a 
poker dealer’s visor. Her car’s covered with hula women --

             SAPPHIRE
        (turning to the backseat)
      Pork dumpling, how ya doin?

Lily looks at the interior, covered in a glowing blue light --

                                      70.

             LILY
        (pointing to the light)
      Wow, this is...sapphire, I get it. 

             SAPPHIRE
      Yep, Sapphire, because of my 
      insanely blue eyes. 

Lily takes in Sapphire’s clearly mud brown eyes, and the 
seriousness of the driver’s assertion -- she moves on -- 

             LILY
      I’m headed to Moreno St. 

Sapphire puts the cab in drive --

             SAPPHIRE
      You have sad eyes, little deer. 
      Who’s wounded you in the woods?

Lily lets herself be vulnerable in the safe space of the cab.

             LILY
      My friends ditched me and things 
      got out of control with this guy. 

             SAPPHIRE
      You want me to call the cops? Or 
      I’ve got a crow bar in the back --

             LILY
      No, I mean, it was fine until, it 
      wasn’t. It happened fast, I wanted 
      to get down but I didn’t want --

             SAPPHIRE
      The whole salami in your sandwich?

             LILY
        (tearing up)
      I was trying to distract myself. I 
      thought I made it clear... 

             SAPPHIRE
      There’s no excuse for whatever this 
      prick did, but you can’t trust the 
      world to understand you the way you 
      understand yourself. 

Lily bursts into sobbing tears --

                                      71.

             SAPPHIRE
	(CONT’D)
      I didn’t mean to over step. That 
      wasn’t a you’re-wearing-a-short-
      skirt-and-asking-for-it thing.  

             LILY
      No, it’s good advice. I just, don’t 
      know what I understand anymore. 
        (a beat)
      The person I love most is leaving. 

             SAPPHIRE
      Motherfuckin’ Love: even as he 
      caresses your tenderest branches 
      that quiver in the sun, he shakes 
      your roots that cling to the earth. 

             LILY
      That’s pretty.

             SAPPHIRE
      A Lebanese guy wrote it. I fucked 
      it up, but it means love’s a bitch.

             LILY
      A real bitch. 

             SAPPHIRE
      You’ve had a hard night. Cry it 
      out, throw an egg against the wall. 
        (a beat)
      But if you want this guy handled, 
      on either side of the law -- 

Sapphire pulls up at the house, she hands Lily a card --

             SAPPHIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Call me -- if you need anything.

INT. WEIL HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Lily drinks coffee. Jill enters, distracted by the newspaper.

             JILL
      Morning baby. Where the girls?

             LILY
      Guest house. After they stumbled in 
      at 5am. We didn’t go home together.

             JILL
      You okay?

                                      72.

             LILY
      No. I don’t know. Rough night.

             JILL
      I have good news. I spoke to Dan: 
      Chloe’s in. Waitlist people found 
      out last week. He said she 
      should’ve heard by now --

             LILY
      So she’s in?

             JILL
      He said they’d spoke to all the 
      deans about commitments from kids --

             LILY
      So she knows?

Lily, distraught and confused, moves to the backyard --

EXT. LILY’S BACKYARD - EARLY AFTERNOON

Lily sits on a lounge chair, staring forward, quietly stewing 
in anger. Rebecca and Chloe stumble out of the back house --

             REBECCA
      My face hurts. 

They sit on the lounge chair next to Lily. 

             CHLOE
      Sorry about the leaving confusion - 
      we couldn’t find you, then Alicia 
      the Cunt said you’d already left --

Amelia walks out, sits, and covers her face with a sweater --

             LILY
      Yeah, what the fuck happened? 

             CHLOE
      You left the dance floor - we were 
      in the treehouse, then we couldn't 
      find you, your phone was dead --

             AMELIA
      What happened to you? Or shall I 
      say, who? 

Lily resigns to the anger and sadness building within her --

             LILY
      Last night was really fucked up. 

                                      73.

             AMELIA
      Yeah, we were really fucked up. 

             LILY
      No, I mean, you guys were fucked up 
      to me. I left for one minute and 
      you were all paired off --
        (a beat, to Chloe)
      Guess you wanted to get it in with 
      Sam now, since you won’t have the 
      chance at prom --

             AMELIA
      You guys aren’t going together?

             LILY
      Oh, you haven’t told them? 

             CHLOE
      Why are you acting like this?

             LILY
      I’m trying to be honest. Chloe’s 
      not going to prom. She has 
      orientation at UCSB. Where she’s  
      going, for college, instead of NYU.

Amelia and Rebecca are silent, before one of them can cover --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Wait, you guys knew?

             REBECCA
      Had a feeling?

             AMELIA
        (playing dumb)
      You got into NYU?!

             CHLOE
      I hadn’t heard from NYU, UCSB was 
      feeling like the smart thing to do, 
      maybe the thing I want to do. 

             LILY
      You hadn’t heard? And now you know, 
      right? And you didn’t tell me?!

             CHLOE
      I was waiting until after Prom, I 
      didn’t want to ruin anything --

                                      74.

             LILY
      Ruin anything? Well, nice going, 
      what about our fucking lives?!

             CHLOE
      This is good for us.

             LILY
      Yeah, let’s all be alone, that’s a 
      great way to go through life. Last 
      night was a little metaphor for 
      college. You’re fucked up and 
      confused, feeling all sorts of new 
      sensations, and then you’re in a 
      dark room with a huge, sweaty guy 
      on you and none of your friends 
      will care because none of them will 
      be there and you’ll be absolutely 
      fucking on your own.  

             CHLOE
      What happened to you last night?

             AMELIA
      Yeah, what went on with this dude?

             LILY
      He was goal-oriented, it was 
      shitty, I’m fine, but then you 
      ditched me and that’s not fine!

             CHLOE
      You went with some dude. Without 
      telling us. Your phone was dead. We 
      aren’t going to be there all the 
      time. You have to protect yourself.

The logic of Lily’s anger and sadness begins to break down --

             LILY
      Easy for you to say, you’re turning 
      your back on us. We were there for 
      you! What do you think you’re going 
      to find some new better friends?

             CHLOE
      I owe you so I can’t make friends?

             LILY
      No, it’s just...I mean, how could 
      you really be close with someone 
      who didn’t know Thomas?! 

                                      75.

             CHLOE
      Are you listening to yourself? I 
      can’t be friends with anyone who 
      didn’t know my dead brother? 
        (a beat)
      My brother didn’t die so we could 
      all be best friends forever.

             REBECCA
      We can all still be best friends. 

             LILY
      She’s fucking up the whole friend 
      ecosystem! I’m the glue, but 
      without Clo, your boy crazy ass 
      will be with some dude and Becks’ 
      head’ll be in the clouds --

             REBECCA
      My head is in the clouds because 
      I’m thinking about real things, 
      like paying for college and loans  
      and shit that’s never even crossed 
      your mind!

             AMELIA
      I’m boy crazy? Boys have made you 
      fucking insane!

             LILY
      What?

             AMELIA
      You don’t have a dad and you don’t 
      deal! The boy you’re in love with 
      dies. Your sex positive attitude is 
      cover for being a slut! You’re 
      terrified of being alone so you try 
      and control us, well, Clo, mostly --

They are silent for a moment -- 

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry for the truth bomb, but, my 
      therapist and I talked about it.

             REBECCA
        (snapping to)
      All the men you’ve ever loved have 
      left you. 
        (a beat)
      Too real?

                                      76.

             LILY
      I’m not trying to psychoanalyse 
      myself right now! This is supposed 
      to be the greatest time in our 
      lives and instead of savoring it 
      and being together everyone’s 
      obsessed with moving on and lying 
      about it.

             CHLOE
      Lil, we’re trying to be realistic. 
      You’ve been so nuts with all your 
      plans, it’s like our lives have 
      been one continous fucking pep 
      rally run by a dictator of fun.  
      You can’t blame me for not wanting 
      to sign up for another four years 
      of that. How’d you even know? 

             LILY
      My mom knows an admissions officer. 
      I had her check when I thought you 
      still hadn’t heard -- 

             CHLOE
      I never asked you to do that. 

             LILY
      You don’t have to ask your best 
      friend to be there for you, they’re 
      just there. 

Lily gets up --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m outta here.

             AMELIA
      This is your house.

             LILY
      Make yourselves at fucking home. 

             REBECCA
      This might be a bad time to say 
      this but I have a coffee date with 
      a potential roommate for school 
      next year. Can one of you drive me?

Lily storms off, Chloe follows after her --

EXT. WEIL SIDEYARD - CONTINUOUS

Lily stomps away, crying. Chloe grabs her shoulders --

                                      77.

             CHLOE
      What is going on with you? 

             LILY
      I can’t believe you don’t want to 
      go to school with me -- I can’t 
      believe you lied about it!

             CHLOE
      Really, Lil? You can’t believe it? 
      This is bullshit. You are too smart 
      to be this pathetic. And I didn’t 
      lie, I just -- well, we all have to 
      keep some stuff secret, right, Lil? 
      To protect the people we love --

             LILY
      You clearly don’t understand --

             CHLOE
      No, you don’t understand Lily. All 
      your cherishing every moment and 
      prom and college and your weird 
      memorials -- since Thomas died, 
      you’ve gone into overdrive -- it’s 
      fucking oppressive.

             LILY
      Sorry I wanted to make senior year 
      special and go to college with my 
      best friends. This terrible thing 
      happened, I’m just trying to get us 
      through it, make it better. 

             CHLOE
      Yes, this terrible thing happened 
      but that doesn’t mean everything 
      else has to be fucking peachy keen. 
      Beck’s still has to worry about 
      money, Meils’ parents still suck, 
      your dad is still gone, I still 
      have to deal with the gaping 
      fucking hole in my family. Life is 
      hard and keeps being hard --

             LILY
      I know life is fucking hard, Clo. I 
      just try not to dwell on it. This 
      has all been rough for me, too.
        (breaking down)
      And when I try to talk to you -- 

                                      78.

             CHLOE
      I know, Lil, but, our shit is 
      different, we’re different -- 

             LILY
      Yeah, well, I miss him, too. 

             CHLOE
      Yeah, well, sometimes you don’t get 
      to tell me that. Jesus, Lil he’s 
      not your brother!

A beat as Lily takes in the ever-present, underlying, truth -- 

             LILY
      You’re right, I’m not blood. But he 
      was...something else for me.

             CHLOE
        (harsh)
      Dude -- whatever you thought he 
      was, your boyfriend or your dad, he 
      was actually my brother. 

             LILY
      Dude. I know.

Chloe almost snaps out of her anger --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      And I was trying to make this time 
      special, make our future special, 
      because I don’t know what I would 
      do without you --

             CHLOE
      I can’t with this psycho girlfriend 
      act. This isn’t you and I know it. 

Chloe moves towards the backyard. Off Lily, distraught --

                                  CUT TO:

INT. LILY’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Lily listens to Erykah Badu’s “Bag Lady,” as she drives past 
the places that comprise their lives -- school, their houses.

INT. LILY’S CAR  - CONTINUOUS

Lily pulls up to a stop sign -- on the opposite corner is a 
coffee shop. Rebecca sits outside with her POTENTIAL ROOMMATE 
-- they laugh and seem particularly happy and at ease. 

                                      79.

             LILY
      How adorable.‘College is going to 
      be so great! None of our old 
      friends to hold us back...’ 

The car behind Lily honks -- a few times -- 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      ‘We can totally reinvent ourselves 
      as sloppy skanks who don’t need 
      anyone and gain 15 pounds!’

A siren blares -- a cop pulls out from the line of cars 
formed behind her. Lily looks in her rearview mirror.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      Shit buckets!

Lily pulls over on the side street, the cop behind her. She 
grabs her license as the cop approaches her window.

             COP #1
      What was going on back there?

             LILY
      Sorry, I was distracted. 

             COP #1
      Texting? 

             LILY
      Thinking. 


             COP #1
      Well, you can’t just stay still, 
      you have to go, move forward --

             LILY
      I know. 

             COP #1
      There are other people who have 
      places to go, you can’t stop them. 

             LILY
      I know. 

             COP #1
      There is life happening all around 
      you and you can’t control it by 
      stopping wherever you please and 
      deciding everyone’s just going to 
      have to fall in line --

                                      80.

             LILY
      I get it! Fuck!

The Cop looks her in the eyes, red from crying. He looks in 
the back of her car, spotting Donkey Bong in the back --

             COP #1
      Have you been smoking young lady?

             LILY
      No.

             COP #1
      What’s that bong?

             LILY
      That’s a sculpture I made in 
      ceramics at school, where I’m 
      Student Body President. I’m a good 
      kid, I’ve just got a lot of my 
      mind. I’m graduating and --

             COP #1
      You’re headed to college --

             LILY
      Yeah, Columbia in New York --

             COP #1
      Oh, as opposed to the country? I’m 
      sure Columbia would be pretty 
      unhappy about a future student 
      being arrested for possession -- 

             LILY
      What?

             COP #1
      I mean are you fucking crazy? 
      Driving around with a bong in your 
      back seat? Who do you think you 
      are, Willie Nelson? Even he got 
      arrested for weed --

             LILY
      Are you arresting me?

The Cop eyes her -- her face morphs through every 
configuration of crying, watching her fate play out --

             COP #1
      I’m not ruining your life forever.  

                                      81.

             LILY
      Oh thank god.

             COP #1
      I might just fuck it up for the 
      next week or so. 

EXT. WEIL HOUSE FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Lily and the Cop, who holds the bong, stand in front of Jill.

             COP #1
      She was waiting at a stoplight for 
      a few minutes, day-dreaming. I 
      spotted this in the back. I know 
      she’s a bright girl with a big 
      future, she told me all about it, 
      figured I’d let you handle it.

             JILL
      Thanks so much, Officer. I can’t 
      believe my daughter would act like 
      such a brazen idiot. Thanks for 
      your understanding. 

             COP #1
      We’re all just figuring it out. 

The Cop hands Jill the bong, tips his hat, and leaves. 

             JILL
      Follow me. 

EXT. WEIL BACKYARD - EVENING

Jill pulls Lily behind a shrub. Jill takes a hit, covering 
the bong, hands it to Lily. 

             JILL
        (with smoke in her lungs)
      Take it.

Lily stares at her, confused --

             JILL
	(CONT’D)
      Now smash it.

             LILY
      What?

             JILL
        (getting angrier)
      You have to smash it.

                                      82.

             LILY
      No! It’s Donkey Bong, he’s been 
      with us for all of high school. 
      Thomas smoked out of it!

             JILL
        (pissed)
      You can’t sentimentalize your way 
      out of this! You might be Student 
      Body President but you’re still a 
      fuck-up teenager! Smash it! 

             LILY
      I wasn’t smoking! I was sad 
      driving! 
        (off Jill’s confusion)
      Rebecca was with her new roommate, 
      Clo’s not going to NYU, she hates 
      me, she’s ditching prom for the 
      orientation of her new life.

             JILL
      Well, then, you need to be 
      supportive of her choices!

             LILY
      But what if her choices are wrong?

             JILL
        (almost shaking her)
      Lil, thinking you know what’s best 
      for other people is the beginning 
      of socialism or fascism. Either 
      way, it ends badly. Now learn your 
      lesson and smash your bong! 

Lily takes the bong, closes her eyes and smashes the bong 
into hundreds of pieces. Jill storms off -- 

             JILL
	(CONT’D)
      I’m so mad I could fucking spit!

INT. LILY’S CAR - LATER 

Lily sits in her car by herself, crying. She types out a text 
to Chloe “Where are you?!”

Lily tries Chloe -- voicemail -- (from The Next Episode) 
“HeyeyEYeyYY...You’ve reached Chloe...smoke weed everyday.”

She tries Amelia -- voicemail -- “Hi, this is Amelia, I never 
check my messages so don’t bother leaving one.”

She tries Rebecca -- voicemail -- “You’ve reached Rebecca, 
I’m not at home, leave your message, leave it at the tone --”

She dials another number --

                                      83.

             ROSA
	(O.S.)
      This is Rosa at Bergbaum-Goldstein 
      Residence number one.

             LILY
      Hi, Rosa, is Chloe over there?

             ROSA
        (confused)
      Chloe, Miss Rebecca, Miss Amelia -- 
      upstairs. Where are you?

Lily hangs up, confused and upset -- she gets a call -- 

             LILY
      Hello?

             CALLER
	(O.S.)
      I have one “Prom Best Night of Your 
      Life” Banner and four “C.A.R.L. 
      Best Friends Forever” frames ready 
      for pick up?

INT. LILY’S BEDROOM - LATER

She lays out prom dresses. The C.A.R.L. Frames sit next to 
them. She cries. A knock, James enters.

                              TIME CUT TO:

             JAMES
      What’re you doing?

             LILY
      Figuring out what to wear to prom. 

             JAMES
      A paper bag should do...
        (looks at the dresses)
      Oh, you mean on your body...

Lily tears up, James touches her back, she shrugs it off --

             JAMES
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus. Are you on your period?

Lily stares daggers at him --

                                      84.

             LILY
        (through tears)
      Yes...

             JAMES
      I think actual steam just came out 
      of your ears -- 
        (congratulatory)
      You’re leaking out of every 
      orifice!

Lily half-smiles. James puts on a dress --

             LILY
      Don’t, you’re going to stretch it --

             JAMES
      My slender boyish figure is the 
      stuff trannies dream of. Talk --

             LILY
      Mom thinks I’m an entitled idiot -- 
      which is true. And my friends might 
      hate me or at least strongly 
      dislike me, which makes sense, 
      because I’ve really sucked lately. 

             JAMES
      Well, Mom will get over it. Yes, 
      you are a freak, but you’ve always 
      been like that. Maybe with your 
      power pussy posse you’ve been a bit 
      ‘BFF for ever and ever’ this year 
      but you’re expiration dating.
        (a beat)
      You taught me that, remember? That 
      camp dude, summer was ending, he 
      was all “You’re so hot, no one 
      could ever give me handys the way 
      you do, we’re gonna Gchat all the 
      time?” When you know it’s ending, 
      you try and hold onto it, things 
      get weird waiting it out. 

James has the dress on -- it looks pretty good.

             LILY
      How’d you get so wise?

             JAMES
        (facetious)
      I’m surrounded by brilliant women. 
        (a beat)
      You gotta get in a new mindset. 

                                      85.

             LILY
      Like an emotional pre-game. 

             JAMES
      Or just live your life. Sometimes 
      you got to feel shitty and be 
      alone, even if it conflicts with 
      Lisa Frank’s laminated calendar of 
      Life events. 
        (a beat)
      Dad left the day before the 
      Disneyland trip. We didn’t go. That 
      shit’s gonna fuck me up for the 
      rest of my life. 
        (picks up the frames)
      Also “C.A.R.L. Forever?” What are 
      you a gay trucker?  

Lily smiles, takes the frame, curls up in a ball --

             JAMES
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll leave you to wallow now.

Lily sits on the bed, looking at the frames. She opens her 
computer, puts in a CD, creates a new playlist “Cali Chloe.”

                              TIME CUT TO:

EXT. ALLEYWAY - LATE MORNING

Lily files receipts in a binder. Noah approaches her --

             NOAH
      Need any help Madame President?

He places his hand on her shoulder. She snaps back at him --

             LILY
      Don’t touch me. 

Noah backs away --

             NOAH
        (cautious)
      Couldn’t find you at the party,  
      wanted to congratulate you --

Lily turns to him --

             LILY
      Little vicious, huh?

             NOAH
      What?

                                      86.

             LILY
      You and Annie are still involved? 
      Don’t you think that’s hurtful -- 
      moving on in front of her face?

             NOAH
      Annie and I have a bond, her being 
      crazy stops us from having a 
      relationship -- we aren’t together. 
      I like spending time with you, I 
      care about you -- 

             LILY
      I don’t want to be that girl. You 
      aren’t worth it to me.

The dagger-like comment registers on Noah's face. 

             NOAH
      Yeah, you made that clear when you 
      banged-and-dashed -- you couldn’t 
      turn me down fast enough --

             LILY
      Clearly, because you were shoving 
      your tongue down your anorexic ex’s 
      throat a few hours later -- 

             NOAH
      I wanted to be with you and now 
      you’re jealous? 

             LILY
      Please, don’t flatter yourself. 

             NOAH
      You know, for someone who’s so 
      nice, you’re kind of a bitch...

Noah’s shocked at his dropping of a truth bomb. Lily gets up.

             NOAH
	(CONT’D)
      And for all your generosity, you’re 
      pretty selfish.

In awe of his own honesty --

             NOAH
	(CONT’D)
      And for all your confidence, you’re 
      actually really fucking scared.

Noah storms off -- 

INT. LILY’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Lily sits in her spot. Sam knocks, sees Lily’s upset --

                                      87.

             SAM
      Hey, what’s wrong?

             LILY
      Everything. Prom shit. What’s up? 

             SAM
      It’s stupid, but Chloe’s favorite 
      color, for her corsage...

             LILY
      She’s not going --

             SAM
        (bummed)
      Oh, so she’s going to the prefrosh 
      orientation thing?

             LILY
      ‘Course you knew. 

             SAM
      I, well, she mentioned something --

             LILY
      I’ve got to get confetti.

Lily starts to pull out, she looks at a sad Sam --

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s green, for what’s it’s worth.

INT. PARTY CITY - DAY

Lily wanders the aisles, past a flailing blow-up man.

             LILY
      I know how you feel --

EXT. LARGE GYMNASIUM - AFTERNOON

Lily, with the help of some maintenance crew unfurls a huge 
red carpet nearly the length of the street. She nods “thank 
you” and stands over it alone.

                              TIME CUT TO:

                                      88.

EXT. CHLOE’S HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Chloe approaches Amelia’s car, borrowed for the weekend. 
Thomas’ car is gone, Chloe glances at the spot where it used 
to be before noticing a green rose corsage on the windshield, 
a note “In case you change your mind -- Sam.” Chloe grabs the 
corsage and throws her bag in the car, missing the letter 
that Lily has placed in the passenger's seat. 

INT. LOCKER ROOM - EVENING

Lily does her make-up in the locker room mirror -- the inside 
of her make-up box is plastered with pictures of the girls --
Mary J. Blige’s “Be Without You” blasts on the speakers -- 
she sings to herself, sadly and out of tune. 

INT. AMELIA’S HOUSE - BATHROOM - EVENING

Amelia applies eyeliner as Rosa straightens her hair -- she 
also listens to “Be Without You” -- she calls Rebecca --

INT. REBECCA’S HOUSE - BEDROOM - EVENING

Rebecca reads “The Journals of Soren Kierkegaard”. Her phone 
rings -- Amelia. She silences it, types a message to Mr. 
Bemis: “’People understand me so little that they do not even 
understand when I complain of being misunderstood.’ HE GETS 
ME.” Her phone buzzes - Text from Mr. Bemis: “What is it that 
turns the words of the simple person into wisdom? It is love. 
See you at Prom? I’m chaperoning.” Rebecca gets dressed.

INT. GYMNASIUM - EVENING

A perfectly updated version of a 1950’s prom. Lily sighs --

EXT. PROM - EVENING

Limos pull up. The red carpet is a sea of tight dresses, up-
dos, rented tuxes. A CROONER, 40s, sings Sam Cooke’s “You 
Send Me.” Couples pose for pictures. Annie and Noah walk, 
Noah searching for Lily. They move toward the entrance -- 

INT. AMELIA’S CAR (CHLOE DRIVING) - EVENING

Chloe drives up the coast, heading towards Santa Barbara. A 
car stops short in front of her, she slams on the brakes. All 
her stuff (and Amelia’s litter) flies forward --

                              TIME CUT TO:

             CHLOE
      Motherfucker!

                                      89.

Chloe reaches to grab her overturned bag, when she sees the 
letter from Lily. She opens it to find a CD. She pops it in. 

             LILY
	(O.S.)
      Hey Clo. I made you a mix. All Cali 
      themed songs to get you psyched for 
      school. Santa Barbara don’t know 
      what’s hittin’ it. 

“California Love” plays as Chloe tears up. She looks ahead of 
her at the setting sun and in her rearview mirror. She pulls 
a fast U-turn, her wheels screeching. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT. PROM - NIGHT

Tables are full of chattering kids and half eaten plates. 
“California Love” blares over a crowded dance floor. 

Pac concedes to “Ain’t No Way” by Aretha Franklin, kids 
couples off for their obligatory prom slow dance. The DJ 
lowers the music and speak-sings over the song --

             DJ
      Ladies and Gents, take a look at 
      the people you’ve spent the last 
      four years with. Take a moment to 
      be grateful for being together. 
      Soon you’ll all be off living your 
      own lives and this world will be a 
      distant memory...

Lily stands in a corner, apathetic, watching the dancing 
couples, searching for a shred of nostalgia or 
sentimentality.

Noah and Annie dance into her view, and a wave of jealousy 
comes over Lily. Then, Mike and Alicia dance by, Mike winking 
at Lily. Lily walk-runs from the dance floor --

INT. GIRLS BATHROOM - PROM - CONTINUOUS

Lily moves into a stall. She takes out her phone, looks at a 
photo of the four girls at last year’s prom, with Thomas. She 
steels herself, puts the phone away. Four YOUNGER GIRLS file 
into the bathroom, Lily peeks at them from under the stall --

             GIRL 1
      Can’t believe we’re at Prom. 

Girl 2 dabs her underarms with paper towels.

                                      90.

             GIRL 3
      Thank god we all got invited. 

             GIRL 4
      Thank god we have three left. 

The young girls take sips out of a flask. Inside the stall, 
Lily rolls her eyes, flushes.

             GIRL 1
      I need to be way more drunk.

As Girl 2 chugs, Lily walks out -- 

             LILY
      Slow your roll, the night is long. 

Girl 2 nearly spits up, as Lily is a known senior --

             GIRL 3
        (agreeing with Lily)
      Yeah, I’ll kill you if you puke on 
      my dress.

             LILY
      Buddy system at the after party -- 
      and not the holding-each-other-up 
      buddy system -- don’t be that girl, 
      don’t let each other get there. 

Lily cleans her smeared makeup --

             GIRL 1
      You okay?

             LILY
      No. Life is full of misery, 
      loneliness and suffering and it’s 
      all over much to soon. 

             GIRL 4
        (hands Lily the flask)
      Whiskey?

Lily takes the flask, downs it. The girls are in awe. 

             LILY
      You’ll understand when you’re 
      older. Be safe tonight. 

Lily walks out of the bathroom --

                                  CUT TO:

                                      91.

INT. PROM - CONTINUOUS

Lily walks past the Prom scene, out the doors --

EXT. ATHLETIC FIELDS - CONTINUOUS

Lily walks towards the benches. As it zooms out, her figure 
gets smaller and smaller in the distance. 

In the foreground, a white limo pulls up. Five figures 
emerge.

EXT. PROM - CONTINUOUS

Jared and Aaron Jakes get out first, helping Rebecca and 
Amelia climb down. Sam gets out, looking fine in his tux. 

INT. PROM - CONTINUOUS

The five strut in -- Sam hoping to find Chloe, Amelia and 
Aaron Jakes heading for the dance floor, Rebecca heading to 
the chip table, subtly searching for Mr. Bemis, leaving Jared 
in the dust.

Sam turns to Jared after he’s scanned the room -- 

             SAM
        (nodding to the bathroom)
      Keep an eye out for Chloe. 

Jared nods, then watches Rebecca as she tries to seductively 
eat a Twizzler. 

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sam stands at the urinal. Mike enters and stands next to him.

             MIKE
      Hey dude.

             SAM
      Hey.

             MIKE
      Path Less Taken girls are a blast. 
      So liberated and open minded.

Sam makes a vomiting face to his other side --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      You know what’s up with Lily?

Sam shoots a look at Mike -- Mike shakes out his dick --

                                      92.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Hot brunette? Anyone got dibs?

             SAM
      No man -- are you --

             MIKE
      Trying to hit it again? Yeah.

             SAM
      Again? 

             MIKE
      We were both fucked up last time. 

             SAM
      I don’t think tonight’s your night.

             MIKE
      She a Daria chick? Sad chick? She 
      seemed upset last time too... 

Sam looks away, thinking about Lily. Mike fears he’s come off 
as too sensitive -- trying to re-establish his bro status --

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      But you know, you do little --
        (flicks his tongue)
      A little neck kissing, they always 
      end up liking it.

             SAM
        (snapping to)
      Look man, back off Lily... and all 
      my Path girls for that matter. 

             MIKE
      Oh what, you own them? Isn’t that a 
      little culturally insensitive -- to 
      them and to you.

Mike walks away from the urinal. Sam stares at him, stunned --

INT. GYMNASIUM - CONTINUOUS

Rebecca sways by herself, practicing her robot -- she looks 
across the dance floor, Mr. Bemis also practices his robot -- 
they meet eyes and smile. He approaches --

             MR. BEMIS
      You look beautiful. 

             REBECCA
      Thanks. 

                                      93.

             MR. BEMIS
      How’s your date?

             REBECCA
      A formality. 
        (a beat)
      We were gonna go just the girls 
      but...things changed.

             MR. BEMIS
      What is it that endures when 
      everything is changed? It is love. 

             REBECCA
      Kierkegaard. A poet, that guy.

He stares at her deeply --

             MR. BEMIS
      Tell them your love won’t change. 
      You only get so many chances. 

They hold eyes for a moment --

             REBECCA
      Would you like to come to our 
      graduation party? It’s at Lily’s --

             MR. BEMIS
      I’ll be there. 

Rebecca smiles and moves into the crowd to find Amelia as --  

Chloe runs in, keys in hand, corsage on wrist, searching for 
Lily. Sam hurries out of the bathroom, also trying to find 
Lily -- nearly running into Chloe. 

             SAM
      You came?

             CHLOE
      Lily made me a mix. 

             SAM
      What? Yeah, I was looking for her, 
      that dude Mike said some real shady 
      shit about her -- 

             CHLOE
      What?

                                      94.

             SAM
      About whatever went down with them, 
      it just made me want to punch him, 
      I don’t know -- but I haven’t seen 
      her all night. 

Chloe scans the room quickly, then runs outside. 

EXT. ATHLETIC FIELDS - CONTINUOUS

Lily lays on the bench with Thomas’ plaque. She drunkenly 
sings “Be Without You.”

             LILY
        (crying, singing)
      ‘...And I’ll be waiting up until 
      you get home...’

             CHLOE
	(O.C.)
      ...Because I can’t be without you 
      babyyy...

Lily stares in disbelief at Chloe -- 

             LILY
      You came back?

             CHLOE
      Sick party. 

             LILY
      Ah, fuck that noise. 

Lily sits up. Chloe stares at her, a little shocked -- 

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      It just --

             CHLOE
      Wasn’t what you planned?

             LILY
      Wasn’t us. 
        (a drunken beat)
      ‘That fuckhead Mike was in there --

             CHLOE
      Yeah, he said some weird shit to 
      Sam -- 

             LILY
        (a little drunken, 
         rationalizing)

                                      95.

             LILY
	(CONT'D)
      I fucked up, it fucked me up, but 
      in the grand scheme of things, it 
      isn’t a big --

             CHLOE
        (frustrated)
      Lil, there’s no grief spectrum. 
      What went down with him?

             LILY
      I said no, it was like he just 
      didn’t hear me. I felt so out of 
      control. It shook me. I think it 
      made me realize how fucked up I am.
        (whispers, ‘yikes’ face)
      Noah and I had slept together 
      earlier that day and it was really 
      nice. Now he’s here with that 
      skank. But I was a bitch to him --

             CHLOE
      I’m so sorry, Lil -- 

             LILY
      No, I’m sorry. I think I’m so 
      fucking well-adjusted, but I’m  
      this Stepford wife control freak.
        (a beat)
      But you, this place, are my 
      everything. Anticipating leaving --  
      it’s made me spiral out.  

             CHLOE
      And Thomas’ birthday, and Prom...

Lily swallows this --

             LILY
      I’m really sorry for being intense 
      about Thomas. I wanted to be sad 
      together, but our shit is totally 
      different. Sometimes you just don’t 
      want to talk and he’s not my 
      brother, I was just in love with 
      him --  

Lily stops, shocked at the escaped truth. After a beat --  

             CHLOE
      And he was in love with you, too, 
      Lil. I know. About everything. I’m 
      not blind, and -- he’d written me a 
      letter. I found it in his room a 
      couple days after... 

Lily nearly gasps, clutching at the hole in her chest that 
just grew bigger. She tries to pull herself together -- 

                                      96.

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      Lil, it’s going to hurt forever. 
      It’s part of who we are now. 
        (a beat)
      But thinking about what is, what 
      was, is sad enough, I can’t take on 
      mourning what could have been. 

Lily swallows this. Chloe brushes away a rare tear and takes 
Lily’s hand. 

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      And you got to stop worrying about 
      what might be. Whatever is it, 
      wherever we are, we’ll still be us. 
        (a beat)
      You’re my life partner. 
        (a la Brokeback)
      I can’t quit you.

Chloe envelops her. They laugh/cry together for a moment -- 

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry about your prom.

             LILY
      You are my prom. 

INT. PROM - NIGHT

Amelia sits on a chair next to Rebecca, watching Aaron Jakes 
making out with another girl. Rebecca texts with Mr. Bemis 
“Mr. Bemis: What’s a fart that sounds and smells like 
nothing?...A Sartre.” Rebecca laughs. 

                                  CUT TO:

             AMELIA
      I hate boys.

             REBECCA
      We’re ready for men. 

             AMELIA
      No, right now what I need is my 
      Dudes. Where the fuck is Lily?

             REBECCA
      Yeah, I wish Clo were here.

Sam approaches. 

                                      97.

             SAM
      Hey -- I think there’s something 
      waiting for you out in the fields.

Amelia and Rebecca look at each other -- 

EXT. ATHLETIC FIELDS - CONTINUOUS

Lily and Chloe walk out towards the waiting limos, as they 
see Rebecca and Amelia approach. 

             AMELIA
      Oh hey skank faces, where ya been?

             LILY
      Growing up.

             AMELIA
      Nice of you to show, Daniels.

             CHLOE
      I couldn’t miss Prom. 

             REBECCA
      This is how it’s supposed to be.

             LILY
      Guys, I’m sorry for being a psycho.  

             AMELIA
      It’s okay, you’re like the 
      obsessive boyfriend I never had. 

             REBECCA
      What is never changed even though 
      everything is changed? It is love.

             LILY
      I don’t know what’s gonna happen, 
      but knowing I have you guys, that’s 
      pretty fucking good.

They group hug as Jared’s White Limo pulls up -- Sapphire is 
driving. Sam and Jared walk out from the Prom. 

             SAM
      Let’s blow this joint. 

             LILY
      Yeah Prom sucks. It’s all about 
      After Prom. 

                                  CUT TO:

                                      98.

INT. AFTER PROM -- NIGHT

A huge empty factory space, filled with strobe lights and 
drugged kids.  The girls, with Sam and Jared in tow, enter as 
Juveniles “Back that Ass Up” plays. The girls go buck wild -- 
bumping and grinding with each other. After a few moments 
Mike comes up and tries to grind with Lily, she turns around, 
a look of disgust on her face --

             MIKE
      Heeeeey. Remember me?

             CHLOE
      No fucking way. 

Chloe dance-punches Mike in the stomach, he bends over in 
debilitating pain. Chloe dance-knees him in the balls.

             CHLOE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Mike on the ground)
      No means no. Go fuck your-self. 

Lily’s in awe. Chloe shakes out her hand as Sam runs over --

             SAM
      That was awesome -- 

             CHLOE
      I need ice --

The four girls follow Sam to an ice machine. As they walk 
Lily sees Noah and Annie screaming at each other, and Annie 
running out of the door. A frazzled Noah turns into Lily --

             NOAH
      Shit, sorry.

             LILY
      Hey.

             NOAH
        (drunk, confessional)
      She’s mad that I have a phone...? 
      We’re over. Shouldn’t have brought 
      her. I’m sorry for everything. I’ve 
      been such a dick.

             LILY
      I’ve also been dick-like. 
      Dickishness recognized and 
      forgiven?

                                      99.

They shake hands. Chloe returns with ice taped to her hand, 
Amelia, Rebecca and Sam in tow. Chloe grabs Lily’s other hand 
as they head back to the dance floor, Lily toting Noah --

Fat Man Scoop’s “Be Faithful” plays. They form a Soul Train 
Dance Line. Sam and Chloe go, at the end they make-out.

Lily does the cry baby, Noah writhes with Channing Tatum like 
moves, everyone’s impressed. Noah looks to Lily for approval.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      God you’re hot for a nerd.

-- Lily and Noah make out. Then four girls do the last walk 
down the Soul Train line --

                              TIME CUT TO:

EXT. AFTER PROM -- DAWN

The girls wait for their cab. Sam comes out --

             SAM
      Last ones to leave, my classy gals.

             CHLOE
      We were savoring every moment. 

Chloe winks at Lily. Sam wraps his arms around Chloe --

             SAM
      You have a ride?

             LILY
      I called Sapphire --

             AMELIA
        (to Rebecca)
      Girl. Your shoes?

Rebecca looks down at her dirty, bare feet.

             REBECCA
      Shucks. 

Amelia signals for her to get piggy-back. Chloe holds Lily, 
Rebecca’s on Amelia’s back, the ragtag bunch together, 
staring at the rising sun. Sapphire arrives. They pile in as 
Sam pulls out his Iphone. 

             SAM
      Wait! One for the grandkids!  

                                     100.

He holds up his phone while they pose. FLASH. 

EXT. WEIL BACKYARD - AFTERNOON

POV The shattered bong -- the four girls stand over it --

                              TIME CUT TO:

             CHLOE
      You Smashed brothers Donkey Bong?!

             AMELIA
      Donkey Bong, there through high 
      school, life, death, proms, SATs, 
      when we only had a little weed but 
      wanted to get really high --

             REBECCA
      You’ll be buried next to your 
      brethren, Jon Bong Jovi, Sean 
      Bongery, Bong Connery, and “Ceci 
      n’est pas une Pipe.”

             LILY
      You will be missed.

They bury his remnants under dirt. The girls move to sit in 
the same pool chairs --

             CHLOE
      Now what the fuck do we do?

             LILY
      I have to finish my grad speech but 
      I almost don’t give a fuck...? 

             AMELIA
      I love hearing you apathetic and 
      uninterested. It’s hot. 

             CHLOE
      What do you have so far?

             LILY
      I’ve been writing in notes on my 
      phone...

Lily adjusts herself a little and clears her throat.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      I’ve tried to put a name on what 
      I’m feeling. It has to do with 
      fear: of the unknown, of change. 

                                     101.

             LILY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s wrapped up in memory, and 
      being in the places that have 
      contained your life. It has the 
      sense of too-soon nostalgia -- as 
      if I deeply long for what’s right 
      in front of me. 

EXT. FILED - DAY

Lily stands in front of her class in cap and gowns. In the 
audience are the girls’ families, Noah, teachers --

                              TIME CUT TO:

             LILY
      Then a friend said it: loss. Is 
      that what I’m feeling, what it 
      means to grow up? Being aware of 
      how time’s lost, your growing 
      familiarity with and acceptance of 
      the pain of its losses?

EXT. WEIL BACKYARD - GRADUATION PARTY - EVENING

Lily’s V.O. continues over the four families. Rebecca sits 
with her parents, taking pictures. Amelia with her mom, cool 
in a blazer and two iPhones, her father, Jew fro, stuffing 
his face with brisket, and Rosa, full of joy and wearing 
Amelia’s diamond bracelet. Chloe sits between Lorraine and 
Bill, both smiling. Lily with Jill, James, Olivia.

             LILY
	(V.O.)
      Growing up is understanding what 
      eases that pain: friendship. A bond 
      fused by tears and traumas and 
      hours logged in the same cars and 
      in front of the same T.V.s. All of 
      our memories are wrapped up in each 
      other. That’s the greatest gift 
      this place has given us, it’s part 
      of the loss we experience today. 
      But a poet gave a better definition 
      of loss, what loss can be if we 
      approach it right. “The process 
      whereby pain of the past in its 
      pastness may be converted into the 
      future tense of joy.”

The backyard, once a mere smoking sanctuary, is filled with a 
communal joy. The village and the children it has raised. 

Mr. Bemis, walks in holding flowers -- Rebecca jumps up --

                                     102.

             REBECCA
      Mr. Bemis!

             MR. BEMIS
      Call me Immanuel. 

This sends shivers down Rebecca’s spine --

             REBECCA
      Immanuel, I’m so glad you came. 

             MR. BEMIS
      What am I going to do without you? 
      You’re the reason I come to school.

             REBECCA
      Me too. For you.

             MR. BEMIS
      I know it’s wrong. 

             REBECCA
      I’m 18. I’m graduated. 

             MR. BEMIS
      I’m 24. With the emotional maturity 
      of a 20 year old. 

             REBECCA
      We’ll find our way with it. 

Rebecca takes Mr. Bemis’ hand and brings him to meet her mom. 
On the other side of the backyard, Amelia’s parents bicker. 
Amelia rolls her eyes, walks to the desert table -- 

Noah walks in. Lily jumps up to greet him.

             NOAH
      Congrats. Your speech was epic. 

             LILY
      Thanks. I’m so glad you came.
        (a beat)
      Still on for dinner next week? 

             NOAH
      You kidding? My mom’s already 
      basting the brisket. 

Jill motions for Lily to come take photos with the family. 
Noah gives her a sweet kiss -- 

             NOAH
	(CONT’D)
      Go photo. I’ll be by the brownies.

                                     103.

Lily poses with James and Olivia. Amelia, Rebecca, and Chloe 
walk up from the desert table --

             AMELIA
      We have a problem - Rosa served the 
      very special brownies I made for 
      our private after party.

             LILY
      What?

             CHLOE
      How much weed’s in them?

             AMELIA
      Just an ounce, or two...

             CHLOE
      DUDE. 

             AMELIA
      I thought we deserved...to be 
      really, really high.

Rosa comes up to them --

             ROSA
      My head is big as the universe and 
      smallest pin, but in the good way.

Rosa pats them on the head. The girls survey the drugged 
party. James approaches, holding the “C.A.R.L. Frames.”

             JAMES
      So I have a little something...

The frames have the photo Sam took from After Prom in them --

             CHLOE
      These are perfect.

             REBECCA
      C.A.R.L. sounds like a computer 
      who’ll lead the overthrow of humans 
      -- I love it.

             AMELIA
        (seductively)
      Yeah, thanks James. 

             LILY
      I thought you said these were 
      creepy, gay-trucker status? 

                                     104.

             JAMES
      So I contradict myself, I am large, 
      I contain multitudes.

             CHLOE
      Yeah multitudes of dicks. 

Chloe hugs James. Sam and Jared walk in. James points to the 
frames, winks at Sam. Sam notices the “odd” tone of the party  
-- looks at the girls.

             SAM
      What’s going on?

             REBECCA
      Amelia dosed the party with 
      brownies.

             AMELIA
      Unintentionally.

They take stock of everyone’s extreme highness. The girls 
look at each other, Chloe motions “Let’s get out of here” and 
for Lily to grab her keys. Chloe turns to Sam -- 

             CHLOE
      Cover for us a minute? 

She kisses him as the four girls make their way out front --

INT./EXT. LILY’S CAR - AFTERNOON

Lily cars crests the top of a lookout. It peers down into a 
canyon and a small sliver of ocean. As they reach the peak 
they see Thomas’ rusty car, with some plants around it. 

                                  CUT TO:

             LILY
      Clo -- 

             CHLOE
      The day of the Mighty Mighty Dogs 
      Stoned, when my mom was freaking, 
      it’s ‘cause they were towing the 
      car, getting rid of it. I bribed 
      the tow guy to bring it here, 
      instead of the scrap yard. 

             LILY
      To his favorite spot -- 

             REBECCA
      So kids can smoke and contemplate. 

                                     105.

             AMELIA
      And homeless people can live in it. 

Lily hits Amelia -- 

             AMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      James can make out with guys in it.

             LILY
      It’ll be our place -- 

             CHLOE
      Whatever it is, it’s not a was 
      anymore. 
        (a beat)
      Future tense of joy, right, Lil?

The girls sit on the hood, sparking their last joint of high 
school. Chloe puts her arm around Lily, as they look out into 
the future. Dr.Dre “The Next Episode” rises to its crescendo.

