                FAULTS

                 by

              Riley STEARNS

                3.24.13

Snoot Entertainment
11965 Venice Blvd, Suite 402
Los Angeles, CA 90066
p.323.937.0808


INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT - DAY

It’s 1986.

On ANSEL ROTH (40’s), alone in a booth eating a club 
sandwich. He wears a blazer that’s a depressing shade of 
brown and sports a mustache.

A WAITER approaches...

             WAITER
      Can I get you anything else?

He chews and swallows then shakes his head “no”...

             WAITER
	(CONT’D)
      In that case. Whenever you’re 
      ready.

Before the waiter can set the check on the table Ansel pulls 
a crumpled piece of paper from his pocket and hands it to the 
young man...

             ANSEL
      I have a voucher.

The waiter unfolds the paper. He inspects it, then...

             WAITER
      I’ll be right back.

He walks away from the table. Ansel doesn’t look up as he 
eats the remainder of the fries on his plate.

A moment later the waiter returns with his MANAGER. Ansel 
looks up...

             ANSEL
      That is a voucher from the hotel.

             MANAGER
      Well. Yes. It is. But this voucher 
      has been used already.

             ANSEL
      No it hasn’t.

The manager remains calm. He holds the paper out for Ansel to 
see...


                                      2.

             MANAGER
      You see here. These are my 
      initials. I’m the manager. When the 
      voucher has been used I mark it 
      with my initials and then it’s 
      processed.

             ANSEL
      I was given that by the hotel.

             MANAGER
      I understand, but what I’m saying 
      is that you used it last night. I 
      remember you. It looks like you- 
      like someone tried to erase the 
      writing but it’s pen ink. It’s 
      faded but still there.

Ansel sits up.

             ANSEL
      I am a guest of the hotel. I was 
      promised one complimentary meal a 
      day while I’m staying here.

             MANAGER
      That’s fine but I don’t know 
      anything about that. You’re going 
      to want to talk with hotel 
      management about that. But this is 
      no good and I need you to pay for 
      your food.

             ANSEL
      How much is it?

             MANAGER
      Four seventy five--

             ANSEL
        (cutting him off)
      I don’t have that.

             MANAGER
      How much do you have?

Ansel stuffs the remainder of his sandwich in his mouth. It’s 
too big a piece and hard to chew.

             ANSEL
        (mouth full)
      Nothing. I don’t have anything.


He continues to stare and chew, antagonistic...

                                      3.

             MANAGER
      I’m going to have to ask you to 
      leave.

             ANSEL
      I’d like to finish my meal.

             MANAGER
      And I’d like for you to leave. 
      Plus, you’ve eaten your food. 

Ansel’s plate is clean. He scans the table. He casually 
reaches for the ketchup bottle, turns it upside down and 
gives it a few shakes onto his plate. He eats a bite of 
ketchup using his fork...

             MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      Please, stop that.

He doesn’t...        The manager slides the plate away from him.

Ansel reaches for the syrup dispenser but the manager steps 
in and grabs him. A struggle ensues in the confides of the 
booth.

The young waiter stays back, unsure of what to do.

The manager forces Ansel out of the booth. DELAYED PAN as the 
manager pushes him towards the exit.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY/LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Ansel is shoved through the doors and out of the 
restaurant... 

             MANAGER
      I want you to know that I saw you 
      take that voucher out of the trash. 
      I wasn’t going to say anything 
      because I didn’t want to embarrass 
      you but then all this happened...
        (beat)
      So I’m saying it.

Ansel straightens his jacket and walks into the lobby of the 
three star hotel as if nothing happened. People stare for a 
moment but quickly go back to their business.

Ansel spots a fallen poster and stand. He rights the stand 
and puts the poster back in its place. 


On the poster is Ansel’s somewhat sad smiling face holding a 
book called FOLLOWER: INSIDE THE MIND OF THE CONTROLLED by 
Ansel Roth, PhD.

A HOTEL GUEST stops as she’s walking past. She looks at the 
poster, then at Ansel. Ansel stares back.

                                      4.

             HOTEL GUEST
      You look familiar.

             ANSEL
        (re: the poster)
      That is me.

             HOTEL GUEST
      No, from somewhere else.

             ANSEL
      I don’t know you so I don’t know 
      how you would know me.

Confused, she walks away.

             CONCIERGE
	(O.S.)
      Mr. Roth.

The CONCIERGE approaches. He smiles professionally.

             CONCIERGE
	(CONT’D)
      Only a few more hours until your 
      presentation. Do you have 
      everything you need?

             ANSEL
      My sign was on the ground.

             CONCIERGE
      I’m sorry to hear that. 
      Housekeeping was wondering at what 
      point they might expect your things 
      to be gathered so they can turn 
      over the room. 

             ANSEL
      Also, why was my dinner only comped 
      last night? I was under the 
      impression I would get one free 
      meal per day.
        (beat)
      What time is check out tomorrow 
      morning? I can be out by then.


                                      5.

             CONCIERGE
      I think there’s been some sort of 
      misunderstanding.

             ANSEL
      ...

             CONCIERGE
      According to the agreed upon terms 
      for your speaking arrangement you 
      were entitled to a night’s stay and 
      one free meal at our restaurant. 
      You used both last night.

             ANSEL
      Jerry is aware of this?

             CONCIERGE
      I don’t know who Jerry is.

             ANSEL
      My manager. The man who made the 
      deal.

             CONCIERGE
      Jerry agreed to the terms, yes. 
      Checkout should have been at noon. 
      Can you be out of the room in the 
      next hour?

Ansel stares at his poster...

             ANSEL
      Can this wait until after the 
      seminar?

             CONCIERGE
      No, I’m sorry. You can pay for 
      another room tonight, though. I can 
      give you a reduced employee rate. 
      We accept Traveler’s checks or you 
      could always pay in cash.

             ANSEL
        (shaking his head)
      Can I make a telephone call?

             CONCIERGE
      Is it a local number?

             ANSEL
        (lying)
      Yes.

                                      6.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - GUEST CHECK IN - DAY

The concierge presses 9 on the large phone and passes it to 
Ansel who clearly dials enough digits to be a long distance 
number. The concierge shakes his head disappointingly but 
does nothing about it and instead helps another guest.

The phone rings. It rings again. And again before...  

             ANSEL
      Hello, Jerry? Pick up.
        (waits)
      It’s me, Ansel.
        (waits)
      Roth-- Ansel Roth. Can you pick up, 
      Jerry?

An NEWLYWED COUPLE steps up to the counter next to Ansel. The 
RECEPTIONIST congratulates the happy pair...

Ansel moves to the edge of the counter and turns his back to 
them.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry, I’m still here. I guess 
      you’re not in the office right now. 
      Jerry, I don’t... This is... I’m at 
      the seminar in...

He leans over and interrupts the receptionist helping the 
couple...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      What town is this?

             RECEPTIONIST
      I’ll be right with you, sir. I’m 
      assisting these guests.

She looks back at the couple and begins to speak.

             ANSEL
        (interrupting; to the 
         couple)
      What town is this?


             YOUNG MARRIED MAN
        (annoyed)
      Shepardsville.

Ansel returns to the edge of the counter. The receptionist 
apologizes to the couple.

                                      7.

             ANSEL
        (back into the phone)
      Shepardsville. I’m about to do the 
      seminar and I need to talk to you, 
      Jerry. It’s about the deal and the 
      remainder of the... the tour.
        (beat)
      Things are not good. They are not 
      good. Okay, I’m hanging up now. I’m 
      going to go.

He hangs up the phone.

INT. ANSEL’S HOTEL ROOM - BATHROOM - DAY

Ansel pees into the toilet. He finishes and reaches for the 
lever to flush but decides not to. He also decides to leave 
the seat up.

He removes the toilet paper from the dispenser. He takes the 
shampoo and soap from the shower as well as a towel and a 
hand towel.

INT. ANSEL’S HOTEL ROOM - LIVING AREA - DAY

Ansel tosses the toiletries into his suitcase... Half the 
space is full of copies of his book.

He scans the room for other things to steal. He takes the 9 
volt battery out of the bulky remote control and puts it in 
his coat pocket.

There’s a knock at the door...

             HOUSEKEEPING
	(O.S.)
      Housekeeping.

Ansel closes up his suitcase and carries it with him. He 
opens the door to see a nice OLDER WOMAN with an accent.

             HOUSEKEEPING
	(CONT’D)
      It is okay?


                                      8.

             ANSEL
      Yes, it is okay.

She smiles. He starts to leave but...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
        (feeling guilty)
      Sorry. One second.

He goes into the bathroom and closes the lid and flushes the 
toilet...

He listens to the sound as he stares at himself in the 
mirror.

EXT. HOTEL PARKING LOT - DAY

Ansel totes his suitcase to a used late 70’s Chevy Chevette.

He pops open the trunk to the hatchback revealing stacks of 
boxes filled with copies of his book. He places the suitcase 
in the trunk and removes two of the boxes of books before 
slamming the door shut.

Ansel walks back towards the hotel with the boxes but 
struggles to carry them.

INT. HOTEL - CONFERENCE HALL - DAY

The somewhat large space is brightly lit by the room’s 
overhead fluorescents. A small stage has been set up at the 
head of the room flanked by the poster and stand from earlier 
on one side and a table full of books on the other. Very low 
budget.

Ansel stands on the stage in front of a hundred or so event 
chairs, though only a quarter of them are filled. Despite the 
small crowd and less than ideal setup he speaks with 
conviction.        He he has every beat memorized...

             ANSEL
      I’m not talking about the 
      philosophical, metaphysical 
      meditation. This is the most basic 
      freedom: free will. Choice. 
      Decisions that are decided upon by 
      ourselves. So we're in control, 
      right? Yes? No? We make a plan but 
      life has other ideas, doesn’t it? 


                                      9.

             ANSEL
	(CONT'D)
      We choose a path we want to take 
      but what does life do?- It puts 
      barriers in our way. It makes 
      changes. So do we accept this? Do 
      we just give up? No, we take a 
      detour. Every choice we make, every 
      path we take is a detour to get us 
      to where we want to be. Your life 
      is your choice. Making a choice for 
      yourself based on what life gives 
      you- That is free will.

It’s like a sermon. Ansel puts everything he has into it...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      But what if someone else is in 
      control? What if they control your 
      physical body? Your mind's every 
      thought? Your emotional well being? 
      Well, ladies and gentlemen, cults 
      do this. They exploit the fact that 
      inside every single one of us is 
      the capacity to be captivated. To 
      be manipulated. Controlled. They 
      exploit your weaknesses. They hack 
      our consciousness and remove you 
      from those who care about you. They 
      create physical and emotional 
      barriers distancing you from 
      everyone and everything you once 
      knew... including yourself. They 
      mold you. Conform you. Even with 
      that voice in the back of your head 
      screaming “Get out!” most give in.  

A MOTHER in the audience gathers her young SON to leave. The 
child wears swim trunks and has a towel wrapped around his 
shoulders, having just been at the hotel pool.

Ansel stops speaking for a moment. He listens as the sound of 
wet flip-flops SMACK the soles of the boy’s feet echoes 
through the room.

             ANSEL
	(CONT'D)
      When another human being makes 
      decisions for you your free will 
      ceases to be.

He watches as the kid follows his mother towards the door.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      You’re a follower.


The son glances back at Ansel. Ansel stares him down. The boy 
exits.

                                      10.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
        (back to business)
      At that point you have become a 
      follower. But you don’t have to be. 
      You may ask, “How do I escape this 
      imprisonment?”

A MAN IN THE AUDIENCE laughs. Ansel is caught off guard but 
continues...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Well I’m going to talk with you 
      about that. At this point I 
      encourage you to follow along in my 
      book. For those who don’t have a 
      copy they can be purchased from me 
      at this time for fifteen dollars.

The man makes a bigger fuss this time. Audience members look 
back at the man...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
        (to the man)
      Do you have a question?

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      No, I do not.

Ansel redirects his attention back to the seminar...

             ANSEL
      No one needs a book? I see a lot of 
      you do not have the book--

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
        (interrupting)
      Fuck you.

             ANSEL
      Me?

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      You. I’m talking to you.

             ANSEL
      I’m not sure what you’re trying to 
      say.


                                      11.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      Does it bother you that you cannot 
      control me?

             ANSEL
      I encourage those with questions to 
      save them until the end.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      You’re lying to these people. You 
      stand there, pretending to have the 
      answers. 

             ANSEL
      No I do not. This, all of this, is 
      based on my years of experience and 
      research. I am offering people a 
      path.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      Who are you?

             ANSEL
      Who are you?

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      Who are you?

             ANSEL
      I’m Ansel Roth, one of the world’s 
      foremost authority on mind control 
      and cult organizations--

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      You’re a murderer.

The audience begins to rustle. Whispers can be heard.                                    Ansel 
stands there silent and motionless, then...

             ANSEL
        (realizing)
      Who are you?

The man walks towards the stage...

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      You brainwashed my family into 
      thinking what they were doing was 
      right.

             ANSEL
      It was.


                                      12.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      You and people who claimed to care 
      about her gang-raped her mind. You 
      broke her. You destroyed her.

The man makes his way onto the stage and stands in front of 
Ansel.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
	(CONT’D)
      Then you exploited her. You 
      humiliated her for the world to 
      see.

             ANSEL
      She would be dead if-- I know she’s 
      not alive now, but still, she’d be 
      dead if she stayed with the group.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      She wouldn’t have died alone.

             ANSEL
      You’re her brother aren’t you?

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      I was.

             ANSEL
      Your family knew they were losing 
      her. We tried to help her. You have 
      to see that. Please, understand.

Ansel touches the man’s arms. It seems as if he might have 
gotten through to the man.

The man takes a look around and smiles. He pulls away from 
Ansel...

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      It’s good to see you’ve ruined your 
      own life just as much as you’ve 
      ruined the lives of others. 

His words hang in the air a moment. The audience stares at 
Ansel, waiting for a response. He’s tried to keep it together 
but it’s clear he’s given up...

             ANSEL
      You are right. Your sister was 
      broken. But I had nothing to do 
      with that. 


                                      13.

             ANSEL
	(CONT'D)
      She had the choice of living with 
      people who ignored her, controlled 
      her, abused her... or dying alone 
      in solidarity with a suicide cult. 
      She made her choice, huh?

The entire hall is silent... Then the man punches Ansel HARD 
in the eye. Ansel falls to the ground. The man kicks him in 
the stomach several times then spits on him.

             MAN IN THE AUDIENCE
      Piece of shit. I hope you die.
        (beat)
      And I hope I broke one of your 
      ribs.

The audience watches unfazed as if it were part of the show.

The man turns and walks away. Ansel lays there in the fetal 
position, moaning loudly and uncontrollably.

INT. HOTEL - CONFERENCE HALL - LATER

Hotel staff stack up chairs and getting ready for their next 
event, a wedding.

Ansel is bloodied and bruised. He’s got the beginnings of a 
black eye. He boxes up the unsold books (all of them) and 
tries to lift the box onto a dolly but immediately stops and 
clutches the right side of his rib cage.

An OLDER MARRIED COUPLE approaches from off screen...

             HUSBAND
	(O.S.)
      Do you need a hand with that?

Ansel almost ignores him but decides he needs the help.

             ANSEL
      Just stack it.
        (beat)
      Please.

The man stacks the boxes on the dolly. Ansel feels his eye 
socket.

             HUSBAND
      This is my wife Evelyn. My name is 
      Paul.

Ansel doesn’t respond...


                                      14.

             PAUL
      You need some ice.

             ANSEL
      No, thank you.

             PAUL
      No, I don’t have any I was just 
      saying that would be good for you.
        (beat)
      We attended your seminar.

             ANSEL
      Did you buy a book?

             EVELYN
      We already have a copy. Big fans.

Evelyn pulls a copy from her purse. It’s worn around the 
edges...

             EVELYN
	(CONT’D)
      First edition.

             ANSEL
      There is only one edition. I can 
      sign it for five dollars.

Evelyn looks to Paul...

             PAUL
      That won’t be necessary.

Ansel goes back about his business.

Evelyn whispers at Paul and hands the book to him...

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      Can you make it out to Claire?

Ansel stops and digs through a box to find a pen. Paul hands 
him the book...

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry about your show.

             ANSEL
      This one just now?

             PAUL
      No, your television show. I thought 
      it was really something. It’s a 
      shame...


                                      15.

             ANSEL
      I don’t... Yeah- Claire you said?

             PAUL
      She’s our daughter.

             ANSEL
      Are you sure she wouldn’t like a 
      newer copy?

             EVELYN
      This one has special meaning to us. 

Ansel hasn’t put pen to paper. They stand there a moment 
before Paul realizes...

             PAUL
      Oh, sorry.

He pulls out his wallet and hands Ansel five ones. Ansel 
counts the bills then signs the opening page.

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      That is why we came actually... She 
      is why we are here.

             EVELYN
      We were wondering if we might be 
      able to talk with you about our 
      daughter.

             ANSEL
      It has been a long day. I just... I 
      need to sleep.
        (remembering)
      In my hotel room. At this hotel.

             EVELYN
      We believe she is in a very 
      dangerous situation. Nothing has 
      been able to get through to her. We 
      do not know who else to turn to--

             ANSEL
      People like you don’t have ads 
      Yellow Pages. That’s why we came 
      tonight, to see and speak with you.                               
      If we could just take a moment of 
      your time.


                                      16.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I’m flattered but to be perfectly 
      honest, everything I would tell you 
      is just going to be a version of 
      something on a page in that book in 
      your hand except it will be worded 
      poorly because I just do not give a 
      shit anymore. Good luck with 
      everything.

He grabs the dolly of things and leaves...

             PAUL
      We just want our daughter back.

Ansel doesn’t look back.

EXT. HOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

He wheels the dolly (labelled HOTEL PROPERTY) out to his car, 
parked in the same spot as before. There’s a piece of paper 
under his windshield wiper. It appears to be a ticket...

             ANSEL
      Goddamnit.

Ansel grabs the paper opens it up and begins reading to 
himself. After a few seconds...

             INTIMIDATING MAN
	(O.S.)
      This is a notice.

             ANSEL
      What are you talking about? Is this 
      a court document? Have I been 
      served?

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      Not legally, but yes. This is a 
      matter between two gentlemen: my 
      boss and yourself. Putting it in 
      writing ensures there’s no 
      confusion.

             ANSEL
      Who is your boss?

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      A mister Jerry.


                                      17.

             ANSEL
      Jerry? Jerry has been my manager 
      for ten years. Have we met? If not 
      why have I never seen you before?

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      I handle matters that require a 
      special sort of attention.

The man pulls his coat jacket back revealing... nothing. 
There’s nothing...

             INTIMIDATING MAN
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t carry a gun. You want to 
      know why? Because I don’t need one.

             ANSEL
      Okay.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      I have also been asked to tell you 
      that Jerry has dropped you as a 
      client. That is also in the 
      document.

             ANSEL
      Is this about the book?

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      Everything is explained clearly and 
      concisely on the page in your hand. 
      But yes, this is about the book. 
      You are to be back in the city in a 
      week. Because of your relationship, 
      Jerry would like for you to have 
      that week to come up with the 
      money. This is very considerate of 
      him. It is strongly advised that 
      you be able to pay what you owe.

             ANSEL
      Can I just give him the books back?

The man laughs as he pats Ansel firmly on the back...

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      One week.

INT. ANSEL’S CAR - HOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Ansel sits in the driver’s seat of his car. He stares 
straight ahead with his hands clutching the steering wheel.


                                      18.

He suddenly turns the key to the ignition. After sputtering a 
few times the vehicle comes to life.

EXT. HOTEL PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Ansel ducks behind his car and awkwardly lowers his face next 
to the exhaust pipe. He breathes in the exhaust fumes...

He takes deeper and deeper breaths. He coughs then takes some 
more breaths which makes him cough even more. After a while 
of this though his body can’t take anymore...

Ansel rolls away from the car, gasping for air. He pulls 
himself to his hands and knees and throws up. It’s sad.

INT. ANSEL’S CAR - HOTEL PARKING LOT - MORNING

His arms are crossed in an attempt to stay warm but he still 
shivers as he sleeps in the driver’s seat of his Chevette.

There’s a careful knock on the window. He wakes to see Paul 
and Evelyn smiling outside the vehicle...

             PAUL
        (muffled through the 
         glass)
      Good morning Mr. Roth.

Ansel starts up the car and puts his seat upright...

             ANSEL
      I was just leaving.

             EVELYN
        (muffled)
      Thank you for the book, again.

Ansel nods and half waves without making eye contact...

             ANSEL
      Okay, that’s fine.

He puts the car into gear.

             PAUL
        (muffled)
      Can we buy you breakfast?

Ansel puts the car back into park and turns off the engine. 
He rolls the window all the way down via hand crank, looks up 
at the couple and after all this simply says...


                                      19.

             ANSEL
      Yes.

INT. RESTROOM - DINER - MORNING

- Ansel takes his jacket off and rolls up his sleeves. He 
washes his face.

- He works up a lather in his hair using hand-soap then 
rinses in the sink.

- He dries his hair under the air dryer. The automatic shut 
off kicks in after several seconds so he punches the button 
again. It shuts off again. He pushes the button again...

INT. DINER - MORNING

Ansel’s hair is still slightly damp. He eats with a ravenous 
appetite as Paul and Evelyn talk...

             PAUL
      Our daughter is not well. She has 
      been poisoned. She’s someone else. 
      She doesn’t listen to us anymore. 

             EVELYN
      She’s not around to listen to us. 
      We haven’t seen her in months. And 
      we’re not talking about her not 
      obeying because she’s an adult but--

             PAUL
      It’s like she’s shut off from the 
      world.

             ANSEL
      What is the name of the group?

             PAUL
      They call themselves “Faults”.

             ANSEL
      I haven’t heard of that one. Who is 
      the founder?

             PAUL
      We don’t know. No one know’s 
      anything about them. We don’t even 
      know how Claire came to find them.


                                      20.

             ANSEL
      When was the last time you spoke to 
      her?

             EVELYN
        (looking to Paul)
      A week ago? On the phone.

             ANSEL
      What did she say?

             PAUL
      I told her that we missed her. That 
      we were worried about her.

             ANSEL
      How did she react to that?

             PAUL
      She told us that she found God and 
      that “it” made love to her the 
      night before while others watched.

Ansel takes a huge bite of pancake while Evelyn and Paul wait 
for him to say something. He takes a drink...

             ANSEL
      That does sound troubling.

             EVELYN
      We’ve tried everything.

             ANSEL
      Are you still supporting her 
      financially?

             EVELYN
      No, we cut her off last year.

             ANSEL
      Does she have a car?

             PAUL
      The group tried to sell it but it 
      was in my name.

             ANSEL
      You are lucky. They usually sell 
      off items of value to fund the 
      group.


                                      21.

             PAUL
      A few days later Claire reported it 
      stolen. The next day it turned up 
      in our driveway.

             ANSEL
      That’s good.

             PAUL
      It was on fire.

             ANSEL
      Have you tried a family 
      intervention? Exit counseling?

             EVELYN
      We did. Thanksgiving day. The group 
      discourages interaction with family 
      and friends, especially on what 
      they call “days of falsities”. 
      Holidays. We convinced her to come. 
      That it would be okay.

Evelyn becomes choked up...

             PAUL
      When Claire arrived and saw what it 
      was she immediately turned violent. 
      There was an anger in her eyes. I 
      don’t know if this is going to make 
      sense but... For how weak she 
      looked, emotionally, physically, 
      she had a strength that I have 
      never seen in her before. I don’t 
      want to lose her, Mr. Roth.

Up to this point Ansel has treated this meeting as a free 
meal but he no longer can. He stops eating...

             ANSEL
      There is one other option you have 
      here. Are you familiar with 
      deprogramming?

This concerns the couple...

             PAUL
      Is that what you did with that man? 
      The one from last night?


                                      22.

             ANSEL
      His sister. Yes, we attempted a 
      deprogramming on her five years 
      ago.

             EVELYN
      I don’t... I don’t know what that 
      is.

             ANSEL
      A man named Ted Patrick developed 
      the method fifteen years ago.                            We 
      would forcibly take your daughter 
      away from the group--- 
             EVELYN
      You’re talking about kidnapping my 
      Claire?

             ANSEL
      Under the legal definition, yes. 
      But it’s for her own good. We would 
      take her far away to someplace 
      where she would not know where she 
      was but more importantly where no 
      one else would be able to find her. 
      I would begin the process of 
      breaking her down- Making her 
      question the group’s beliefs and 
      their innate contradictions.

             PAUL
      What are the chances of something 
      like this working?

             ANSEL
      In the end there is a fifty percent 
      chance you will have your daughter 
      back.

             EVELYN
      And a fifty percent chance we will 
      lose her forever.

             PAUL
      Evelyn.

             ANSEL
      No, no. She is absolutely right. I 
      need to be honest with you, the 
      chances of this working are even 
      less than that. 


                                      23.

             ANSEL
	(CONT'D)
      This is extremely dangerous for 
      everyone involved, especially 
      Claire. But if you believe in the 
      deepest part of yourself that you 
      have done everything you can to 
      save her and yet she continues to 
      fall away from you you have to ask 
      yourself, “How far am I willing to 
      go?”

Paul and Evelyn look at each other. It’s tense.

A waitress pops up to the booth unexpectedly...

             PERKY WAITRESS
      Y’all save room for dessert?

       		ANSEL
	No, thank you.

	PAUL AND EVELYN
	(shaking their heads 
        smiling)
        No.

She scribbles on her pad and leaves the check on the table.

             PERKY WAITRESS
	(CONT’D)
      Alright, well it was a pleasure 
      serving y’all today. Come back and 
      see us again real soon.

Paul takes the check and studies the tab...

             ANSEL
      Thank you for breakfast, Paul, 
      Evelyn. That brings up one more 
      thing if you do decide to do what 
      we just talked about doing. I do 
      not know how to say this without 
      sounding insensitive. It will not 
      be cheap.

INT. TRANSPORT VAN - DAY

The entirety of this scene will take place from inside the van.

The van is in motion. There are three men inside all wearing 
ski masks. One man drives while the other two sit in the 
stripped out back of the vehicle.

             DRIVER
        (muffled shouting)
      Jefferson and High Street.


The two masked men in the back, RAYMOND AND JAMES, black and 
white respectively, look at each other. One points to his ear 
and shakes his head.

                                      24.

             RAYMOND
        (muffled)
      I don’t know what you’re trying to 
      say.

             JAMES
        (muffled)
      I can’t hear shit through this.

             RAYMOND
        (shouting)
      What?

The driver looks back and pulls up his mask revealing it’s 
Ansel. The two men pull the mask away from their ears...

             ANSEL
      We are a block away. In and out. 
      And remember, no names.

He turns back around and they all put their masks back in 
place...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
        (muffled)
      Ready?!

He slams on his brakes. James falls into the front seat. 
Raymond slides open the side door and jumps out of the van 
leaving the door open...

We look out the opening as James exits via the passenger 
door. We see that we are at...

INT. TRANSPORT VAN - GROCERY STORE PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

The two men sprint toward a young woman. She’s late twenties, 
brunette, pretty. She wears a baggy dress with sandals and 
pushes a shopping cart. We realize this is CLAIRE.

Claire stands there a moment unsure of what is happening but 
as they get within a few dozen feet she begins to run, still 
pushing the cart.

Seconds later the men catch up to her and grab her from 
behind. She grips the cart with all her might and doesn’t let 
go. They pull her towards the van...


                                      25.

The cart tips over onto the ground taking Claire and Raymond 
with it.      She loses her sandals. James tries to wrangle her 
legs but instead he gets kicked in the face.

Raymond hurries to his feet and grabs one of her legs while 
James manages to take hold of the other. They drag her 
towards the van as she keeps hold of the cart.                                She’s 
screaming at the top of her lungs over the sound of metal 
against asphalt.

A few people step into the background of the frame. Everyone 
looks concerned but no one does anything and cell phones 
don’t really exist yet so...

The men manage to pry Claire’s hands away from the shopping 
cart and throw her into the van through the side door. They 
jump in and slam the door shut. Ansel takes off sending all 
three of them sliding towards the back door.

They tie her wrists and ankles. Claire continues to scream 
until they manage to duct tape her mouth.

James squats in front of her, then, without warning slaps her 
HARD across the face. Ansel rips off his mask and looks back 
just as we...

                              CUT TO BLACK:

INT. TRANSPORT VAN - VARIOUS

Series of JUMP CUTS all from the same angle. The two men in 
back change position from time to time. Ansel is always the 
driver. Claire lays in the exact same position in each shot. 
Her eyes are open...

- They sway in unison as the van makes a turn.

- They drive on the freeway. The hum of the asphalt drones.

- They stop at a service station. Raymond stays inside the 
van with Claire while Ansel pumps gas.

- Magic hour Sun spills in through the windshield into the 
vehicle.

- It’s dark. The van drives down a two lane road.

             ANSEL
      We’re here.


                                      26.

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - NIGHT

The van pulls into the quiet parking lot.

INT. TRANSPORT VAN - CONTINUOUS

Raymond sits in the passenger seat. The lot isn’t full but 
every space near the building has been taken already. Ansel 
is annoyed...

             ANSEL
      I was going to back us in but there 
      isn’t a spot next to the building. 
      We want to avoid being seen.

He slows down as he drives past a row of rooms.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      What number are we?

Raymond pulls a set of keys out of his pocket...

             RAYMOND
      221.

             ANSEL
      That’s the second floor.

             RAYMOND
      They didn’t have any non-smoking 
      rooms left on the first floor.

             ANSEL
      Why does that matter?

             RAYMOND
      None of us smoke.

             ANSEL
      Go to the office and say you made a 
      mistake and you would like 
      something on the first floor.

Still holding the keys...

             RAYMOND
      But this is adjoining with the 
      other one.
        (leaning in, quieter)
      They’re already here.


Ansel thinks a beat... He accelerates into a spot in the 
middle of the lot and shuts off the van.

                                      27.

             ANSEL
      We have to be natural about this. 
      Do not drawn attention to 
      ourselves. I need one of you to go 
      to the room with my things and one 
      with her and me.

INT. TRANSPORT VAN - MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

James steps out of the van and slams the door shut...

Ansel crouches in front of Claire who’s propped up against 
the wall. Raymond watches...

             ANSEL
      I know you are probably a little 
      confused about what is happening 
      right now. All you need to know is 
      that I am your friend.
        (beat)
      These two men with me are not your 
      friends.

Ansel carefully cuts the tape off from around her ankles...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      In a few moments we are going to 
      step out of this van and we are 
      going to walk across this parking 
      lot, up a flight of stairs, down a 
      walkway and into a room. 

Ansel cuts the tape off from around her wrists.

Claire looks at him unsure if she can trust him. Ansel feigns 
trust in her...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      If you do anything stupid I will 
      still be your friend but these men 
      who are not your friends will hurt 
      you.

He gently tears the tape off of her face...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Do not do anything stupid. I cannot 
      stress this enough. 


                                      28.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I promise everything will be okay. 
      Nod if you believe me.

She stays perfectly still. Ansel nods slightly...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
        (to Raymond)
      Open the door.

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Raymond steps out first followed by Ansel. He offers a hand 
to Claire who refuses...

She exits on her own and almost defiantly begins walking. 
Ansel calmly puts his hand on her shoulder to slow her down.

We track with them all the way from the van to the room.

It’s late. Even though the lot is full the place is quiet. 
There’s a person on the other side of the motel but they’re 
too far away for Claire to risk signaling.

They pass between two cars parked near the building. Suddenly 
Claire grabs the handle to the driver’s side door of one of 
the cars. It’s unlocked. She gets her body halfway inside the 
vehicle before Raymond is able to grab her...

Raymond grasps her wrist firmly. She doesn’t scream but there 
are tears in her eyes. Ansel closes the car door quietly and 
motions to Raymond who releases his grip...

They walk up the stairs. We see the bottoms of Claire’s bare 
feet which are black.

As they make their way down the upstairs walkway we catch 
sight of James standing next to the open door of room 221. 
Almost there--

A door opens right in front of them and only two doors down 
from 221. A TEN YEAR OLD GIRL wearing pajamas steps outside 
holding an ice bucket. She stops in her tracks when she sees 
Claire with the two men.

Claire makes eye contact with the girl as they pass but she 
doesn’t say anything. The young girl stares as they continue 
past her but eventually takes off towards the ice machine.

And with that they step inside the room and close the door.


                                      29.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Ansel immediately shuts/locks the door and closes the blinds.  
It’s obvious there’s a sort of routine and he’s done this 
before.

Claire, in a state of shock, sits on the edge of the bed. 
Tears fall down her face as she begins to cry.

Without hesitation Ansel flips on the television and turns up 
the volume.

He notices the queen size bed...

             ANSEL
      Why is there just the one bed?

Raymond looks at the bed...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Nevermind. Where are my things?

James hands Ansel his suitcase.

Ansel removes a screw driver from a pouch inside... 

He opens the door to the bathroom and reverses the knobs so 
that the lock is now on the outside instead of the inside. 
When he finishes...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
        (to James)
      You, come here.

James walks over...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Is my car here?

             JAMES
      In the back row near the lamp 
      post... Where’s my money?

Ansel removes a copy of his book from the suitcase and opens 
it up to reveal an envelope. He takes the keys to the van out 
of his pant pocket and holds both in his hand...

             ANSEL
      You drive the van straight back to 
      the lot. No stopping except for 
      gas.


                                      30.

             JAMES
      Is there per diem for that?

             ANSEL
      Yes. There is an extra thirty to go 
      along with your share which should 
      take care of that. You are not to 
      contact us. You do not speak of 
      this to anyone. No one.

James takes the envelope and keys from Ansel’s hand. Ansel 
stares him down...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      There is one last thing.
        (quiet)
      He vouched for you and I appreciate 
      your help.
        (beat, still quiet)
      I told you, no one lays a hand on 
      her. Never do that again.

The two men stare each other down. James cracks a smile...

             JAMES
      What the fuck are you going to do 
      about it?

Ansel tries to stand strong but ends up looking down at the 
ground submissively.

James looks at Claire who’s eye is swollen from the slap. She 
turns and stares James down only she doesn’t give in like 
Ansel did...

James shifts his weight. The grin falls from his face. He 
opens the door and leaves. Ansel locks the dead-bolt behind 
him.

Claire stares blankly at the screen. Ansel steps between her 
and the television...

             ANSEL
      That was not a smart thing you did 
      back there with the car.

She stares through him.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I hope something like that does not 
      happen again. Remember that I am 
      here to help.


                                      31.

Claire’s gaze focuses on Ansel...

             CLAIRE
        (tearing up)
      Help?

             ANSEL
      I know right now that makes little 
      sense.

             CLAIRE
      What do you want with me?

             ANSEL
      I will explain things to you in the 
      morning.

             CLAIRE
      I just want to go home.

Ansel pauses for a moment.

             ANSEL
      You will. I promise.

Ansel walks over to Raymond who’s standing in the corner of 
the room. He talks so Claire can’t hear him...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Keep a close eye on her. Make sure 
      she doesn’t sleep.

Raymond nods.

Ansel takes a pillow and blanket from the bed and lays down 
on the floor in front of the door. The glow from the set 
flickers on the walls of the room. He closes his eyes.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MORNING

Ansel wakes to the tinny sound of the TV’s mono speaker. He 
sits up and sees Claire sitting in the exact same spot in 
front of the TV. Raymond stands against the wall, visibly 
tired.

Ansel stands and peers through the blinds.

He grabs his suitcase and walks towards Raymond...

             ANSEL
      How did she do?


                                      32.

             RAYMOND
      She didn’t move a muscle.

             ANSEL
      Good.

             RAYMOND
      This is going to sound bad. I 
      probably shouldn’t tell you this 
      but I know I fell asleep a couple 
      times last night. Cat naps or 
      whatever.

             ANSEL
      Ok. You are right. That isn’t good.

             RAYMOND
      The reason I’m telling you this is 
      because... She could have done 
      something and she didn’t.

Ansel looks at Claire.

             ANSEL
        (to Raymond)
      I need to get ready.

INT. BATHROOM - ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MORNING

- Ansel showers.

- He shaves, leaving his mustache intact.

- He gets dressed in his brown suit from before.

As he puts on his shoes a drop of blood falls next to his 
foot onto the tile. Another drop falls on the grout between 
another set of tiles...

Ansel’s nose is bleeding. He tilts his head back and inspects 
himself in the mirror. He plugs the nostril with a rolled up 
piece of toilet paper.

He tries to wipe up the blood from the floor but the grout is 
stained...

He searches for something to clean the stain and spots a 
small ball of steel wool in the trash can. He takes it, 
pretreats the spot with a bar of soap and some water then 
scrubs the grout clean...


Ansel rinses the steel wool in the sink and shakes it dry.

There’s a knock on the bathroom door...

                                      33.

             RAYMOND
	(O.S.)
      How much longer you gonna be? I 
      need to take off.

             ANSEL
      Coming.

Without thinking, Ansel puts the steel wool in his jacket 
pocket and gathers his things...

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

Ansel exits the bathroom to find Claire still watching TV.

             RAYMOND
        (re: Ansel’s nose)
      Are you okay?

             ANSEL
      Fine. Everything is fine.

Ansel retrieves another envelope from his suitcase and gives 
it to Raymond.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      On your way out I need you to go to 
      the front desk and check on the 
      second room. They will be arriving 
      tonight and I don’t want any 
      problems.

             RAYMOND
      Will do. You’re on your own now.

Raymond goes to leave but takes one last look at Claire 
before he exits the room.

Ansel locks the door behind him. He takes the toilet paper 
out of his nose and checks for blood. It’s stopped. He tosses 
it in the trash.

He turns off the TV and pulls up a chair in front of Claire. 
Her eyes are dry and bloodshot...

             ANSEL
      How are you?


                                      34.

             CLAIRE
      They’ll find me. You realize 
      there’s no hiding from them...

             ANSEL
      He said you did not try to sleep. 
      Why not?

             CLAIRE
      I couldn’t.

             ANSEL
      Aren’t you tired?

             CLAIRE
      Yes.

             ANSEL
      Do you know why you are here?

She doesn’t respond.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      You have a family. A mother and 
      father and they love you like crazy 
      but they feel like they have lost 
      you--

             CLAIRE
      They did this?

             ANSEL
      They are worried about you, Claire.

             CLAIRE
      Don’t call me that. She was weak 
      and stupid.

             ANSEL
      What would you like me to call you?

             CLAIRE
      Just don’t call me that.

             ANSEL
      We won’t say that name.

             CLAIRE
      Why are you doing this?


                                      35.

             ANSEL
      My name is Ansel Roth. I am a 
      counselor. I specialize in helping 
      people who are lost and who may be 
      under the control of others.

             CLAIRE
      I’m not lost. I found myself. And I 
      choose to live my life the way I 
      live because God wills it.

             ANSEL
      I am here because I want to learn. 
      I want you to tell me about 
      yourself. About your choices. 

             CLAIRE
      Where are my parents?

             ANSEL
      That is not important. This is just 
      you and me right now.

Claire is seething...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Tell me what you are thinking right 
      now.

             CLAIRE
      I’m thinking about how I want to 
      rip your tongue out of your throat 
      so you’ll shut up. That you’re 
      close enough that I could reach out 
      and strangle you with my bare hands 
      and that I’d like to. I’m just 
      waiting for a sign from God.

             ANSEL
      That is understandable.
        (beat)
      Just so you know, I am probably 
      going to move back a little now.

Ansel stands up and moves his chair a couple feet back. He 
stays standing...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I was not being facetious when I 
      said I was here to learn.

SMOKE suddenly begins to permeate from Ansel’s jacket 
pocket...


                                      36.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I know it does not seem like it now 
      but this will be a positive 
      experience. At least try not to 
      kill me until you have had a chance 
      to hear me out, signs from God be 
      damned.

Ansel’s pocket full on catches fire.

             CLAIRE
      I need to go to the bathroom.

Ansel realizes he’s on fire...

             ANSEL
      Ahhh!

He tears off his jacket and throws it on the ground. He 
quickly stomps out the fire then stares at the jacket in 
disbelief.

Ansel picks up the burnt jacket and reaches into the pocket. 
He pulls out the now charred 9 volt battery he took from the 
hotel room. He “hot potatoes” it several times before 
inspecting it. A small piece of steel wool clings to it.

He looks up at Claire. Neither says anything.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

Ansel tests the lock to the bathroom door demonstrating that 
it can no longer be locked from the inside. Claire looks at 
him like he’s crazy...

             ANSEL
      I have to be sure you won’t hurt 
      yourself.

She steps into the bathroom and turns back at him...

             CLAIRE
      Like that would stop me. You might 
      as well take the door of the 
      hinges. You can just watch me, 
      then. You’d like that, wouldn’t 
      you?

Claire pulls her dress up and starts to pull down her 
underwear but Ansel turns his head and closes the door.


                                      37.

Ansel stands by the door for a moment but decides to give her 
some privacy.

He notices the mini bar and begins looking through its 
contents...

             ANSEL
        (shouting to Claire)
      You can have a pop if you like.

There’s no response. Ansel skims the laminated price list on 
the door of the fridge...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Also, the chocolate isn’t too 
      expensive.

He straightens up sensing the quiet. He walks to the bathroom 
door which is open a crack. We hear Claire crying softly. He 
knocks lightly then opens the door...

Claire sits on the floor against the bathtub with her knees 
to her chest.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      You need to come out.

Claire begins to yell though it’s at conversational volume. 
Ansel doesn’t say anything at first but eventually...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing?

Claire continues to yell only slightly louder now.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Come on. Let’s sit back down and 
      talk.

She gets louder.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      You need to stop.

Louder still. This is now a problem...

Ansel stands there for a moment. She stops abruptly... then 
SCREAMS AT THE TOP OF HER LUNGS. Ansel charges her and 
wrestles his hand over her mouth...


                                      38.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Calm down. Listen to me. Just 
      listen. Five days. That’s all this 
      is. Five days.

Claire begins to calm...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      After those five days you can do 
      whatever it is you are going to do. 
      You can go wherever you want to go 
      and no one will stop you. All you 
      need to do is talk to me.
        (beat)
      Do you want me to take my hand off 
      your mouth?

She nods. He lets go and gives her some space.

             CLAIRE
      Five days?

             ANSEL
      I promise.

             CLAIRE
      Then I can go home?

             ANSEL
      After that wherever you consider 
      home to be you can go there, yes. 
      Just promise me you will listen. 
      Not just to me. To yourself.

             CLAIRE
      Okay.


She notices something...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Your nose is bleeding again. I hit 
      you?

He checks it. Yep, it’s bleeding. He goes to the sink and 
turns on the water...

             ANSEL
      I don’t think you did. I don’t know 
      why this keeps happening.

             CLAIRE
      Here, let me.


                                      39.

She hops to her feet and wipes her eyes. She grabs some 
toilet paper and places her hand behind his head...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Tilt your head back.

She holds the wad of paper to his nose. Neither talks, they 
just stand there for a while.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - EVENING

Claire with legs crossed in the middle of the bed facing 
Ansel who’s sitting in a chair nearby.

             ANSEL
      Do you mind me asking how old you 
      are?

             CLAIRE
      Age doesn’t mean anything.

             ANSEL
      You mean in the group?

             CLAIRE
      The time it takes for our Earth to 
      circle the Sun? Why? Why does that 
      matter? It’s an abstraction. Why is 
      Earth so special? Time means 
      nothing in eternity.

             ANSEL
      Your parents told me you were 
      twenty eight.

             CLAIRE
      You shouldn’t ask questions you 
      know the answers to.

             ANSEL
      You’re right. I’m sorry.
        (beat)
      Can you tell me about The Faults?

             CLAIRE
      Faults. No “the” just Faults.

             ANSEL
      Faults.


                                      40.

             CLAIRE
      From a fault comes a change. 
      Destruction leads to something new.

             ANSEL
      Do you believe a change is on the 
      way?

             CLAIRE
      I don’t want to talk about that.

             ANSEL
        (smiling)
      How about this? Who is your 
      favorite band? You like music?

             CLAIRE
      We don’t listen to music.

             ANSEL
      I mean, before.

She thinks.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Rock and roll? Pop?

             CLAIRE
        (unsure)
      Pop.

             ANSEL
      Did you like Duran Duran?
        (no response)
      Mr. Mister?
        (nothing)
      Go-Gos?

             CLAIRE
      Why are you saying them twice?

             ANSEL
      Has it been that long?

She’s almost embarrassed/confused by her lack of memory. 
             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Any pets back home?

             CLAIRE
      A dog.


                                      41.

             ANSEL
      What was its name?

             CLAIRE
      I know what you’re trying to do. 
      The past means nothing.
Ansel leans forward in his seat...

             ANSEL
      How did they find you?

             CLAIRE
      I found them. I was searching for 
      them my whole life. 

             ANSEL
      But did someone hand you a pamphlet 
      or did you have a friend who--

             CLAIRE
      No. You don’t understand. I was 
      meant to find them. I had to. One 
      day I stepped outside and I walked. 
      I walked until I reached a house. I 
      had never been to this place before 
      but I knew it. I had seen it. 
      Something told me to walk in and I 
      did.

             ANSEL
      And they took you in.

             CLAIRE
      I had been with them my whole life 
      but at that moment my physical self 
      was home.

             ANSEL
      Can you describe the group?

             CLAIRE
      In what context?

             ANSEL
      Who are they? Gender, race, age... 
      I know these things don’t mean 
      anything to you but it helps me 
      understand.


                                      42.

             CLAIRE
      Men and women. Mostly men. No young 
      ones but everyone else.

             ANSEL
      No children?

             CLAIRE
      Parasites. We don’t have time to 
      wait for them to grow autonomous.

             ANSEL
      So something is going to happen 
      soon?

             CLAIRE
      I told you, I don’t want to talk 
      about that.

             ANSEL
      Right.
        (beat)
      How many people make up the group?

             CLAIRE
      Thirty. But it keeps changing.

             ANSEL
      Tell me what role you play, Claire--

She winces...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry. That was an accident. Who 
      are you in Faults?

             CLAIRE
      We are all students, every one of 
      us.

             ANSEL
      So there is a teacher?

             CLAIRE
      We teach each other.

             ANSEL
      There must be someone in charge. 
      The person who came first.

             CLAIRE
        (smiling)
      God.


                                      43.

             ANSEL
      Who is God?

             CLAIRE
      You have to answer that yourself.

             ANSEL
      You’re probably very tired. When 
      we’re tired we think less and feel 
      more. Today I wanted you to feel. 
      Do you understand?
        (beat)
      We should stop there. You did very 
      well.

Claire smiles ever so slightly...
             CLAIRE
      Thank you.

Ansel thinks to himself. He reaches out and touches her hand.

             ANSEL
      I was not planning on doing this so 
      soon. I want to show you something. 
      Is that okay?

An air of concern comes across Claire’s face...

Ansel stands up and walks over to a door next to the 
television stand. He unlocks the knob on his side and opens 
the door. There’s another door that is locked from the other 
side...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I know this is going to be hard for 
      you but I feel like you are ready.

He knocks on the door several times. We hear the door unlock 
from the other side. It opens to reveal Claire’s parents and 
a mirrored version of room 221. This new adjoining room is 
room number 222.

Claire is unsure of how to respond.

Evelyn is smiling though it’s clear she’s holding back tears. 
Paul breaks the silence...

             PAUL
      Hi, sweetie.

Claire stays on the bed. Silence.


                                      44.

             ANSEL
      This is a lot, I know. I just 
      wanted you to see them and know 
      they were here. I don’t want to 
      keep secrets from you.

Nothing from Claire.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Paul, Evelyn, I think that’s enough 
      for tonight. Let’s give her a 
      chance to process everything.

             CLAIRE
        (bursting into tears)
      Mommy. Daddy.

Claire walks over to her father, cautiously, and puts her 
arms around him. Her mother, now crying too, hugs both of 
them.

Ansel is at a loss for words. Not what he was expecting at 
all...

             PAUL
      Our baby. Our Claire.

Claire pulls away suddenly. The parents are unsure of what 
happened...

             ANSEL
        (quiet to the parents)
      That’s alright. She’s not 
      associating with that identity 
      right now but that’s alright.

             EVELYN
      What is that supposed to mean? 
      Claire?

Claire gets back on the bed and hugs herself.

             ANSEL
        (quiet)
      This is absolutely normal. There 
      are two identities in a case such 
      as hers. The before identity... 
      before the cult and the cult 
      identity.

             PAUL
      She’s still our girl.


                                      45.

             ANSEL
      Yes and no. There is even a third 
      identity that we will come to know 
      when this is all over, the post 
      identity. It will be a combination 
      of the first two only the 
      percentage of each will be 
      determined by how successful we are 
      over the next few days. We cannot 
      force her to become Claire. That 
      will come but it has to be at her 
      speed.

             EVELYN
      What do we call her?

             ANSEL
      You don’t. She doesn’t want that. 
      Names of affection are fine. Baby, 
      sweetie, honey. Whatever you called 
      her back when things were normal.

             PAUL
      We never called her honey.

             ANSEL
      Don’t call her that then.

Ansel looks back at Claire. She’s watching the blinds which 
move with the flow of the air conditioner.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      She needs to sleep. Today was good. 
      Tonight we should keep the doors 
      closed.

             PAUL
      Can’t we talk to her a little more?

             ANSEL
      In the morning. I want to do a 
      session with her in the morning but 
      after that I want to bring you both 
      in. Is that alright?

They nod, take one last look at their daughter then close and 
lock their door. Ansel closes and locks his too.


INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - NIGHT

Ansel comes out of the bathroom to find Claire in the bed 
under the covers. She isn’t in the middle of the queen size 
bed, instead she lays towards one side. He watches her for a 
moment...

                                      46.

             CLAIRE
      I’m not asleep.

             ANSEL
      I was... Sorry.

             CLAIRE
      I left space for you.

He hesitates ever so slightly before...

             ANSEL
      I’ll sleep on the floor.

Ansel picks up the blanket and pillow he used the night 
before and remakes his pallet in front of the front door.

Claire notices this and sits up...

             CLAIRE
      I’m not going to leave.

             ANSEL
      I trust you... but...

             CLAIRE
      I understand.

Ansel lays down. He takes off his pants under the blanket.

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      You want to know why I’m not going 
      to leave? I feel like this is an 
      opportunity. God is giving me a 
      chance to save them.

             ANSEL
      Your parents?

             CLAIRE
      I can teach them.

Beat.

             ANSEL
      Can you turn off the light?


                                      47.

Claire twists the knob on the lamp. CLICK- Darkness. 

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MORNING

Ansel wakes shivering. He’s lays on the floor in his 
underwear and a t-shirt, blanket off to the side.

We reveal Claire is standing above him. She’s wearing a man’s 
button-up shirt that covers her just enough.

Ansel’s eyes open. At first he’s unsure of where he is until 
he sees her. He realizes he’s half naked and quickly covers 
up...

             CLAIRE
      Good morning.

             ANSEL
      What time is it?

             CLAIRE
      It’s light out.

             ANSEL
        (embarrassed)
      Can you hand me my pants- to me?

She picks them up and hands them to him.

He awkwardly puts them on under the blanket...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Is that my shirt?

             CLAIRE
      I need a change of clothes.

             ANSEL
      Your parents brought some from 
      home. We will see them in a couple 
      of hours.

             CLAIRE
      Okay.

             ANSEL
      Can you put your dress back on in 
      the meantime?

She’s slightly annoyed by this. She grabs her dress from the 
bed and goes into the bathroom. She leaves the door open but 
we can’t see from our angle.


Ansel folds the blanket and puts it and the pillow away.

Claire comes out and tosses the shirt towards Ansel. He puts 
it on as she makes her bed...

                                      48.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      You don’t have to do that. We can 
      get housekeeping--

             CLAIRE
      I don’t want to see anyone else 
      right now.

             ANSEL
        (re: shirt)
      Did you spray this with something?

             CLAIRE
      No. With what?

             ANSEL
      It just smells like... It’s so 
      faint.

             CLAIRE
      I don’t have anything.

Ansel shakes his head...

             ANSEL
      Sorry, I know.
        (beat)
      Would you be okay talking with me 
      this morning?

             CLAIRE
      Will my parents be there?

             ANSEL
      Just us first. Is that okay with 
      you?

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MORNING

Claire sits on the floor this time. Ansel starts off in the 
chair...

             ANSEL
      I want to talk with you some more 
      about Faults.


                                      49.

             CLAIRE
      What do you want to know?

             ANSEL
      Sometimes if you don’t know much 
      about something you cannot ask the 
      right questions. What would you 
      like for me to know?

Claire thinks...

             CLAIRE
      I’ve learned a lot about myself 
      since I found them.
        (beat)
      Are you familiar with meditation?

             ANSEL
      I am, yes. I do not, myself, but I 
      am familiar with the process.

             CLAIRE
      I had never meditated before. I 
      can’t picture my current life now 
      without it. I have goals.

             ANSEL
      What kind of goals?

             CLAIRE
      There are levels. The levels are 
      goals one can achieve if they put 
      their mind to it. Anyone can do 
      this they just haven’t been taught.

             ANSEL
      What level are you at?

             CLAIRE
      Moving from level to level takes 
      will. I’ve grown so much but I 
      don’t know if I’m strong enough. At 
      least not in time.

             ANSEL
      In time for what? What is going to 
      happen?

             CLAIRE
      I cannot say.

             ANSEL
      Why not?


                                      50.

             CLAIRE
      Because I don’t know. Ira tells...

             ANSEL
      What’s wrong? Who is Ira?

             CLAIRE
      I... I shouldn’t have said...

             ANSEL
      The leader?

             CLAIRE
      Ira is the connection between us 
      and what happens next.

             ANSEL
      Is he the one who brought you all 
      together?

             CLAIRE
      Ira is not a man.

             ANSEL
      So Ira is a woman?

             CLAIRE
      No. Ira has moved past the human 
      form.

             ANSEL
      You will have to forgive me but I’m 
      not sure I understand what you are 
      saying.

             CLAIRE
      We are all weighed down by our 
      physical form. The levels are the 
      steps we take towards freeing 
      ourselves.

             ANSEL
      What does that mean, though?

             CLAIRE
      Each level means a piece of 
      control.

             ANSEL
      But that doesn’t really mean 
      anything. 



                                      51.

             ANSEL
	(CONT'D)
      You have to see that they are 
      teaching you in these vague terms 
      and unprovable ideas.

             CLAIRE
        (defensive)
      You don’t know. Control means all 
      matter loses meaning. Control of 
      oneself means control of others. It 
      even changes the way others 
      perceive our light.

             ANSEL
      Our light? Are you talking about 
      invisibility?
        (smirk)
      Have you witnessed this?

             CLAIRE
        (dead serious)
      I have.

             ANSEL
      Can you tell me... what happens 
      when you reach the final level? 
      When you become free?

             CLAIRE
      One moves on.

             ANSEL
      Where do the people who move on go?

INT. ROOM 222 - MOTEL - DAY

Claire’s mom opens a duffle bag full of clothes and dumps the 
contents onto one of the twin beds in the room. Claire picks 
through the garments, hesitantly...

             ANSEL
        (to Paul)
      I see they put you in a room with 
      two beds.

             PAUL
      Yes.

             ANSEL
      Perhaps you and Evelyn would be 
      more comfortable with the queen?


                                      52.

             PAUL
      We’re comfortable.

             ANSEL
      It’s just I gave her the bed.

             PAUL
      Good.

             ANSEL
      It’s one bed so I’m on the floor.

For the first time we see a slightly different side to 
Paul...

             PAUL
        (intimidating)
      We are not moving.

             ANSEL
      Sure.

             PAUL
      What is that smell on you?

             ANSEL
      I...

Paul quickly focuses in on what the women are doing...

             CLAIRE
      I don’t want to wear any of these.

             EVELYN
      Sweetie, these are your clothes.

             CLAIRE
      I don’t wear stuff like this 
      anymore.

             PAUL
      I like this one.

Paul holds up a slightly revealing top.

             CLAIRE
      I’m not wearing that.

             PAUL
      I like this one.

             CLAIRE
      Yes, daddy.


                                      53.

Ansel looks on.

Paul picks up a pair of shorts...

             PAUL
      And this. Go put these on.

Claire takes the clothes to the bathroom.

             ANSEL
      Wait. Your mother should go with 
      you.

             CLAIRE
      I’m fine.

Ansel motions to Evelyn. She joins Claire. They close the 
door.

             PAUL
      She would have taken all day if we 
      let her.

             ANSEL
      When did she last wear these?

             PAUL
      She was a teenager. Sixteen maybe.

             ANSEL
      Don’t you think they might be a 
      bit... young?

             PAUL
      What are you trying to say?

             ANSEL
      Nothing.

             PAUL
      My daughter looks beautiful in 
      these.
        (beat)
      When she comes out you’re going to 
      tell her she looks beautiful.

             ANSEL
      I’m not going to say that.

             PAUL
      Remember who’s paying you.


Claire and Evelyn exit the bathroom. The clothes are a size 
too small and all around more revealing than Claire obviously 
feels comfortable with.

                                      54.

             ANSEL
        (looking to Paul)
      You look beautiful.

Claire smiles slightly.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Okay. Let’s begin.

INT. ROOM 222 - MOTEL - DAY

Ansel and the family sit in a sort of circle in the room. 
Claire on a bed, the mother on the other bed, Ansel in a 
chair and the father standing over them all. They’re in the 
middle of a session...

             EVELYN
      But I still don’t understand what 
      it is we did.

             CLAIRE
      You didn’t do anything. That’s the 
      point.

             PAUL
      Your mother and I fed you. We put a 
      roof over your head.

             CLAIRE
      You make it sound like an 
      obligation.

             PAUL
      Maybe that’s because it was.

             ANSEL
      We are not here to pass blame.

             PAUL
      But we’re all here because of her.

             ANSEL
      We are here for her.


                                      55.

             PAUL
        (to Claire)
      I can’t wait for this all to be 
      over with. Just give me back my 
      baby. 

             CLAIRE
      I’m not going back with you.

             PAUL
      Yes you are.

             CLAIRE
      I’m not.

             PAUL
      Just slit your wrists now then 
      because that’s where you’re going 
      to end up if all this doesn’t stop.

             CLAIRE
      And you’ll have yourselves to 
      blame.

For some reason she glances at Ansel after she says this. 
Odd...

             ANSEL
      Everyone take a deep breath.

             CLAIRE
        (crying)
      I’m here because I thought you’d 
      see that I’m happy. I’ve never been 
      this happy in all my life.

             EVELYN
      We need you home with us.

Claire sobs through the words...

             CLAIRE
      I’m afraid of you.

These words sting Claire’s father. He calms, turning off the 
anger as if he flipped a switch. He walks over to Claire...

             ANSEL
      I don’t think that’s a good idea--

But Paul is already sitting next to his daughter. He holds 
her tightly. She lets herself be held. She goes to a certain 
place, almost as if she were a child who’s been punished and 
seeks forgiveness. Evelyn watches silently. Distant...


                                      56.

ON ANSEL AS

The phone in room 221 rings... Ansel lets it ring a few times 
unsure if he should leave the room. Finally he gets up and 
walks through the shared door into...

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Ansel grabs the phone...

We might hear bits and pieces of Intimidating Man’s dialogue 
from Ansel’s receiver but it is here primarily for timing 
purposes. 

             ANSEL
      Sorry, we’ll keep it down. It won’t 
      happen again.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      Good, I’d hate to have to come up 
      there, Ansel.

Ansel’s reaction tells us this isn’t motel management...

             INTIMIDATING MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Do you know who this is?

             ANSEL
      Yes, I remember you. The older 
      gentleman from the parking lot.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      Older?

             ANSEL
      I mean... Older than me, I meant.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      How are you, Ansel?

             ANSEL
      How did you know where I was?

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      You’re not trying to disappear on 
      us, are you?

             ANSEL
      Disappear. No, of course not. I’m 
      just... I’m working... It’s a job 
      and I’m going to pay Jerry back. So 
      that’s good news- So I’m glad you 
      called so I could tell that to you.


                                      57.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      Word is you have the money, Ansel. 
      Word is you’re shitting envelopes 
      of cash.

             ANSEL
      No, no. The envelopes... That was 
      per diem- That was seperate. I 
      don’t get paid in full until the 
      job is completed.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      I believe you, Ansel. Thing is 
      Jerry doesn’t believe you and he 
      signs my checks.

             ANSEL
      I swear.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      I’m coming out there.

             ANSEL
      Wait. What if I could get you half 
      now? Would that work?- I could get 
      half for you now and the other half 
      when this job finishes up. In three 
      days. Would that work?

There’s a moment of silence, as if Intimidating Man is 
conferring with someone nearby...

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      Jerry’s office. Be here by seven. 
      Come alone.

             ANSEL
      But... I’m working.

CLICK. Ansel still holds the phone despite the fact we hear a 
faint dial tone...

Ansel gently sets the phone back in its place. We follow him 
as he walks back into...

INT. ROOM 222 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Everyone is in the same spot as when Ansel left the room only 
now Claire’s resting her head in her father’s lap as he 
strokes her hair.

             ANSEL
      Paul, can I have a word with you?


                                      58.

Paul stares right at Ansel, still petting Claire...

             PAUL
      I’m right here.

             ANSEL
      Alone. I would really prefer it if 
      we could speak privately.

Paul slowly stands and follows Ansel back into...

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Ansel stops in the middle of the room. He speaks quietly...

             ANSEL
      This is going to sound... I promise 
      you nothing funny is going on--

             PAUL
      Nothing better be going on.

             ANSEL
      There isn’t.
        (beat)
      I need half of the money now.

             PAUL
      We’re not even halfway through the 
      process.

             ANSEL
      I know. I would not be asking if it 
      were not an extraordinary 
      circumstance.

             PAUL
      So something is going on.

             ANSEL
      Yes-- I mean, no. Not here. No.

             PAUL
      Why do you need the money? Who was 
      on the phone.

             ANSEL
      No one. My manager. I have an 
      investment with him that needs my 
      attention. The money is for that.

Paul exhales deeply...


                                      59.

             PAUL
      I can do a wire transfer--

             ANSEL
      I need cash.

             PAUL
      Fifteen thousand dollars in cash?

             ANSEL
      And I need to go back to the city.

             PAUL
      So you want me to give you fifteen 
      grand and let you drive off? Do you 
      think I’m stupid?

             ANSEL
      I am asking you this favor. I want 
      to help your daughter but to do 
      that I have to take care of this.

             PAUL
      When will you be back?

             ANSEL
      Tomorrow by sunrise.
        (beat)
      You have my word.

             PAUL
      This from the man who told me he, 
      “didn’t give a shit anymore.”

Paul turns towards room 222...

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      Evelyn. Come here.

Evelyn enters the room.

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      Go to the office. In the safe there 
      are three bundles. Take one of the 
      bundles and half of another. Bring 
      them back here.

             EVELYN
      Yes, dear.

Evelyn goes in for a hug but he rejects her...

             PAUL
      Now.


She leaves the room.

                                      60.

             ANSEL
      I know we already talked about this 
      but it would be easier if maybe 
      Evelyn slept in here with her 
      tonight.

             PAUL
      We’re comfortable.

             ANSEL
        (leaning in)
      I don’t trust where she is at yet.

             PAUL
      Then I don’t trust her to be alone 
      with my wife. I’ll stay with her. 

Ansel blurts out...

             ANSEL
      No. Sorry...
        (beat)
      Would it make you feel better if 
      she slept in there?

He motions to the bathroom...

             PAUL
      You mean lock my daughter in the 
      bathroom?--

             ANSEL
      It would just be for the night.

             PAUL
      I’m staying with her.

             ANSEL
      No, she just... I want to avoid 
      confrontation of any sort while I 
      am away. You two have already 
      butted heads and...
        (beat)
      Both of you should stay with her. 
      You and Evelyn. Just... keep her in 
      there, please. That way nothing 
      will happen... It’s the safest 
      place for her, I promise. We cannot 
      let her leave.

Paul looks at the bathroom and back to Ansel, and nods...


                                      61.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - DAY

Claire sits in the center of the bed. Paul and Evelyn’s stuff 
is on the floor against the wall.

Ansel paces back and forth.

             CLAIRE
      Where are you going?

             ANSEL
      Nowhere. It’s just for tonight.

             CLAIRE
        (under her breath)
      Don’t.

There’s a knock at the door. Ansel checks the peephole and 
opens the door. Evelyn enters holding a manila envelope...

Ansel reaches for it but she takes it over to Paul who slides 
the two bundles out and flips through them. He then hands the 
money to Ansel.

             ANSEL
      See you in the morning.
        (motioning to the bathroom)
      Remember.

INT. ROOM 222 - MOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

We’re looking into the other room. We see Claire sitting in 
the middle of the bed until Ansel closes the door and locks 
it. He walks to the front door and exits the room...

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - DAY

Various shots of Ansel walking. Along the upstairs balcony, 
down the stairs, through the lot and getting into his car.

INT. ANSEL’S CAR - VARIOUS

Various shots of Ansel driving, all from the same angle, as 
it goes from daylight to magic hour to night.

EXT. STRIP MALL - NIGHT

The Chevette pulls into a handicapped parking space.


                                      62.

A flash of light from one of the windows illuminates the 
parking lot for a split second.

INT. FAMILY PHOTOGRAPHY STUDIO - NIGHT

Ansel opens the door and a bell dings. He enters the waiting 
room area and finds Intimidating Man reading a magazine in 
one of the chairs.

             INTIMIDATING MAN
      You’re early. Take a seat.

The waiting room has a clear view of the work space. We see a 
photographer, JERRY, taking a family portrait for a MOTHER 
and FATHER and their TWO CHILDREN. All are dressed up but 
none look particularly good. They’re smiles are forced...

             JERRY
      One, two annnnnnnnnnd three.

SNAP. Light flashes throughout the room.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      And let’s do one with the mommy and 
      daddy looking down at their 
      precious darlings.

The parents look down at their children. This picture is 
going to be terrible...

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      That’s great. One, two annnnnnnnnnd 
      three.

FLASH.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, y’all, I think we got it.

Jerry walks over to the front desk and grabs a sheet of 
paper. The family steps into the waiting room.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      So we talked about doing the 40x60 
      on canvas- Is that still what y’all 
      wanna do?

The young son stands a few feet in front of Ansel and stares 
directly at him. Ansel stares right back.

The parents confer with each other and nod to Jerry.


                                      63.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, that’s great. That’s gonna 
      look so nice in y’alls house. Is 
      this gonna be in the study or 
      somethin’?

             MOTHER
      The living room.

             JERRY
      The living room- Oh my gosh, that’s 
      gonna look so nice.
        (beat)
      Okay, so we just need a signature 
      right here so I can get these 
      developed for y’all. You can come 
      by anytime tomorrow and you can see 
      which one you like best from the 
      bunch but I have to say I think 
      that last one is gonna turn out 
      real nice.

The father signs the paper.

The son and Ansel still stare each other down even as the 
parents shuffle him and his sister out the door. When the 
door shuts Ansel’s gaze is broken.

Intimidating Man locks the door behind them...

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s take this into my office. 
      Wait out here, Michael.

INT. JERRY’S OFFICE - NIGHT

The walls are covered with actors headshots, some color but 
mostly black and white. Jerry’s desk has a name plate on it 
that says “Jerry Hobbs - Talent Manager”.

             JERRY
      He hates when I call him Michael. 
      He goes by Mike but I’m just not 
      okay with the whole nickname or 
      shortened this way or that way 
      deal. It’s so darned informal.

Ansel walks along one of the walls of headshots, each as bad 
as the last. He stops at one in particular...

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Look at how handsome you were.


                                      64.

In a larger frame (the only frame on the wall) are two 
pictures of Ansel side by side... 

The first: A headshot. He’s a bit younger than he is now but 
he seems much younger. He’s happy.

The second: A publicity still for a television show called 
UNDERSTANDING THE UNKNOWN WITH ANSEL ROTH. In it, Ansel 
stands on a talk show set similar to The Geraldo Rivera 
Show’s with flourishes of Unsolved Mysteries. He’s holding a 
microphone and talking to a guest. It’s signed...

“To Jerry, I couldn’t have done it 
without you. Ansel Roth”

ANGLE ON present day Ansel. Older, tired.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      I still can’t believe there were 
      only twenty tapings.

             ANSEL
      Twenty three.

             JERRY
      Twenty three... Please, have a seat.

Ansel sits down. Jerry stays standing. 

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      What happened to you, Ansel? You 
      let life walk all over you.
        (beat)
      How’s Caren?

             ANSEL
      I don’t know. I haven’t spoken to 
      her in months.

             JERRY
      Did the papers go through?

             ANSEL
      Last month.

             JERRY
      I’m so sorry to hear that. Really, 
      I am. Once you beat the charges I 
      was sure things were going to work 
      out. That’s too bad.

Jerry walks out from behind the desk.


                                      65.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      I’ve given you more than enough 
      time. Why do you do this to me? Why 
      do you make me the bad guy?

There’s stacks of boxes in the corner of the room. He tears 
open one of them and pulls out a copy of Ansel’s book...

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      I still care about you and that’s 
      why I’m severing our relationship. 
      If you love something let it go.

Jerry stands beside Ansel with the book in hand. Out of 
nowhere he grabs the book with the other hand too and SMASHES 
Ansel in the face with it...

Ansel lays on the ground, momentarily dazed. His nose is 
bleeding again and his cheek is split open.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Give me the darned money, Ansel. 
      I’m sick to death of askin’.

Ansel slowly reaches into his pocket and retrieves the cash.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      You’ve got two days to get the rest 
      to me or I’ll sever more than our 
      relationship.

             ANSEL
      I need more time.

             JERRY
      Two days. Get the heck out of my 
      office.

Mike comes in and drags Ansel out...

INT. BATHROOM - GAS STATION - NIGHT

Ansel washes his face in the sink. He spits. There’s some 
blood in it.

He wipes the blood away from his nose and gently dabs his 
cheek.

INT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

Ansel pours himself a cup of coffee then goes to the cash 
register.


                                      66.

             ANSEL
      Five on number three. And this is a 
      refill.

The STATION ATTENDANT knows it isn’t a refill but doesn’t 
care enough to argue...

             STATION ATTENDANT
      Five twenty five, sir.

INT. ANSEL’S CAR - VARIOUS

Various shots of Ansel driving through the night back to the 
motel all from the same angle. In an effort to stay awake he 
drinks coffee, blasts music and opens the window.

The Sun is just beginning to rise as Ansel pulls into the 
Penny Pincher parking lot.

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - MORNING

We track with Ansel as he walks to the stairs, up the stairs 
and down the upstairs walkway. From a distance we see a mass 
outside of one of the motel rooms.

Ansel stops at first, then realizing it’s a body he begins 
running towards it...

It’s Claire. She’s laying unconscious outside of room 221 in 
her underwear and socks. Her nose is bloody..

Ansel reaches her and tries desperately to wake her but she’s 
out cold. He bangs on the door to the room. He feels for a 
pulse then bangs on the door again.

There’s a sound of locks being undone before door opens to 
reveal Paul...

             PAUL
      Ansel what--

He sees his daughter...

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      Oh my god.

Ansel picks her up and carries her through the door into...


                                      67.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

He sets her on the bed, which Evelyn hasn’t even had a chance 
to get up from yet. Ansel pulls back the sheets and puts a 
pillow under her head...

             ANSEL
      Claire. Claire sweetie, wake up. 
      You gotta wake up, Claire.

He lightly slaps her face a few times. No response...

             EVELYN
      What happened? Is she alive?

             ANSEL
      She’s breathing. Get me some water- 
      Cold water.

Evelyn goes to the bathroom door. It’s locked from the 
outside...

             EVELYN
        (panicked)
      The door’s locked.

             ANSEL
      It locks from the outside. Just 
      turn the lock.
        (realizing)
      Wait, why is it locked?

             PAUL
      You told us to lock her in the 
      bathroom.

             ANSEL
      You mean you locked her in there 
      last night? How did she end up 
      outside?

             PAUL
      How the hell should I know?

             ANSEL
      You didn’t see anything?

             PAUL
      We were asleep.

Evelyn comes back with an ice bucket full of water. Ansel 
takes it from her and pours it over Claire...


                                      68.

Claire’s eyes spring open from the shock of cold. She 
struggles to catch her breath...

             ANSEL
      There you go. It’s okay. You’re 
      okay. Just breathe. Breathe. There 
      you go.

Claire is shivering uncontrollably...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s get her a towel. And some 
      blankets.

             CLAIRE
      What happened?

Ansel looks to Paul. What did happen?

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - DAY

The door to 222 is closed. Claire and Ansel are alone...

Claire sits in the middle of the bed. She seems back to 
normal. Ansel is in a chair beside the bed. He has a small 
bandage over the cut on his cheek...

             ANSEL
      I wanted to talk to you about what 
      happened yesterday.

             CLAIRE
      I don’t remember anything.
        (beat)
      Why did you have them lock me up?

             ANSEL
      It was in everyone’s best interest.

             CLAIRE
      Not mine.

             ANSEL
      Especially yours.

She looks down and traces the floral print of the comforter 
with her finger.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      How did you get out of the 
      bathroom?
        (waits)


             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Claire, how did you get out of the 
      bathroom.

It’s a calculated risk on his part. The name elicits a slight 
twitch from Claire but there’s no outburst this time.

                                      69.

             CLAIRE
      Come sit next to me.

             ANSEL
      I can’t.

             CLAIRE
      Please.

He sees something in her eyes. Something trying to get out.

Ansel gets up from the chair and sits on the bed with her. 
She scoots towards him a little.

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      I was scared. The second you left 
      he...

             ANSEL
      What?

             CLAIRE
      Nothing. When it got dark out they 
      put me in there and locked the 
      door. I felt like you had abandoned 
      me.

This hurts Ansel...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      I’ve been good. I have been seeing 
      things from a set of eyes other 
      than my own. I haven’t thought much 
      about the group.

             ANSEL
      That’s good to hear.

             CLAIRE
      But when you left I didn’t know 
      what to do and I- I started to 
      pray. I started praying in there 
      and prayer turned to meditation and 
      I... I don’t know.

             ANSEL
      You can tell me.


                                      70.

             CLAIRE
      I imagined myself. I imagined 
      stepping out of Claire’s body and 
      being able to see in a way I’ve 
      never seen before. I don’t know 
      what but something inside me told 
      me to walk through the bathroom 
      door... so I did.

             ANSEL
      It opened?

             CLAIRE
      I walked through the door. And I 
      was in the room. I could see my 
      parents sleeping but I knew that 
      even if they woke up they wouldn’t 
      be able to see me. I knew I was 
      beyond being seen.

Ansel listens intently...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      I stayed there for a moment 
      watching them but something didn’t 
      feel right. I felt like I was being 
      pulled back towards Claire. I 
      reached the front door and stepped 
      through it as well but it didn’t 
      feel the same. It hurt. I fell to 
      the ground on the other side...

             ANSEL
      Where I found you in the morning. 

             CLAIRE
      I’ve moved up a level, Ansel. 
      Claire is a part of me, I accept 
      that, but I am not her. I’m 
      changing.

             ANSEL
      The other day you told me that 
      Faults teaches you... That through 
      their teachings... I don’t believe 
      you walked through walls. I want to 
      believe you but I can’t.

             CLAIRE
      Believing is the first step.

             ANSEL
      Towards what?


                                      71.

             CLAIRE
      Becoming.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - DAY

Claire watches television while she sits on the edge of the 
bed.

Ansel opens the door to room 222. He finds Paul and Evelyn 
sitting on the edge of each of their beds. It’s dark. They 
are silent and still...

INT. ROOM 222 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Ansel stands where he can still see Claire. He turns his head 
every few seconds to make sure she’s still there.

The parents haven’t moved...

             ANSEL
        (quiet)
      She can’t be alone.

Paul turns to look at Ansel.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      Did you hear me? From now on she is 
      not to be left alone. Someone 
      always has to be with her.

             PAUL
      Is something wrong?

             ANSEL
      Yes- I mean no. I’m not sure. I 
      just feel the best thing to do 
      right now... We need to make sure 
      we don’t lose her. We’re so close.

Ansel looks down as he says...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      And I need the rest of my payment.

Paul stands up slowly. He approaches Ansel...

             PAUL
      What did you just ask me?

             ANSEL
      I need the money, Paul.


                                      72.

             PAUL
      Not until she’s Claire again.

Ansel takes a step back...

             ANSEL
      I--

             PAUL
      I hired you to fix her.

             ANSEL
      I can’t guarantee she will- Paul, 
      you know that.

             PAUL
      Why?

             ANSEL
      It isn’t all up to me in this. 
      There are other factors at play.

Ansel takes a step forward...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      I want the money now. I don’t trust 
      you. I don’t trust any of this. 
      Everything is fucked and I have to 
      look out for myself.

Paul explodes forward and grabs him by the neck. He backs 
Ansel up and slams him against the wall...

             PAUL
      Fuck yourself- This is about my 
      daughter! Give her back to us. She 
      needs to come home.

Paul tightens his grip. Ansel can’t breathe at all now.

Evelyn hasn’t moved an inch. She continues to stare forward.

             CLAIRE
	(O.S.)
      Daddy! Stop!

             PAUL
      Don’t think I don’t know what goes 
      on behind that door. Do you think 
      I’m stupid?

             CLAIRE
      No. I promise. He hasn’t done 
      anything. Please.


                                      73.

Ansel tries to say something but all that comes out is a 
gurgling sound and a little spit...

Just as his eyes begin to roll back into his head Paul 
releases him. Ansel falls to the ground trying to catch his 
breath.

Paul begins crying loudly but with no actual tears.

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
        (to her father)
      Go to bed.

He stops crying almost immediately...

             PAUL
      Okay sweetheart.

He brushes her hair behind her ear. She pulls away.

Claire stands by Ansel who’s still on the ground.

Paul and Evelyn each get into their beds fully clothed and 
get under the covers.

Claire helps Ansel to his feet. They walk through the door 
into...

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Claire closes the door but does not lock it.

Ansel sits on the edge of the bed. He rubs his neck which is 
visibly red from the altercation...

             CLAIRE
      He does stuff like that because he 
      loves me.

             ANSEL
      He could have killed me.

             CLAIRE
      If he wanted to he would have.

             ANSEL
      I... I... What is... I don’t need 
      this.

             CLAIRE
      I’m tired. Are you tired? We should 
      go to sleep.


             ANSEL
      I’m done. This is... I am leaving.

He begins grabbing his things scattered about the room.

                                      74.

             CLAIRE
        (matter of fact)
      But you can’t.

             ANSEL
      I have free will.

             CLAIRE
      What about the money? That’s what 
      this is for you, isn’t it?

             ANSEL
      I... That is what this was. I have 
      no idea what any of this is 
      anymore.
        (to himself)
      You have free will. You have free 
      will. You have free will--

He stuffs his things into his suitcase...

             CLAIRE
      But you need the money. I know you 
      do. It has a power over you. I can 
      see that. You can’t leave.

             ANSEL
      I know. Fuck. I know- I know.

He stops packing...

             CLAIRE
      And I need you here. I feel like 
      I’m close to something, but... I 
      don’t know what’s happening.

             ANSEL
      What do you mean?

             CLAIRE
      I don’t know. I think Faults knows 
      what’s happening. It’s like Ira is 
      calling me home...

             ANSEL
      Do you think it’s going to happen? 
      Are you are going to step outside 
      of yourself again?


                                      75.

             CLAIRE
      You believe don’t you?

Ansel waits what seems like an eternity...

             ANSEL
      You should sleep.

             CLAIRE
      What about you?

             ANSEL
      I don’t think I can.

             CLAIRE
      Why not?

             ANSEL
      I’m not sure you will be here when 
      I wake up.

INT. ROOM 221 - BATHROOM - MOTEL - NIGHT

The room is dark except for the light that leaks out of the 
partially opened bathroom door.

Claire is asleep in the bed. Ansel sits on the motel room 
floor against the front door watching her sleep between 
moments of nodding off. Claire begins to stir...

She gets up from the bed and walks to the bathroom. Light 
pours into the room and briefly illuminates Ansel when she 
opens the door. She closes it partially...

She’s quiet at first. Ansel gets to his feet and walks slowly 
towards the bathroom door. Still no sign of her presence. 
What is she doing?

As Ansel is about to reach the door he hears the sound of her 
peeing. He relaxes. Ansel props himself against the wall 
outside the bathroom, his back towards its door. He begins to 
nod off once again...

The sound stops. The toilet flushes. The door cracks opens 
illuminating the room. Claire approaches Ansel from behind. 
She’s naked from the waist down...

She softly wraps her arms around him. His eyes open slowly 
and when he realizes what’s happening he pulls himself away 
from her. He sees that she’s nude...


                                      76.

Claire isn’t deterred. She walks towards him and puts her 
arms on his waist. Ansel stands there motionless, as if in a 
trance.

Claire stands on the balls of her feet and kisses him on the 
lips. At first he doesn’t reciprocate but after a moment he 
kisses her back. He keeps his eyes wide open for all of 
this...

They stand there for a moment until Ansel shoves her away 
from him but she immediately goes back in and kisses him 
again, this time more forcefully. She is in charge...

             CLAIRE
      Lick my lips.

             ANSEL
      What?

             CLAIRE
        (demanding)
      Lick them.

Ansel licks her lips. It’s awkward and not sexy at all. In 
fact none of this is the least bit sexy...

Claire pushes Ansel into a chair. He falls into it and she 
immediately climbs onto his lap. She grabs his face and 
continues to dominate the interaction...

Claire’s nose begins to bleed. Ansel notices and has to force 
himself away from her lips to tell her...

             ANSEL
        (out of breath)
      Your nose.

             CLAIRE
      Shut up.

She goes right back in. His eyes focus on her nose for a 
second but his eyes begin to close. They spring back open 
then droop again. He’s kissing her back less and less and 
more just being kissed. She notices this...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      I need you to sleep now, Ansel.

He’s fighting the urge. His eyes are crossing. His speech 
begins to slur...

             ANSEL
      What are you doing to me?


             CLAIRE
      I’m in control.

                                      77.

                              CUT TO BLACK:

OVER BLACK: AUDIENCE APPLAUSE THEN ANSEL’S VOICE

                                 FADE IN:

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - NIGHT

The room slowly comes into view but it never fully fades in 
and the image never fully comes into focus...

Ansel wakes, still in the chair. The television sits on 
another chair in front of him, illuminating him.

ON THE TV SCREEN

a slightly younger Ansel looks into the lens of a broadcast 
camera as it slowly zooms in on him...

             ANSEL
      And we’re back. If you’re just 
      joining us we’re talking with the 
      sole surviving member of the 
      Universal Concurrence after 
      Sunday’s terrible tragedy.

Ansel stands over a YOUNG WOMAN who looks like she’s been 
crying.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      We were talking about the 
      Concurrence- Or, your “family” as 
      you called them.
        (beat)
      I guess my question is how could a 
      person let this happen to their 
      family. Do you feel a sense of 
      responsibility for what happened?

She looks silently into the studio audience, embarrassed and 
scared. The audience is eats it up. It’s as if she isn’t 
human...

We watch the footage, along with Ansel, until we hear barely 
audible MOANING under the sound of the show. With everything 
he has Ansel forces his head to turn...


                                      78.

It’s too blurry to make out any detail but it’s clear that 
there, in front of Ansel, is Claire laying on her back on the 
bed with her father on top of her. Her mother is sitting on 
the edge of the bed beside them both, watching it all.

Ansel straightens his head and squints in an effort to focus. 
It doesn’t help...

Blurry Claire sees that Ansel is awake. She looks right at 
him as he falls back asleep.

                             FADE TO BLACK.

INT. ANSEL’S CAR - MOTEL PARKING LOT - MORNING

Ansel startles awake. “How the fuck did I get out here?”...

He notices the key is in the ignition. He sits there for a 
moment then reaches for it... But he can’t bring himself to 
turn it. He takes the key with him as he exits the vehicle.

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - MORNING

We follow him as he climbs the stairs and walks down the 
upstairs walkway until he reaches room 221.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

He opens the door with the room key and enters to find the 
room empty...

He looks around, nothing out of the ordinary. The door to the 
other room is locked.

He hears a sound from the bathroom. Ansel walks towards the 
door which is slightly ajar. He opens it to find Claire in 
tears on the floor.

INT. BATHROOM - ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

She’s absolutely shocked/relieved to see him. She jumps up 
and throws her arms around him...

             CLAIRE
      I thought you left me.

             ANSEL
      What happened last night?


                                      79.

             CLAIRE
      I woke up and you weren’t there.

             ANSEL
      I was in my car. Why was I in my 
      car?

             CLAIRE
      My parents are gone.

             ANSEL
      What do you mean your parents are 
      gone?

             CLAIRE
      They left me a note. They said that 
      I’d given up and so they gave up on 
      me.

             ANSEL
      I saw them.

             CLAIRE
      Where were they going?

             ANSEL
      In here. In the room with us last 
      night.
        (beat)
      With you.

             CLAIRE
      That’s impossible. The doors were 
      locked. Both doors.

             ANSEL
      I saw them. 

             CLAIRE
        (emphatic)
      You’re wrong.

             ANSEL
      Where did you get that tape?

             CLAIRE
      Tape?

             ANSEL
      The show. My show!

             CLAIRE
      Your show? Ansel, I don’t--


                                      80.

             ANSEL
      You’re lying to me. Why are you 
      lying to me?

             CLAIRE
      I’m not--

Ansel grabs her arms and shakes her...

             ANSEL
      What the fuck is going on?!

The door to the bathroom slowly begins to shut behind them. 
Neither notices...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      We... You made me lick you.

             CLAIRE
      You’re scaring me, Ansel.

             ANSEL
      How did you--

CLICK. The door closes shut. Ansel turns around and tries to 
open it. It’s locked...

             CLAIRE
      Open it.

             ANSEL
      It’s locked.

             CLAIRE
      Why is it locked?

             ANSEL
      I didn’t lock it- Why would I lock 
      it? Why is it locked!?

Ansel throws his body into the door. Nothing. He does it 
again. Nothing. He takes a step back and really throws his 
weight into it. Still nothing...

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      There’s something blocking it on 
      the other side.

             CLAIRE
      That doesn’t make any sense. Why 
      are you doing this?

Ansel SCREAMS.


                                      81.

The phone begins to ring in the other room...

             ANSEL
        (realizing)
      Fuck. That’s Jerry. Jerry is 
      calling. I have to answer that. 
      Fuck!

             CLAIRE
      Let me out. I want to get out of 
      here.

             ANSEL
      Stop. Just stop.

He throws himself into the door with everything he has this 
time but injures his shoulder in the process...

             CLAIRE
      Are you okay?

             ANSEL
      NO I’M NOT FUCKING OKAY- OKAY?

He slides down the door to the floor and begins to cry. He’s 
completely lost it...

The phone stops ringing.

             ANSEL
	(CONT’D)
      What is happening to me?

Claire steps towards Ansel and holds his head against her 
thighs, comforting him. She begins to hum but not a song or 
melody. It’s more of a droning sound. It calms Ansel.

She finishes humming and sits down in front of him...

             CLAIRE
      They left your money. Is that who 
      Jerry is in this? Is he why you 
      need the money?

Ansel wipes away tears. He’s like a child post tantrum. He 
nods...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Why do you let him control you?

             ANSEL
      I owe him.

             CLAIRE
      Is he your God?


                                      82.

             ANSEL
      No.

             CLAIRE
      Then how could you possibly owe 
      him?

             ANSEL
      He helped me when I needed help.

             CLAIRE
      He took advantage of you.

             ANSEL
      No.

             CLAIRE
      Yes.

             ANSEL
      Nothing happens the way it should 
      with me. Everything fails.

             CLAIRE
      What are your failures.

             ANSEL
      My marriage failed.

             CLAIRE
      Why?

             ANSEL
      Because of money.

             CLAIRE
      That’s an excuse. Why did your 
      marriage fail?

             ANSEL
      I don’t know.

             CLAIRE
      Why did your marriage fail?

He tears up...

             ANSEL
      Because I’m a failure.

             CLAIRE
      And she saw that.


                                      83.

             ANSEL
      She already knew. She just 
      acknowledged it.

             CLAIRE
      Why are you a failure?

             ANSEL
      Because I’ve only ever been good at 
      one thing and... All of this is her 
      fault.

             CLAIRE
      Your wife?

             ANSEL
      No. A girl. You know the Universal 
      Concurrence?

             CLAIRE
      What was her name?

             ANSEL
      Jennifer.

             CLAIRE
      What was her name?

The repeat question throws Ansel, off...

             ANSEL
      Jennifer.

             CLAIRE
      Who was Jennifer?

             ANSEL
      We did one of these... exactly like 
      this... with her. But...

             CLAIRE
      What?

             ANSEL
      Nothing. It doesn’t matter.

             CLAIRE
      What happened?

             ANSEL
      I did my job. She questioned her 
      choices and went home with her 
      family... but the family didn’t put 
      in the work.


                                      84.

             CLAIRE
      She was the one on your show.

             ANSEL
      How did you know about that?

             CLAIRE
      You had her on two days after the 
      group suicide. No one had access to 
      her but you.

He’s on the defensive, mind spinning, rationalizing...

             ANSEL
      We flew her out. It was all 
      expenses paid! It was supposed to 
      be a nice vacation for her.

             CLAIRE
      You exploited your relationship 
      with her.

             ANSEL
      No.

             CLAIRE
      You did it for ratings.

             ANSEL
      No!

             CLAIRE
      You knew she was fragile and yet 
      you put her out there for the world 
      to judge.

He’s losing it again...

             ANSEL
      She agreed to it all. How could I 
      have known that she still felt a 
      connection to the Concurrence?

             CLAIRE
      How could you not have know? You 
      pressed her. You opened the wound. 
      You gave her the knife and she slit 
      her wrists with it.

             ANSEL
      She chose to be with them. She had 
      free will!


                                      85.

             CLAIRE
      Did she really?

Ansel’s looks to the ground...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Look me in my eyes and tell me you 
      don’t blame yourself.

             ANSEL
      Everyone does.

She SLAPS him. He’s in shock...

             CLAIRE
      No- Look at me. Listen to my words. 
      Feel them. Are you to blame for 
      Jennifer’s death?

He looks into her eyes and finds salvation in them. He begins 
to cry. After some time...

             ANSEL
      I was in control. I failed her.
        (he releases)
      I could have helped her but I chose 
      not to. I used her. I made the 
      choice.

             CLAIRE
      And that choice cost you 
      everything.

             ANSEL
      Everything. Yes.

             CLAIRE
      Tell me what you lost. I want to 
      hear it.

             ANSEL
      My show. Money. My house. My wife--

             CLAIRE
      NO!
        (composing herself)
      Those are things. What did you 
      lose?

             ANSEL
      Every kind of respect.

             CLAIRE
      Are you happy with who you are?


                                      86.

Ansel shakes his head, “No.”

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Do you owe Jerry your happiness?

             ANSEL
      No.

             CLAIRE
      What do you owe him?

He’s mesmerized by her...

             ANSEL
      Nothing.

             CLAIRE
      Do you owe him your money?

             ANSEL
      No.

             CLAIRE
      The only person you owe is 
      yourself. Do you see that?

             ANSEL
      I see it.

             CLAIRE
      Does what I say make sense to you?

             ANSEL
      It makes more sense than anything I 
      have ever heard.

             CLAIRE
      How do you feel?

             ANSEL
      Clear. Free.

             CLAIRE
      Close your eyes.

Ansel closes them...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Push everything out of your mind. 
      Picture yourself where you are 
      right at this very moment.

He shifts a little...


                                      87.

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t move. Be still. Imagine you 
      are composed of two parts. Two 
      “yous”. One lives inside the other. 
      This you has lived inside the other 
      its entire existence because it did 
      not know any other way. Do you see 
      the other you?

             ANSEL
      I see him.

             CLAIRE
      I want you to pull him out of you. 
      Rip him from inside you and look at 
      yourself from outside yourself. 

Ansel’s face turns red and his nose begins to bleed...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Do you see?

             ANSEL
      I see.

             CLAIRE
      You are seeing yourself from a view 
      you have never seen. This is how 
      others see you. What do you see?

             ANSEL
      Loneliness. Sadness. Weakness.

             CLAIRE
      I want you to walk through the 
      door, Ansel. I want you to picture 
      yourself walking through the door 
      as if it isn’t even there.
        (waiting)
      Are you through?

             ANSEL
      I am on the other side.

             CLAIRE
      I want you to unlock the door.

He exhales slightly...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Pull the other you back, Ansel. 
      Bring it back to you. Let your two 
      selves become one again. Open your 
      eyes.


                                      88.

He opens his eyes. He wipes the blood away from his nostril.

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Open the door.

Ansel stands up and turns the knob. The door opens...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Do you trust me?

             ANSEL
      Unquestionably.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - NIGHT

ANGLE ON the front door. There’s a loud BANGING...

             MIKE
	(O.S.)
      Roth, open up. I know you’re in 
      there. Front desk says you haven’t 
      checked out.

We hear the sounds of Mike picking the lock. A CLICK is 
heard. The door swings open. Mike takes a peak in. The room 
is empty...

He checks the bathroom, no one.

He begins walking back towards the front door but stops when 
he sees Ansel’s suitcase. He begins picking through it as...

The door to room 222 slowly and silently creeps open. Ansel 
appears brandishing the screwdriver from earlier. He walks up 
behind Mike who’s still squatting down and drives it into the 
back of Mike’s head...

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Jerry waits in the car in the passenger seat. He looks up at 
the open door to room 221.

             JERRY
        (to himself)
      Come on, Michael.

Jerry keeps his eyes trained on the door. Nothing...

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Jeez-louise. What is taking so 
      long.

He pushes his way out the car and shuts the door.


                                      89.

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

Jerry peeks his head from around the corner into the room. 
Mike’s body is gone. The room is empty but the water in the 
bathroom is running...

             JERRY
      Michael.
        (waits)
      I’m not playing around, Michael.

He carefully enters the room. He’s pretty scared.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing in there?

The front door begins to close, revealing Claire behind it. 
When it closes he locks it immediately.

Jerry jumps and turns around...

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Good Lord- You sure startled me. 
      Sorry, young lady. I must have the 
      wrong room.

             ANSEL
	(O.S.)
      Hi, Jerry.

Ansel is standing near the bathroom. He’s holding a copy of 
his book.

             JERRY
      Ansel.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      You didn’t answer our call earlier 
      today. I told you to have the money 
      for me today and here you are 
      screening my phone calls- and I’m 
      sorry but that’s just plain rude. 
      I’m sick of playin’ these games 
      with you- Makin’ me drive out all 
      this way.

Ansel takes a couple steps towards Jerry.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Where’s my money, Ansel?
        (beat)
      And where’s Michael?

             ANSEL
      He has moved on.


                                      90.

             JERRY
      What is that supposed to mean?

             ANSEL
      I put a screwdriver through his 
      skull.
        (laughing)
      I don’t know why to be honest.

Ansel motions to the open door to room 222. Jerry takes a 
step forward and looks in to see Mike lying face down with 
the handle of a phillips head sticking out of his head...

             JERRY
        (crying)
      Michael, no!
        (to Ansel)
      What have you done?! I wanted to 
      scare you, that’s it. Oh, God- Why 
      did you have to go and take it this 
      far?

Ansel kicks the door closed.

             ANSEL
      Do you know what a fault is, Jerry?

             JERRY
      This is your fault..

             ANSEL
      A fault. A fault.

             JERRY
      What the heck are you talkin’ 
      about?

             ANSEL
      A fault is a fracture. It’s a place 
      where pressure builds and builds 
      until it releases--

             JERRY
      Please, just let me go. I won’t 
      tell nobody about this- I swear.

Ansel is in his own world. The words are almost coming from 
someplace else other than himself...


                                      91.

             ANSEL
      But slowly after hundreds of 
      thousands and millions of years 
      something begins to grow from these 
      faults. From these faults grow 
      mountains.

             JERRY
      Why are you doing this? This isn’t 
      like you. It’s like you’re a 
      different person.

It all makes sense to Ansel. Everything makes sense now.

             ANSEL
      Someday I will be a mountain but 
      for now I am a Fault.

Ansel rushes towards Jerry and strikes him across the face 
with his book. Blood flies from Jerry’s mouth. Ansel bashes 
him with the book again, knocking him to his knees. He hits 
him again, and again, and again. Jerry falls the ground...

ANGLE ON Claire, as she watches blankly...

OFF SCREEN Ansel hammers Jerry’s face in with the book. We 
don’t see any of this but it sounds horrible. Ansel loses all 
control.

He reaches a point where he can’t do it anymore, completely 
out of breath. Every square inch of the book is stained with 
blood. He drops it on the ground and walks towards Claire who 
takes him into her arms...

             CLAIRE
      You did so good. You did so good. 
      Doesn’t it feel right? To just 
      listen? Isn’t it easier than 
      thinking?

They stand there in each other’s arms amongst the death and 
destruction for a moment.

CLOSE UP

on the book that Ansel used to bludgeon Jerry to death. It 
has fallen open to the one of the first pages. There, signed 
in black ink is...

“To Claire, I hope you find this 
book useful in some way. Cordially 
yours, Ansel Roth”


                                      92.

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - MORNING

Ansel throws all the boxes filled with his books into the 
motel’s dumpster.

EXT. PENNY PINCHER MOTEL - PARKING LOT - MORNING

Ansel loads his suitcase and Claire’s things into his car. He 
gets in and starts it up. Claire motions for him to roll down 
the window. He cranks it down...

             CLAIRE
      I’ve forgotten something in the 
      room. I don’t know how long I’ll be 
      but I want you to wait for me. Are 
      you going to wait for me?

             ANSEL
        (laughing)
      What else am I going to do?

We walk with Claire to the stairs, up the stairs and down the 
walkway to room 221. She opens the door letting light spill 
into the room...

INT. ROOM 221 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

There’s a sheet on the floor over Jerry’s body. Claire closes 
the door and walks past it and on her way to the bathroom...

She comes out holding a tooth brush. She walks towards us but 
instead of going to the front door she goes to the door to 
room 222. She opens her side but the door to room 222 is 
closed. She knocks...

It opens revealing Paul and Evelyn. She walks into the room.

INT. ROOM 222 - MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Claire hugs Paul then Evelyn...

             PAUL
      How were we?

             CLAIRE
      You both were amazing.

Evelyn and Paul smile at each other. They’re beaming.

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Did you take care of it?


                                      93.

             EVELYN
      Now this was the white one, 
      correct? Not the colored man.

             CLAIRE
      The white one. The one who struck 
      me.

             PAUL
      He’s finished. We ended him

             CLAIRE
      God willed it.

Evelyn and Paul nod in agreement.

             EVELYN
        (re: Ansel)
      And is he..?

             CLAIRE
      He’s in the car. We’re about to 
      leave.

             EVELYN
      Oh, that’s just wonderful. I could 
      cry.

             CLAIRE
      Out of everyone I chose you. You 
      understand how special you are, 
      don’t you? Both of you. I couldn’t 
      have done this without you. 

She grabs two cups from the table nearby and pours some water 
from the sink into each of them...

             CLAIRE
	(CONT’D)
      You’ve both reached the final 
      level. How does it feel knowing 
      you’re about to move on?

             PAUL
      I feel...
        (tearing up)
      ... happy.

             EVELYN
      Yes. It’s special. I’ve never felt 
      this way before.

Claire takes two pills out of her pocket and puts one in each 
of their hands...


                                      94.

             CLAIRE
      You have always been and will 
      always be with us. We will see you 
      on the other side.

Claire kisses Paul on the lips. It’s like a boyfriend and 
girlfriend saying goodbye at the airport knowing they won’t 
see each other for a long time...

Claire then kisses Evelyn in exactly the same way. We see it 
in Claire’s eyes that she is in fact quite sad.

Both place the pill into their mouths. Claire hands them 
their water and they drink.

             EVELYN
      With his knowledge your teachings 
      will grow beyond anything we ever 
      could have imagined.

             PAUL
      Ira... We love you.

Claire/Ira takes a step back and lets them lay down in their 
respective beds...

She waits until their eyes close then leaves the room.

INT. ANSEL’S CAR - HOTEL PARKING LOT - MORNING

Claire approaches the car. She goes to open the door but it’s 
locked. She knocks on the window. Ansel leans over and 
unlocks the door. She gets in...

             ANSEL
      Sorry.

             CLAIRE
      No more apologies. We won’t dwell 
      on what’s happened only what is 
      happening now. We don’t feel sorry 
      for ourselves. We have each other. 
      We are strong. 

Ansel puts the car into reverse but keeps his foot on the 
brake...

             ANSEL
      Where am I going?


                                      95.

                              CUT TO BLACK:

             CLAIRE
      Home.

                F A U L T S


