
 

 
ZERO GRAVITY MANAGEMENT  
jeffrey belkin  
eric williams  
646.662.0829 
jeff@zerogravitymanagement.com             

                        

                                          
                   

                   
                   

                   
      Free  Byrd  

                                           
                                           
                  

                   

                                           
                                        by 
                                 jon ethan boyer 

                                     producer 
                                  mark williams 
                                  310.656.9440 


EXT. VACANT SPEEDWAY - DAYBREAK

Morning sunlight filters through flagpoles that line the top 
of the grandstand. Tattered flags flutter in the breeze. 

An ANNOUNCERS VOICE. A throwback to the past. Mid 70’s Wide 
World Of Sports. Lo-Fi. Filtered. Matter of fact.   

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      -- Four years of preparation to the 
      day. To attempt the never before 
      attempted. Billy Byrd, the American 
      Eagle--

Like rows of skeletons, empty bleachers offer views of glory 
past. 

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      --Last of the true gladiators... A 
      real Superman. Five test approaches 
      so far--

High above, the speedway looms forboding like the Roman 
Colosseum. 

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      --Another approach, there’s no 
      hesitating this time-- He’ll go! 
      This is it-- He’s up! He’s 
      flying!... HE MISSED IT! HE’S 
      MISSED THE LANDING! My god! He’s in 
      trouble! He’s not getting up... My 
      God, this is serious...

The announcer trails off as we dissolve from the stadium to--

A MONTAGE OF X-RAY’S

CREDIT’S RUN OVER

Broken clavicles, a fractured skull, screws into an ankle, 
multiple broken ribs, a dislocated shoulder, compound 
fractured femur. Plates screwed into a tibia and a fibula. 

The x-rays tell a story. A story of pain. Of rehabilitation. 
Of sacrifice. This is the body of a man who should not be 
walking let alone alive.

                                FADE OUT.

CLOSE ON

A hand pops the tops to a weekly pill organizer.


                                      2.

Thumbs a multitude of pills into their perspective days of 
the week.  

INT. NONDESCRIPT ROOM 

A MAN sits at a table. Long silver hair frames his weathered 
face. A face of a man who’s seen hard years but doesn’t 
complain about it. Tough. Like a cowboy or seasoned sailor. 

This is BILLY BYRD (56).   

A small pharmacy on the table before him as he pops pills 
into the organizer. Picking up another pill bottle, he stops.

Billy regards the bottle flatly, as if lost in a thought when 
the sound of A MACHINE HUMMING brings us to--

INT. HOSPITAL / CT SCAN ROOM - DAY

Billy, in a hospital gown, moves through a CT Scanner.   

             DOCTOR
	(PRE-LAP)
      ... A combination of factors can 
      lead to this--

INT. DOCTORS OFFICE - DAY

A DOCTOR in his late 50’s sits behind his desk looking at 
Billy’s CT X-Rays. Billy listens with a blank stare. 

             DOCTOR
      Even a single case of head trauma. 
      And with your history, well it 
      would seem that it finally caught 
      up with you.   

             BILLY
      Funny. 

             DOCTOR
      I’m sorry?

             BILLY
      Decades of spitting in deaths 
      face... Then this...

             DOCTOR
      Look, Billy, I’ve known you for a 
      long time, so I’ll be frank. 
      Dementia is not something to be 
      taken lightly. 


                                      3.

             DOCTOR
	(CONT'D)
      Your lifestyle is going to have to 
      change. Dramatically. There is no 
      getting around that. 

             BILLY
      Brass tacks, Doc. 

             DOCTOR 
      Moderate to severe memory loss, 
      coordination will become more 
      difficult, slurred speech, 
      confusion... I don’t think I need 
      to tell you this all leads to one 
      place.  

             BILLY
      You do paint a picture.

             DOCTOR
      There is no known cure, but with 
      proper treatments--

             BILLY
      More pills. 

             DOCTOR
      Medication, yes. As well as mental 
      therapies. Exercises. A colleague 
      of mine, he’s one of the top 
      neurologists-- 

             BILLY
      Jesus Christ. 

             DOCTOR
      Don’t let pride get in the way of 
      your health, Billy. Believe me, the 
      end results will not be pretty.  

             BILLY
      Pretty? I’ve broke nearly every 
      bone in my body, Doc. Some twice. 
      Legs, back-- There was a time you 
      said I wouldn’t walk again.

             DOCTOR
      This isn’t a broken bone.

Billy stands, favoring his right knee. A limp as he steps to 
the door. 

             BILLY
      I’ll take the pills, but I ain’t 
      doing therapy.  


                                      4.

             DOCTOR
      Billy... I’m talking about your 
      quality of life. 

             BILLY
      So am I.

INT. BAR - LATER

A dive. Old jukebox and even older clientele. Billy sits 
belly up to the bar. 

He thumbs away at the pills in his hand when--

A BARTENDER in her 40’s who looks like she’s trying to hold 
on to her 20’s tosses a coaster in front of Billy.

             BARTENDER
      As I live and breathe.  

             BILLY
      Eileen. 

             EILEEN
      Thought you were dry?  

She pours Billy a drink. Sets a small milk next to it. Billy 
tops the bourbon with the milk and drains the glass. 

             BILLY
      Thought youd’ve taken that down by 
      now. 

Billy nods to a faded photograph above the bar. It’s of: 
Billy on a motorcycle jumping a row of Pepsi delivery trucks. 

             BARTENDER
        (mock surprise)
      That still up there? 

She refills his glass with a wink and walks away revealing 
the mirror behind the bar. Billy catches his reflection. He 
looks at himself for a long beat. 

He looks to the hand full of pills. Regards them for a beat 
before popping them in his mouth and washing them back with 
the drink. 

He looks back to the photograph and then to his reflection. 


             BILLY
        (To himself)
      Alright.

OVER BLACK

                                      5.

                                  CUT TO:

The sound of a slide bolt precedes a blast of light as a 
metallic door rolls up. Billy stands in the opening of--

I/E. STORAGE UNIT - AFTERNOON

Stacks of boxes, motorcycle wheels, helmets, banners, event 
posters and framed photographs. An entire history of past 
fame packed into a 10X20 box.

Billy looks the collection over then begins to pull boxes.

EXT. STORAGE UNIT - LATER

Billy walks out of the unit holding a red white and blue 
helmet and matching motorcycle jacket. A MAN in his 30’s 
leans against Billy’s truck. This is AUGGIE.    

Billy sets gear down. 

             AUGGIE
      When you drove in I did a double 
      take. Surprised to see you here. 

             BILLY
      What do you want, Auggie? 

             AUGGIE
      Nothing. 

             BILLY
      Nothing, huh? Tell your daddy I 
      still haven’t changed my mind. I’m 
      not selling it.   

Auggie peers into the unit, then to the jacket and helmet.

             AUGGIE
      What are you up to here? 

             BILLY
      I told you. It’s not for sale.  

Billy goes back into the unit where Auggie moves into the 
mouth of the unit eyeing a stack of photos: 


                                      6.

Billy with Elvis. Billy with President Nixon. Billy soaring 
over a row of helicopters. 

             AUGGIE
	(O.S.)
      Real shame this is all stuffed away 
      in here. You should have it in a 
      museum!  

Billy moves a pile of boxes when they come crashing down in a 
loud avalanche. Swears to himself. 

             AUGGIE
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      You alright in there?

Billy picks up papers and clippings then sees a folder 
labeled “COLOSSEUM.” He stares at it for a beat. He flips it 
open and peruses the contents. After a beat he tucks it into 
the back of his jeans.

Moving more boxes eventually revealing a large blue tarpaulin 
that covers something. 

Billy pulls the tarp back. Holding on Billy, we don’t yet see 
what’s under the tarp.  

             BILLY
      Hey old girl.

EXT. STORAGE UNIT - MOMENTS LATER

Auggie whistles when Billy emerges from the unit pushing a 
1976 HARLEY DAVIDSON XR-750. The same bike Billy rides in the 
photos. Red white and blue paint matching the helmet. 

             AUGGIE
        (smiles, shaking his head)
      Damn. 

Billy pulls the bike onto it’s kickstand, then pushes the 
boxes back into the unit. 

Locking the door shut, Billy turns to Auggie, gives him a 
hard look and then straddles his bike. 

             BILLY
      You tell your daddy that I’m paid 
      up for ten years. I know every box, 
      every part, every item in that 
      unit. He wants it? He can have it 
      when I’m dead. Otherwise, keep the 
      fuck outta my stuff. 


                                      7.

Auggie holds up his hands, fine. Billy zips up his jacket, 
grips the handlebars and drops down onto the kick start. 

After a few fruitless attempts the bike roars to life. Auggie 
waves away blue smoke as Billy rides off. 

             AUGGIE
      Hey! What about your truck?! Hey!

EXT. HIGHWAY - LATER

The middle of nowhere. Billy rides down a two lane rural 
road. Hot wind in his face. Silver hair blows in the wind.

Darkness at his back, Billy races onto the open road towards 
the setting sun. Just him and his bike. Old lovers.   

For the first time we see the hint of a smile cross his face. 

EXT. ADOBE HOUSE - AFTERNOON

A weathered home nestled on a bluff. From under a dark cloth 
on a large format camera, a PHOTOGRAPHER directs three 
MEXICAN WOMEN and a baby. Four generations of a family. 

             PHOTOGRAPHER
	(O.S.)
        (In Spanish)
      Good, good. And hold... Perfect!

She snaps the photograph and flips the cloth back revealing--

MAGGIE THORTON (29) -- the kind of pretty that doesn’t 
immediately turn your head but keeps you looking once you do. 

             MAGGIE
        (in Spanish)
      Beautiful. Thank you. 

I/E. BILLY’S TRUCK / HOUSE - EVENING

Billy pulls his truck into the driveway of a decent sized 
ranch house. He looks to the house for a beat and gets out. 

Billy lowers the Harley from the bed of the truck.

SIDE OF HOUSE

Billy pushes the bike past a large RV parked beside the 
house. 


                                      8.

Emblazoned on the RV’s side-- Red, white and blue stars and 
stripes with BILLY BYRD airbrushed over a bald eagle’s head.   

INT. HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Billy steps through the door. He is met by a familiar voice-- 

             WOMAN’S VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Hey! I thought we had a date! 

             BILLY
      I got caught up. 

Maggie zips into the room. 

             MAGGIE
      What could possibly be so important-
      - Jesus, you look rough as a bear’s 
      ass. Did you eat?

             BILLY
      Wasn’t hungry...

             MAGGIE
      There’s some leftover brisket. 
        (Undoing her shorts)
      At least your timing’s good. My 
      temperature is perfect. 

             BILLY
      I just got in the door for Christ 
      sakes. Can a man get his boots off?  

             MAGGIE
      You’ve been drinking? You know what 
      the doctor said about booze. It 
      slows your swimmers.  
        (Dismissing it)
      It doesn’t matter. 

             BILLY
      Maggie... 

             MAGGIE
      I’ve never heard a man complain 
      this much about getting some ass. 

Maggie unbuckles Billy’s belt. His protests are short lived 
as she opens his jeans and lowers down before him.

             BILLY
      Well that ain’t fair. 


                                      9.

INT. BEDROOM - DAWN

Billy stares at the ceiling while Maggie sleeps next to him. 
He sits up on the edge of the bed.  

After a beat he reaches for an antiquated metal brace that he 
starts to strap around his right knee.  

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Billy pushes the bike down the quiet street. Once far enough 
from the house he fires it up and rides off. 

INT. HOUSE - MORNING

Maggie stands at the window drinking tea. She notices Billy’s 
truck sitting in the driveway. Strange. 

EXT. LARGE HOUSE - MORNING

Billy walks up to the front door of a large McMansion. He 
rings the bell, taking in the house as he waits, until--

The door swings open to SHELLY, an attractive woman in her 
late 50’s who immediately goes sour at the sight of Billy. 

             SHELLY
      Good lord.  

             BILLY
      Shelly.

             SHELLY
      You got some nerve showing your 
      face around here.  

             BILLY
      I need to talk to Gibby. 

             SHELLY
      How about you go to hell instead? 

             GIBBY
	(O.S.)
      Shelly. 

GIBBY (60’s) steps out. He’s a fat cat. Slick silver hair and 
trimmed moustache. He’s all business, and you can tell. 

             SHELLY
      I don’t want him here. 


                                      10.

             GIBBY
      Go finish getting ready.  

Shelly reluctantly recedes back into the house but not before 
burning one last “fuck you” look into Billy. 

             BILLY
      That woman always could hold onto 
      anger.  

Gibby looks past Billy and sees the Harley.  

             GIBBY
      This can’t be good. 

             BILLY
      How’ve you been, Gib? 

             GIBBY
      I’m gonna stop you there, Billy. 
      Whatever it is, whatever you’ve got 
      going on in that head of yours, I’m 
      not interested. Mid-life crisis-- 
      Guilt-- I don’t want to know, I 
      don’t give a shit. 

             BILLY
      Too old for a mid life crisis. 

Gibby stares at Billy for a beat then shakes his head and 
snorts a sardonic laugh. 

             GIBBY
      You’re lucky I don’t bust your 
      nose.        

             BILLY
      If it’ll make you feel better... 

             GIBBY
      You bankrupt me, Billy. I had a 
      heart attack.     

             BILLY
      You look recovered.  

             GIBBY
      You’ve got some sand. Shelly’ll be 
      out in five minutes. If I was you 
      I’d be economical. 

             BILLY
      Alright. I’ll get to it then.
        (Beat)



             BILLY
	(CONT'D)
      I want you to set up a jump for me. 
      I wanna jump again. 

A pregnant pause. Gibby stares at Billy. 

                                      11.

             GIBBY
      What is this?        

             BILLY
      We did big things, Gib. We can do 
      em again. The plans are still good.  
      I’d do it myself if I could. I need 
      your help and I’m coming to you hat 
      in hand. 

             GIBBY
      I think you’ve taken enough from me 
      already, Billy.    

             BILLY
      This has nothing to do with that.  

             GIBBY
      I’m sorry for whatever it is that’s 
      brought you here, as I’m sure it’s 
      not good, so I’m gonna say no to 
      you. No.   

             BILLY
      Gib--

             GIBBY
      You’re not hearing me. Who? Huh? 
      Who wants to see you jump? Who 
      cares anymore? Billy Byrd? I sure 
      as shit know it isn’t Maggie... 

Gibby locks into a stare with Billy. 

             GIBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Christ, she doesn’t know. God 
      dammit. 

             BILLY
      My intentions--  

             GIBBY
      Your intentions? Your intentions?! 

Shelly comes back out of the house.

             GIBBY
	(CONT’D)
      I want you to listen to me good 
      right now, alright? I don’t care. 


             GIBBY
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t care about your intentions 
      or whatever else is rattling around 
      in that brain of yours. I’m sorry. 

                                      12.

Gibby and Shelly make their way to a Cadillac SUV and get in. 
As they pull away, Gibby rolls down his window to Billy. 

             GIBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Before you go and do something 
      stupid, do yourself a favor... 
      There’s a Moto Expo this weekend at 
      the round up. Go down there, 
      educate yourself. See what’s being 
      done now, the level of it. It just 
      might save your life. 

We hold on Billy as they drive away. 

EXT. HOUSING DEVELOPMENT - LATER

Billy pulls up next to a vacant development. Scraped earth of 
unpaved streets for a future subdivision.

He scans the deserted landscape until across the distance a 
mound of dirt catches his eye. He turns into the lot. 

Billy stares the mound of dirt down. He revs his engine, 
spits into the dirt. After a beat he pops the clutch-- 

30-40-50mph-- Faster and faster, Billy closes in on the mound 
of dirt until he’s almost upon it. And then he stands as he-- 

Hits the mound of dirt and the bike lifts off the ground. The 
impact of the lip bucks Billy off the foot pegs as he soars 
through the air with a sort of “hold-on-tight” grace. 

The wheels hit the ground with a jarring impact. Bouncing off 
the seat, Billy barely manages to hold on. 

With feet dragging on either side of the bike, Billy fights 
to keep control until gravity prevails.

The bike flips on it’s side, bucking Billy to the ground. 
Billy and bike tumble until both come to a sliding stop. 

Billy lays unmoving. Then, with a groan, he rolls to his back 
and looks skyward. After a long beat he begins to laugh.

Billy drags himself to his feet. Limps to the bike and 
frowns. The forks and front wheel are bent from the crash. 

             BILLY
      Shit.


INT. GYNECOLOGIST EXAM ROOM - DAY

Maggie dresses as a FEMALE DOCTOR (40’s) writes in a file. 

                                      13.

             FEMALE DR. 
      Your levels are good. Blood work 
      came back normal. Everything looks 
      fine, Maggie.   

             MAGGIE
      It’s been almost two years. 

             FEMALE DR.
      Just try to relax. Sometimes stress 
      can do strange things to our 
      bodies. Maybe you just need to get 
      out of your own way. 

             MAGGIE
      I’ve tried everything. Yoga, 
      acupuncture, meditation. I even 
      drink that horrible Chinese tea. 
      Have you tasted it? That Chinese 
      tea? Well it sucks. 

             FEMALE DR.
      Okay, we can try a round of Clomid. 
      One round. Of course there’s no 
      guarantees, but... Maybe a little 
      nudge is all you need. 

             MAGGIE
        (defeated)
      I don’t need a nudge. I need a 
      push. 

INT. WALMART - DAY

Maggie at the pharmacy counter as a PHARMACIST rings her up.

             PHARMACIST
      Start your first dose on your 
      second day of menstruation. 
      Continue once a day for the cycle.

             MAGGIE
      Okay.  

             PHARMACIST
      Don’t take more than one pill a 
      day. This is important. 
        (Off Maggie’s look)
      Some women tend to be... Impatient. 


                                      14.

WALMART BABY DEPARTMENT - LATER

Maggie strolls down the aisles. She starts to browse.  

- Holds up a newborn onesie.

- Picks up sippy cups.

- Holds breast pump cups up to her breasts.

- Baby socks. She smiles.

Maggie takes in a baby girl’s room display. She sits in a 
rocking nursing chair. As she rocks she closes her eyes. 

             COLE
	(PRE-LAP)
      Mom... MOM... MOM!!!

INT. NONDESCRIPT ROOM - DAY

Pacing back and forth while talking into his cell phone is 
COLE CASH (20’s) -- Boyish good looks with an edge. Sleeve 
tattoos and a million dollar smile. 

             COLE
      No-- No! Fuck, listen to me! Okay? 
      Fuck him! He’s not... Mom!--

Standing beside Cole is his manager SAL (30’s). A beanpole of 
a man always attached to his mobile. He taps his watch to 
Cole who waves him off. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t you think it’s kind of 
      convenient? I don’t want--
        (Listens)
      I don’t care! I don’t care, mom! 
      Who pays, you know? It’s my fucking 
      house! I’m-- Hello? Hello??
        (beat)
      She hung up. 

             SAL
        (Glib)
      Oh no.    

             COLE
      Can you believe this shit? This 
      fucking guy? Fifteen years and he 
      shows up now? 

             SAL
      You okay? You need anything?


                                      15.

             COLE
        (Breathes)
      You know what? I’m not gonna stress 
      about this. 

Cole takes a minute. Deep breaths. Shakes it off.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m fine. 

             SAL
      Good. We should probably... 

             COLE
      Yeah. 

Cole follows Sal out a door into--

INT. MOTO WORLD - SAME

They are met by a swarm of FANS who fill the showroom floor. 
They cheer as Cole enters. The store MANAGER sides up to Sal.  

             MANAGER
      What the hell is going on here? You 
      said 20 minutes, It’s been an hour! 

             SAL
      It’ll be fine.  

Cole immediately turns it on, jumps up onto a table to 
address the cheering fans. He applauds back to them. 

             COLE
      Sorry for the wait everybody! 

More cheers. Cole hops down to sit at a table covered with a 
stack of posters. He grabs a pen and greets the FIRST FAN.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, bro...

EXT. MOTO WORLD - SAME

Annoyed, Billy shoves his way through the mass of fans. At 
the door, a store EMPLOYEE steps in front of Billy. 

             EMPLOYEE
      Autograph? 

             BILLY
      What? 


                                      16.

             EMPLOYEE
      If you want an autograph, you gotta 
      get in line. 

Employee points out a poster with a picture of Cole sitting 
on a motocross bike in front of a large energy drink can. 

             BILLY
      I look like I want anybody’s 
      autograph? 

INT. MOTO WORLD - MOMENTS LATER

Billy at the back counter. A PARTS EMPLOYEE returns from the 
back store room with a wrapped bag of spokes and a rim. 

             PARTS EMPLOYEE
      Sorry about the chaos.  

             BILLY
      How about the forks?  

             PARTS EMPLOYEE
      Those’ll have to come direct from 
      Harley. A bike that year... Be 
      about a day. 

             BILLY
      Fine. That’ll be fine. 

Billy sees a rack of mileage logbooks on the counter and 
grabs one. 

ON SAL

Sal walks and talks on his phone when he sees Billy at the 
back counter. As Billy turns, Sal does a slight double take.   

             SAL
        (Into phone)
      Just make sure they’re finished for 
      Vegas... Hey, lemme call you back.  

Sal hangs up and watches Billy for a beat.

ON COLE

Two giggling TEENAGE GIRLS sit on Cole’s lap as their friend 
takes a photo. Sal appears at Cole’s side. 


                                      17.

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      Cole. Come with me. 

             COLE
      What? Now?

BACK OF THE STORE

Cole and Sal stand behind a display while watching Billy. 

             COLE
      Him?   

             SAL
      Wait.

Billy turns from the counter where Cole sees Billy’s face. 
Cole watches as Billy limps to the front of the store. 

             COLE
      Holy shit. 

             SAL
      Exactly. 

EXT. MOTO WORLD - MOMENTS LATER

Billy checks the tie downs on his bike in the back of his 
truck when he notices the crowd of fans all making a buzz. 

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      XR-750 Harley Davidson.

He looks up as Cole approaches, looking at the bike in the 
bed of the truck. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Seventy six, seventy seven? She’s 
      pretty sweet. 

Billy looks around. Sees Cole with Sal. 

             BILLY
      I help you with something?   

             SAL
      This is Cole Cash. 
        (off Billy’s blank stare)
      Cole Cash?


                                      18.

             COLE
      Dude, I’ve been a fan since I was a 
      kid. You’ve been a huge inspiration 
      to me. I just wanted to meet you.

Cole extends his hand, Billy doesn’t take it. 

             BILLY
      That’s great, kid.     

Billy moves through Cole to tighten a tie down. 

             COLE
      So, are you here for the Expo too?  

             BILLY
      You mind? 

Cole moves to the side as Billy moves to the door of his 
truck. Starts to go through his ring of keys.   

             SAL
      Hey, come by our booth. It would be 
      great press!   

             COLE
      Yeah! Dude! I’m doing a jump, you 
      gotta see it. I’d be so stoked if 
      you were there. 

             SAL
      It’s going to be off the hook. 

             BILLY
      No thanks. 

             COLE
      Come on, bro.   

             BILLY
      Not interested.  

Billy keeps fiddling with his keys. 

             COLE
      Hey, I just thought--

             BILLY
      Thought what, I jumped bikes, you 
      jump bikes, now we’re buddies? I 
      got things to do. 
      
 		COLE
      Hey, hey, easy man.  

		SAL
	Dude...


                                      19.

Billy repetitively looks through his keys. He’s getting 
frustrated. Cole and Sal share a look.  

             COLE
      You need some help? 

Eventually Billy finds the right key and gets in the truck. 
Without another look, Billy drives off. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Dude’s kinda salty. 

             SAL
      Asshole’s more like it.    

INT. GARAGE - EVENING

Billy sits in front of his disassembled Harley. Parts 
meticulously laid out on a drop cloth. He takes note of each 
part in the mileage logbook. 

He notices his fingertips are cut and bloody. Rubs the blood 
between his fingers. 

Billy zones out until the sound of the garage door opening 
snaps him out of it. He looks over to see Maggie in her SUV.

EXT. SUV - SAME

             MAGGIE 
        (to herself)
      What the hell...? 

Maggie gets out of the car pulling a mass of shopping bags 
out with her.  

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      What’s all this?   

             BILLY
      It’s a motorcycle. 

             MAGGIE
      Okay. What are you doing with it? 

             BILLY
      Tinkering. 
        (off shopping bags)
      What’s all that?    


                                      20.

             MAGGIE
      Nothing. Stuff for the house. Is 
      this something I should worry 
      about? 

             BILLY
      I have no doubt you’ll worry about 
      it. 

             MAGGIE
      Uh huh. 

Billy goes back to working on the bike. Maggie gives the 
scene one last look. She shakes her head and turns to leave.  

Just before she rounds the corner she looks back. Maggie 
watches with concern as Billy scribbles into his note pad.    

INT. BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Maggie digs into the bags, removing a onesie. She smiles then 
puts the onesie back and hides the bags deep in her closet.

Digging in her purse she removes her prescription bottle. She 
regards it for a beat then pops the top and downs a pill. 

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Maggie stands at the front window looking out to the garage. 
The faint sound of Billy working on his bike emulates out. 

INT. HOUSE - MORNING

Maggie walks down the hall still half asleep. Crossing the 
living room window she stops as she sees Billy’s Harley, now 
reassembled, sitting in the driveway. 

KITCHEN

Maggie walks in on Billy sitting at the table scribbling into 
the mileage logbook. His pills all out in front of him.

Seeing Maggie, Billy quickly puts the note book away. She 
leans against the counter and watches him. 

             MAGGIE
      You take your Prednisone?  

             BILLY
      Mm. 


                                      21.

             MAGGIE
      I didn’t hear you come to bed last 
      night.  

             BILLY
      Didn’t sleep. 

             MAGGIE
        (after a long beat)
      Billy, you know I don’t like to 
      nag...  

             BILLY
      Always loved that about you. 
      What’re you getting up to today?    

             MAGGIE
      Making enlargements-- Are we going 
      to talk about this motorcycle?   

Billy takes his pills, gets up and pulls on his jacket. He 
walks over to Maggie and gives her a kiss on the cheek. 

             BILLY
      It’s just a motorcycle, darlin’. 
      You worry too much. 

             MAGGIE
      Probably because I know you. 

We hold on Maggie as Billy walks out.

EXT. ROUND UP CENTER - DAY

Billy sits at the entrance to the parking lot. He’s looking 
at the sign. The marquee scrolls through event announcements:

- SANTE FE WELCOMES COLE CASH!! 

- ONLY 10 TEN BUCKS!!

- DRAWS AND PRIZES!!

- AUTOGRAPHS!!

Billy rides into the parking lot. 

INT. ROUND UP CENTER - LATER

Billy moves through the crowds of GEAR HEADS and SUPER FANS. 
Inappropriately dressed TEENAGE GIRLS giggle past him.  


                                      22.

Billy wanders by a line of trade-show booths displaying T-
shirts, new motocross products and motocross DVD’s.  

Billy walks to a booth flanked by two large inflated energy 
drink cans. Bikini-clad MODELS hand out free samples 
underneath a huge image of Cole flying through the air.   

Billy watches a wall of flat screen TV’s playing--

ON SCREEN: Cole’s handsome face, smiling with his name 
scrolling over it. 

                                  CUT TO:

A MONTAGE OF HIS RIDING

- Cole jumping giant sand dunes at an impossible height.

- Cole doing a step-up jump to the top of a building.

- Cole racing across the surface of a lake like a hydroplane.

- Cole flying through the air beside his bike like superman. 
He reaches for the bike and climbs back on before landing. 

INT. ROUND UP CENTER - MAIN HALL - LATER

Billy pushes through a mass of people that surround a large 
obstacle course of jumps and ramps.  

BMXERS, SKATEBOARDERS and MOTOCROSS RIDERS do a freestyle 
show. A ballet of amazing stunts and tricks. The crowd 
cheers. Billy doesn’t.  

Two excited young DUDES side up next to Billy.

             DUDE #1
      Dude, this is going to be sick! 

             DUDE #2
      Totally. C’mon, let’s get closer. 

The two dudes push forward through the crowd. Billy follows 
them to the front of the spectators. 

CREW MEMBERS move a steep jump ramp into place. The other 
riders move off the course when Cole rides in.  

             ANNOUNCER
	(O.S.)
      Alright Sante Fe! Are you ready for 
      a show?! Give it up for Cole 
      Caaaash!  


                                      23.

Cole does a few stock jumps. He wheelies to the start of the 
course and scans the crowd. Billy moves behind a spectator.   

After a beat, Cole focuses on the ramp and then drops in. At 
about ten feet from the take off he guns the throttle. 

Cole hits the ramp and throws his head and shoulders back. 
With what looks like almost no effort, he flips backward. 

Cole double back flips in an almost slow motion grace. When 
he hits the landing the crowd goes nuts.  

Cole ghost rides the bike and rips off his helmet as all the 
other riders rush to him, raising him on their shoulders.  

ON BILLY

Amidst the pandemonium, he’s the only person not cheering. 

INT. ROUND UP CENTER / MAIN HALL - LATER

Hundreds of fans surround a booth where Cole sits for photos 
and signs posters. Cole sees Billy standing amidst the crowd. 

Cole smiles and waves him to come into the booth but Billy 
just turns and leaves. Cole tries to follow him but a HOT 
CHICK with fake boobs asks Cole to sign her chest. 

EXT. STREET - LATER

Billy rides through town until pulling to the line at a 
traffic light. A moment later Cole pulls up next to him. 

Billy looks at Cole, then eyes the vintage Indian motorcycle 
he’s riding. Billy looks back to the light and waits.  

The light changes green and Billy roars off the line. Cole 
smiles and quickly follows. 

Cole sides up to Billy as they rifle down the road. With 
barely a glance, Billy pops the clutch putting distance 
between he and Cole once more.  

Cole gives chase, weaving through traffic. A precarious game 
of cat and mouse ensues.

Billy get’s caught up behind a mini van affording Cole a 
chance to blow past him. 

In hot pursuit, Billy accelerates and in a burst of speed 
pops into a wheelie as he passes Cole.   


                                      24.

Cole grits a smile and throttles up to race after Billy.  

Finally catching up, Cole now blows past Billy in a wheelie. 
Billy’s face-- Is that a smile?

EXT. INTERSECTION - SAME

Billy and Cole wheelie through at a blistering speed right 
across the path of a police car waiting at the light. 

BILLY AND COLE

Still in wheelies, they race neck and neck. Cole lets out a 
howl just as the whine of the POLICE SIREN sounds.

INT. POLICE STATION / JAIL CELL - AFTERNOON

Billy watches with amusement as Cole does yoga.   

             COLE
      Strengthens the core, relieves 
      pressure. Eases pain. What do you 
      do for pain?  

             BILLY
      Percocet.  

             COLE
      Fuck the chemical stretch, bro. 
      That shit’ll kill your liver.  

Cole walks to the bars. He turns to see Billy count some 
pills over and over in his hand -- then down them. 

Billy pulls up his pant leg. He winces as he loosens the 
straps on the brace. Cole raises his eyebrows.  

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      I read your book you know, when I 
      was a kid. 

             BILLY
      I didn’t write it. 

             COLE
      You always this easy to talk to?     

Billy leans back taking Cole in. Smiles in spite of himself.  

             BILLY
      So what do you want, kid? 


                                      25.

             COLE
      What do I want? 

             BILLY
      What are you looking for here? 

             COLE
      What do you mean? 

             BILLY
      You’re some hot shit. I got that. 
      You’re on tour, and you’re all 
      tickled from meeting me. That about 
      sum it up? 

             COLE
      I don’t know. Didn’t you ever have 
      an idol? You’re the reason I do 
      what I do, bro! 

             BILLY
      Ain’t that something.  

             COLE
      So what do you do? Now, I mean. I 
      didn’t even think you still rode.

             BILLY
      Let’s just say I’ve recently had 
      the urge.

Billy looks at Cole, thinks. Fishes out his note pad then 
pats his pockets. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
        (To himself)
      They took my pen. 

             COLE
      Billy fuckin’ Byrd. Damn. I’ll say 
      this, you can still ride. God, I 
      wish you were gonna be in Vegas 
      with us. It’s gonna be sick. 

             BILLY
      Vegas? 

INT. POLICE STATION - LATER

Billy and Cole at the charge desk. A CLERK OFFICER hands 
Billy a bag with his personal effects in it. Sal signs papers 
and writes a check before joining Billy and Cole. 


                                      26.

             SAL
      I covered the fine, don’t worry 
      about it. 

             BILLY
      I wasn’t. 

EXT. POLICE STATION - MOMENTS LATER

Maggie leans against the truck when she sees Billy exit the 
station along with Cole and Sal.  

She watches curiously as they speak for a minute before Cole 
bro-hugs Billy which doesn’t go over too well. 

Billy walks to Maggie who gets behind the wheel before Billy 
can speak. Maggie looks at Cole as Billy gets in the truck. 

I/E. TRUCK/IMPOUND PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON

They sit in silence for what seems like forever. 

             MAGGIE
      I’m not the lame chick, Billy. I’m 
      not. I’m the cool chick.  Boys will 
      be boys, I get it. But I’m not with 
      a boy now am I?

Maggie turns to Billy and looks into him. Softening, she 
slides across the bench seat and takes his face in her hands. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m not an idiot. I’m here. Always. 
      Just don’t lie to me. 

             BILLY
      Darlin’--

She kisses him deeply. As Billy starts to embrace her she 
breaks away and slides back behind the wheel. 

             MAGGIE
      Now, I’m gonna have a little cry 
      and I don’t need you watching. 

Billy almost reaches for her, then opens the door and gets 
out. Maggie immediately drives off. 

EXT. IMPOUND LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Tucked between rows of cars sits...


                                      27.

Billy’s Harley and Cole’s Indian. Billy stares at the bikes 
for a long beat.

Fishing out his note pad, he scribbles something on a sheet 
and tears it off. 

As Billy rides away we move in on the tank of Cole’s bike to 
the note held in place by the gas cap. 

ANGLE ON THE NOTE

Only two words are written-- “I’m in.” 

                                  CUT TO:

VINTAGE FOOTAGE 

An outdoor race track. Grandstands full of eager fans. On the 
track sits a WOOD WALL completely engulfed in flames.  

A MAN on a motorcycle flies into frame heading straight for 
the wall of fire. The rider hits the wall at speed exploding 
in a cloud of sparks and flames. 

MEN with fire extinguishers rush to the man laying on his 
stomach. They douse him in a cloud of fire retardant. 

The man stands and removes his helmet revealing a younger 
Billy Byrd. He raises the helmet high as the crowd goes wild. 

INT. BATHROOM - EVENING

Maggie looks in the mirror. Her shirt pulled up, hands on her 
extended, pregnant looking tummy. Then, after a beat she--

Exhales and her tummy returns to normal. She opens her Clomid 
prescription and takes a pill. 

INT. HOUSE - LATER

Billy walks into a dark house. Listening he hears faint music 
coming from the bedroom. He moves down the dark hallway. 

INT. HOUSE / BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Billy opens the door to candles, soft Spanish music and 
Maggie laying on the bed dressed like a woman with an agenda. 

             BILLY
      This mean you’re not mad anymore? 


                                      28.

Maggie crawls toward him on the bed. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t smell that good...

             MAGGIE
      Hush.  

Maggie rises up, kissing him deeply. At the same time she 
undoes his pants.  

Billy lifts her. She wraps her legs around him. Clothes come 
off quickly and Billy enters her. Maggie grinds into him. 

Lovemaking turns more into fucking as Maggie takes control, 
pounding down on Billy. They reach climax as she slumps down 
on top of him. 

             BILLY
      I should make you angry more often. 

They laugh. 

LATER

Maggie lays in Billy’s nook. Plays with his chest hair. 

             MAGGIE
      James -- James-- I like it. It’s a 
      strong name. 
        (Beat)
      But if it was a girl-- Ruby. After 
      my grandmother. 

             BILLY
      Why’re you with an old goat like me 
      anyway?  

Maggie sits up, looks into Billy. She gets out of bed and 
starts to put on a T-shirt.

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing? 

             MAGGIE
      I feel I’m about to be disappointed 
      and I don’t want to be naked when 
      it happens.

             BILLY
      Come back to bed. 


                                      29.

             MAGGIE
      What exactly is going on in that 
      head of yours. 

             BILLY
      It’s--

             MAGGIE
      Complicated, yeah. We talked about 
      this. A baby would--

             BILLY
      I’m going to Vegas. 

It comes out fast. Maggie stops. Not what she was expecting. 

             MAGGIE
      Vegas? Las Vegas, Vegas? 

Billy nods. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      Is this about that guy? That 
      motorcycle?    

             BILLY
      Come back to bed. 

             MAGGIE
      When is this trip happening? 

             BILLY
      Tomorrow. 

             MAGGIE
      Tomorrow?? And you tell me now? 

             BILLY
      It’s just a quick job. That kid 
      just needs some guidance. It’s a PR 
      thing.  

             MAGGIE
      So does this job, PR thing involve 
      you riding motorcycles?  

             BILLY
      Don’t go overreacting.  

             MAGGIE
      Then I’ll come with you. 

Billy’s already shaking his head. 


                                      30.

             BILLY
      Ain’t that kind of trip, darlin’. I 
      thought you’d like me outta your 
      hair for a week.  

             MAGGIE
      A week. 

             BILLY
      ...Maybe two.

Hold on Maggie. 

INT. HOUSE - MORNING

Billy drinks coffee as he watches Maggie pack all his pills 
into zip lock bags. 

             BILLY
      I can do that. 

She pours pills out of a day in his organizer and hands them 
to him. She watches him as he washes them back with coffee. 

She gives him a look and leaves the room. Billy waits a beat 
and reaches into his pocket, removing another pill bottle. 

He pops the top and dumps a pill into his hand and takes it.

EXT. HOUSE - LATER

Billy squints as he scribbles into his note pad. As Maggie 
walks up he quickly pockets the pad and ties a duffel bag to 
the bike. 

Maggie gives him a glare. Despite everything she still moves 
into his arms.  

             MAGGIE
      Stupid men. 

             BILLY
      Yep.
        (Beat)
      Always told you loving me wouldn’t 
      be easy.

             MAGGIE
      I’ll always love you, Billy. I just 
      won’t always like you. 

Billy smiles. 


                                      31.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      This is bullshit. 

             BILLY
      I know.  

Billy straddles his bike and fires it up. He steals a quick 
kiss. We hold on Maggie as Billy rides off. 

EXT. COLE’S TOUR CONVOY - LATER

Billy stands across from CHIP (40’s) -- A bear of a man with 
a handlebar mustache, slick back hair and old tattoos. 

             CHIP
      Baja 500.

             BILLY
      Crew?

             CHIP
      I rode.

             BILLY
      Enduro or--

             CHIP
      Moto. 

             BILLY
      You place? 

             CHIP
      I finished.  

Billy nods slightly. Looks at his bike. 

             BILLY
      Alright. 

             CHIP
      No one will touch her except me. 
      You got my word. 

Billy watches as Chip rolls his XR-750 over to an 18 wheeler 
where other crew load bikes and equipment. 

Billy walks to the tour bus where he sees Cole having what 
looks to be a heated conversation on his cell phone.

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      What do you think?


                                      32.

Sal is stepping off the bus. Billy looks up and takes it in. 
An image of Cole on his bike surrounded by logos.  

             BILLY
      Uglier than the second coming. 

Billy looks back to Cole, who is yelling on his cell (MOS).

             SAL
      Family drama. Come on, I’ll get you 
      set up. 

INT. COLE’S TOUR BUS - CONTINUOUS

Over the top doesn’t begin to describe it. Billy follows Sal 
into the behemoth as he runs through the amenities. 

             SAL
      ... Fifty inch plasma, custom 
      surround sound, there’s four bunks 
      in the back and a master. Although 
      there’s never much sleeping going 
      on. And of course, full bar. 

             BILLY
      The toilet wipe your ass too?   

The entourage of SKATEBOARDERS, MOTOCROSS RIDERS and token 
HOT CHICKS start to pile aboard.  

             SAL
      Get comfortable. We roll in twenty.  

Billy looks to the bar. 

                                  CUT TO:

A TRAY OF LIQUID IN RED LIGHT

Tongs agitate the tray as an image begins to appear on paper. 
We are in-- 

INT. DARK ROOM - DAY

Maggie pulls the photograph from the developer tray and runs 
it through a squeegee then sticking it to a metal wall. 

A dozen similar images are placed on the wall. All of various 
aged WOMEN, some holding BABIES. 


                                      33.

Maggie stands back and takes the images in and smiles. She 
looks at the image she just hung. The three Mexican women and 
baby we saw her take before. She stares at the baby intently.

INT. COLE’S TOUR BUS - LATER

The entourage cheer Cole on as he plays himself in a video 
game. Billy watches from a lounge chair, drink in hand.  

Cole notices Billy staring at him. Gives him a head nod. 
Billy just stares as if looking through him. Cole waves his 
hand causing Billy to break the gaze. He holds up his drink. 

INT. COLE’S TOUR BUS - LATER

Billy appears asleep in a recliner as Sal and Cole talk Vegas 
plans. A hot groupie CHICK paints Cole’s fingernails.  

             COLE 
      --Tell Charlie to ease back on 
      those pyros too. My ass still feels 
      hot from that fuck up in Tempe.   

             SAL
        (Reading smartphone)
      DJ Z-Trip just confirmed. 

             COLE
      Sweet. And the jumbo screens?   

             SAL
      All playing the new DVD.   

             COLE
      Awesomeness, bro. 

             BILLY
	(O.S.)
      Anyone actually gonna ride a 
      motorcycle in between all this 
      “awesomeness?”?  

Cole and Sal look over to Billy. He squints his eyes open.   

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Or is this just gonna be a ballet 
      under pretty lights? 

             COLE
      How many of those have you had, 
      amigo? 


                                      34.

             SAL
      It’s a pretty amazing show. You’ll 
      see.  

             BILLY
      If you need all that show, maybe 
      what you’re doing ain’t much worth 
      watching. 

Billy tilts his head back down. Sal returns to typing. Cole 
looks back at Billy.

INT. TOUR BUS/BATHROOM - NIGHT

Billy splashes water on his face, looks at his reflection for 
a long beat before exiting. 

I/E. TOUR BUS - CONTINUOUS

Billy walks down the aisle to join Cole on a sofa. He looks 
out the window to see--

LAS VEGAS

Reflections of glitz and filth pass Billy’s face as he takes 
in the Vegas strip. Fat, poorly dressed zombie tourists cloud 
the streets.  

             COLE
      God bless America. 

             BILLY
      Probably the last place on his list 
      to bless.  

             COLE
      Check it. 

Cole points to an LED billboard where his image flashes 
across the screen with highlights of jumps and stunts. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      My shit’s huge here. 

Billy nods towards the next giant LED screen that flashes 
Wayne Newton’s image. 

             BILLY
      So’s his. 


Cole’s phone rings as he pulls it out and looks at the caller 
display. Billy eyes the phone seeing “Mom.” 

Cole ignores the call and pockets the phone then looking back 
out the window. Billy looks at Cole. 

                                      35.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - LATER

Sal hands out keys to everyone. 

             SAL
        (To Cole)
      That guy from Transword Moto is 
      gonna be at your room at eight. 

             COLE
      How about Billy? 

             SAL
      Uh... Okay, yeah, sure. Actually, 
      yeah, that would be a cool angle. 
      Billy? You cool with that?  

             BILLY
      Alright. Fine.  

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Billy stands in the doorway to the Vegas chic room. Hip music 
filters out from a small CD player on the dresser.  

Billy shuts the music off and opens the mini bar.

INT. COLE’S SUITE - LATER

A REPORTER (20’s) interviews Cole and Billy while Sal texts. 

             COLE
      ... Naw man, I’m all good now. It 
      looked worse than it was.  

             REPORTER
      Billy, you’re known for your big 
      crashes. 

             BILLY
      That so?   

             REPORTER
      No, I mean, you’re a legend, of 
      course. 



                                      36.

             REPORTER
	(CONT'D)
      But you’ve been off the map for, 
      well a long time... Why show up 
      here? Together with Cole?  

             BILLY
      Guess I got my reasons.  

             REPORTER
      But your legacy defined the way 
      riders now do things today.    

             BILLY
      If you say so.   

             COLE
      Billy’s the reason I even wanted to 
      jump motorcycles. This is all 
      because of him. Yeah. Definitely.  

             REPORTER
        (To Billy)
      You ever think about jumping again?     

             BILLY
      Let me put it this way, I’m sure as 
      shit not here to take in dinner and 
      a show, if that’s what your askin’.

Sal looks up from his phone. Looks at Cole. Mouths “What the 
fuck?” Cole shrugs-- “I don’t know”.  

             SAL
      Uh... Billy’s involvement with the 
      tour, uh... We’re very excited he’s 
      with us, we’re still working on the 
      details--

             REPORTER
      So there is going to be a jump?

	        SAL
      Why else would I be here?  

		BILLY
	Well--

             REPORTER
	(CONT’D)
      Wow. That’s incredible. 

The Reporter scribbles notes in his pad. Sal stares at Cole.

EXT. COLE’S SUITE / BALCONY - LATER

A party ensues. Girls, booze, loud music. Cole sees Billy on 
the balcony, goes to join him when Sal cuts him off. 


                                      37.

             SAL
      Hey. 

ON BILLY

Sipping a drink as he watches two naked women swimming in the 
pool. He hears Cole and Sal talking in the room behind him.  

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      Alright, dude, okay. Don’t go 
      getting all spun. 

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      That was supposed to be your 
      interview and it became his. 
      Jumping? Are you fucking kidding 
      me? He can’t be serious! Is he 
      serious?  

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      How the fuck do I know, dude? It 
      was news to me too!  

             SAL
      Well, find out!   

BALCONY

Cole joins Billy on the balcony. About to talk, he double 
takes the two naked women in the pool. 

             COLE
      Nice view. 

             BILLY
      Mm.  

             COLE
      Look, man, I was just talking to 
      Sal... That jumping stuff, you’re 
      not serious, are you? 

             BILLY
      What do you think I’m here for?

             COLE
      Honestly? I hadn’t really thought 
      about it. I mean, it’s cool you’re 
      here, but jumping?

             BILLY
      I’m just some show pony? That it?  


                                      38.

             COLE
      Hold up a sec. Try to see this from 
      my perspective.  

             BILLY
      Your perspective. 

             COLE
      Dude. Pastrana, Madison? They’re 
      stepping up the game and so am I. I 
      just did the first double back 
      flip. You know how huge that is?

             BILLY
      So you’re the show pony?  

             COLE
      Shit’s just different now, bro. 
      It’s about branding. Tony Hawk, 
      Shaun White, Cole Cash. Household 
      names. We’re brands. It’s video 
      games, endorsements, clothing...  

Billy sips his drink. Smiles to himself. 

             BILLY
      That’s your problem, kid. You’re so 
      caught up in all this horseshit 
      you’re missing the point.
        (Laugh to himself)
      You don’t have the first idea of 
      perspective.   

             COLE
      Dude, what about you? Back in the 
      day you had tons of merch. 
        (off Billy’s confused 
         look)
      Merchandise, bro! I had one of your 
      fucking big wheels when I was a 
      kid. The wind up toys, lunch boxes-- 
      I had it all! How are you 
      different?

Billy drains his drink and looks at Cole.  

             BILLY
      I was the only one. 

A SCREEN

Vintage footage of one of Billy’s more famous jumps plays on.

                                  CUT TO:


                                      39.

INT. COLE’S SUITE - LATER 

Cole watches the YouTube footage on a laptop. He then looks 
down to the page views. 

--5,600,230.

He clicks another clip --3,449,331 views.                      
Another one --3,226,935.                                   
Another --7,237,199. 

One after another the page views are well into the millions. 

             COLE
      Damn. 

Cole stares at the screen then types his name in. Choosing a 
clip he look to the page view. 

--644,520. 

He scrolls down the choices and sees that none of his clips 
break the million view mark.

             MAGGIE
	(O.S.)
      You’re not a kid anymore. 

INT. HOTEL ROOM - EVENING

Billy stands in front of the mirror staring at himself. Drink 
in one hand, the phone in the other. Makes faces at himself. 

             MAGGIE
	(O.S.)
        (Through phone)
      What did you expect? Him to be like 
      you? 

             BILLY
      A god damned peacock is what he is.   

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. HOUSE - SAME

Maggie sorts black and white prints of her photographs while 
talking on the phone. 

             MAGGIE
        (Laughs)
      Coming from you.

Maggie pulls out a portrait of Billy. 


A younger man, he stands next to his bike wearing his jumping 
leathers. A support trailer with his logo on the side. 

                                      40.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      Do you remember when we first met?  
      You were so ornery. 

             BILLY 
      I never liked having my picture 
      taken.  

             MAGGIE 
      I knew better though. I knew there 
      was a teddy bear underneath it all. 
      I could see into your soul. 

Maggie touches Billy’s face in the photo. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      Come home to me, baby. 
        (Listening)
      ...Billy?

BILLY

Stares at his reflection. Confusion builds on his face.  

             MAGGIE
	(O.S.)
      Billy? Are you there? 

Billy blinks. Looks around as if gathering his bearings. 

             BILLY
      Uh, yeah. Alright then. G’nite. 

Billy hangs up the phone. 

MAGGIE

Listens into the phone. What the fuck? 

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - MORNING

Cole walks up to Billy’s room noticing the door wide open. 

INT. BILLY’S ROOM - SAME

Cole enters seeing Billy in a chair, hunched over the table.  


                                      41.

             COLE
      Hey, man.

Billy scribbles furiously into his note pad not really 
noticing Cole. 

Cole looks around. He takes in Billy’s small pharmacy that 
covers a table. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus, you really take all these? 

Billy stops writing and peers at Cole over his shoulder. 

Billy stands to face Cole who immediately turns away seeing 
that Billy is nude from the waist down. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Whoa, dude!  

             BILLY
      What do you want?  

             COLE
      Uh, I, uh, I thought, last night I-- 
      Dude, I can’t talk to you unless 
      you put some pants on.   

Confused, Billy looks down. 

INT. BILLY’S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Billy, now dressed, goes through the ritual of taking pills 
as Cole looks on. It takes a long time. 

             COLE
      What is all that for? 

             BILLY
      Virility. Let’s go. 

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Billy and Cole ride. The calming effect of the open desert is 
apparent on both men’s faces. 

EXT. ROADSIDE - LATER

Vast scrub and sand fall away to miles of open land. Billy 
and Cole sit on parked bikes taking it in.    


                                      42.

             COLE
      I don’t know, man... 

             BILLY
      I do. 

             COLE
      Come on dude, you know I’d be more 
      stoked than anyone to see you jump 
      again, seriously. But no offence? 
      When’s the last time you even got 
      off the ground?  

             BILLY
      What are you scared of, kid?  

             COLE
      That you’re not.  
        (trying to read Billy)
      Okay, let’s just say we go ahead 
      with this, I’d have to talk to Sal 
      first. And he’s definitely not 
      gonna like it.   

             BILLY
      In my experience, guys like Sal 
      don’t like much of anything that 
      doesn’t involve making them money. 

             COLE
      Not Sal, bro. Sal’s been good to 
      me. He’s like family.  

             BILLY
      Except he’s not family. 

             COLE
      Trust me. He’s the closest thing 
      I’ve got.  

             BILLY
      None of my business. 

             COLE
      You’re crazy, you know that. 

             BILLY
      Wouldn’t be the first time I heard 
      that. 

             COLE
      What about that? 

Billy bends his knee. His brace squeeks a little. 


             BILLY
      See me complaining? 

Cole stares at Billy incredulously for a beat then shakes his 
head. He pulls out his phone and starts to dial. 

                                      43.

             COLE
      I should have my head examined. 

             BILLY
      Jesus, you’re on that thing more 
      than I’m taking pills. 

             COLE
      If you think I’m gonna let you even 
      think about jumping with that thing 
      on your leg you’re crazier than I 
      thought. I think it’s time you 
      joined the 21st century. 

INT. SPORTS MEDICINE CENTER - DAY

Cole texts on his phone while a SPORTS THERAPIST (40’s) 
assesses Billy’s knee.  

             SPORTS THERAPIST
      How about medications? 

             COLE
      Ha!

             BILLY
      A few.  

             SPORTS THERAPIST
      And how about surgeries?

             BILLY
      Nineteen. 

             SPORTS THERAPIST
      I was talking about the knee. 

             BILLY
      So am I.

The Therapist looks at Billy. Sees that he’s serious.   

             SPORTS THERAPIST
      Okay, why don’t we take a look at 
      this brace you’ve been using. 


                                      44.

Billy pulls up his pant leg to show his vintage brace. The 
Therapist raises his eyebrows.  

EXT. FREMONT STREET EXPERIENCE - NIGHT

A massive crowd surrounds the ramp and half pipe setup. 

Oversized speakers pump music. SKATEBOARDERS and BMX RIDERS 
all spin and fly across the ramps.

Fans scream with delight when canon booms and pyrotechnics 
precede three MX RIDERS who hit the jump ramps like a 
choreographed circus. It’s text book ‘over the top’.

EXT. VIP AREA - SAME

Cole and Billy watch the show. Cole in his moto outfit and 
Billy in his OG jump leathers. 

             COLE
      How’s the knee? 

Billy looks down and bends his knee showing a brand new high 
tech carbon fiber knee brace. 

             BILLY
      I’ll admit it. I’m impressed. 

             COLE
      Uh huh. 

             BILLY
      Don’t get cocky, kid.

After a few minutes of stunts the music drops into an 
anticipatory DRUM-LIKE build up. An announcer on the PA.  

             ANNOUNCER
	(O.S.)
      HELLO LAS VEGAS! 

             COLE
      That’s my cue. See you out there, 
      bro. Good luck. 

             ANNOUNCER
	(O.S.)
      GIVE IT UP FOR THE SLAM JAM CREW! 

A deafening roar. Almost on cue the crowd begins to chant. 

             CROWD 
      COLE CASH! COLE CASH!


                                      45.

             ANNOUNCER
	(O.S.)
      Let’s get this party started and 
      bring out the main man! The one! 
      The only! The money man! COLE 
      CAAAAAAAASH!

ON THE RAMP

Laser lights crisscross the ramp. Music builds into a 
crescendo when BOOM! Giant star-bursts explode skyward as 
Cole hits a ramp, jumping over the entire half pipe. 

After a few more jumps, Cole wheelies around a long platform 
that circles the perimeter. He eventually rides up a steep 
incline to a platform that overlooks the entire area.

At the top a P.A. Takes Cole’s bike and hands him a mic.

             COLE
      YO, YO, YO, LAS VEGAS! 

The crowd loves him. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      What an awesome crowd! You guys 
      kick ass! 

More thunderous roars from the crowd. 

VIP AREA: ON BILLY

Billy watches, smiling to himself as Sal sides up to him. 

             SAL
      Good turnout.  

             BILLY
      It’s something.  

             SAL
      It’s come a long way since what you 
      started back in the day. No 
      disrespect. 

Billy turns and walks off leaving Sal alone. Sal shrugs and 
turns back to watch--

ON COLE

             COLE
      Alright, alright... 


                                      46.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Bring it down a second. Bring it 
      down. 

From Cole’s cue the music changes to a low deep thumping 
beat. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      You know, when I was a kid, my mom 
      worked so many jobs I never saw 
      her, and my dad... He... Uh... I  

Cole stammers a little bit, quickly recovering. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m so stoked to be able to be here 
      tonight! But tonight isn’t just 
      another stop on the tour! No way! 
      Tonight’s huge! 

ON SAL

Sal furrows his brow. This isn’t in the script.

ON BILLY

Sitting in darkness, listening to Cole as he straps his 
helmet on. 

             COLE
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      ...There was only one man I ever 
      looked up to. This guy was unlike 
      anyone I’d ever... Well tonight 
      I’ve got someone here that means a 
      hell of a lot to me. He did things 
      that no one had ever done, and he’s 
      the reason I’m standing up here 
      tonight.

Billy takes pause as Cole’s words obviously connect with him. 

ON COLE

             COLE 
	(CONT’D)
      My bro here has done more jumps, 
      busted more bones, and lived to 
      tell about it more than anyone, 
      ever, and I owe him everything! 
      Y’all give it up for the legend, 
      and my hero! BILLY BYRD!


Everything goes dark. Spotlights zip around the scene. Just 
then a jumbo screen comes to life with vintage footage of 
Billy. Young, handsome, a force of confidence.  

                                      47.

             YOUNGER BILLY
        (On screen)
      Hello. My name is Billy Byrd, and 
      I’m a motorcycle stuntman. I 
      believe we’re put on this good 
      earth for a reason and mine is to 
      soar in the sun, living life to the 
      fullest. The life God gave us. 

ON THE JUMBO SCREEN

A montage of Billy’s most spectacular jump clips and some of 
his worst crashes plays. The crowd oohs and ahhs.

ON BILLY

Then spotlights snap to light Billy as he roars out on his 
Harley. He pops a wheelie. The crowd cheers. 

Billy rides to the end of the platform ramp and turns back to 
face a ramp. He revs his engine.  

ON SAL

Sal looks up to Cole, then to Billy, then to the ramps Billy 
faces. Wide eyed, Sal grabs a P.A.’s radio from him. 

             SAL
        (Into radio)
      Hey! Hey! Who’s... Is anybody 
      here?! Hello?! Hello?! 

Sal’s jaw drops when he sees Billy suddenly start towards the 
jump ramp. 

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      Oh fuck. 

ON BILLY

The crowd’s roar grows as he bears down on the takeoff. 
Closer and closer until all of a sudden he brakes hard.   

Skidding up the ramp, Billy barely makes the stop before the 
end of the take off. The crowd gasps. 


                                      48.

Billy sits at the top of the ramp not moving for what seems 
like an eternity.

ON COLE

Cole looks down at the crowd. He watches Billy. 

ON SAL

Grabs the P.A. by his shirt and shoves the radio in his hand.

             SAL
      GET CHIP! GET-- SOMEONE! I WANT 
      THIS STOPPED!

ON BILLY

He rolls backwards down the ramp, turns around and returns to 
the starting point. Faces the ramp again and revs the engine. 

             CROWD
        (chanting)
      BI-ILLY BYRD! BI-LLY BYRD!

Billy steps the bike into gear. Revs the engine.

And then with a pop of the clutch he is off again. The crowd 
cheers as he reaches the ramp once more. Just as he hits the 
take off we--

                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM

Two NEWS ANCHORS, a MAN and a WOMAN sit at a desk. A graphic 
of Billy airborne on his bike hovers between them. 

             WOMAN ANCHOR
      ...And a big surprise at a 
      motorcycle stunt show in down town 
      Las Vegas. 

             MAN ANCHOR
      Isn’t this just incredible? 
      Legendary motorcycle daredevil, 
      Billy Byrd made a surprise 
      appearance, alongside stunt 
      motocross superstar, Cole Cash, 
      last night at the Slam Jam Stunt 
      Tour-- 


                                      49.

They roll footage of where we left off. 

FILE FOOTAGE: Billy hitting the ramp and sailing, small by 
today’s standards, about 100 feet to a landing ramp.

             MAN ANCHOR
	(V.O.)
      The last time anyone saw Billy Byrd 
      jump was back in 1979 when he was 
      almost killed in a failed attempt 
      at breaking a world record. 

Footage shows Billy and Cole surrounded by fans and press. A 
microphone is shoved in front of Cole. 

             COLE 
        (To camera)
      He’s the reason we’re all here, 
      man. This guy. He’s a legend! 

The footage shuts off like a TV bringing us into--

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Sal throws the TV remote onto the table and turns to Cole. 

             SAL
      A legend. 

             COLE
      Dude, what’s the big deal? 

INT. HALLWAY - SAME

Billy approaches Cole’s room and stops when he hears them 
talking. He listens at the door.

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      For fuck sakes, Cole. What were you 
      thinking? Do you know what would 
      have happened if he crashed?   

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      But he didn’t. 

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      The money we’ve spent here--

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      The money I’ve spent.


                                      50.

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      We’ve got sponsors. Agreements. The 
      obligations? 

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      This, Sal? All of this? Why do you 
      think it ever happened? The dude’s 
      a legend, man.  

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      He’s a liability... 

At this Billy walks off. 

ON COLE AND SAL

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      ... Don’t you think I see the 
      opportunity here? I know how huge 
      this is. I want to optimize the 
      potential here before...   

             COLE
      Before what? 

             SAL
      We have everything put into this 
      tour. Everything. What do you think 
      happens if Billy Byrd kills himself 
      here? Monster, Oakley, Boost? You 
      can kiss them all goodbye. I’ve 
      worked too hard on building your 
      career to where it is now. If you 
      want to risk all that... 

Cole says nothing. They just look at each other for a beat. 

             COLE
      You gotta admit. It was pretty cool 
      to see him jump.

             SAL
      I’m going to the bar.

INT. DARKROOM - NIGHT

Maggie works on an enlargement. Music plays from a radio. The 
song ends as the DJ speaks--


                                      51.

             RADIO DJ
      Aaaand another long block of 
      classic rock coming your way in 
      just a few minutes, but first, well 
      I gotta say this is interesting--

Maggie sticks a wet print to the wall and studies it. Just 
then she hears--

             RADIO DJ
	(CONT’D)
      Daredevil icon, Billy Byrd, 
      remember that guy? From the 70’s? 
      Billy Byrd resurfaced in Las Vegas 
      of all places-- 

Maggie turns up the radio.

             RADIO DJ
	(CONT’D)
      And get this-- He jumped! This guy, 
      he’s gotta be, what, sixty?! This 
      guy does some 100 foot jump! Will 
      wonders ever cease? Well Byrd Man, 
      thanks for keeping the dream alive. 
      This one goes out to you.

A fitting song akin to Billy’s legend starts to play. Maggie 
stares at the radio in disbelief. 

             MAGGIE
      I’ll kill him! 

INT. HOUSE - LATER

Maggie sits on the phone, fingers feverishly tapping, until--

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
        (Filtered)
      I’m sorry, ma’am, there’s still no 
      answer. Would you like to leave a 
      message?

Maggie hangs up. Thinks for a beat before she grabs her keys.

EXT. GIBBY’S HOUSE - LATER

Maggie fidgets, waiting, until Shelly opens the door. 

             SHELLY
      Maggie? 

Shelly quickly steps onto the porch, hushing her voice. 


                                      52.

             SHELLY
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing here? 

             MAGGIE
      Where is he? 

             SHELLY
      Honey, you shouldn’t--

             GIBBY
	(O.S.)
      Who is it, Shel? 

Maggie pushes past Shelly into--

INT. GIBBY’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Gibby rounds the corner and stops at the sight of Maggie.

             MAGGIE
      Did you have something to do with 
      this? 

             GIBBY
      What? 

             SHELLY
      Maggie, please--

             MAGGIE
      No, mom! I want the truth!
        (To Gibby)
      Are you behind it? Did you know 
      about this? And don’t lie to me!

Gibby and Maggie lock into a stare down. Finally--

             GIBBY
      You come here, after everything 
      you’ve done, and you ask if I had 
      something to do with this? 

             MAGGIE
      Did you? 

Gibby looks into Maggie for a long beat, then resigns. 

             GIBBY
      He came to me--

             MAGGIE
      And you didn’t think to call me? 


                                      53.

             GIBBY
      Call you? And say what? I haven’t 
      spoken to you in five years! 

             MAGGIE
      I didn’t come here to be lectured 
      again.   

             GIBBY
      Of course not. 

             MAGGIE
      Are you helping him? 

             GIBBY
      You think you know that man, 
      Maggie. But I’ve known him for 
      thirty years and Billy Byrd is 
      about one thing and one thing only. 
      And that’s Billy Byrd.  

             MAGGIE
      It wasn’t me who stopped calling, 
      daddy. I didn’t make the ultimatum.  

             GIBBY
      He came to me. I turned him away. 
      Whatever he’s doing, he’s doing on 
      his own. 

Maggie looks hard at Gibby, then to Shelly.

             SHELLY
      It’s the truth, honey. 

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The phone rings. We move around the room, past the TV playing 
the hotel channel, eventually landing on--

Billy passed out on the bed. A bottle of whiskey in one hand, 
a half full tumbler resting on his belly. 

The phone rings again, Billy wakes with a start. 

The drink spills off his belly. He swears, grabs the phone.

             BILLY
      Uhnf... Yeah. 

             MAGGIE
	(O.S.)
        (Filtered)
      You lying piece of shit!


Billy braces his throbbing head from the noise.

                                      54.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. SUV - SAME

Maggie sits inside the vehicle, parked in their driveway.   

             MAGGIE
      Guidance?! “The kid needs 
      guidance.” Your words, Billy!

Billy sits up, rubs his eyes. 

             BILLY
      Uhn?... Who is this? 

             MAGGIE
      Are you fucking kidding me?!

             BILLY
      Maggie?

             MAGGIE
      Bingo, asshole. 

             BILLY
      Shit.

             MAGGIE
      Yeah. Shit. 

             BILLY
      Alright, before you go getting all 
      bent outta shape-- 

             MAGGIE
      What is it with you men and chasing 
      bulls anyway? Jumping motorcycles? 
      You’re a fifty six year old man! 

             BILLY
      Christ, so wheel me into the home? 
      That it?   

             MAGGIE
      I’m not kidding, Billy. You don’t 
      want to test me on this one. Lie to 
      me again and see how miserable 
      you’ll be. Trust me, because I’ll 
      make sure of it. 


                                      55.

             BILLY
      Why’re you so mad? 

             MAGGIE
      Maybe I’d like our kid to be able 
      to know their daddy before he goes 
      and gets himself killed. You ever 
      think of that?  

             BILLY
      The kid we don’t have yet? 

Billy immediately regrets saying it. Maggie says nothing for 
a long beat. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Maggie--

Maggie hangs up leaving Billy sitting for a beat before he 
cradles the receiver. 

Just then a promotional piece for Cole comes on the TV. Billy 
hurls the bottle at the TV but misses and hits the wall.

MAGGIE

Sits fuming in her SUV. She throws her phone down next to her 
resting her head on the steering wheel. 

After a beat she looks up and over to Billy’s RV next to the 
house. She stares at it for a long beat.  

INT. GARAGE TRAILER - DAY

An 18 Wheeler trailer converted into a remote garage. Cole 
enters and walks up to Chip who works on a dirt bike.  

             COLE
      Hey, man. 

             CHIP
      He’s been here all morning.  

Chip thumbs toward Billy who sits locked into a far off gaze 
in front of his once again dismantled Harley.

             COLE
      What’s wrong with it? 


                                      56.

             CHIP
      Nothing. Tears it down and puts it 
      back together. Third time now. Hell 
      if I know. 

Cole walks over and surveys the scene and then looks to Billy 
who sits looking at the bike with a far off gaze.  

             COLE
      Tune up? 

Nothing. Cole waves his hand in front of Billy’s face. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Wakey-wakey--

Billy snaps to, immediately grabbing Cole’s wrist. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey...

Cole yanks his wrist away. Billy looks at him. 

             BILLY
      Maggie? 

             COLE
      Huh?  

Billy blinks, looks around. Cole looks with him, confused.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      You alright? What is it?   

             BILLY
      Yeah...

             COLE
      It’s a bad time...

             BILLY
      No. I’m fine, it’s alright. What? 

             COLE
      You know, Chip, he’d be glad to do 
      this for you.

             BILLY
      What do you want?   

             COLE
      Well, I just thought we could blow 
      off some steam. Go for a ride.  


                                      57.

Billy looks at his bike then back to Cole. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      I was thinking something a little 
      different. 

EXT. DESERT PASS - DAY

Suited up in motocross gear, chest armor and motocross boots, 
Billy and Cole sit on MX bikes.

             BILLY
      I look like a god damn spaceman. 

             COLE
      Powerband is kinda like a turbo 
      boost. You’ll feel it when you up 
      the RPM’s. 

             BILLY
      Powerband. 

             COLE
      These bikes are lighter and respond 
      pretty quick, so watch out for 
      that. 

             BILLY
      Jap bikes. 

             COLE
      Kinda racist, dude. 

Cole starts the bike up and rides off the blacktop onto the 
sand. Billy fiddles with the gears and pops the clutch.

The bike quickly revs up as Billy hits the powerband as he 
races after Cole.

EXT. DESERT / SAND DUNES - LATER

Billy and Cole glide over the sea of dunes. Growing more 
comfortable with the smaller, more agile bike, Billy starts 
to pop small airs off the lips of the dunes. 

They pull up to the top of a dune.

             COLE
      How’s it feel? 

             BILLY
      Squirrely. 


                                      58.

             COLE
      What do you say, old man? You ready 
      to get some real air? 

             BILLY
      Kid, I was catching real air while 
      you were still swimmin’ in your 
      daddy’s balls. 

They take off into the dunes.

The terrain flows in wave-like formations. Billy reaches the 
first dune and sails off the lip. Cole follows as we go...

THROUGH A SERIES OF CUTS: 

-- Side by side they catch air off the dunes. 

-- Billy hits a berm of sand as Cole airs over him. 

-- Billy watches Cole pull effortless aerial maneuvers. 

-- Cole roosts a quick turn beside Billy, spraying him with 
sand.

-- Cole raises his arms like goal posts as Billy flies over 
Cole’s head, splitting the uprights. 

As Billy soars over Cole his front wheel starts to drop and 
he hits the soft sand, nose heavy. Immediately thrown over 
the bars, Billy and bike go tumbling down the dune face. 

             COLE
      Shit! 

Cole races to Billy, who lies motionless beside the bike. 

Cole ghost rides his bike as he slides to a stop next to 
Billy. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Fuck! Fuck! Billy! BILLY!

Billy looks skyward as Cole pulls his own helmet off. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t move, man! Don’t-- Are you 
      hurt? What hurts? Fuck! 

             BILLY
      Kid, calm down... Just...
        (re: helmet)
      Get this off me. 


Cole helps Billy take the helmet off. Billy sits up and looks 
at Cole. After a beat Billy starts to laugh. 

                                      59.

             COLE
      You think this is funny? I thought 
      you were seriously fucked up! 

             BILLY
      You ever hit concrete before? This 
      is like pillows to me.  

Cole starts to laugh. Billy joins him. 

EXT. DESERT / PLATEAU - LATER

The sun hangs low in the sky. Billy sits beside his bike 
taking in the desert beauty. Cole stands off talking on his 
cell. He eventually joins Billy.  

             COLE
      Sorry. My mom. She’s always 
      calling... Never mind.    

             BILLY
      Family can be tough. 

             COLE
      I don’t have a single good memory 
      of my family. 

             BILLY
      Didn’t mean to bring it up. 

             COLE
      I don’t know... I’ve been on this 
      wave lately, you know? I never had 
      shit like this before, now there’s 
      money and my old man’s sniffing 
      around again, trying to get back 
      with my mom, and she’s defending 
      him... It’s just fucked up.  

             BILLY
      Fame’s a bitch, kid. 

             COLE
      The fame I can handle. 

             BILLY
      I’m saying it ain’t you, not who 
      you really are. At least to who 
      matters. I learned that the hard 
      way. 


                                      60.

             COLE
      I don’t know.

             BILLY
      I do. 

             COLE
      Do you miss it? 

             BILLY
      Fame? I hated the fame, kid.  

             COLE
      Well the perks are good.   

Billy snorts, shakes his head.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      What? 

             BILLY
      You know how may millions I’ve made 
      and spent? End of the day the only 
      thing that matters is the size of 
      your balls and what they remember. 

             COLE
      Your balls? 

             BILLY
      Jesus Christ, kid. The butts in the 
      seats. The folks paying to see you 
      risk your life. It’s what they 
      remember. 
        (Beat)
      It’s about your legacy.

Billy’s words resonate with Cole as they take in the sunset. 

INT. GARAGE - LATER

Cole and Billy are kicking off their race boots. Shaking sand 
out of every nook and cranny.

Billy winces, loosens his brace, rubs his knee. Takes out a 
bag of pills from his duffel bag and pours two in his hand. 
Thinks, then adds another and pops them back. Cole watches.

             COLE
      The worst crash I had, I tried to 
      jump from one roof to another on a 
      twelve story building. 


                                      61.

             COLE
	(CONT'D)
      I ruptured my spleen and sat in a 
      hospital for three weeks.  

             BILLY
      A whole three weeks, huh?  

Billy rolls up his sleeves. Worm like scars run the length. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Twenty screws in this one. Titanium 
      shaft in this one. Still aches when 
      it’s cold out. 

Cole pulls his shirt off. Tattoos cover his torso. He points 
to a large scar on his shoulder. 

             COLE
      Three separations. Four surgeries. 
      Probably gonna need a fifth. 

Billy smiles. Stands and undoes his pants, dropping them to 
reveal scarred legs. 

             BILLY
        (Pats his knees)
      Both replaced. This one twice. 
        (Pats his hip)
      Plastic. Other one’s shot too. 

             COLE
      I got that beat.

Cole drops his pants and points to a round scar on his thigh.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      See that? Double compound fracture. 
      I screamed like a girl.  

             BILLY
        (Taps head)
      Metal plate. Broken back the same 
      day... Both femurs too.  

             COLE
        (his eye)
      Busted eye socket. Dislodged 
      cornea.

             BILLY
      Just the one?   
        (touches his nose)
      This ain’t real. 


             COLE
        (laughs)
      That’s all I got. 

             BILLY
      Kid, I’m just getting started.
        (Pause)
      Couldn’t feel my right foot for two 
      months after my biggest jump.

             COLE
      Which one?

             BILLY
      1979. Los Angeles Colosseum.

                                      62.

                                  CUT TO:

VINTAGE FOOTAGE

plays over Billy’s V.O. He sits high up a large scaffolding 
platform at the top of the stands. A ramp runs to a stadium 
floor.

             BILLY
	(V.O.)
      Was gonna be my last jump. My swan 
      song. I must’ve stared down that 
      run in for a good twenty minutes.   

Billy drops down the long steep ramp. Reaching the stadium 
floor he races along the flats as he approaches a monster 
sized take off. Just as he hits the ramp we cut back to--

IN THE GARAGE

Billy recalls the story through a far off stare. 

             BILLY
      My heart gave up three times... 
      Doctors broke nearly all my ribs 
      from pumping my chest so hard. 
      Better part of eighteen months to 
      learn to walk again... 38 bones 
      that day... 12 of em not even from 
      the crash. The ribs... I blame 
      those on the doctors. Those were 
      their fault. 

             COLE
      Jesus...  


                                      63.

             BILLY
      If Jesus was gonna take me, it 
      should’ve been then. Three hundred 
      and eighty feet and too short a run 
      in. 

Cole takes this in. An expression of admonishment.  

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Was married once too.  

             COLE
      Okay, you win. 

Both men laugh. 

INT. HOTEL / HALLWAY - NIGHT

Billy exits the elevator still covered in dirt. He walks the 
long benign hallway for what seems like an eternity before he 
starts to slow. Confusion crosses his face.  

Coming to a T intersection, Billy pauses then turns left. 
Pauses, then returns back right.  

Billy looks back the way he came. Looks again to the 
direction he was walking. Furrowed brow. Everything looks the 
same. Sweat building on his brow.  

He looks at a room number on a door. Pulls out his card key. 
No number is on it. 

INT. HOTEL / HALLWAY - MORE

Billy moves down another identical hallway. His face sheen 
with sweat. He leans against a wall trying to catch his 
breath. 

A look crosses Billy’s face we have never seen. Panic. He 
tries another step but he staggers. Catching himself on the 
wall he drops to a knee. His face white and dripping sweat.  

His vision begins to blur. He closes his eyes as we-- 

                                FADE OUT.

ON BILLY’S FACE

Weathered and dirty, Billy sits up with an almost alcoholic 
difficulty. He looks around. Confusion, as we see--


                                      64.

EXT. DESERT - DAWN 

The sun crests distant mountains in a brilliant wash of 
orange and blue. Billy looks to his boots that sit beside his 
bike that lays on the ground about twenty feet away.  

Regaining his footing, Billy limps to his nearby boots. While 
trying to put one on he stumbles to his ass. Swears. 

Billy struggles to lift the bike upright. After catching his 
breath, he attempts to start it up. Nothing happens. He 
primes the engine for another attempt. Nothing. He unscrews 
the gas cap and peers into the tank. 

EXT. HIGHWAY - MORNING

Billy pushes his bike down the shoulder of the highway. A 
passing car honks. 

Eventually Billy stops as he hears a vehicle pull to a stop 
behind him.

He turns to see an older NATIVE INDIAN MAN exit the truck. 

EXT. HIGHWAY / ROADSIDE - LATER

The Indian tosses a length of syphon hose into the back of 
the truck. Billy shakes his hand. The Indian takes in Billy. 

             INDIAN
      You gonna be alright?

             BILLY
        (Thinks)
      I doubt it. 

EXT. HOTEL PARKING LOT - DAY

Billy pulls up to Cole’s parked tour bus, support trucks, 
tractor trailers. Crew buzz around as they pack everything. 

Sal exits the bus, pausing as he sees Billy. 

             SAL
      Jesus, what happened to you?  

             BILLY
      Bad night. Where’s the kid?  

             SAL
      Kind of surprised to see you here.     


                                      65.

             BILLY
      What’re you talking about? 

             SAL
      What am I talking about? You’re the 
      one who pulled the Houdini. You 
      just, disappeared. And Cole was 
      bummed too. Last night, it was 
      huge, Cole was in rare form. He did 
      a cork screw back flip. He was 
      hoping you’d see it. 

             BILLY
      How long have I been gone? 

             SAL
      A day and a half I think. 

             BILLY
      Shit...

             SAL
      Hey, man, what do I know about 
      anything? You’re here, you’re gone. 

Chip walks up. 

             CHIP
        (To Billy)
      Hey, man. 
        (To Sal)
      We should be wrapped by eleven, 
      then cut the crew by midnight. 
      That’ll save us the union overtime.  

             SAL
      Finally, good news. 
        (To Billy)
      Cole’s over at the track, Chip can 
      take you. I wouldn’t expect too 
      warm of a reception though. 

EXT. MOTOCROSS TRACK - DAY

Billy sits in the empty grandstands overlooking the track. He 
watches Cole and two other RIDERS in a freestyle jump 
session.

Cole’s aerial ability is not lost on Billy as he watches Cole 
do flips and maneuvers unlike anything he’s ever seen. 


                                      66.

Cole hits the jump again and while flying through the air 
releases the bike and spins in the air, grabbing the bars 
again and landing with ease. Billy is truly impressed. 

Cole sees Billy in the stands. After a beat he rides over, 
takes off his helmet. He doesn’t say anything. 

             BILLY
      Hear I missed a good show.   

             COLE
      I guess. 

             BILLY
      I’m sorry about that, kid. Really. 

             COLE
      Yeah, well... I’m pretty busy, so--

             BILLY
      Look, I get it, but before you go 
      getting all pouty on me, let me at 
      least explain.   

MOTOCROSS TRACK / GRANDSTANDS - LATER

Billy and Cole sit in the stands. A nonplussed look on Cole’s 
face.   

             COLE
      Fuck, dude, I... Fuck... 

             BILLY
      It is what it is.

             COLE
      Yeah, but, isn’t there something 
      you can do? Medicine or some shit? 

             BILLY
      Just prolonged inviability.   

             COLE
      Dude. Why didn’t you tell me? 

             BILLY
      Because of the way you’re looking 
      at me right now. 

             COLE
      Sorry. 

A hanging beat. Billy sees Cole is completely crestfallen.   


                                      67.

             BILLY
      I ever tell you I once split my 
      asshole wide open?

             COLE
      ... What? 

             BILLY
      Right up my back. Seattle King 
      Dome. Hit the deck hard as hell. 
      Ripped from nutsack to butt crack.  
      Worst pain I ever felt. Had to shit 
      into a tube for a month. 

Cole stares at Billy in shock. At a loss for words. And then, 
the two men break into laughter. Deep and hard. Tears. 

After they regain composure they fall into a sombre silence.  

             COLE
      I get it now. 

             BILLY
      Hm? 

             COLE
      All the zoning out, the weird moody 
      shit... I thought you were just an 
      asshole sometimes, but It makes 
      sense now. This why you came, isn’t 
      it? Because you’re sick?

             BILLY
      We’re all on a clock, kid. 

             COLE
      Come on. 

             BILLY
      Alright, sure, maybe something got 
      kick started in me... You, all 
      this...  
        (contemplates Cole)
      I see myself in you. A lot of who I 
      used to be. That did  something.     

             COLE
      Me? 

             BILLY
      What do you want to leave when 
      you’re gone? 


                                      68.

             COLE
      Come on, bro, I’m only 22!  

             BILLY
      Look at me. One day, you’re gonna 
      be old and stiff, like me. One day 
      you’re gonna be living your life, 
      and there’s gonna be this kid. A 
      kid who looked up to you, what you 
      did here, today, now. You’re gonna 
      be annoyed, grumpy, because you 
      ain’t gonna see  him for what he is 
      now, you’ll only see who you once 
      were, and who you aren’t anymore.  

Cole looks into Billy for a beat. 

             COLE
      Holy shit. You want to do that jump 
      again? That’s it, isn’t it? 

             BILLY
      It’s not Chinese arithmetic.

             COLE
      Dude! Are you crazy? That’s a huge 
      fucking jump! Three hundred feet!

             BILLY
      Three eighty.    

             COLE
      Three hundred and eighty feet! And 
      you think, what, you think you 
      could actually do it? For real?

             BILLY
      Well Christ, kid, when you put it 
      like that!

             COLE
      Fuck. Sal is gonna shit. You know 
      that right? I mean, seriously shit. 
      Have you told Maggie? 

             BILLY
      Maggie? What about Maggie?

             COLE
      You haven’t seen her? 

             BILLY
      What are you talking about? 


                                      69.

Hold on Billy. 

EXT. CIRCUS CIRCUS RV PARK - LATER

Billy stands across the compound looking at his RV that 
sticks out like a sore thumb among a sea of RV’s. He smiles 
to himself and shakes his head.  

INT. RV - CONTINUOUS

Maggie’s head snaps up as Billy lumbers up into the RV. They 
stand silent, staring at each other for a long beat. 

             BILLY
      Never underestimate the motivations 
      of a pissed off woman. 

Maggie moves to Billy and punches him hard in the chest. Then 
throws her arms around him, head to his chest. 

             MAGGIE
      God you stink. 

INT. RV BATHROOM - NIGHT

Billy gets out of the tiny shower. We see scars criss-cross 
his entire body.  

Looks at himself in the mirror. Sticks out his tongue.

             BILLY
        (To himself)
      If you tell her... You’re in a 
      pickle now, dumb shit. 

Billy reaches for his pants, digging out his pill dispenser. 

Flipping open the days one at a time -- they are all empty. 
Billy furrows his brow, thinking. 

INT. RV / BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Maggie sits on the bed chewing her lip as Billy enters, a 
towel around his waist.  

Billy sits beside her, caresses her knee. She runs her 
fingers along a thick scar that runs down his spine. 


                                      70.

             BILLY
      I’ve been a real sonovabitch, I 
      know. 

             MAGGIE
      I didn’t come here to lecture you.

             BILLY
      Sure you did.  

             MAGGIE
      At first, but now... There are 
      things to be said. 

             BILLY
      I feel like I’ve been explaining 
      myself all day.    

             MAGGIE
      I know. But I need to talk to you--

             BILLY
      I’m gonna jump again.

             MAGGIE
      What does that mean? Again? 

             BILLY
      This one’s... It’s big. 

             MAGGIE
        (stiffens)
      How big? 

             BILLY
      It’s something I gotta do.  

             MAGGIE
      How big, Billy? 

             BILLY
      It’s hard to explain.   

             MAGGIE
      Try. 

             BILLY
      I just need you to trust me that 
      it’ll all be alright.  

             MAGGIE
      Why, then? Why now? 


                                      71.

             BILLY
      Call it unfinished business. 

             MAGGIE
      Haven’t you ever heard the term 
      “growing old gracefully?” 

             BILLY
      I don’t even know what that looks 
      like, darlin’.

             MAGGIE
      You’re gonna do what you’re gonna 
      do, regardless of what I think, so 
      what’s the point? 

             BILLY
      I can’t do anything without knowing 
      you’re with me, Maggie. 

             MAGGIE
      You know I’m with you. I’ve always 
      been with you. That’s my problem.    

EXT. SPEEDWAY - MORNING

Chip stands twenty feet before a giant jump ramp. He aims a 
radar gun at Cole who races toward him at a blistering speed. 

Cole blasts by, Chip checks the gun. Cole hits the ramp and 
soars an impossible distance towards a giant dirt mound 
landing. 

Chip jumps into a golf cart manned by Sal and rides to meet 
Cole at the landing. 

LANDING ZONE

Cole gets off his bike as Sal and Chip ride up. Sal is 
hooting, jumping out of the cart before it stops. 

             SAL
      Holy shit! That was insane!

             COLE
      That felt really fucking far. 

             SAL
      That was really fucking far!


                                      72.

             COLE
        (To Chip)
      How fast? 

             CHIP
      Eighty eight at take off. 

             COLE
      And I only went two forty.

             SAL
      Only?  

             COLE
      I can go farther, I know it... But 
      he tried twice that distance... On 
      that old bike? Fuck me. The ramp is 
      right on. It’s perfect.  

             SAL
      Chip, call Peetie. We need to get 
      this on film.
        (To Cole)
      We could close the strip, do it 
      there, at night. ESPN, maybe even 
      network!

             COLE
      Whoa, hold up, bro. 

             SAL
      Don’t worry, I’ll sort it all out 
      and run you through it before I 
      move on anything.

             COLE
      No. 

             SAL
      No? What do you mean: “no?”

             COLE
      This is Billy’s Jump.  

             SAL
      Billy’s-- What? You’re joking, 
      right? This is a joke.

Sal sees Cole isn’t joking. 

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, what the fuck is going on? 
      Please. Somebody tell me what the 
      fuck you are even talking about?     


                                      73.

             COLE
      I can’t get into specifics. 

             SAL
      No, please, by all means, get 
      specific!

             COLE
      All I can say is that I want to 
      help Billy do this. It’s important. 

             SAL
        (To Chip)
      Are you going to say something? 

             CHIP
      Hey, this is above my pay grade. 

             SAL
      Cole, okay, I’ve liked having Billy 
      around. He’s good for PR, and yes, 
      we even let him jump--

             COLE
      We? We? I let him jump, Sal! It’s 
      my name on this tour, not yours!

             SAL
      Okay, let’s all calm down... 

             COLE
      Sal, I love you. You know I love 
      you. Everything you’ve done, you 
      took me from the shit and got me to 
      where I am. And I’m not saying I 
      don’t owe you... 

             SAL
      You don’t have to--

             COLE
      I do have to say it. But, this is 
      Billy’s jump. He’s gonna do it and 
      I’m gonna help him. Now, I need you 
      on board with this, but if you 
      aren’t, you gotta let me know now.

             SAL
      Cole-- 

Cole fires his bike up ending the conversation. He looks at 
Sal before riding off. Sal looks to Chip, at a loss. 


                                      74.

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      What the fuck just happened?

EXT. RV - DAY

Cole waits until the door opens to Maggie. Seeing Cole she 
crosses her arms and looks at him stoically. 

             COLE
      Good morning! 

             MAGGIE
      Morning. 

An uncomfortable beat hangs in the air until Billy walks out.  
Gives Maggie a peck on the cheek. 

             BILLY
      Later, hon. 

             MAGGIE
      Mm hmm. 

Cole and Billy walk to Cole’s truck. Cole looks back at 
Maggie watching them. 

             COLE
      I don’t think she likes me. 

             BILLY
      It’s alright. She doesn’t like me 
      much either. 

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Billy watches as Cole clears tools and bikes away from the 
center of the garage. 

             BILLY
      What difference does it make? 

             COLE
      The difference is it’s not 1970 
      anymore. There’s new ways of doing 
      shit. You’ve got to re-learn the 
      whole approach. 

Cole leans a piece of plywood onto a toolbox. 


                                      75.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      All of your jumps, they all had the 
      same problem. Whoever designed your 
      ramps was an idiot.  

             BILLY
      I designed my ramps. 

             COLE
      Oh. 

Cole points to the abrupt angles of the small plywood ramp.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Well, see the angle here? Nothing 
      streamline about it, right?  

             BILLY
      This gonna get to a point soon? 

Cole crosses the garage to a small cardboard box. He removes 
a small wind up Billy Byrd action figure on a motorcycle. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll be damned. 

             COLE
      I’ve had this since I was a kid.

Cole places the toy on the floor and winds it up until it 
releases from it’s base.

It zips across the floor and hits the plywood ramp. The 
abrupt angle kicks the toy into the air. Awkward and jarring. 

The toy bounces across the floor. 

Cole removes the plywood replacing it with a miniature 
transition ramp. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      See, it’s all technical now. Shit’s 
      down to the millimeter. 

Cole grabs the toy and returns to the start. He winds it up 
again until it shoots off to the new ramp. 

Hitting the transition, the bike flies higher and more 
stable. It soars across the garage making a smooth landing 
until it crashes into the far wall. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Transition, dude. Your old ramps? 
      They had none. 


                                      76.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      Like you said: “it ain’t Chinese 
      arithmetic.” But it is common 
      sense.  

             BILLY
      You’re saying I didn’t have common 
      sense? And you think some toy is 
      gonna help me figure this all out. 

             COLE
      No, I don’t. 

EXT. MOTOCROSS TRACK - DAY

On the empty track, Billy and Cole wear matching gear and sit 
on identical MX bikes. 

             COLE
      Dunes are different. It’s more 
      about floating. On these jumps it’s 
      about compensation. Throttle, the 
      tail drops. Brake, the front end 
      drops. Throttle brake, throttle 
      brake. Right?     

             BILLY
      Alright.  

Cole fires his bike up and rides into the track. He gets air 
born off the first jump, illustrating the technique. 

Billy huffs to himself and starts his bike. He rides to the 
first jump. 

He flies high, awkwardly leveling the bike in the air coming 
up short, almost going over the bars. Cole rides up to him. 

             COLE
      You alright? 

             BILLY
      Let’s go again. 

And they do. A game of follow the leader through the track...

A SERIES OF CUTS:

- Billy pops over smaller jumps at first.   

- Billy and Cole jumping side by side. Ever larger airs.

- Billy going down hard. Cole rushes to help him. Billy 
pushes him away and gets back on the bike.  


                                      77.

- Cole demonstrates a perfect level jump. Billy follows, 
awkward but better. 

- Billy hits a big table top jump. Getting the hang of it. 

- Cole does a back flip over Billy who gives him the finger. 

- Billy sprays Cole with dirt. 

- Cole accidentally stalling his bike. Billy laughing. 

                                  CUT TO:

BILLY AND COLE

They hit jumps simultaneously. A game of cat and mouse. They 
race as they both jostle for pole position, taking turns 
beating one another.  

As they hit the last berm, both men accelerate towards the 
final tabletop jump. Side by side they hit the last jump-- 

They soar, flying high into the air. Billy throttles and 
brakes intermittently giving complete aerial control.

The two men land at the same time and skid to a stop. They 
look at each other. 

             COLE
      That’s what I’m talking about!

Cole holds his hand up for a high five. Billy laughs to 
himself, and finally obliges. 

EXT. MOTOCROSS TRACK - LATER

Billy and Cole sit on the tailgate of Cole’s truck. Filthy 
from the track.  

             COLE
      It was s local event. I won the 
      high jump contest. Sal was there, 
      signed me on the spot. I had 
      nothing you know? My mom couldn’t 
      control me, my dad... I was getting 
      into trouble, drugs... I saw what 
      these guys had and I wanted it. Sal 
      took me under his wing. He made a 
      lot of shit happen for me.  

             BILLY
      I sold insurance. 


                                      78.

             COLE
      You sold insurance? 

             BILLY
      Door to door. On a 1966 Triumph. I 
      rode around neighborhoods trying to 
      sell people insurance. Turns out 
      motorcycles don’t exactly instill a 
      vote of confidence in the insurance 
      sellin’ business.  

             COLE
      Insurance salesman... Daredevil... 

             BILLY
      I didn’t have a job anymore and I 
      needed money. I knew a guy, owned a 
      car dealership. I told him I could 
      bring a crowd in on his Memorial 
      Day sale. Convinced him to let me 
      jump three of his pickups.  

             COLE
      Damn.  

             BILLY
      He agreed, but with a condition. I 
      scratch em, I buy em. I overshot 
      the landing by twenty feet. 
        (Beat)
      After that he sold the business and 
      managed my entire career. 

Cole smiles. The glory days. The Wild West. 

             COLE
      What happened to him. 

             BILLY
        (Thinks)
      I took something from him that 
      couldn’t be given back. 

             COLE
      Shit’s so different now days. You 
      gotta give people a show. The 
      endorsements... Sponsors want their 
      money’s worth you know?

             BILLY
      Horse shit.

             COLE
      One jump doesn’t fill seats, dude.  


                                      79.

             BILLY
      Kid, people don’t come to see the 
      show, they come to see if you’re 
      gonna die. Seeing a man fly through 
      the air with the prospects of death 
      is why their butts are in the 
      seats. They love it when you make 
      it, but if you don’t? That’s a 
      story they’ll be able to tell 
      forever.  

             COLE
      That’s fucked up, bro. 

             BILLY
      I’m not famous for all the ones I 
      pulled off. It was the ones I 
      didn’t make. And because I got up 
      and did it again. 

Cole ponders this for a beat. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Sal? Guys like that? They want the 
      show. That’s their payday. You, me? 
      It’s the jump. Putting ourselves 
      against the devil and seeing if you 
      got the stones to beat him.  

Billy puts his hand on Cole’s shoulder.

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s our holy grail, son.

             COLE
      You could die doing this. You know 
      that, right? 

             BILLY
      I need a drink.   

INT. RV - EVENING

Maggie leans against the counter in the kitchen area chewing 
her lip. She looks to a clock and then picks up yet another 
pregnancy test. 

Maggie closes her eyes, breathes, then looks to the result. 
As she stares at the stick her eyes fill with tears.  

She wraps the stick in paper towel and throws it in the 
trash.


INT. HOTEL DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Large and opulent but Vegas tacky. Billy and Maggie sit in an 
oversized booth.

                                      80.

             MAGGIE
      I can’t remember the last time you 
      took me for a fancy dinner. 

             BILLY
      I figured it’s been overdue. 

             MAGGIE
      You figured it would ease your 
      guilty conscience. 

             BILLY
      And that. 

An older WAITRESS arrives with drinks. 

             WAITRESS
      Bourbon and milk. Sparkling water. 

The Waitress leaves. Billy looks into Maggie’s eyes. Smiles.  

             MAGGIE
      What? 

             BILLY
      I’m a lucky man. 

             MAGGIE
      You’re just realizing that now? 

             BILLY
      I should’ve ordered champagne.   

             MAGGIE
      If this is you sucking up, it 
      doesn’t suit you. 

             BILLY
      You said something to me that kind 
      of stuck. 

Billy smiles and slides out of the booth. Maggie looks at 
Billy quizzically until he moves to kneel beside her.  

From his pocket he removes a modest but pretty diamond ring 
and takes her hand. Maggie gasps. 

             MAGGIE
      What? What... are you doing? 


                                      81.

             BILLY
      Maggie Leigh Thorton...

             MAGGIE
      Billy...

             BILLY
      I don’t want you to be my 
      girlfriend anymore.  

Maggie is gobsmacked. Billy slides the ring on her finger.

             MAGGIE
      I... what do I say? 

             BILLY
      Hell, yes would be a start. 

             MAGGIE
      Yes! Yes! If you’re serious then 
      yes!

Maggie climbs into Billy’s arms. She kisses him all over his 
face as a few people at nearby tables applaud.  

INT. HOTEL DINING ROOM - LATER

Busboys clear their table as Maggie admires her ring. Billy 
clinks her champagne glass with his. 

             BILLY
      You haven’t touched your champagne. 

             MAGGIE
      I still can’t believe it. 

             BILLY
      Tomorrow we’ll go down to one of 
      those jingleberry chapels and get 
      hitched. No point in waiting. 

Maggie looks down as tears well up. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Christ, Maggie. We can have a real 
      wedding. I was kidding.  

             MAGGIE
      No... That’s not it. There’s... I 
      need to tell you something. I just 
      don’t want to upset you. 


                                      82.

             BILLY
      Upset me? Come on darlin’, nothing 
      could sour my mood right now.   

Maggie looks into Billy. Bites her lip. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Christ, Maggie, spit it--

             MAGGIE
      I’m pregnant. 

A freight train straight to Billy’s face. He’s speechless.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      You came here-- All this motorcycle 
      stuff, and I didn’t know... I’ve 
      always wanted a baby. You know 
      that’s what I want. And I could 
      always tell you weren’t sure... 

             BILLY
      Alright--

             MAGGIE
      And you’ve been acting so distant 
      and, well, weird lately. I wanted 
      to tell you. I really did. But I 
      think it would be so good for us. 
      Wouldn’t it be good for us? 

             BILLY
      Maggie. Just... Slow down. 

             MAGGIE
      I’m sorry. 

             BILLY
      Sorry? I should be the one 
      apologizing. 

             MAGGIE
      You’re not mad? 

             BILLY
      I just never really imagined it’d 
      take.   
        (smiles to Maggie)
      You deserve to be happy. 

Maggie slides over into Billy’s arms. She doesn’t see Billy’s 
face go ashen, if only for a moment.


                                      83.

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      Tell you what. I’m going to go 
      splash the shock off my face. When 
      I come back we’re going to have a 
      real celebration. Blow it out. 

Billy slides out from the booth and kisses Maggie one more 
time on the head before walking away. 

INT. HOTEL CASINO - MOMENTS LATER

Billy walks through the sea of gaming tables and PEOPLE. 
Billy bumps into a waitress, slightly disorientated.  

A table of GAMBLERS cheer. The noise is everywhere. Starting 
to feel closed in, Billy looks for an exit.  

The room grows louder and louder. Dinging bells, shouting pit 
bosses, excited gamblers. 

Lights flash as a river of dollar coins spit from a slot 
machine. Billy starts to spin. He rubs his eyes.  

A DRUNK GIRL squeals as she bumps past Billy. Stumbling, he 
catches himself on an empty seat at a blackjack table. 

             DEALER
      Sir?

Billy looks around. Sweating. The Dealer’s voice echoes in 
Billy’s ears. Through blurred vision, Billy looks at him.

             DEALER
	(CONT’D)
      Sir, these seats are for playing 
      patrons only. I’m going to have to 
      ask you to place a bet or leave the 
      table. Sir? 

INT. HOTEL DINING ROOM - A LITTLE WHILE LATER

Maggie scans the room for Billy. A concerned look on her 
face. She grabs a different passing WAITRESS (#2).

             MAGGIE
      Excuse me, Could you send my 
      waitress over if you see her? 

             WAITRESS #2
      Who’s your waitress? 


                                      84.

             MAGGIE
      I... I don’t know. I was waiting 
      for my boyfriend. 

             WAITRESS #2
      Would you like to order something 
      till he gets here? 

             MAGGIE
      No... He went to the bathroom.
        (Off waitresses look)
      We’re getting married... 

Maggie trails off. The Waitress gives her a flat smile not 
really knowing what to say. 

             WAITRESS #2
      I’ll try to find your waitress.

INT. CASINO - LATER

Maggie walks through the maze of people, games and tables 
looking for Billy. 

             SECURITY GUARD
	(O.S.)
      Excuse me! Please move! Excuse me! 

Maggie turns just in time to step aside for a large SECURITY 
GUARD who runs past her. 

A few moments later TWO MORE SECURITY GUARDS sprint past her. 
Walkie talkies squelching. 

Maggie watches them before deciding to quickly follow. 

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - MOMENTS LATER

Maggie sees a large crowd of PEOPLE that have gathered around 
a large fountain. 

Moving through the mass of people, Maggie emerges to the 
front of the crowd where her face immediately registers shock 
as she sees--

Billy stomping around in the fountain. His eyes wild as he 
strips his clothes off. 

Security guards surround the fountain yelling at him to get 
out as Billy barks and howls like a wild animal. Maggie 
watches in horror. 


                                      85.

             SECURITY GUARD #1
        (Into walkie talkie)
      Send everyone! Now! 
        (To Billy)
      C’mon asshole! 

             SECURITY GUARD #2
        (To another guard)
      Get around that way! That way! 

             BILLY
      I’M ALIVE! I’M ALIVE! NOTHING CAN 
      STOP IT!

             SECURITY GUARD #3
      Holy shit!

             BILLY
      AWHOOOOO! YEAH! YEAH! AWHOOOOOOOO!

Maggie burst out of the crowd towards Billy as a security 
guard grabs her. 

             SECURITY GUARD #1
      Hey!

             MAGGIE
      I know him! He’s-- He’s my husband! 

Two guards step into the fountain and flank Billy.

             BILLY
      VANDALS! DEMONS! I’M INVINCIBLE! 
      INVINCIBLE! AWHOOOOOOO!

             MAGGIE
      Don’t hurt him! Billy! BILLY!! 

A FOURTH GUARD sneaks into the fountain behind Billy just as 
Billy whips around. The guard, about to pounce, shuffles 
back. Arms out, pleading with Billy. 

             SECURITY GUARD #4
      Easy, man. Take it easy.

All guards start to close in on Billy when he begins to 
thrash about like a madman. Screaming and howling. 

             BILLY
      NOTHING CAN STOP IT! NOTHING CAN 
      KILL ME! I’M STILL HERE! I’M HERE! 
      LOOK AT ME! OWHOOOOOOOOO! 


                                      86.

Billy pounds his chest. Hits himself in the head. Kicking 
water everywhere. Subdued by the guard, Maggie cries out.

All of a sudden his face freezes and he slams back into the 
water. The guards rush him, grabbing his arms and legs.

They pull his limp body from the fountain. Maggie collapses, 
sobbing in the Security Guards arms.  

EXT. HOTEL / CASINO - LATER

Maggie watches Billy, restrained to a gurney being lifted 
into an ambulance as a female POLICE OFFICER questions her. 

             MAGGIE
        (Snapping to)
      What? 

             POLICE OFFICER
      Your husband. Does he have a 
      history of drugs? Is he on any 
      medications? 

             MAGGIE
      We’re... we’re not married. 

             POLICE OFFICER
        (Looking at notes)
      A security guard says... you called 
      him your husband?

             MAGGIE
      He had just proposed to me. 

             POLICE OFFICER
      Well. Congratulations I guess. 

Maggie watches the Ambulance drive away. 

INT. HOSPITAL - EVENING

Maggie’s face is of concern and confusion. She looks as if to 
say something for a long beat, shakes her head in disbelief.

             MAGGIE
      Is he dangerous?   

A DOCTOR (40’s) has been telling her of Billy’s condition, 
which is obviously news to her. 


                                      87.

             DOCTOR
      To himself, mostly. Without proper 
      treatment however...
        (Off Maggie’s look)
      We’re keeping him sedated, for the 
      time being... While we run more 
      tests. It’s mostly for his safety 
      and comfort. 

             MAGGIE
      I’m, we’re having a baby...

             DOCTOR
      Miss Thorton, the third leading 
      cause of dementia is head injury. 
      More often prevalent in younger 
      people, but given Billy’s history, 
      this is most likely the result of 
      multiple head trauma. I am fairly 
      certain this is not hereditary.   

             MAGGIE
      I can’t believe this is happening. 

             DOCTOR
      Right now, he’s resting. He’s just 
      experienced a very traumatic event 
      for the first time, so the severity 
      seems very overwhelming. 

             MAGGIE
      How long will he be like this? 

             DOCTOR
      That depends on him. 

Maggie looks through a window into Billy’s room where he lays 
unconscious and restrained to a bed. She fights back tears. 

INT. HOSPITAL / ROOM - NIGHT

Maggie sleeps in a chair when she wakes with a start. She 
looks around then remembering where she is.  

INT. HOSPITAL / ROOM - LATER

Maggie exits the bathroom, stopping when she sees Cole 
sitting in the chair beside Billy. He turns to her.

             COLE
      Hey. I just found out...


Maggie quickly grabs him by the hand and drags him into the--

                                      88.

HALLWAY

Maggie squares off to Cole. 

             MAGGIE
      How long have you known? 

             COLE
      What? 

             MAGGIE
      Do you know what that man means to 
      me?!    

             COLE
      Whoa. Hold on a second, Maggie.

             MAGGIE
      Don’t! Don’t say my name like you 
      know me. You don’t know me! 

A NURSE shushes them.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
        (Hushed)
      You don’t get to come here and act 
      like you care. You should have 
      known better. 

             COLE
      You think this was my fault? 

             MAGGIE
      Tell me, what did you think you 
      were going to get out of this?   

             COLE
      Can I say something? 

Maggie crosses her arms. 

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      For the first time in my life I met 
      someone who I looked up to. Someone 
      who didn’t want something from me. 
      Billy has come to mean more to me 
      than some project or charity. 

Maggie is about to interject but Cole persists. 


                                      89.

             COLE
	(CONT’D)
      I never had a father, no one to 
      make proud. Did I know about this? 
      Yeah, I knew. It was his choice and 
      I respected that. You may not 
      believe this, Maggie, but I love 
      Billy. He means a lot to me. 

Maggie burns into Cole then moves past him. After a few steps 
she stops and turns.  

             MAGGIE
      Well I loved him first.

INT. HOSPITAL / ROOM - LATER

Cole sits next to Billy’s bed. His idol. His friend. He looks 
at Billy’s face. Frail and weaker than he cares to see. 

He looks to the bedside table where a few of Billy’s 
possessions sit. Pocket knife, a watch, and Billy’s note pad.  

Cole takes the pad and starts flipping through the pages. 

ON BILLY’S NOTE PAD

Notes of what looks like a grocery list of motorcycle parts. 
Step-by-step instructions. How to put his bike engine back 
together. And also a short list of reminders: 

Coffee not tea --                                              
Take pills --                                                   
Pretty blond is Maggie --                                   
Cole... Annoying, but a good kid. 

ON COLE

Cole smiles flatly at this. As he flips more pages his smile 
fades. The writing becomes less and less legible. Eventually 
turning to page after page of illegible chicken scratch.     

Cole flips back the pages coming upon... 

ON BILLY’S NOTE PAD

An outline of Billy’s super jump. The distance...ramp size... 
dimensions, et al.            


                                      90.

ON COLE

Cole stares at them for a beat before looking back to Billy. 

             COLE
      Alright, old man. 

INT. HOSPITAL / HALLWAY - MORNING

Maggie exits the elevator when she hears Billy’s voice. 

             BILLY
	(O.S.)
      God dammit! 

             NURSE
	(O.S.)
      Sir! Please! 

Maggie rushes down the hall towards Billy’s room, almost 
getting knocked over by the Nurse as she rushes out. 

             NURSE
	(CONT’D)
      He’s all yours, honey. 

INT. HOSPITAL / ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Maggie enters where she sees Billy in a hospital gown 
rummaging through drawers. He yanks the IV from his wrist. 

             MAGGIE
      Billy!

Billy turns abruptly, pausing when he sees Maggie. He 
continues to pull clothes from the drawers. 

             BILLY
      How long have I been in here?  

             MAGGIE
      You should be in bed. Let me get 
      the doctor. 

             BILLY
      I don’t need a doctor, dammit!

             MAGGIE
      Billy Byrd! You sit down right now, 
      do you hear me?!

Billy stops. Looks at Maggie, then slumps into a chair. 

             BILLY
      I know you’re mad.


                                      91.

             MAGGIE
      You think I’m mad? I’m not mad. I’m 
      hurt. Being lied to hurts. 

             BILLY
      I never lied to you. 

             MAGGIE
      I had to watch your naked carcass 
      get dragged out of a fountain to 
      find out. You’re a regular pillar 
      of honesty.  

Billy avoids Maggie’s eyes. 

             BILLY
      Where’s Cole? 

             MAGGIE
      Cole? 

             BILLY
      Now you know why I have to do this.   

             MAGGIE
      Billy--

             BILLY
      Nothing’s changed, Maggie. If I 
      don’t do this now--

             MAGGIE
      Cole is dead. 

It’s like the air was just sucked from the room. A punch to 
the gut. Billy stares at Maggie, speechless.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      Everyone told him not to do it, but 
      he didn’t listen. Sounds familiar.
        (Pause)
      He didn’t know... none of us knew, 
      if you were going to wake up. 
        (Pause)
      It was just too far. 

             BILLY
      Too far? 

             MAGGIE
      Something about the take off, 
      angles or something, I don’t know. 

Billy stares at the floor. Lost. Then anger swells back. 


                                      92.

             BILLY
      He did my jump?  

             MAGGIE
      Let me get the doctor...

             BILLY
      I need to talk to Sal. Who has my 
      bike? 

             MAGGIE
      Did you hear me? If Cole couldn’t 
      do it-- You were in a coma for 
      almost three weeks! 

Billy ignores her. Anger paired with stubbornness. He finds 
his boots in the closet and pulls them on. Maggie follows him 
out as he walks down the hall. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      Billy! BILLY!

                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE ON BILLY

Riding his bike. Chest on tank. Gritting into the wind. No 
helmet. A blistering speed as we go wide to see we are at--

EXT. SPEEDWAY - DUSK

Billy races down the blacktop full throttle. As he rounds the 
embanked turn he rides the bike off the track into the 
infield where we see him approaching the giant jump ramp.   

As he accelerates on the approach, Billy lets out a howl. 
Closer and closer until he is almost upon the ramp when he--  

Veers off right of the ramp and brakes hard! He skids across 
the infield grass until coming to a stop. 

Breathing hard, a vice-like grip on the bars. Then he starts 
to punch the tank, yelling profanity into the empty speedway. 

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

Billy’s figure is awash in an orange glow. A grim look covers 
his face. We hear a loud burning roar then a pop! 

Swinging around behind Billy, we see him standing as he 
watches his beloved bike entirely engulfed in flames. 


As the flames reach the tank the bike roars into a large 
fireball. One last whoosh before the bike tips to it’s side.

Billy’s face is emotionless as he watches his bike die. 

                                      93.

EXT. BILLY’S HOUSE - PRE-DAWN

Establishing.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

Billy lays awake staring through the window at the faint 
morning light. After a beat he sits up.

             MAGGIE
	(O.S.)
      What time is it?

             BILLY
      Early.

Billy gets up revealing Maggie, now very pregnant, laying on 
the bed. She raises up on her elbows. 

             MAGGIE
      I have to pee. Again.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Maggie walks in on Billy thumbing pills into his weekly 
dispenser. After each day Billy writes in a note pad.   

             MAGGIE
      You hungry? 

             BILLY
        (Shakes pills)
      Already ate. 

Maggie walks to Billy and sits on his lap. Billy 
overexaggerates a grunt. 

             MAGGIE
      I got a baby in here. What’s your 
      excuse? 

Billy wraps his arms around her. Maggie puts her hands over 
his as they rock side to side.

             BILLY
      I’m sorry you’re in this with me. 


                                      94.

             MAGGIE
      I’m not. 

             BILLY
      I did over fifty jumps. Pretty 
      straight forward. Just hold on and 
      hope for the best. I was never 
      scared. Of anything... 

             MAGGIE
      The pills are helping. Doctor says 
      the therapy will help too. 

             BILLY
      Not that. 

Billy slides his palms onto Maggie’s tummy. 

             MAGGIE
      This is different. 

             BILLY
      I don’t see how.  

             MAGGIE
      On your motorcycle you were always 
      alone. 

We stay on them as they sit in silence, swaying side to side. 
Hands on hands on Maggie’s belly.  

EXT. STORAGE UNIT - DAY

An oak of a MAN in his fifties instructs Auggie and another 
young MAN as they close up the back of a large truck. The man 
pulls a check from his shirt pocket, handing it to Billy. 

             MAN
      I hafta say I was surprised to get 
      your call. Never thought you’d ever 
      part with it. 

             BILLY
      It was time.

             MAN
      Well, if ever you get the urge, 
      we’ll have it on display at the 
      motor museum. 

             BILLY
      I don’t ever want to see it again. 


                                      95.

They shake hands and the man and his two boys get in the 
truck and drive off. As we pull back we see Billy standing in 
front of his now empty storage unit.

I/E. BILLY’S TRUCK - LATER

Billy pulls into his driveway where a white car is parked. He 
looks at it as he goes inside. 

INT. HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Billy walks into the kitchen where Maggie is preparing iced 
tea. She looks at Billy with a stern look. 

             MAGGIE
      You’ve got company.

EXT. BACK PATIO - LATER

Billy holds an envelope in one hand, reading a piece of paper 
in the other. Sal sits across from him sipping iced tea. 

             SAL
      Don’t ask me why, because I don’t 
      have the answer. 

             BILLY
      Doesn’t make sense.  

             SAL
      I’m just following his wishes. 
      Maybe he felt like he owed you?  

             BILLY
      He never owed me a thing.

EXT. HOUSE - LATER

Billy stands at the front door as Sal walks to his car. 
Before he gets in he stops and looks back to Billy.

             SAL
      For the record, he wasn’t just a 
      paycheck to me. 

             BILLY
      Doesn’t matter anymore. 


                                      96.

             SAL
      Maybe you’re right. Maybe he didn’t 
      owe you anything. Maybe it’s what 
      you owe him. Maybe it’s what we 
      both owe him.    

             BILLY
      What now? 

             SAL
      Now? Find another circus I guess. 
      Be seeing you, Billy. 

We stay with Billy as Sal drives off. He looks again at the 
piece of paper as Maggie joins him. 

             MAGGIE
      What was that all about? 

Billy hands Maggie the piece of paper. As she reads it her 
eyebrows raise. 

ANGLE ON:

A handwritten note clipped to some legal documents. It reads:

“BILLY - IN CASE I’M NOT THERE, KEEP IT GOING. COLE”

                                  CUT TO:

FROM BLACK

We hear a door open, footsteps then flipping of switches as 
fluorescent lights flicker to life bringing us into--

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

Billy and Maggie stare blank faced. Rows of vintage 
motorcycles bathed in the sterile light fill the space. 
Countless Indians, Harley’s, Norton’s and Triumphs.

             MAGGIE
      Holy shit. 

Billy walks in among the shrine of chrome and steel, 
occasionally running his fingertips on the bikes.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      These are all yours? He gave them 
      to you? 


Billy stops in front of a 66’ Triumph. Smiles to himself. 

                                      97.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      They’re all old. These are-- How 
      much is this all worth? 

             BILLY
      58’ Indian... 66’ Norton. 
        (Looking around re: Old 
         army bike with sidecar)
      Cossak. Russian. Probably WW II. 

             MAGGIE
      Billy... You can’t sell these. 

             BILLY
      Damn it, Cole...  

             MAGGIE
      I mean it Billy... Ever. 

Billy nods, continuing through the church of motorcycles when 
something catches his eye that stops him cold. 

Looking to the center of the warehouse Billy stares in 
disbelief at--

A mint 1976 HARLEY DAVIDSON XR750. An exact replica of 
Billy’s jump bike. A Phoenix, reborn from the ashes. 

             COMMENTATOR
	(O.S.) (PRE LAP)
      ... He’s up! He’s airborne!... HE’S 
      MISSED IT! MY GOD! HE MISSED THE--

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Maggie washes dishes. From the other room we hear the 
commentary of one of Billy’s jumps being rewound and played 
back over and over.  

Rewind. 

             COMMENTATOR
	(O.S.)
      ... He’s up! He’s airborne!... HE’S 
      MISSED IT! MY GOD!--

             COMMENTATOR
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      ... He’s up! He’s airborne!... HE’S 
      MISSED IT! MY GOD! HE MISSED--

Maggie puts the dishes into the sink and closes her eyes.  


                                      98.

LIVING ROOM

Billy sits on the couch watching the old footage. As Maggie 
walks in, Billy turns off the TV. 

             MAGGIE
      No. Play it. 

Billy turns the TV back on. Again the commentator. Again the 
image of Billy hitting the concrete. Maggie winces. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      You think you’re different now, but 
      you’re not.

Maggie sits next to Billy. 

             BILLY
      He was too young. He had more to 
      lose. 

             MAGGIE
      What, money? Fame? 
        (Dismissing it)
      No one put him on that bike.   

             BILLY
      It was my jump. I put him there. 

Maggie pulls Billy’s note pad from his shirt pocket. 

             MAGGIE
      I read this when you were in the 
      hospital.   
        (beat)
      I know why you want this. You think 
      just because I’m scared I don’t get 
      it, but I do. 

Maggie flips through the pages of his note pad, holds on one. 
Suddenly, she’s more vulnerable then we’ve ever seen her. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
        (fussing with her hair)
      You...You really think I’m pretty?

             BILLY
      Darlin’. It’s a crime you even 
      haveta ask.

Maggie’s armor breaks, as she softens and cracks a smile. She 
pushes up to her feet and stands in front of Billy.


                                      99.

             MAGGIE
      It’s not that he was young, or not 
      good enough. It’s because he wasn’t 
      you. He wasn’t Billy Byrd. 

Maggie leaves the room. We hold on Billy. 

EXT. GARAGE - DAWN

The door slowly rolls up revealing the ‘new’ XR-750. Billy 
takes it in.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAWN

Billy races the ‘new’ XR-750 down the empty highway. He 
watches the speedometer. Reaching 60MPH he starts to climb.

Billy climbs up where he is squatting, both feet on the seat. 
He holds position for a beat. And then-- 

With one fluid motion Billy releases the bars and stands. He 
straightens, arms out to his sides. 

Billy roars down the highway in a Jesus Christ pose.  

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Sal is on the phone when Billy walks through the door.  

             SAL
        (Into phone)
      Kevin? I’m gonna have to get back 
      to you. 

Sal hangs up. Both men look at each other for a beat. 

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      I knew going to see you was a 
      mistake. 

             BILLY
      Probably.  

Both men crack a slight smile. 

INT. SAL’S HOUSE - DAY

Sal, Chip and Billy sit in front of the TV. They all sit in 
silence. 


                                     100.

             BILLY
      Play it again. 

             SAL
      Come on, Billy. 

             BILLY
      Just play it. 

Sal looks to Chip who just shrugs. Sal presses play. 

We hear the sound of what we can only assume is FOOTAGE OF 
COLE’S FATAL JUMP. Billy watches intently as it ends with the 
sounds of people screaming and swearing. 

Billy sits silent staring at the TV for a long beat.  

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      He was on the wrong bike.  

             SAL
      No way. Cole rode like he was born 
      on a bike.  

             BILLY
      Trust me. 

             CHIP
      You could be right. 

             BILLY
      I am right. 

             SAL
      Billy--

             BILLY
      I’m right! 

Billy looks to Chip. 

             CHIP
      I got some ideas. 

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Billy and Chip in front of a drop cloth covering what is 
obviously a bike. Chip pulls it back revealing a mangled-- 

             CHIP
      Honda CRF 450. Modern. Streamline. 
      Top speed, stock, sits at about 80. 
      This was the one Cole... 


Chip trails off as they both stare at the twisted metal 
carcass. Billy pats Chip’s shoulder as if to say “It’s OK.” 

                                     101.

             CHIP
	(CONT’D)
      I had added a custom exhaust, 
      performance gearing and a lower 
      profile tire to give a higher 
      acceleration. It still wasn’t 
      enough.   

             BILLY
      How high?

             CHIP
      Eighty eight, ninety.  

             BILLY
      A hundred? 

             CHIP
      Not with this bike.  

Chip walks Billy over to another bike. 

             CHIP
	(CONT’D)
      CR500. Two stroke engine, gives you 
      more explosive acceleration. 

             BILLY
      I don’t get it. Why didn’t--

             CHIP
      Why didn’t he ride this one? You 
      release that throttle, you’ll know 
      why. She was built for racing not 
      jumping and most riders stayed in 
      third the whole race, except when 
      pitting. Sofa saddle, pulled back 
      bars, bulbous tank. It all sets you 
      back in the bike compared to the 
      450. That, and it’s an old design-- 
      1992. Cole liked new. Lighter, more 
      streamline. You want speed and 
      power? This is your horse. 

             BILLY
      Then this is my horse.

             CHIP
      I’m not gonna lie, man. She’s a 
      beast.   


                                     102.

             BILLY
      I jumped a Harley Davidson XR750 a 
      total of eighteen times. A three 
      hundred pound track bike. I’m 
      familiar with beasts. 

We hold on Chip. He smiles and nods. 

EXT. LAS VEGAS SPEEDWAY - EVENING

Billy walks up a platform. As he reaches the top we pull back 
to see it is a massive take off ramp.   

Billy looks out across an impossible distance towards a 
massive landing mound of dirt. He kicks his heel on the ramp. 

             BILLY
      Yeah. 

Billy looks out to the desert. A silhouette of the launch 
ramp as the sun fades into the horizon.

                                FADE OUT.

VINTAGE FOOTAGE 

An outdoor stadium. A sold out audience. The camera pans 
across a row of school busses bookended by two ramps. 

Young Billy roars into the stadium, cut-a-way shots show 
eager FANS standing and applauding. 

Billy rolls up the take off ramp, stopping at the top. 
Removing his helmet we see Billy’s face, young and handsome. 
He waves to the crowds. A true showman. 

After a quick inspection Billy rides the bike high up the run 
in to the top of the cheap seats. He turns the bike to face 
back down the ramp. He gives one last wave and pumps the 
throttle.

With a nod, Billy kicks the bike into gear and begins his 
descent.  

He races towards the ramp. As he hits the abrupt incline of 
the take off, the motorcycle kicks into the air.

Billy soars over the busses with ‘hold on tight’ grace. He 
comes up a little short, almost losing control of the bike 
but manages to hold on. Not the most graceful jump, but a 
successful one. 


                                     103.

Billy rides back up the landing ramp and removes his helmet 
holding it high over his head. He pumps his fists in victory 
as fans go wild. REPORTERS rush the ramp towards Billy. 

INT. RV - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Billy winds up the old Billy Byrd toy until it releases and 
races across the floor, hitting Maggie’s feet.   

She bends to pick it up and walks to sit with Billy. 

             BILLY
      I woke you.  

             MAGGIE
      Please. You know how many times I 
      pee in a night?  

             BILLY
      I’m a 56 year old man, Mags. 

She manages a laugh. Forced. A hanging beat. 

Billy reaches his hand to rest on her tummy. 

             BILLY
	(CONT’D)
      You could tell me not to do it. 

             MAGGIE
      You planning on going swimming 
      again?   

A smile. Billy looks into Maggie. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      We’re fine, baby. We are all going 
      to be fine.  

             BILLY
      You really believe that?  

             MAGGIE
      The money, the fame, who you were? 
      You know that never mattered to me. 
      It’s this. 
        (hand on his heart)
      It’s what I know is in here. That’s 
      all it has ever been. That’s why I 
      always wanted this with you. I 
      didn’t fall in love with Billy 
      Byrd, the legend. I fell in love 
      with your conviction. 


                                     104.

Billy pulls Maggie close to him. In love. Safe. Nothing else 
matters. She closes her eyes, starting to drift off in 
Billy’s arms. Billy just holds her. Sleep won’t come for him.   

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Billy looks at his face in a mirror. Deadpan. He starts to 
makes a few faces at himself in the mirror.  

He looks at the pill dispenser in his hand. Slowly he starts 
to thumb open each daily compartment. 

He stares at the pills in each compartment and then tips the 
dispenser until all the pills drop into the sink. 

He sets the dispenser on the sink edge then walks out the 
door taking us into--

INT. LOCKER ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Deep in the bowels of the Las Vegas Speedway. Billy moves to 
a table where his original leather jacket lay. He pulls the 
jacket on then leans on the table.

Across the room Maggie sits on a chair watching him. She 
picks his helmet up off a chair next to her and walks to him. 

Setting the helmet on the table... 

Maggie places her hand on his. They stand silent for a beat.

             MAGGIE
      What do you think of Rocket? 

             BILLY
      Rocket? 

             MAGGIE
      It seemed appropriate considering 
      who his daddy is.  

             BILLY
      Rocket Byrd? Jesus Christ. I hope 
      he can fight. 

             MAGGIE
      You’ll teach him. 

Maggie looks hard into Billy’s eyes. Places her hands on his 
face.


                                     105.

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m with you, Billy. Always. This 
      moment right now is yours, but I’m 
      with you. 

Billy starts to speak but Maggie kisses him deeply. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      I won’t always like you, but I’ll 
      always love you. 

Maggie zips up his jacket, places his helmet in his hands and 
walks him to the door.

As the door opens, the sound of thousands of cheering fans 
float down the halls toward them. 

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      Wait. 

Billy turns to her as Maggie holds a camera to her eye. He 
looks deep into the lens as she takes his portrait. 

Dropping the camera from her face Billy sees it in her eyes.  

             MAGGIE
	(CONT’D)
      This is as far as I go. 
        (Beat)
      I don’t think I’m strong enough for 
      this.  

             BILLY
      I don’t believe that for a second.  

             MAGGIE
        (Looks hard at him)
      You are home and in my bed tonight. 
      Promise me. 

Billy looks at her for a beat then smiles. 

             BILLY
      I’ll see you later.

He places his hand on her tummy before he turns and continues 
down the hall. 

As he lumbers off, tears roll down Maggie’s cheeks.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Billy limps down the long corridor where Chip awaits him. As 
Billy approaches Chip’s walkie talkie squelches. 


                                     106.

             WALKIE
        (Filtered)
      Chip, what’s your twenty. 

             CHIP
        (Into walkie)
      Standby.
        (To Billy, off limp)
      I can get a cart down here. 

Billy shakes his head, no. He looks down the hall. The 
chanting crowd is louder. He looks to Chip.

             CHIP
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a full house. Over a hundred 
      thousand. 

Billy nods. 

             BILLY
      Maggie, and the baby... Make sure 
      Sal covers them. 

             CHIP
      You can make sure of that yourself.
        (Off Billy’s look)
      They’ll be covered. 

Billy starts walking down the corridor towards his fate. Chip 
falls in behind him. 

             CHIP
	(CONT’D)
        (Into walkie)
      I’m bringing him in. 

INT. LOCKER ROOM - SAME

Maggie paces back and forth. Tries to sit. Too nervous. She 
walks to the door and opens it a crack. 

The sound of the crowd gives her pause again. 

Stepping back Maggie looks down, puts her hands on her tummy.  
And that’s all it takes. With purpose, she’s out the door. 

INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Maggie moves down the halls as quickly as a pregnant woman 
can. She rounds a corner and stops. She looks both directions 
down the identical hallways. Starts in one direction then 
rethinks and heads back the other way. 


                                     107.

             MAGGIE
        (To herself)
      This place must have been designed 
      by a man.

INT. LAS VEGAS SPEEDWAY - STAGING AREA - SAME

A tunnel under the stands leads out to the main track. A 
small crew of men mill about as Billy looks over his bike. 

Billy straddles the bike as a SPORTS REPORTER approaches with 
her CAMERA MAN. Billy gives Chip a look. 

             CHIP
        (To everyone)
      Alright people, anyone who isn’t 
      me, or sitting on a bike needs to 
      get the fuck out!

Blank looks occupy everyone’s face for a beat. 

             CHIP
	(CONT’D)
      Now!

Everyone scatters. Chip looks to Billy and smiles.  

INT. STAIRWELL - SAME

Maggie hoofs it up a flight of stairs. 

             MAGGIE
      God dammit, Billy. Wait... wait. 
      Please wait. 

She comes to a door and pulls. Locked. Swears loudly and 
continues up to another door. Now sweating, she pulls. This 
time the door opens taking her into--

INT. SPEEDWAY MAIN HALL - CONTINUOUS

Random people run to get to their seats. Maggie breathes 
heavily and leans against a wall. A SECURITY GUARD sees her. 

             GUARD
      Hey, where did you just come from? 
      You’re not supposed to... Jesus, 
      you’re pregnant? 

             MAGGIE
      No shit... Give me...


                                     108.

Maggie winces and holds her tummy. 

             GUARD
      Jeez, lady. Are you ok?  

             SAL
	(O.S.)
      Maggie? 

Maggie looks up and sees Sal. Relief washes over her as she 
waddles to him and slumps into his arms. 

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, are you okay? Wait, why aren’t 
      you with Billy?

             MAGGIE
      I, I thought I couldn’t... But...

Maggie looks up to him, tears welling in her eyes. Sal get’s 
the message. He grabs her hand. 

             SAL
      Come on.

BACK ON BILLY

Both hands on the grips. Billy revs the engine as Chip shouts 
something to Billy we can’t hear over the sound. 

Billy nods. Nods again. Revs the engine. Chip shouts into the 
walkie talkie. Holds it to his ear and listens. Looks to 
Billy and nods. 

An ANNOUNCERS VOICE says something over the speakers. The 
crowd roars in response. The time has come. Chip steps back 
as Billy kicks the bike into gear. Billy revs the engine... 

And with that he pops the clutch and the bike peels away. 
Chip chases Billy as if running a bull from it’s paddock. 

ON MAGGIE AND SAL

Sal pulls Maggie to a tier entrance. Seeing the TICKET 
ATTENDANT, Sal takes a lanyard of VIP credentials off his 
neck and puts it over Maggie’s head. 

             MAGGIE
      What about you? 

The crowd roars indicating Billy is on his way.


                                     109.

             SAL
      Just don’t name the kid after me.
        (The roaring crowd)
      Go! 

Maggie rushes down the tunnel to the stands. 

             SAL
	(CONT’D)
      I can’t believe I’m gonna miss 
      this.

EXT. LAS VEGAS SPEEDWAY / GRANDSTAND - CONTINUOUS

Maggie barely makes it to the handrail just in time to see 
Billy come racing out of a tunnel towards the ramp. She 
clutches her hands in front of her face. 

BILLY’S POV 

Everything is silent. Like an astronaut shooting to the 
stratosphere, his vision shakes like mad. The ramp draws 
nearer. Only the sound of his breathing fills his ears.   

                                  CUT TO:

ON BILLY

He’s a black dot shooting across the tarmac towards the jump. 
No signs of stopping. This is it. Full commitment. The crowd 
in a frenzy. Billy, less than a hundred feet from the ramp.

ON MAGGIE

Her face says it all. She can’t look away. The CROWD’S ROAR 
is deafening. And at that moment it’s as if time starts to 
stand still as we push in on Maggie’s face. 

Eyes wide with anticipation. The crowd roar fades to silence. 
Maggie’s eyes well up. Only the sound of her HEART BEATING. 
And then the flood gates open. Tears stream down her cheeks.  

             BOY’S VOICE
	(O.S.) (PRE LAP)
      Did he make it?

INT. BOY’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Posters on the walls. Toys and action figures scatter the 
floor. Messy but perfect. His world. A LITTLE BOY (5) sits in 
his bed, arms around his knees. Maggie sits beside him.  


                                     110.

             MAGGIE
      Do you think he made it?

The little Boy thinks for a beat then smiles.

             LITTLE BOY
      Yeah... Yeah, I think he did. 

             MAGGIE
      And that’s what happened. Okay 
      chief, now it’s really bedtime. 
      Under the covers. 

The Boy hops back under the covers as Maggie tucks him in and 
kisses his forehead. She walks to the door.   

             LITTLE BOY 
      Mommy? Are there any more like him? 

Maggie eyes a framed photograph on the wall by the door -- 
the PHOTOGRAPH she took of Billy right before his jump.

             MAGGIE
      ...No baby. There are no more like 
      him. 

She flips the light switch and pulls the door, leaving a 
crack. The Boy slides in under his covers. His head full of 
wonder. 

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Maggie moves through the room picking up toys as she goes. 
She takes plates from the dinner table and moves to--

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

As she walks to the sink we hold on the fridge. Like all 
fridges, we see a collage of photographs, to-do lists and 
children’s artwork. Moving across the images we settle on... 

A PHOTOGRAPH OF MAGGIE AND BILLY: In Maggie’s arms rests a 
newborn baby. A family, smiling and warm. Joy filled hearts 
with new life.

We see Maggie finishes the dishes in the BG. As she leaves 
the kitchen she turns off the lights as we--

                                  CUT TO:


                                     111.

OVER BLACK

The sound of sheets rustling and digging in a drawer preludes 
a flashlight illuminating the little boy’s face in...

INT. BOY’S BEDROOM - SAME

The Boy lays back, shining the light around his room until 
aiming it towards the foot of his bed. Following his gaze-- 

We see the flashlight light up a framed poster of Billy 
flying through the air on his motorcycle. 

The Boy stares at the poster with that look of wonder that 
boys have of their heros. The American Eagle. A daredevil. A 
legend. His father. 

As we push in on the poster, we hear a faint sound of a 
FLUTTERING WIND as we--

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. LAS VEGAS SPEEDWAY - BILLY’S JUMP DAY

In slow motion, we fly in the air behind Billy as he soars 
across a staggering distance. 

As the landing approaches in front of him we start to hear 
the sound of the crowd grow like a stadium filled with 
baseball fans watching a potential home run ball. 

As Billy clears the landing, his tires touching down ignites 
a deafening roar. Billy flies down the landing, the crowd is 
on their feet. Awestruck.  

Billy continues down the landing ramp when he releases the 
handlebars. He stands on the foot-pegs, arms raised 
victorious in the air. 

Billy continues to the end of the speedway tarmac until he is 
gone from sight. No victory lap. No press. No accolades... 

A legend to be spoken about for decades to come. 

                        THE END


