              FULLY WRECKED

               Written by

         Jake Morse & Scott Wolman

             Revised 9/18/13

Josh Goldenberg
Kaplan/Perrone 
310-285-0116
goldenberg@kaplanperrone.com


OVER BLACK

White text CLICKS across the screen, typewriter-style:

             DEEP VOICE
	(V.O.)
      In 1984, a secret law enforcement 
      organization was formed. Codename: 
      the KAL Directive.

                                 FADE IN:

A CAR MANUFACTURING PLANT 

ROLL CREDITS as...

-- ROBOT ARMS weld together a TITANIUM FRAME -- SPARKS fly!

             DEEP VOICE
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      To take down criminals above the 
      law, a nearly indestructible 
      supercar was created.

-- A BODY PANEL is bolted to the UNDERBODY -- a ROOF PANEL 
locked in place -- the CAR is SPRAYED with black paint...

             DEEP VOICE
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      It was equipped with experimental-
      stage Artificial Intelligence...

-- A BLUE COMPUTER CHIP is lowered into the ENGINE.

             DEEP VOICE
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      And a highly skilled operative was 
      put behind the wheel. 

-- In SILHOUETTE, a chiseled AGENT in cool 80s street 
clothes JUMPS INTO the car through the driver-side window. 

             DEEP VOICE
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      For two years, the most feared 
      presence in the criminal underworld 
      was one man... and one car.

                                 FADE TO:

TITLE CARD. Cue Maniac from FLASHDANCE and...

A CLOSE-UP OF THE SEXIEST FUCKING SPORTS CAR OF ALL TIME

The 1982 PONTIAC FIREBIRD TRANS-AM, moving at top speed, 
engine roaring, poetry in motion:

                              SMASH CUT TO:


                                      2.

TIRES -- jet black rubber, power-blasting the asphalt. 

HOOD -- onyx black, aerodynamic lines, kissed by the wind.

GRILLE -- emanating a soft electric blue GLOW, PULSING -- as 
if the car were thinking, breathing...

EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS

EVERYONE turns to GAWK as the car WHOOSHES by: sunbathing 
BABES in high-waisted swimsuits; a buffed-out LIFTER, mid-
pump; a VOLLEYBALLER in jean shorts -- flips up his shades.

BACK ON the Pontiac, accelerating to over 200 MILES PER HOUR!

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

A secluded WAREHOUSE patrolled by armed sentries. A sign 
reads MACE SHIPPING & CARGO.

INT. WAREHOUSE - SAME

WHAM! A stiff punch knocks the AVIATOR SHADES off the face of 
NICK MARLIN (32, 80s alpha male, a lover AND a fighter). He 
spits blood, and grins. 

             NICK
      You call that torture? Felt like a 
      rim job from Brigitte Nielsen. 

Even tied up and surrounded by HENCHMEN, the guys a badass. 

MARCO MACE (25, muscled-up douche, blonde flat top, mesh tank 
top, fingerless gloves), cocks back another punch- 

But his hands INTERCEPTED by a meaty paw. 

             MARCO 
      But Dad- 

             MALE VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Enough!

Marco reluctantly steps aside... 

Revealing his father, DALTON MACE (50s, refined, sadistic).


                                      3.

             DALTON
      Nick Marlin: hero agent with a big 
      mouth. Tell me why youre here, or 
      Marco gets another crack.

             NICK
      Whered that fruit son of yours 
      learn to punch, tampon class?

Dalton levels a nickle-plated Beretta at Nicks head...

             NICK
	(CONTD)
      You know why Im here. Youve been 
      pushing Mexican dope. And Im gonna 
      shut your ass down. 

Dalton laughs, joined by Marco and the other henchmen.

             DALTON
      How will you do that? Theres ten 
      of us. And ONE of you.

A soft, high-pitched WHINE grows louder -- Nick smiles.

             NICK
      Count again.

BOOOM! Rockets BLAST and the concrete wall EXPLODES!

The Pontiac TURBO-JUMPS through the opening-

Everyone dives. The cars bumper plows into the chest of an 
UNLUCKY HENCHMAN!

The Pontiac power-slides to a stop, tracking gore. 

             KAL
        (gruff, aggressive)
      Hiya, butt-fucks! Nice of me to 
      drop in!

The cars blue grille pulses in rhythm with KALs speech.

(*Note: When KAL talks, the lights on his grille will pulse, 
his volume monitor will bounce, his wipers will inflect. 
Dont act like youve never seen KNIGHT RIDER.)

             NICK
      Right on time, KAL. 

Dalton and his henchmen aim their guns at the car.


                                      4.

             MARCO
      Get your ass out of that piece of 
      shit. Right now!

KALs grille light pulses -- pissed.

             KAL
      Since you asked so nicely...

The cars driver-side window lowers... THE CAR IS EMPTY!

             MARCO
      What the f-

             KAL
      Made ya look!

Both car doors SWING OPEN -- knocking Marco and the henchmen 
back -- and then SLAM SHUT-

             MARCO
      The fucking car talks!

             THUG
      Why would anybody MAKE this?!

The GEAR STICK SHIFTS ITSELF INTO REVERSE!

KAL BACKS UP at full speed, knocking over henchmen like 
bowling pins!

ON NICK

Tugging at his restraints...

A Henchman POPS up and CHOKES NICK from behind!

             NICK
      KAL, gimmme a hand!

ON KALS DASHBOARD

All SIX HENCHMEN display on screen in 8-bit graphics -- KALs 
PHYSICS PREDICTOR calculates a route.

             KAL
      One sec! Papa needs some fuckin 
      mood music.

KALs CASSETTE CAROUSEL spins, popping in a tape -- Playin 
with the Boys by Kenny Loggins BLASTS from his speakers.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Lets dance!


                                      5.

KAL PLOWS through screaming HENCHMEN -- blood and bone spray 
everywhere.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
        (singing along gleefully)
      PLAYIN! PLAYIN WITH THE BOYS!

ON NICK

SLAMMING his head back -- destroying the Henchmans face. 
Bullets whiz by.

             NICK
      Ferchrissakes, KAL! Little help!

ON DALTON

Fleeing for his life. He trips over a body and FALLS. 

Marco turns to see KAL racing towards Dalton.  

             MARCO
      Dad...?!

Dalton looks up just as KALS bumper OBLITERATES HIS FACE. 

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
        (horrified)
      DAD!!!

Marco raises a .45 at KAL, hands shaking.

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
      You son of a bitch...

             KAL
      You gonna shoot me, pussy?

             MARCO
      Not you. 

Marco TURNS, AIMING at NICK still struggling with his ropes.

             KAL
      NO!

TIME SLOWS DOWN as Marco FIRES -- BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! 

KAL dives in the way like a Secret Service agent -- too late. 

Nicks chest EXPLODES in a pink mist. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      NICK!


                                      6.

Marco bolts for the exit, running scared...

KAL drives to Nick, who bleeds out onto the concrete floor. 

             NICK
      Looks like... Im retiring.

HE GASPS, taking his last breath. 

             KAL
      NIIIIIIICK!!!! NIIIIIICK!!!!

Off KALs grief echoing through the warehouse...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

BAGPIPES drone Amazing Grace as MARINES in full dress carry 
Nick Marlins flag-draped COFFIN. A gentle rain falls on 
crowds of WEEPING MOURNERS.

As the Marines lower Nicks casket...

EXT. HILLTOP - SAME

KAL watches from afar, exhaust rumbling heavy with emotion.

             KAL
        (choked up)
      Adios, partner. 

KAL wipes the rain-tears off his windshield and drives off 
into the horizon. 

             PRIEST
	(O.S.)
      Now, to say a few words, Nicholas 
      colleague, Dr. Walter Jameson.

EXT. CEMETERY - SAME

DR. WALTER JAMESON (50s, dry, a bit daffy), a distinguished 
gentleman in turtleneck and blazer, steps up to the lectern.

             JAMESON
      How do we bury a hero? Because that 
      is what Nicholas Marlin was.

Jameson chokes back tears. 


                                      7.

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      Distinguished Princeton graduate, 
      Rhodes Scholar, decorated Navy SEAL 
      and police officer: Nick Marlin was 
      both brilliant and fearless.

HUNDREDS of uniformed POLICE OFFICERS bow their heads.  

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      Although he never married, he 
      touched many, many lives.

PAN ACROSS a line-up of grieving WOMEN (late 20s, all 
perfect 10s), dressed like they just came from work: a 
SECRETARY, a WAITRESS, a sexy SCIENTIST, TWIN CHEERLEADERS...

             JAMESON
	(O.S.)
	(CONTD)
      And yet he leaves behind only one 
      child: Young Douglas.

LAND ON a pint-sized BOY -- chubby face, gentle eyes -- 
stuffed like a sausage into a poly-wool suit: DOUG MARLIN 
(6). His STEWARDESS MOM comforts him. 

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      When I started the KAL Directive, I 
      knew Marlin was the only man for 
      the job. And he proved me right. 
      Truth is, there are no more men 
      like Nick Marlin.

This sentiment lands hard on young Douglas. 

Jameson walks over and solemnly places Nicks Aviators atop 
Dougs nose.

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      Youve got big shoes to fill. Make 
      your father proud.

Out of Dougs grief forms determination:

             DOUG
      I will.

SUPER: Thirty Years Later...

EXT. MIDTOWN LOS ANGELES - THE PRESENT

GRIDLOCK -- HIPSTERS ON BIKES -- HOMELESS TENTS...

                                  CUT TO:


                                      8.

If the 80s were a party, the party is fucking over.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD AND HIGHLAND - DAY

A Police INTERCEPTER pulls up on the curb, clumsily parking.

OFFICERS BOOTS step out of the car. 

HANDS slip into white gloves-

A TRAFFIC VEST is pulled overhead-

And a familiar pair of AVIATORS slide into place. DOUG 
MARLIN. Thirty years older and even chubbier. 

             DOUG
        (into radio)
      Dispatch, Im here. Lets do this.

He hangs up the radio. Then picks it up again.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Sorry, this is Marlin. Doug Marlin. 
      Cant remember if I said that 
      before. Okay. Great. Over.

LATER

A sweat-drenched Doug directs traffic with gusto -- marching 
along with PEDESTRIANS, whistling to hurry them along. 
Annoyed DRIVERS honk at him. 

             IRATE DRIVER
      Nice work, dickhead!

             DOUG
      No need to thank me! Doing my job.

Suddenly, a westbound CAMRY screams up to the intersection-

Doug looks up -- his eyes go wide!

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Look out!

He DIVES on top of a PEDESTRIAN as the car WHIZZES BY.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      You okay?!

The pedestrian, an OLD MAN, lies unconscious.


             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Just, uh, keep lying there. 

Doug runs to his Intercepter, grabbing the radio handset.

                                      9.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
        (into radio)
      Dispatch, this is Officer Marlin. I 
      have a five-oh-five, Blue Camry, 
      California plates. Permission to 
      pursue? Over. 

             DISPATCH
	(V.O.)
      Negative, Doug. You do not have 
      clearance. Let this one go. 

Doug hesitates, watching the Camry shrinking in the distance.

             DOUG
      ...No. Not this time. 

Doug buckles up and fires up the engine.

             DISPATCH
	(V.O.)
      Doug, seriously! Lieutenant warned 
      you-... Youll just fuck it up!

             DOUG
      Tell that to the blood in my veins.

             DISPATCH
	(V.O.)
      Doug? Doug!

Doug shifts into gear, pulling out for the chase-

And is immediately T-BONED by a STATION WAGON -- WHAM!

A PRIUS swerves to avoid him, careening into a LIGHT POST, 
which topples over, SMASHING a line of parked cars!

Doug squeezes out the door, surveying his damaged car.

             DOUG
      Ah, not again!

He turns, rubbing his neck... and sees for the first time the 
MASSIVE CATASTROPHE hes caused.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Ohhhhh, shhhucks.

Sniggering ONLOOKERS point and take pictures.


                                      10.

             DISPATCH
	(V.O.)
      ...Doug?

INT. POLICE STATION - LT. SADOWS OFFICE - DAY

Doug sits across from his supervisor, LT. ROBBIE SADOW (40s, 
burly cockface). Dougs gun and badge rest on the desk.

             LT. SADOW
      Do not pursue! You know what that 
      means, Doug? 

             DOUG
      I know youre angry, Lieutenant, 
      but I cant help but think this 
      suspension is based on politics. 

             LT. SADOW
      Politics is why Captain hired you 
      in the first place. Youre being 
      suspended because youre a fuck-up.

             DOUG
      You didnt have to revoke my 
      drivers license!

Sadow dumps a HUGE file of papers on his desk, grabs one.

             LT. SADOW
      March, 2011: you crashed into a 
      motorcade escorting a senator. May, 
      2012: you rear-ended a short bus at 
      a red light. Last June, you backed 
      your squad car into the middle of a 
      fucking McDonalds!

             DOUG
      Lab results proved that was caused 
      by low blood sugar.

             LT. SADOW
      I swore an oath to protect and 
      serve. Protect means keeping you 
      away from a steering wheel. 

             DOUG
      Please, Lieutenant. I need to make 
      Detective. I was born to do this!


                                      11.

             LT. SADOW
      My dad was a proctologist, Doug. 
      But I dont walk around all day 
      fingering assholes. See what Im 
      getting at? Its over. 

Crushed, Doug watches Sadow store Dougs badge and gun.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Doug, carrying a BOX of personal items, starts his long walk 
home... MEANWHILE...

ACROSS TOWN

A black limousine cruises through the city. Windows tinted.  

EXT. NIGHT CLUB - NIGHT

A LINE of HIP, HOLLYWOOD CLUBBERS smoke, text and Instagram. 
As the limousine pulls up to the curb, they scoff. 

             HOLLYWOOD SKANK
      Ugh. Whos this asshole?

From the limo, MARCO MACE emerges -- older, grizzled, prison-
hardened. But the flat top and mesh tank are unmistakable. 

He casually puts out his cigarette on his OWN TONGUE, and 
struts into the club. 

             HOLLYWOOD SKANK
	(CONTD)
      I think that was Mickey Rourke. 

INT. NIGHT CLUB - NIGHT

Marco strolls through the CROWD, sneering at WAIFS huddled 
over their SMARTPHONES. TWO HENCHMEN open a door for him...

BACK ROOM

Marco takes a seat at a table of CRIMINALS, GANGSTERS, DRUG-
DEALERS and PAID KILLERS. 

             MARCO
      Gentlemen. Glad you could make it. 
      We have a lot of work to do.

                                 FADE TO:


                                      12.

EXT. BIKER BAR - NIGHT

SUPER: East Los Angeles

A BIKER pulls up to a HUGE SHITHOLE of a BAR. Bare-chested EX-
CONS drink, fight, date rape; its ROADHOUSE on meth.

INT. BIKER BAR - SAME

BOOKIES take bets from a rowdy crowd of SPECTATORS in 
bleachers surrounding...

A MASSIVE, ENCLOSED CAGE.

The DIRT FLOOR is littered with scraps of metal, and muddy 
with a dark fluid -- blood?

A RAMP leads into a BACKSTAGE area.

A PROMOTER coolly takes in the raucous crowd with his LACKEY.

             PROMOTER
      You talk to the champ?

             LACKEY
      I talked to him. Hell take the 
      fall in round two.

The Promoter steps into the cage as a MICROPHONE descends 
from the rafters. 

             PROMOTER
      Ladies and gentlemen! Time for the 
      main event!
        (as the CHEERS subside)
      Entering first, weighing in at six 
      thousand, nine hundred pounds, the 
      challenger, MEEEEAT HOOOOKS!

CHEERS! A modified BUICK rolls out, tailpipes spitting fire, 
a war-car from Hell...

Meat Hooks moves to a corner, ready for blood -- its DRIVERs 
face obscured by a STEEL HELMET. 

             PROMOTER
	(CONTD)
      And now, weighing in at a trim five 
      thousand pounds even...

BACKSTAGE

An ETHANOL PUMP feeds gas into an unseen CAR.


                                      13.

With a BELCH, the car ejects the pump and drives forward.

             PROMOTER
	(O.S.)
	(CONTD)
      You may remember him from his days 
      in law enforcement...

The ex-cons BOOOO.

IN THE CAGE -- A blue light pulses through the darkness...

             VOICE
        (slurring-drunk)
      Cocksuckers.

             PROMOTER
	(O.S.)
      Your champion, the Keen Automated 
      Law-Car... KAAAAAAAL!

KAL emerges! Battered, beaten. He takes in the angry crowd as 
they hurl bottles against the cage, showering him in beer.

             KAL
        (to himself)
      Fuck this. 

A BAR WENCH circles the ring holding a Round 1 sign. 

             PROMOTER
      Let the demolition... BEGIN!

DING-DING-DING! IMMEDIATELY as soon as the fight begins-

VROOOOOM! KAL leaps into the air- 

Plowing THROUGH MEAT HOOKS WINDSHIELD-

VAPORIZING the Drivers head!

Dead silence from the stunned crowd.

             PROMOTER
	(CONTD)
        (whispering, to Lackey)
      What the FUCK?!

The crowd BOOS loudly as KAL pulls a slow victory lap. 

             KAL
      Fuck you, white trash! I dont fall 
      for anybody! 

The Promoter gets in KALs face, the cage between them.


                                      14.

             PROMOTER
      Tomorrow, youre getting crushed! 
      Youre dead, KAL! DEAD! 

EXT. BIKER BAR - PARKING LOT - LATER THAT NIGHT

The parking lot gate slams shut, locking in place. 

Leaving the bar quiet... Empty...

KAL stumbles around the lot, drunk on ethanol. 

             KAL
      So this is it. End of the road. 

KAL stops at an old, broken down VW JETTA. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      See ya in the next life, Rachel.

No response.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Nothing?
        (chuckling, lovingly)
      You always were a cunt.

KALs POV ZOOMS IN on a FUEL TANK next to the bar.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Fuck it. My reason for living died 
      a long time ago. Time to face the 
      final curtain like a champ. 

KALs engine sputters to life as he drives to the fuel tank.

ON KALS DISPLAY -- ACTIVATE SELF-DESTRUCT COUNTDOWN: 
60...59...58...

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      So theres this tribe of cannibals, 
      right? The oldest dude in the 
      tribe, hes no longer of use, so 
      theyre gonna eat him and make his 
      flesh into a canoe.

SELF-DESTRUCT COUNTDOWN: 34...33...32...

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      The tribe agrees to give him one 
      last request. So he asks for a 
      fork. 


                                      15.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Then, this crazy old bastard takes 
      the fork... and jabs himself a 
      dozen times in the chest!

SELF-DESTRUCT COUNTDOWN: 15...14...13...

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      The other cannibals are like, 
      Whatre you doing? And he yells, 
      Make a canoe outta this, fuckers!

No reaction from the other cars -- theyre cars.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Cause the canoe... wouldnt 
      float...
        (sigh)
      Nick woulda laughed.

SELF-DESTRUCT COUNTDOWN: 5...4...3...

KALS POV: a MAN in a SKI MASK cuts the lock off the lots 
security fence.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      ...What the fuck? 

SELF-DESTRUCT COUNTDOWN: 2... 1-ABORTED!

KAL activates his SUPER-ZOOM MODE for a closer look:

The Man in the mask picks the lock of a parked CHEVY IMPALA. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      My god... Crime...?

The Impala peels out, bursting through the front gate.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      NOT ON MY WATCH!

KAL revs HARD and flies out of the lot in pursuit.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT 

The Impala HAULS ASS down the empty interstate...

But KAL races forward, EASILY GAINING on the inferior car-

And activates his HYDRAULIC TURBO BOOST for a RAMPLESS JUMP!

             KAL
      Lift off!


                                      16.

KALs two-ton frame FLIES through the air, and...

SLAMS onto the pavement -- right in front of the Impala.

TIME SLOWS DOWN -- the Impala PLOWS into KAL, crumpling -- 
KALs polymers absorb the impact without a scratch- 

BACK TO SPEED -- the Impala SOMERSAULTS over KAL -- CRAAAASH!

KALs engine fans WHINE, his exhaust belching black smoke. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
        (puffing)
      Jesus, my engines dryer than a 
      nuns box.

Gas DRIPS from the Impalas tank. The DRIVER crawls out, 
brushing himself off. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Hands in the air!

The driver approaches KAL, wobbling on shaky legs.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      I said, Hands up!

Strangely, the Driver WAVES cheerfully.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Wh-... why are you waving?

The driver pulls off his ski mask, revealing...

JAMESON! 30 years older and even daffier. Blood trickles from 
a cut on his head. He holds up an ad promoting KALs fight. 

             JAMESON
      I saw your flier!

BOOOOOM -- the Impala behind Jameson explodes!

EXT. ARCO STATION - NIGHT

KAL pulls up to the gas pump, overlooking LOS ANGELES. 

Jameson slides the nozzle into KALs tank and selects the 
Super-Premium Octane. Fuel flows. 


                                      17.

             KAL
      Ohhh... fuck, that is OUTSTANDING. 
      Its been years since Ive been 
      pumped like this. Whereve you 
      been?

             JAMESON
      It took time to find you. But once 
      I did, I knew you couldnt resist a 
      reckless chase. Where the devil 
      have YOU been? 

KALs headlights mist over as he stares into the distance.

             KAL
      Running... 

                                 FADE TO:

FLASHBACK - MONTAGE

-- KAL wanders through A NEPALESE MOUNTAIN RANGE... 

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      ...Trying to escape.

-- Meditates in a MONASTERY... 

-- Hauls in crab nets on a Korean FISHING BOAT...

             KAL
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      ...Trying to forget.

-- In a BURMESE SEX DEN, KAL snorts COCAINE up his tail pipe. 

-- An exotic HOOKER refuses to service KAL.

             HOOKER
      No black car! Too beaucoup!

-- Another hooker, much THICKER, sees KAL and smiles.

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      Fucking the pain away...

-- Thick hooker gyrates on KALs hood as he SWEATS.

             KAL
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      Until finally, I hit rock bottom.

-- SMUGGLERS load a drugged-out KAL into a shipping crate 
along with a dozen cowering young women. 


                                      18.

             KAL
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      I sold myself to human traffickers 
      for a measly 8-ball of crack.  

-- At the Long Beach docks, the crate is opened. Sunlight 
pours in, revealing KAL and the girls, shivering. The 
PROMOTER steps into the light, smiling at KAL.

             THE PROMOTER
      Hello, gorgeous. 

                                 BACK TO:

EXT. ARCO STATION - NIGHT

The pump clicks -- Jameson returns it to its cradle.

             KAL
      Ive been fighting and drinking 
      ever since, praying for the day my 
      body finally gives out.

             JAMESON
      Im sorry, KAL. Mourning for Marlin 
      hasnt been easy for any of us.

             KAL
      You bring me here to wax nostalgic?

             JAMESON
      Youre right, this isnt a social 
      call. Marco Mace is back.

             KAL
      How?! He was doing time for Smack 
      in a Bogota prison. Thats a 
      guaranteed case of Super AIDS. 

Jameson squeegees KALs windshield...

             JAMESON
      Marco was released years ago, AIDS-
      free. Hes used his fathers 
      contacts to rebuild the empire. I 
      cant prove it, but I fear he is 
      preparing something big.

             KAL
      Like what?

             JAMESON
      A massive delivery? A new product? 
      I cant say. Thats what scares me.


                                      19.

             KAL
      I couldnt stop Marco alone. Maybe 
      if Marlin were here... without him, 
      Im just a sagging pair of balls 
      with no cock. 

Jameson leans on KALs hood, staring into his windshield. 

             JAMESON
      What if I told you there was... 
      another Marlin?

             KAL
      ...You CLONED him, You SICK FUCK?! 
      WHO ARE YOU TO PLAY GOD?!?!

             JAMESON
      No! ...No. Remember, Nick had a 
      son? That son is grown up. Hes a 
      police officer, just like his dad.

             KAL
      Just like his dad, huh? 

             JAMESON
      No one else knows Marco like you 
      do. This is a second chance, KAL.

Jameson gently places a hand on KALs hood. 

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      Work with Marlins son, and remind 
      the world how great you are. 

             KAL
      Ya dont gotta fondle my balls if 
      Ive already come. Im in.

             JAMESON
      Excellent!

Jameson hesitates. 

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      There is one thing. The world is a 
      different place now. Your tenuous 
      grasp of social etiquette wont win 
      you any friends.

KALs headlights squint with resolve.


             KAL
      Im not here to make friends; Im 
      here to fuck shit up. Now, lets go 
      get this son of a Marlin. 

                                      20.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

Doug walks home, dripping sweat, out of breath. He STUMBLES, 
and his box of personal items spills. 

             DOUG
      Perfect. 

Doug picks up a framed picture out of a puddle -- his FATHER, 
tanned, handsome, leaning on a car. Dougs bloated face 
reflects in the glass. He sighs. 

A TRASH CAN rattles behind Doug -- he spins around.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Hello? 

He scans the area -- dark, silent... Then-

POP! Two bright headlights rotate on, BLINDING Doug. He 
squints into the glare.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
        (calling out)
      Can I help you? 

The car engine ROARS to life. Revving... 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      If youre looking for trouble, you 
      picked the wrong bleepin guy on 
      the wrong bleepin day.

             GRUFF VOICE
      Doug Marlin! Your time has come!

Tires SQUEAL and SMOKE as the car revs harder-

Terrified, Doug backpedals -- the car charges!

             DOUG
      AHHHHHHH!

Doug RUNS, TRIPPING over his feet. He crab-walks backward -- 
into a DEAD END. 


                                      21.

Doug reaches back and picks up a discarded TWO-BY-FOUR...

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Thats it! You asked for it!

Doug CHARGES at the headlights and SWINGS -- He WHIFFS badly-

And WHACKS his head on the HOOD of the car. 

DOUGS BLURRY POV -- the face of an OLD MAN peers at him...

             GRUFF VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Just like his dad, huh?

             BLURRY OLD MAN
      I told you not to be so rough!

Doug blinks, fading as the car rolls up... AND TALKS.

             KAL/GRUFF VOICE
      Come on... Hes a fucking faker!

Doug passes out...

                              CUT TO BLACK.

INT. KAL - MOVING - DAY

Doug, sprawled out in the passengers seat, slowly revives. 
He turns to see Jameson in the drivers seat. 

             DOUG
      If this is a kidnapping, I have 
      very little money. And I eat at Del 
      Taco, so my organs are worthless. 

             JAMESON
      You dont recognize me, Doug? 
      I was your fathers employer. 

Jameson takes his hands off the wheel with a FLOURISH.

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      And THIS... was his car.

             KAL
        (correcting)
      PARTNER. Im not some field slave.

Recognition dawns on Dougs face.

             DOUG
      Jameson...?


                                      22.

             JAMESON
      Indeed!

             DOUG
      And... this is KAL? 

Awestruck, Doug runs his hands along the retro, multicolored 
DASHBOARD CONSOLE. KAL jerks violently, as if bad-touched-

             KAL
      Whoa! Easy, handsy!

             DOUG
      Sorry! ... I guess Im wondering-

             JAMESON
      Why youre here? In due time...

KAL heads towards an enormous MANSION, accelerating down a 
HIDDEN RAMP that opens into the earth.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - ENTRANCE RAMP - CONTINUOUS

KAL tears around the curves at high speed. 

             JAMESON
      You remember these roads well, KAL!

             KAL
      Like a warm, familiar pussy.

Doug white-knuckle grips his seat, terrified. 

INT. COMMAND CENTER - MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS

KAL power-slides to a stop in the center of the large room.

All around are massive computer monitors, automotive tools, 
industrial equipment -- state of the art... thirty years ago.

Doug gets out of KAL, looking around, awestruck-

             DOUG
      Its the Adam West Batcave.

             JAMESON
      This was our HQ. 

Doug idly pokes at a CONTROL BOARD-

             DOUG
      Where dad spent all his time.


                                      23.

             JAMESON
      Please touch nothing. Everything in 
      here was extraordinarily expensive. 

Doug snaps a handle off of a control board. 

             DOUG
      That was already broken. 

             JAMESON
      KAL? I brought you a surprise. 

A trio of AGING, BUXOM MECHANICS slink into the room -- big 
hair, press-on nails. Past their prime. THE GIRLS.

             DOUG
      Yikes. 

             JAMESON
      You remember the Girls? 

             KAL
      Hello, titties. Lets get serviced!

MONTAGE: Nasty Girl by Vanity 6

-- GIRL 1 works on KAL with a wrench and the hood up, 
spreading her legs over the fender for leverage.

-- GIRL 2 cleans KALs interior, pressing her sagging breasts 
against the steering wheel. 

-- GIRL 3 straddles KALs hood, rubbing the windows 
sensually. KAL moans. 

INT. COMMAND CENTER - MAIN ROOM - LATER

Doug slouches, icing his head wound with a frozen T-Bone. 

             DOUG
      Could I maybe get a towel? This 
      ribeye is melting. 

Jameson hits PLAY on a REEL TO REEL, cueing up FILES on Marco 
Mace -- surveillance footage of crimes, failed police 
pursuits...

             JAMESON
      Marco Mace. The drug lord who 
      killed your father. 


                                      24.

             DOUG
      Why are you showing me this? Im 
      not a cop anymore.

             JAMESON
      Neither was your father when I 
      hired him. But criminals like Marco 
      are best caught by men outside of 
      the system. Men like you. 

             DOUG
      There must be someone better suited-

             JAMESON
      No. There is literally no other 
      person willing to partner with KAL. 
      Your father had a God-given talent 
      for handling that car. My only hope 
      is that even a fraction of that 
      talent is in you, waiting to be 
      unlocked. Work with KAL, take down 
      your fathers killer. Then your 
      superiors will have no choice but 
      to make YOU... a detective.

Doug takes a deep breath, weighing the choice before him.

             DOUG
      ...Okay. Ill give it a shot. 

             KAL
	(O.S.)
      Drink it in, homos. 

REVEAL KAL rolling up with a fresh paint job. He opens his 
doors wide, swiveling like a model. Jameson CLAPS. 

             DOUG
      Lets get started-

             KAL
      Not so fast! 

KALs doors slam shut before Doug can get in.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Ground rules: I will permit you to 
      ride inside of me, and back me up 
      when the job calls for thumbs and 
      legs. But under NO circumstances 
      will you drive. You dont touch the 
      gas pedal, the brake pedal, the 
      steering wheel-


                                      25.

             DOUG
      So, what, my job is to sit? 

             JAMESON
      Your job will be to work with KAL 
      to bring a criminal to justice.

             KAL
      If you can handle that, Marlin.

KAL air-quotes with his side mirrors.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - EXIT RAMP - MOMENTS LATER

Doug buckles up as KAL spirals back up to the surface.

             DOUG
      Should I sit in the passenger seat?

             KAL
      No. I dont want it to look like 
      were dating. 

             DOUG
        (what?)
      Great point. 

KAL TURBO JUMPS through a tunnel opening -- WHOOOSH!

EXT. CITY STREETS - CONTINUOUS / INT. KAL - MOVING

WHAM! Back on the surface. Doug mops cold sweat from his 
brow. He looks green.

             KAL
      You puke in me, I puke in you. 

             DOUG 
      Just gotta crack a window. So 
      whats our first stop?

KAL weaves through traffic effortlessly.

             KAL
	(O.S.)
      The DAs office. Well need access 
      to an informant. Figure out just 
      what that bastard Marco is up to...

                                  CUT TO:


                                      26.

EXT. NEXT-GEN INDUSTRIES - NIGHT

Moonlight reflects off a secure tech research facility 
perched above the South Bay. 

INT. NEXT-GEN INDUSTRIES - SAME

A SECURITY GUARD laughs at the My Two Dads rerun streaming 
on his computer..

TAP-TAP. He hears a KNOCK at the glass doors. 

A WOMAN stands in the shadows, waving coyly. 

             GUARD
      Were closed.

The Woman holds up a package. 

The Guard SIGHS, walks over, unlocks the door-

             GUARD
	(CONTD)
      Lady, were closed-

He STOPS. The Womans entire face is made of latex! A MASK!

The Woman grabs him and CRANKS the Guards head, SNAPPING 
his neck! She takes the Guards KEYCARD and removes her mask, 
revealing... Marco!

INT. NEXT-GEN INDUSTRIES - CONTINUOUS

Marco and FOUR KILLERS stealthily comb the halls -- firing 
bullets into oblivious TECHNICIANS.

An ENGINEER walks out of his cubicle, carrying a Red Bull. 

             NERDY TECHNICIAN
      Hey! What are you- 

Marco grabs him close and SNAPS his neck. 

             YOUNG KILLER
      Really riding that neck snap, huh? 

Marco stares daggers. 

INT. NEXT-GEN INDUSTRIES - CONTINUOUS

Marco and his posse BLOW OPEN a MASSIVE, steel door. 
Revealing a HIGH TECH CHAMBER.


INT. INNER CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

In the center of the room, Marco picks up TWO RED 
MICROCHIPS... and smiles. 

             MARCO
      Beautiful. 

INT. KAL - MOVING / EXT. CITY STREETS - DAY

KAL drives right through a stop sign.

                                      27.

                                  CUT TO:

             DOUG
      That was a stop sign!

             KAL
      Yeah. And those are trees, and 
      thats a mailbox. We playing I 
      Spy now?

             DOUG
      Can I be honest with you?

             KAL
      You have no choice. I have voice 
      stress analyzers, so I can tell 
      when you lie.

             DOUG
      Im beginning to think you might 
      not be the safest driver-

The sound of YELLING turns Dougs head around-

A pair of small-time ROBBERS run out of a CONVENIENCE STORE 
with a pile of lottery tickets, chased by a SCREAMING CLERK. 
They scramble into their KIA FORTE and peel out.

             KAL
      Looks like Christmas came early. 

             DOUG
      Maybe we should stick to the plan, 
      not chase around petty criminals.

             KAL
      I cant fight my programming, Doug. 
      I smell crime; I get hard. 

KAL JETS after the Kia! 


                                      28.

The two cars race side by side.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Alright, Tubbs, your turn.

             DOUG
      My turn what?!

KAL opens Dougs door.

             KAL
      Ill keep it steady, you dive over.

             DOUG
      ARE YOU INSANE?! Its too far!

             KAL
      Its three feet! Be a man!

Doug takes a deep breath, steeling himself -- he LURCHES 
forward, but is TUGGED BACK by his seat belt.

             DOUG
      Oops! Forgot to unbuckle-

             KAL
      Relax, Husky. Ill corral this 
      bronco on the Promenade; should be 
      empty except for a few burn-outs... 

             DOUG
      The Third Street Promenade? ...No-
      no-no-WAIT!

KAL BUMPS the KIA out of traffic onto...

EXT. THE 3RD STREET PROMENADE - CONTINUOUS

SHOPPERS dive out of the way as the Kia veers around the 
sidewalk posts, rampaging through the OUTDOOR MALL-

             KAL
      When the fuck did they build this?!

             DOUG
      Twenty years ago! 

KAL maneuvers around a KIOSK of Israeli hair products.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      LOOK OUT!

He SMASHES the AMPLIFIER of a SINGING HIPPIE!


             KAL
      Hah!

The Kia drives through a HUMAN PYRAMID of JAMAICAN ACROBATS! 
KAL BRAKES, swerving around them. 

                                      29.

             DOUG
      Okay, maybe let this go!

             KAL
      I cant let anything go...

KAL opens a side panel and FIRES a GRAPPLING HOOK and WINCH, 
PUNCTURING the back of the Kia!

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Not with this grip. 

KALs Super Brakes ACTIVATE, CLAMPING into the earth-

The line goes TAUT. The KIA jerks to a stop- 

THROWING the passenger through the windshield. His bloody 
body SKIPS across the sidewalk.

             DOUG
      You killed him!

             KAL
      He didnt buckle up.

KAL rewinds the winch. Doug looks back at the damage they 
caused with disbelief. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Lets take the live one downtown.

             DOUG
      What about the dead one?

KALs glove compartment opens, revealing LATEX GLOVES.

             KAL
      Youll probably want to wear those. 
      Id do it, but... No hands.

EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY / INT. KAL - MOVING

KAL pulls up to the precinct, with the handcuffed ROBBER 
awkwardly stuffed next to Doug.


                                      30.

             DOUG
      This no backseat situation is 
      baffling to me.

             KAL
      Thats why I take no prisoners.

Doug spots Lt. Sadow and some DETECTIVES smoking outside.

             DOUG
      Look, I know these guys, so please 
      try to be inconspicuous, okay? 

             KAL
      Sure, I get it. No problem.

Doug gets out, nodding at Lt. Sadow.

             DOUG
      Excuse me, Lieutenant-

             KAL
	(O.S.)
      Look out, assholes! Here comes the 
      paddy wagon!

KAL pulls up to a circle of COPS shooting the shit.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Lets trade yarns. Best Use of 
      Excessive Force. Whicha you dicks 
      wants to go first?

             COP 1
      Is that a talking car?

             COP 2
      Yeah, remember? From the 80s?

             COP 1
      Wow. Good call, Science. My 
      neighbors kid has leukemia, but 
      no, get the talking car done first.

Sadow takes the perp. He shoots Doug a look.

             LT. SADOW
      Well talk about this later.

Doug swallows and nods.

             ADRIENNE
	(V.O.)
      Doug?


Doug turns -- standing at the entrance of the station is 
ASSISTANT DISTRICT ATTORNEY ADRIENNE ALLEN (29, charming, 
sophisticated, fiercely determined).

                                      31.

             ADRIENNE
	(CONTD)
      Doug Marlin?

             DOUG
      Adrienne? Wow. Hi!

             ADRIENNE
      Its been ages! You look great.

             DOUG
      Me? No. I dont. You do! 

             KAL
      Jesus, be less smooth, Doug.

Adrienne glances around. 

             ADRIENNE
      Who said that?

             DOUG
      That was my car. It talks.

             ADRIENNE
      Oh, my god. Is this KAL? I read 
      about him in your dads case files.

KAL nudges Doug out of the way. 

             KAL
      Its so rewarding to meet a fan. 

             ADRIENNE
      Fan might be the wrong word. You 
      murdered a dozen untried suspects 
      before letting your partner die.

             KAL
      Ha! Sass with an ass: potent combo. 

             DOUG
      KAL, this is Adrienne. Shes the 
      Assistant District Attorney.

             KAL
      Tell me, cupcake, you single?

             DOUG
      KAL! Please!


                                      32.

             KAL
      Sorry! Didnt realize you two were 
      already fuckin. 

             DOUG
      Were not! I mean... Were good 
      friends. Adriennes gotten me out 
      of a jam on more than one occasion. 

             ADRIENNE
      Ha, try nineteen occasions!

             DOUG
        (playful)
      Nineteen IS more than one...

             KAL
      Yeah, retard! Learn to count.

             DOUG
      KAL! Sorry, Adrienne. Look, were 
      doing some PI work, and we were 
      wondering if you could help us out.

             ADRIENNE
      Hmmm... Sounds exciting.

             KAL
        (whispering loudly)
      Look at her nipples hardening. 

             DOUG
      We should talk in your office.

             ADRIENNE
        (ribbing him)
      Sure. Just dont break anything. 

             DOUG
      Hah! YOUD better not either!

Adrienne leads Doug into the courthouse.

             KAL
        (calling after them)
      Dont forget to pull out! Heh. 
        (back to cops)
      Okay, Best Whore Bust. Black guy! 
      You start.

EXT. POLICE STATION - LATER

KAL harangues the considerably thinned-out group of cops.


                                      33.

             KAL
      ...so the Mexican child molester 
      says to the kid, No, THIS is a 
      churro! HAAAA-HAHAHA!

The cops, including a FEMALE and a MEXICAN cop, stare aghast. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      A churro! Get it? 

Doug exits the station and walks over to the group. 

             DOUG
        (re: the other cops)
      Did I miss something here? 

             COP #1
      Just your car being racist.

             KAL
      How can I be racist? Im black!

Mortified, Doug hurries into KAL, slamming the door. 

             DOUG
      Please! Just. Try. To be a little 
      more sensitive.

             KAL
      Why? Did your sensitivity help you 
      finger-blast that DA in there?

             DOUG
      NO! We didnt... finger-blast. But 
      we are meeting for a drink 
      tomorrow. AND she gave me the name 
      and address of an informant with 
      information on Marco.

Doug holds up a piece of Adriennes stationery.

             KAL
        (begrudging)
      Not bad. What do you got?

             DOUG
      His name is Big Nasty. And he runs 
      something called a Side Show? 
      Down in Inglewood.

             KAL
      Oh, good, I was running low on 
      crack.


             DOUG
      See, that-... Thats what we need 
      to work on.

PRE-LAP: Who Run It by Three 6 Mafia...

                                      34.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. SOUTH CENTRAL SHOPPING CENTER - PARKING LOT - DAY

Welcome to THE SIDE SHOW -- a cross between a wild-ass block 
party and an illegal street race. 

ASS and TITTIES everywhere... HOMIES and HOOCHIES dancing, 
drinking, and ogling BOUNCING Caddys, Buicks, and Lincolns.

KAL and Doug pull up slowly to the edge of the mob.

             KAL
      Must be the first of the month. 

TWO DRIVERS ghostride the whip, DANCE-BATTLING alongside 
their cars as the vehicles roll forward in neutral.

KAL notices a growing number of the mob eyeing him warily.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      These assholes look ready for  
      fisticuffs.

             DOUG
      Just let me do the talking.

KAL lowers Dougs window. Doug waves at a GROUP OF THUGS.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      PARDON ME! Would anyone here happen 
      to know a Big Nasty?

The full mob turns. Stone faced. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Hes yay-high, African-American. 
      Like yourselves.

             KAL
        (to Doug)
      Oh, yeah, youre doing great.

A THUG wanders over, cracking his knuckles. 

             THUG #1
      You smell like a fuckin pig. 


                                      35.

             DOUG
      A pig...? OH! Hah, no-no. Im an 
      old friend of his. Knew him back 
      when he was Little Nasty.

An ESCALADE rolls through the crowd, stopping alongside KAL. 
The window rolls down, revealing a GANGSTER (30s, lanky, 
intimidating) -- BIG NASTY. 

             BIG NASTY
      The fuck yall doin here?

             KAL
      Nice minivan. Roomy enough to fit 
      ALL of your illegitimate children.

Big Nasty points at Doug.

             BIG NASTY
      The fuck you just say?! 

             DOUG
      That wasnt me! It was the car.

             BIG NASTY
      ...Yeah? Hows about me and my crew 
      fuck up you AND your talking car? 

             KAL
      Try it, Midnight. We got moves you 
      cant even imagine. 

             BIG NASTY
      ...Oh, YALL got moves?

             DOUG
      Yes, KAL. Do we? 

KALs grille pulses blue. 

             KAL
      Somebody just poked the dragon.

INT. KAL - PARKED / EXT. SHOPPING CENTER PARKING LOT - LATER

Doug sits in KAL, surrounded by spectators. The crowd is 
already restless, booing.

             DOUG
      Okay, lets take it slow at first. 

             BIG NASTY
      Ghost ride that whip!


                                      36.

KAL opens his door, ejecting DOUG out. 

             KAL
      Do it, Fatty...

KALs cassette carousel spins -- a tape locks in place; KAL 
CRANKS the volume up...

A pulsing pop beat BOOMS -- CONGA by The Miami Sound 
Machine. The crowd looks around, confused... and BOOS!

             DOUG
      What the heck is this?!

             KAL
      The Miami Sound Machine! You been 
      living under a rock?!  

             DOUG
      Have you?! Theyre gonna kill us!

             KAL
      Start dancing!

As KAL rolls, Doug shuffles alongside, snapping his fingers 
and shimmying. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      You look like a Polio victim!

On BIG NASTY, shaking his head, losing interest-

             DOUG
      I dont know any dance moves!

             KAL
      Let me search the interweb.

ON KALS SCREEN: a status bar loads the Internet at 14.4 
Speed -- BEEEP-KSSSSH-BEEEP-BOOP-BOOP-BEEEEP...

             DOUG
      Dial-up?!

             KAL
        (proud)
      14.4 modem. State of the art. 

The crowd hurls bottles at them. 

             DOUG
      Oh, God, please hurry!

A grainy video of a girl Twerking appears on KALs screen.


                                      37.

             KAL
      Boom! Follow my lead. 

Using his hydraulics and preternatural rhythm, KAL BOUNCES 
his back-end frenetically, jiggling his bumper. 

The booing quiets...

KAL jumps forward and CLIPS Dougs knee, THROWING HIM onto 
all fours.

             DOUG
      What the-...?

             KAL
      Do this, dummy!

Doug throws his ass in the air, shaking it around. 

THE CROWD GOES NUTS!

Doug and KAL dance side by side, both shaking their asses 
like club hoochies. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      All right, time for the big finish. 

KAL speeds away and turns to face Doug...

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      I call this the Pamchenko Twist!

KAL races toward Doug...

             DOUG
      Wait-wait-wait-KAAAL!

KAL fires his hydraulics and JUMPS and TWISTS through the air-

JUST clearing a TERRIFIED Doug, LANDING on the other side!

Big Nasty claps, impressed. Suddenly, SIRENS BLARE!

             SPECTATOR #1
	(O.S.)
      Its the cops!

             SPECTATOR #2
	(O.S.)
      Five-oh! Five-oh!

The crowd SCATTERS as SQUAD CARS race up, blocking in Big 
Nastys Escalade. Big Nasty runs up to Doug:

             BIG NASTY
      Lets bounce!


                                      38.

Both men jump inside KAL.

             DOUG
      Mr. Nasty? Pleasure to meet you.

             BIG NASTY
      Drive, motherfucker!

They SLAM the doors as KAL takes off.

EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT / INT. KAL - PARKED - DAY

KAL pulls to a stop, turning off his lights-

A SQUAD CAR races past, chasing a Lincoln.

             BIG NASTY
      Whooo, that was fucking CLOSE. 
      Yall saved my ass, no doubt.

Big Nasty pulls a lighter and a FAT JOINT from his jacket.

             BIG NASTY
	(CONTD)
      Yall mind if I spark this?

             KAL
      Just mind the ashes, Cheech.  

Big Nasty lights the joint and takes a HUGE hit -- he 
exhales, filling the car with smoke. 

             BIG NASTY
      Yall got moves; that gets my 
      attention. The car can talk; thats 
      dope as fuck. So whatcha need? 

             DOUG
      Marco Mace. Youve heard of him?

             BIG NASTY
      Yeah. Hard motherfucker. 

Big Nasty offers Doug the joint.

             DOUG
      Oh... No, thanks. 

             BIG NASTY
      Yo, for real? After all that chase 
      shit adrenalizing you, itd be 
      unhealthy NOT to smoke this.


                                      39.

             KAL
      Hes right, Doug. I have a, uh... 
      health-o-meter... thingy. Smoke up. 

Doug nervously accepts the joint.

             DOUG
      Okay. Down the hatch. 

Doug takes a big hit. He COUGHS hard, pupils DILATING. He 
passes the joint back, hands shaking. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
        (coughing)
      Good-... Good... stuff...

             KAL
      HEY! Did you not read the rules?

KALs sun visor flips down, revealing a sticker: ASS, CASH, 
OR GRASS: NOBODY RIDES FOR FREE! 

             BIG NASTY
      My bad, bro.

Big Nasty sticks the joint into KALs AC vent. KAL inhales 
deeply.

             KAL
      Yeahhh, thatll take the edge off. 
      So whats the deal with Marco?

             BIG NASTY
      Hes up to something big. Smugglin 
      cocaine in from Mexico alongside 
      the Zeta cartel. Dangerous cats.

Doug giggles. 

             DOUG
      Cats. Hahah! 

             BIG NASTY
      Right... I dont have the details, 
      but I know his supplier. Paco 
      Pachulia.

DOUG grinds his jaw, TRIPPING BALLS.

             KAL
      Where do we find him? 


                                      40.

             BIG NASTY
      Hes got an apartment in East LA. 
      Wheres your GPS?

             KAL
      ...That some kind of street lingo?

             BIG NASTY
      You dont got satellite navigation? 
      Yo, my girl has that in her HONDA. 
      AND her phone.

             KAL
      No, I do! Uh... Why dont you just 
      tell me Pacos address?

             BIG NASTY
      5100 Hubbard Street.

             KAL
        (Putting on a robot voice)
      Uh... GPS engaged... destination, 
      Pacos Drug Den.

             BIG NASTY
      Word. Time for me to roll, fellas. 

Big Nasty gets out of the car. Smoke BILLOWS out.

             BIG NASTY
	(CONTD)
      Hope you dig those Cocoa Puffs.

             DOUG
      Cocoa Puffs...? 

             BIG NASTY
      That shit we smoked. My own blend. 
      Weed, Molly, shroom-bits, horse 
      tranques... yall drive safe!

Doug watches the door swing shut -- TIME SLOWS DOWN and SOUND 
AMPLIFIES. The windows JIGGLE and GLISTEN like soapy water.

             DOUG
      KAL, I think Im really high. 

KALs display FRITZES, turning PSYCHEDELIC.

KALS POV: The road LAPS his undercarriage like a tongue.

             KAL
      Holy fuck... I think I am, too.
      Lets go before someone sees us.


                                      41.

KAL pulls forward, slowly, unsteadily, starting and stopping-

A beat between KAL and Doug... They LAUGH HYSTERICALLY-

             DOUG
        (then, very serious)
      Punch it.

MONTAGE: I Wanna Dance With Somebody by Whitney Houston

-- KAL and Doug fly down a sidewalk, running over parking 
meters, squealing with joy. 

-- KAL pulls doughnut-turns, mulching a Beverly Hills lawn.

-- KAL swerves down Sunset while a NAKED Doug stands up 
through the sunroof, dancing and singing along with Whitney. 

-- Doug and KAL sit on a HIGHWAY VISTA POINT, watching a 
sunset over the city.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      And THATS where parallel universes 
      come in... Dang. Pretty sunset.

             KAL
      So... beautiful...

INT. MCDONALDS - NIGHT

CLOSED for the night. Headlights approach-

KAL SMASHES through the glass window, power-sliding to a stop 
in front of the counter...

KAL rolls down his window.

             DOUG
      Can we get six burgers... two large 
      fries, and... a gallon of 
      milkshake?

             KAL
      And one Happy Meal toy!

A SCARED Employee pokes his head up, surveying the damage.

                                 FADE TO:

CLOSE-UP - DOUGS FACE

Grimacing as he wakes up. PULL BACK and ROTATE to REVEAL... 


EXT. PAN PACIFIC PARK - CONTINUOUS

Doug and KAL are flipped upside down.

Doug rolls out of the car and VOMITS on the grass.

             KAL
        (coming to)
      Ughhh... Little help here? 

KAL rocks back and forth like a flipped turtle.

                                      42.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. TIJUANA WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

PACO PACHULIA (late 20s, pencil thin beard) leads Marco on a 
tour of the facility. 

The HANDS of DOZENS of employees gather WHITE POWDER as its 
manufactured -- weighing out piles, wrapping it in plastic.

             PACO
      Were fully operational and on 
      schedule. My cocaina, its the 
      best money can buy.

             MARCO
      Good. Ill need a whole lot of it.

Paco and Marco walk amongst TOWERING STACKS of coke. 

             PACO
      Supply is no problem, clearly. But 
      border security got tighter since 
      you were gone, Jeffe. Who do you 
      have that can transport this? 

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. PARKING LOT ROOFTOP - NIGHT

The engine of a JEEP purrs, idling.

             MARCO
	(V.O.)
      Nobody knows his name. Thats one 
      of his rules. But he calls 
      himself... The Courier.

A MAN (30s, muscles cut from marble) sits motionless behind 
the wheel. White suit, black shirt, shaved head. 


                                      43.

THE COURIER.

             PACO
	(V.O.)
      Hes good?

The Courier slides on a pair of BLACK DRIVING GLOVES. 

At PRECISELY 8:03:19pm-

He SLAMS into gear and HAULS ASS toward the edge of the roof!

             MARCO
	(V.O.)
      The best.

EXT. FOUR SEASONS HOTEL - SAME

THREE SECURITY GUARDS push through the exit, escorting the 
PRESIDENT OF BOLIVIA to his LIMOUSINE-

ON THE ROOFTOP

The Courier drives for the roofs edge, watching his SPEED...

At EXACTLY 51 miles per hour-

He LEAPS out, ROLLING away from the speeding Jeep- 

Which SMASHES through the railing, ARCING through the air... 

LANDING RIGHT ON TOP OF THE LIMO -- KA-BOOOOOOSH!

EXT. PARKING LOT ROOFTOP / INT. JEEP - SAME

The EXPLOSION reflects in the Couriers sunglasses.

INT. RITZ CARLTON ANTWERP - SUITE 2415 - DAY

Female MOANS of ecstasy pierce the air...

CLOSE ON the Courier, thrusting with brutal efficiency. His 
face frozen neutral, showing neither pleasure, nor effort.

A KNOCK on the door -- the Courier freezes mid-pump. An 
ENVELOPE slides into the room.  

ON THE ENVELOPE

The Courier opens it, revealing a FAT STACK of CASH, a PLANE 
TICKET to LAX, and a MAP of the California/Mexico border.


                                      44.

He crosses to the closet, passing the FOUR GIRLS lying on the 
bed disheveled, still quivering from orgasms.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. PACOS APARTMENT COMPLEX / INT. KAL - DAY

BINOCULAR POV: sweeping across a FORTRESS-LIKE apartment 
building, patrolled by intimidating GUARDS. 

Parked across the street in KAL, Doug lowers the binoculars.

             DOUG
      Place is crawling with Pacos 
      thugs. No way we can get in there! 

             KAL
      Not with THAT shitty attitude. All 
      you need is a positive mindset. And 
      a pair of Glocks. Then kick down 
      the door, and deliver em to Jesus!

             DOUG
      ORRR... we wait until Paco shows up 
      or leaves, then grab him. 

             KAL
      Ugh. That sounds like a stakeout.

             DOUG
      Yep! My FIRST stakeout! I even 
      brought some entertainment. 

Doug presses play on his iPhone-

In a slow, monotonous narrators voice: 

             IPHONE
	(V.O.)
      AudioBooks presents, The Sun Also 
      Rises, by Ernest Hemingway.

             KAL
      Are you fucking kidding me? 

             DOUG
      Cmon. Itll help pass the time. 
      And you could use a little culture. 

Doug opens a KING SIZE bag of pizza-flavored COMBOS.

                                  CUT TO:

SUPER: FIVE HOURS LATER


                                      45.

The empty bag of Combos rests on the dashboard. Doug sits 
slouched down, cheeks smashed into his palms. 

             IPHONE
	(V.O.)
      ...policeman in khaki directing 
      traffic. He raised his baton.

             KAL
        (groans)
      Im so bored!

             DOUG
      SHHH! 

             IPHONE
	(V.O.)
      "Yes, I said. Isn't it pretty to 
      think so? ...The end.

             KAL
      THATS the end? 

             DOUG
      Maybe it would be more poignant if 
      SOMEONE hadnt kept interrupting!

             KAL
      God, youre lame. I cannot believe 
      you share DNA with Nick.

That strikes a chord. Doug nods, suddenly lost in self-pity.

             DOUG
      Well, that makes two of us.

             KAL
      ...Are you crying? 

             DOUG
      All Ive ever wanted was to be a 
      little bit like my dad. But I cant 
      shoot, I cant fight, I cant 
      drive... You dont know what its 
      like to be a failure, KAL.

KALs emotional sensors register Dougs sadness. 

             KAL
      Look, you think when I was first 
      manufactured I was this awesome? 
      No. It took training. Practice. And 
      now, I can do shit like this.

KALs side panel flips open revealing a mini-rocket LAUNCHER.


                                      46.

             DOUG
      THAT. Is awesome. Can I try?

             KAL
      Wait-

Doug pushes the green button on KALs panel and fires-

Launching a mini-rocket straight into an ASTROVAN! BOOOOOM!

The van EXPLODES in a ball of fire, landing with a crash.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      I said wait! Now you done woke 
      the baby.

Doug turns toward the apartment building to see-

Paco and his THUGS at the entrance, raising weapons.

             DOUG
      Our covers blown! What do we do? 

             KAL
      What I do best...

KALs DASHBOARD TARGETING DISPLAYS the SIX HENCHMEN. He 
calculates optimum trajectory-

             KAL
	(CONTD)
	(CONTD)
      Put on my dancing shoes. 

             DOUG
      What does that mean?

KALs cassette carousel cues up Highway to the Danger Zone, 
maxing out the VOLUME.

KAL kicks into gear, evading heavy gunfire as he plows 
through THUGS screaming in agony-

        	KAL
	(singing along)
	HIIIGHWAY TOOO THE DANGER 
	ZONE!

		DOUG
	ARE YOU CRAZY?! YOU CANT 
	JUST RUN OVER PEOPLE!

KAL zeroes in on Paco, gaining on him with lethal velocity...

             KAL
      Come to papa, Paco...

             DOUG
      Wait, we need him alive!


KAL hydraulically LOWERS his frame and runs through Paco-

Paco flips over the car and lands in a heap!

                                      47.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      You killed him! 

             KAL
      Nahhh. Hell live.

Doug looks back -- Paco writhes in pain.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

Doug ties a THICK rope around KALs rear bumper. 

             KAL
      As long as you dont puss out, 
      hell talk. 

             DOUG
      I still dont see why we had to 
      undress him. 

REVEAL -- Paco, NAKED, rope around his neck, unconscious. 

             KAL
      Its called, Intimidation.

Doug squats down and shakes Paco, who awakes with a START. 

             PACO
      Who the fuck are you?!

             DOUG
      My partner and I are gonna ask the 
      questions. I recommend you answer. 
      Im a nice guy, but him? Hes 
      unstable. Who knows what hell do.

KAL REVS, the blue light on his grille PULSING.

             PACO
      Your partners a car?

             KAL
      DONT test me, asshole!

             DOUG
      What do you know about Marco Mace?


                                      48.

             PACO
        (smiling, defiant)
      ...Who?

             DOUG
      KAL?

KAL yanks Paco off his feet! He lands hard on his back!

Doug stands over the groaning Paco. He opens a can of soda 
and takes a sip. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Mmm, cream soda. Hits the spot. Im 
      happy to share... if you are. 

             PACO
        (rising to his feet)
      Fuck. You. Bitch. 

             DOUG
      Listen, Paco. I like you. You have 
      cool facial hair. Its well 
      groomed, and it looks great.

             KAL
      But if you dont talk, Im gonna 
      RIP YOUR FUCKING HEAD OFF!

KAL REVS, tugging the rope taut.

             PACO
        (choking)
      SHIT! Alright, yes, I provide Marco 
      with certain resources.

             DOUG
      And by resources, you mean drugs? 

             KAL
      Of course, stupid. 

             PACO
      Im just a cog in the wheel. I 
      dont know what hes planning!

             KAL
      YOU LIKE JERKING US AROUND?! Two 
      can play that game, hombre!

             PACO
      No, wait-wait-w-

KAL YANKS Paco back out of frame- 


                                      49.

Doug watches patiently as KAL drags a screaming Paco back and 
forth in the distance...

             DOUG
      Okay. Thatll do. Reel him in.

KAL stops short -- Paco SMASHES face-first into KALs bumper, 
instantly unconscious.

KAL drags a nearly-unconscious Paco back to Dougs feet.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      You were saying? 

             PACO
        (weakly)
      Marco hired a guy to deliver some 
      big fuckin load of drugs. This 
      guy, the Courier, hes the key to 
      Marcos plan. 

             KAL
      WHERE DO WE FIND HIM!

             PACO
      He flies into LAX tomorrow. But you 
      cant beat this guy. Youre a FAT 
      sack of crap, and your car is an 
      ancient piece of shi-

KAL opens his side panel, and shoots TASERS right into Pacos 
dick. ZAP! Paco CRUMPLES, unconscious, crotch smoking.

             KAL
      I think our work here is done.

Doug covers his nose. 

             DOUG
      Ugh, smells like hotdog water.

MOMENTS LATER

Doug stuffs Paco, bound and gagged, inside KALs tiny trunk. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT. KAL - CONTINUOUS

Doug slides in behind the wheel, buckling up.

             KAL
      Hey, nice work back there.  


                                      50.

             DOUG
      You mean it? 

             KAL
      Yeah. I get it wet, you stick it in 
      and finish. 

             DOUG
      Gross. But thanks. Seriously. 

             KAL
      Theres something important we need 
      to do before the Courier arrives. 

Off Dougs concerned reaction...

EXT. SAFETY TOWN USA DRIVING SCHOOL - DAY

Teenagers hesitantly HAND SIGNAL as they drive through a 
driving course mocked up to look like Anytown, USA.

Doug grips the steering wheel of a beat up STUDENT CAR with 
sweaty hands. KALs parked next to him. 

             DOUG
      This is a really bad idea. 

             KAL
      You said you couldnt drive. Were 
      doing something about it. Now, ease 
      off the clutch nice and slow-

Doug POPS the clutch. The car JERKS and stalls. 

             DOUG
      Shit! Im terrible. 

BEEP! A PERSIAN TEEN in a BMW honks at them.

             PERSIAN TEEN
      Can you please move?!

KAL reverses and SLAMS into the BMW. 

             KAL
      One more word, Mohammed, and the 
      only thing youll be driving is an 
      electric wheelchair!

The BMW delicately reverses, waiting patiently. 

KAL deftly maneuvers directly behind Doug, like a father 
holding the seat of his sons bike.


                                      51.

ON KALS DISPLAY: Activate Bumper Lock-On

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Were gonna take this nice and 
      slow, okay? Ive got a hold on you, 
      so nothing bad can happen.

             DOUG
      You promise you wont let go?

             KAL
      I promise. 

Doug pulls forward, KAL trailing -- the gears grind angrily.

             DOUG
      Dang, this is hard...

             KAL
      You got it! Now, shift clean...

KALS DISPLAY: Disengage Bumper Lock. Doug picks up speed. 

             DOUG
      Are you watching me? Im doing it!

Doug goes faster, speeding ahead...

             KAL
      Youre doing great, but you need to 
      turn-turn-turn-turn-BRAKE!

The car stalls and-

WHAM! -- Doug smacks into a light post. His airbag EXPLODES. 
KAL rolls up to see BLOOD SMEARED on Dougs face.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Well. You cant make an omelette 
      without fuckin a chicken. Again!

                                  CUT TO:

Doug drives slowly, while KAL deftly spins around him. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Clutch-gas... clutch-gas! Eyes up, 
      eyes up, dont look down!

Doug stalls.


             KAL
	(CONTD)
      ...Better. Again!

                                      52.

                                  CUT TO:

Doug steers and brakes clumsily. KAL idles in the background 
next to a TEENAGE SEXPOT waiting for her lesson. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      After youre done, how bout we 
      celebrate with a naked test drive? 

             GIRL
      ...Id probably have to ask my dad? 

             KAL
      I get that. Dad, whaddaya think?

REVEAL the girls father sitting next to her, outraged. 

In the background, Doug loses control and stalls.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
        (calling out)
      Awful! Again!

Doug drives along in third gear, avoiding the cones...

                                  CUT TO:

             KAL
	(CONTD)
        (impressed)
      Hey... Yes! Now, open it up!

The two cars race side by side!

    		KAL
	(CONTD)
	YEEEE-HAAAA!

		DOUG
	YEEEE-HAAAA!

At the finish line, KAL power-slides to a perfect stop.

Doug pulls on the e-brake, and steers into a skid -- 
screeching to a clumsy halt!

Doug looks over at KAL, all smiles. 

             DOUG
      That was awesome!

             KAL
      Nice job, junior! A little sloppy 
      on the dismount, but nice.


                                      53.

             DOUG
      So youll let me drive you now?

             KAL
      Hey! Dont get greedy. You took off 
      the bra, sure, but keep your dick 
      in your pants. You keep up that 
      driving, though, you just might 
      make Detective.

Doug, smiles, looking at KAL in a new light. 

Dougs phone BUZZES -- CALENDAR REMINDER: Date w/Adrienne

             DOUG
      Oh, shoot! I totally forgot about 
      my date with Adrienne.

As Doug gets in KAL...

             KAL
      Lets go get you ready. Hair, 
      clothes, groom your man parts...

             DOUG
      Listen, this date is important to 
      me. So, just for tonight, could you 
      be a normal car? No talking?

             KAL
      Yeah, of course, buddy. You pre-
      program my autodrive, and Ill 
      activate my Sleep Mode. My brain 
      will be off. Itll be like Im not 
      even there.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. ADRIENNES APARTMENT - NIGHT

DING-DONG. Adrienne opens the door to reveal Doug, wearing a 
THICK turtleneck, sharkskin jacket, and tight leather pants. 
A chubby copy of Nick. 

             DOUG
      Mlady.

             ADRIENNE
      Wow, you look... warm.

Doug tugs at his turtleneck, already SWEATING.


                                      54.

EXT. ADRIENNES APARTMENT - NIGHT

Doug leads Adrienne up to KAL, but she hesitates.

             ADRIENNE
        (re: KAL)
      Are you sure this is a good idea? 

             DOUG
      Of course. KALs in Sleep Mode. 
      Tonight, its just a man, a woman, 
      and Bartles & James. 

Doug holds up wine coolers. Adrienne smiles, relieved.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. HIGHWAY VISTA POINT - NIGHT

The same spot where KAL and Doug watched the sunset; the 
lights of the city twinkle.

Adrienne and Doug sit in KAL, drinking and laughing. He 
studies a PHOTO on Adriennes smartphone. 

             DOUG
      Wait, this little fatty in a cop 
      costume was you?!

             ADRIENNE
      Yep, sadly. Thirty pounds ago.

             DOUG
      What happened, cancer?

             ADRIENNE
      NO! Puberty.

             DOUG
      What kind of little girl wants to 
      be a cop?

             ADRIENNE
      I guess I blame TJ Hooker.

             DOUG
      Shatner was so cool, right?!

             ADRIENNE
      The coolest. 

             DOUG
      So what happened? 


                                      55.

             ADRIENNE
      My dad got sick. He always wanted 
      to be a lawyer, which meant he 
      always wanted ME to be a lawyer.

             DOUG
      So you outgrew the whole cop thing? 

             ADRIENNE
      I guess I just... did what I was 
      supposed to do for so long that I 
      gave it up. Though I am jealous of 
      all of your adventures.

             DOUG
      Well, you could probably come with 
      us sometime. But youd have to wear 
      that cop uniform. 

She laughs. He does too, snorting. 

             ADRIENNE
      That I definitely outgrew. 

             DOUG
      Well, um... I think youd make a 
      very sexy police officer.

             ADRIENNE
      Oh, you do, do you?

He wipes his sweating forehead.

             DOUG
      You could arrest me any time.

They draw closer together, a kiss imminent -- sweat drips 
from Dougs hair and nose. 

             ADRIENNE
      Sure you dont wanna take off that 
      jacket? Its eighty degrees out.

             DOUG
      Its an ensemble. KAL says the sum 
      is greater than the parts.

             ADRIENNE 
      Be careful with him, okay? You two 
      are making progress, but I dont 
      want you to end up like your Dad. 

KAL GRUMBLES -- Doug smacks the dash, silencing KAL.


                                      56.

             DOUG
      Truth is, Im not my dad. And 
      neither are you. Maybe if we help 
      each other, we can both start 
      living our own lives.

A tender moment between them -- real understanding. They pull 
together and KISS. 

Softly at first, then more intensely, scrambling to disrobe 
themselves and each other. 

Adrienne pulls off her top -- very sexy bra.

Doug pulls off his turtleneck -- sweat-MATTED chest hair.

Adrienne struggles to pull off Dougs TIGHT leather pants. 

A rumbling MOAN is heard. Adrienne pauses. 

             ADRIENNE
      I love how vocal you are.  

             DOUG
      That wasnt-

             ADRIENNE
      Shhh... its okay. I like it.

She climbs on top of him, and they begin to rock. Faster. 
Building speed. When-

The sexy saxophone intro of Careless Whisper by WHAM! plays-

             ADRIENNE
	(CONTD)
      Did you turn on the radio? 

             KAL
      Shhh... Do what feels right...

   		ADRIENNE
	(CONTD)
	OH, MY GOD!

		DOUG
	GAH!


Adrienne JUMPS back; Doug full-body-twitches as he COMES.

             DOUG
        Unnnhhhhh!

                                  CUT TO:


EXT. CVS / INT. KAL - LATER

Doug sprays and wipes KALs upholstery with cleaning product. 
Adrienne stands behind him, not amused.

                                      57.

             DOUG
        (to Adrienne)
      Sorry again about this.

             KAL
      Apologize to ME! IM the one you 
      shot your man juice all over. It 
      smells like mushrooms in here!

             DOUG
      What happened to Sleep Mode?!

             KAL
      I was trying to set the mood!

             ADRIENNE
      PLEASE just take me home. 

KALs monitor flashes with an incoming urgent message-

A FAX prints out slowly and noisily.

             KAL
      No time for that. Doug, I just got 
      a hit on an LAX security camera of 
      a suspicious figure, 98% match for 
      the Courier. We gotta bolt!

Doug grabs the fax. 

             DOUG
      He must have got in early! Weve 
      gotta go after him.

             ADRIENNE
      Wait, THE Courier? 

             DOUG
      Youve heard of him?

             ADRIENNE
      Hes an international terrorist 
      wanted in fifteen countries. If 
      youre going after him, then Im 
      coming with you!

Doug sees an opportunity.


                                      58.

             DOUG
      Yes! This is her case-OUR case! All 
      three of us. She has to come along.

             KAL
      FINE! God, youre whipped.

KAL powers up. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Alright, tits. Lets go over the 
      ground rules-

             ADRIENNE
      Will you please drive already?!

             KAL
      I see why you two get along. You 
      both have loads of spunk.

KAL activates TURBO-BOOST and TAKES OFF like a bullet. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      But bark at me again, and Ill 
      eject you out the fucking roof.

INT. KAL - MOVING - MOMENTS LATER

KAL blitzes through side streets. Adrienne attempts to 
navigate on her smartphone GPS. 

             IPHONE
	(V.O.)
      Left turn ahead. 

             DOUG
      Left turn, KAL!

KAL swings right. 

             KAL
      That bitch is crazy. NEVER take 
      Overland after 5 pm. 

Adrienne smirks.

EXT. LAX AIRPORT - NIGHT

The Courier exits the terminal, heading for an MLK Mercedes.


                                      59.

INT. KAL - SAME

Adrienne spots the Courier.

             ADRIENNE
      Thats him! Slow down!

             KAL
      No need. Hes got this. 

Doug awkwardly leans out his open door, preparing to leap 
when -- his SWEATY PANTS SLIP against the door-

             DOUG
      Dang it!

Doug FLIES from the car-

And LANDS ON THE COURIER, taking the brunt of the fall. The 
Courier quickly gets back up- 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
        (from the ground)
      Freeze...

The Courier SWINGS a huge BOOT into Dougs ribs. 

             KAL
	(O.S.)
      Outta my way, lady!

THE COURIERS POV: A long-haired SURFER DUDE dives out of the 
way as KAL plows through his SUITCASES and-

WHAM! KAL slams into the Courier, knocking him unconscious.

INT/EXT. KAL - MOVING - NIGHT

MUSIC BLASTS. The Courier, head covered in a black hood, sits 
in between Doug and Adrienne, who sing along with the radio.

             DOUG, KAL, AND ADRIENNE
        (singing)
      YOURE THE BEST! 

             ADRIENNE
        (fully into it)
      AROUUUUND!

             DOUG
      NOTHIN-SOMETHIN-SOMETHIN, KEEP 
      YA DOWN!


                                      60.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

KAL SCREECHES to a stop in front of Lt. Sadow and his 
detectives. Doug jumps out, full of piss and vinegar. 

             DOUG
      Hey, Sadow!

He muscles THE COURIER out of the car, ripping off the hood.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      I got Marco Maces drug courier. 
      HOW DOES MY DICK TASTE?! 

             KAL 
        (to Adrienne)
      They grow up so fast. 

Lt. Sadow reluctantly waves a few COPS over to the Courier-

             LT. SADOW
      Take him to interrogation. 
        (to Doug)
      Lucky break. 

             DOUG
      Ill lucky break your face. 

CAPTAIN LOWE (60s, barrel-chested, regal) heads for Doug.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Marlin? 

Doug turns around, at attention. Lowe offers his hand.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
	(CONTD)
      Im big enough to know when Ive 
      misjudged someone.

Doug shakes it, smiling.

             DOUG
      Wow, thank you, sir.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Why dont we head in, chat about 
      your future? 

             DOUG
      Great! Let me grab KAL.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Oh, why ruin the moment? 


                                      61.

KAL watches as Lowe and Doug head inside, laughing, slapping 
each other on the back. 

             ADRIENNE
      I gotta head in. You okay out here? 

             KAL
      Me? Fuck, yeah. Im always okay.

She nods, walking away. KAL sighs. All alone. 

INT. POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The stoic Courier sits in front of a camera; Adrienne paces.

             ADRIENNE
      It doesnt add up. Youve killed 
      world leaders, transported nukes. 
      Youre not a drug mule. 

             THE COURIER
      And yet, here we are. 

             ADRIENNE
      Whats the shipment?!

He smiles.

             THE COURIER
      Forget about the what. Worry 
      about the how.

A DEFENSE ATTORNEY (40s, balding) barges in...

             DEFENSE ATTORNEY
      My clients done talking-

             ADRIENNE
      What are you talking about?! 

The Courier smiles.

             THE COURIER
      A game-changer, Ms. Allen.

EXT. POLICE STATION / INT. KAL - SAME

KAL follows the conversation with his surveillance equipment. 


                                      62.

             DEFENSE ATTORNEY
	(V.O.)
      Thats enough! You want to 
      interrogate him, you can do so 
      after we confer-

             KAL
        (thinking)
      ...son of a bitch...

EXT. POLICE STATION - LATER

Doug walks out of the station, whistling. KAL rounds the 
corner, SCREECHING to a stop in front of him.

             DOUG
      Whoa! Hey, buddy. 

             KAL
      While you were in there fingering 
      Captains asshole, I got us a tip -- 
      the Courier says Marco is planning 
      some kind of game-changer. We have 
      seven days to figure this out. 

             DOUG
      Jesus. We gotta get back to base 
      and regroup.

             KAL
      Agreed.

Doug tries the door handle -- locked. 

             DOUG
      KAL?

KAL lowers his window.

             KAL
      Youre a big hero. Time for you to 
      jump in.

             DOUG
      Cmon, KAL. 

             KAL
      YOU cmon! You wanna be like your 
      Dad? It starts right here, right 
      now! Now, jump in.

             DOUG
      This is so stupid. 


                                      63.

Doug steps back, runs, and throws one foot up into the open 
window, MASHING his nuts against the frame. He groans.

             KAL
      Ooh, right in the vagina slit, huh?

Doug backs his ass into the car, but his bulk catches in the 
window, his head and one foot sticking out.

             DOUG
      I think-... I think Im stuck.

KAL shifts and rolls forward.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      What are you doing?

             KAL
      Fixing the problem.

Doug struggles as KAL accelerates to full-speed...

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      STOP-STOP-STOP-STOP-STOP! 

Doug screams as KAL drives off...

INT. COMMAND CENTER - NIGHT

Doug still hangs out the window as KAL power-slides to a stop 
in front of Jameson. Doug tumbles into the car awkwardly.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      There. Youre in.

Shaken, Doug stumbles out of the car-

             DOUG
      What the HECK was that?!

             KAL
      Teamwork.

             DOUG
      Listen, jerk-

             KAL
      Youre out of line, Junior! Im 
      gonna cool off before I do 
      something youll regret. Girls!

KAL follows the milf-y mechanics to the repair shop. 


                                      64.

             DOUG
      What is wrong with that car?! All 
      of a sudden he gets violent and 
      moody for no reason! 

             JAMESON
      He can be... mercurial.

             DOUG
      Also, the whole sex drive thing? 
      Seems really weird and unnecessary. 

             JAMESON
      To understand KAL, you have to know 
      where he came from. 

Jameson stares wistfully into space. Doug looks confused. 

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      As a young engineer, my dream was 
      to change the world...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. JAMESONS MANSION - BEDROOM - NIGHT / FLASHBACK

YOUNG JAMESON stands at a gravestone... 

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      My wife had just died-

             DOUG
	(V.O.)
      She was murdered? And you were 
      motivated by her memory and thirst 
      for revenge?

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      God, no! She was an emasculating 
      shrew who died of lupus. But I had 
      a lot of time on my hands. 

Young Jameson lies in bed, watching David Hasselhoff on TV. 
He suddenly grabs a pen and scribbles. 

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      The idea came to me during a Knight 
      Rider marathon.

INT. MILITARY WAREHOUSE - DAY - FLASHBACK

Young Jameson strolls through the aisles, marking items.


                                      65.

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      I procured state-of-the-art 
      technology to fulfill my vision.

             DOUG
	(V.O.)
      Was that legal, copyright-wise? 
      Ripping off Knight Rider?

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      I dont know. What am I, a lawyer?

EXT. JAMESONS MANSION - DRIVEWAY - FLASHBACK

Young Jameson proudly watches KAL take his first steps.

             YOUNG JAMESON
      Good, KAL! 

             KAL
        (robotic monotone)
      Thank you, sir.

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      I knew there was something missing. 
      KAL needed to learn to be an 
      officer of the law.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - FLASHBACK

Young Jameson pulls down a screen and cues up a projector. 

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      I taught him the same way any 
      American parent teaches their 
      child. With television. 

KALs light pulses bright as he drinks in a LOOP of police-
themed TV shows and movies.

ON SCREEN:

-- Clint Eastwood in SUDDEN IMPACT indiscriminately 
slaughters bad guys. 

-- Sylvester Stallone in COBRA, same deal.

-- Tom Selleck in MAGNUM, PI, forcefully KISSES a WOMAN.


                                      66.

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      KAL did learn loyalty and bravery. 
      But he also learned to be violent, 
      misogynistic, and sexually 
      aggressive. His experimental-stage 
      Artificial Intelligence took these 
      lessons to their extremes.

             YOUNG KAL
      Fuck... yes...

Young Jameson frowns.

             JAMESON
	(V.O.)
      He needed a partner. Someone to 
      round him out, to make him better. 

INT. COMMAND CENTER - FLASHBACK

NICK MARLIN in his prime struts up to KAL: the first meeting.

Car and Driver regard each other warily... and smile.

MONTAGE: Drive the Theme from HARDCASTLE & MCCORMICK

-- Nick joyrides in KAL, chasing after MASKED BANK ROBBERS.

-- Nick PUNCHES the lights out of a THUG -- KAL runs over the 
Thugs legs. Nick gives a thumbs-up. 

-- Nick makes love to LONI ANDERSON -- KAL RECORDS a SEX 
TAPE. Nick gives a thumbs-up to camera. 

-- In the HOSPITAL, Nick poses for a PHOTO with his NEWBORN 
SON, Baby Doug. But then his WRIST COMMUNICATOR buzzes -- 
crime alert! Nick hands Doug to his MOM and runs off... Baby 
Doug wails. Outside the hospital, Nick JUMPS INTO KAL. 

                                 BACK TO:

INT. COMMAND CENTER - NIGHT - THE PRESENT

Jameson stares off into the next room, where KAL giggles and 
moans as hes serviced. 

             JAMESON
      Perhaps you will be the one to help 
      KAL fulfill his potential. 


                                      67.

             DOUG
      Hed better fulfill it soon. The 
      Courier says Marco is planning a 
      game-changing move.

Jameson turns, concerned.

             JAMESON
      What do you think he means?

             DOUG
      I was hoping youd know. The FBI is 
      transporting Paco and the Courier 
      into a maximum security facility 
      for interrogation. Maybe well get 
      our answers there. 

             JAMESON
      Accompany the police escort and 
      ensure this transfer goes smoothly. 

Doug nods, heavy with responsibility. Turns back.

             DOUG
      So can KAL actually HAVE sex? 

             JAMESON
      No. He has no penis. 

             DOUG
      Right. Must be frustrating.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

A cadre of heavily-armed COPS shove Paco and the Courier into 
the back of a police TRANSPORT VAN.

             COP 1
      Lot of trouble for two assholes.

             THE COURIER
      I agree. 

The Courier smiles; its chilling. 

Doug and KAL watch on...

             DOUG
      Listen, KAL... Im sorry I lost my 
      cool at the command center. Youre 
      only trying to teach me, in your 
      own misguided, hostile way. 


                                      68.

             KAL
      Have you learned nothing? Real men 
      NEVER say theyre sorry. They say, 
      Fuck you, and, Go fuck 
      yourself, and, There were bullets 
      in that fucker when I found him!

The police van shifts into gear and pulls out onto the road, 
led by a BLACK SUV -- KAL brings up the rear...

             DOUG
      If were ever gonna make it back on 
      the force, you need to get in line.  

             KAL
      Uh huh. Im guessing this has 
      something to do with you and the 
      Captains secret circle jerk?

             DOUG
      Thats what this about? Can we 
      please talk about this?

KAL jacks up the radio -- Too Shy by Kajagoogoo.

             KAL
      WHATS THAT?! CANT HEAR YOU!

The convoy moves onto the...

EXT. HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS / INT. KAL - MOVING

Doug shouts over the radio:

             DOUG
      Okay, Ill admit. It felt good to 
      get recognition for once!

Dougs seat flies all the way back.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Oh, REAL mature!

Doug re-adjusts his seat.

             KAL
      You didnt have to Milli Vanilli 
      me! A decent person would give 
      credit where its due.

             DOUG
      Because youre always so selfless?!


                                      69.

Nobody notices a FLATBED TOW-TRUCK, carrying a TESLA RIMAC 1, 
racing toward the intersection...

             KAL
      After everything Ive done for you? 
      Marlin wouldve never left me 
      holding my dick. 

             DOUG
      You HAVE no dick-

WHAAAAAAAM!

The Tow Truck SLAMS into the side of the lead SUV, knocking 
it off the road -- KAL swerves. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      What was that?!

INT./EXT. POLICE VAN / INT. KAL - SAME

             VAN DRIVER
      Whoa-SHIT!

             THE COURIER
      Gentlemen. Thats my ride. 

The Police VAN DRIVER slams on the brakes. Paco and the 
officers tumble. 

The Courier leaps up -- BRUTALLY dispatching the cops with 
his ELBOWS and FEET.

He grabs a set of keys, unlocks his cuffs, and hops out the 
van door. Paco follows cautiously-

The Van Driving Cop waits, gun aimed-

             VAN DRIVING COP
      Move and youre dead, asshole!

             THE COURIER
      On the contrary. 

BLAM! A bullet pops the Cops skull. The unseen TOW TRUCK 
DRIVER aims from his window- 

ON KAL 

Doug watches as -- BLAM! -- a second bullet RIPS through 
Pacos skull.


                                      70.

             KAL
      Ambush!

             DOUG
        (gagging)
      Oh god, his brains...!

Doug VOMITS all over KAL. 

             KAL
      God damn it, Doug!

ON THE COURIER

Jumping into the Tesla drivers seat as the truck bed lowers. 

INT./EXT. TESLA - CONTINUOUS

The TESLA starts with a WHINE, reversing off the flatbed-

Both vehicles speed forward.

INT. KAL - MOVING - SAME

As KAL gives chase, Doug grabs the CB:

             DOUG
	(INTO CB)
      Calling all units, this is-

KAL turns the CB off. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      What are you doing?!

             KAL
      Crutches are for cripples! We can 
      handle these assholes ourselves.

The Tesla SCREAMS past the tow truck, blitzing down the road. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Oh, fuck. Hes fast-

             DOUG
      We have to split up.

             KAL
      Here, stay in touch with this.

KAL pops opens a compartment from his dashboard, revealing a 
MASSIVE WRISTWATCH COMMUNICATOR. 


                                      71.

             DOUG
      Jesus, this things so heavy.  

             KAL
      Maybe if you piss sitting down!

KAL accelerates, pulling up alongside the flatbed...

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      I dont know, do you think you can 
      make that jump?

             DOUG
      I dont know, do YOU think you can 
      catch that Tesla?

             KAL
      I dont know, do YOU think you can 
      hurry the fuck up?!

Doug unbuckles... leans out, preparing-

             DOUG
      On the count of three-

             KAL
        (quickly)
      One-two-three-jump!

             DOUG
      No-wait!

KAL bucks toward the tow truck, flinging Doug across the gap!

Doug falls short! He grabs a RESTRAINT STRAP, dangling from 
the truck over the speeding road. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      KAL!

KAL revs hard, lagging behind the nimbler Tesla. His engine 
belches black smoke. A warning gauge FLASHES on his monitor.

             KAL
      Keep it together...

ON THE COURIER

Flitting through the opposing traffic with ease, modern 
electronics plotting his path... 

ON DOUG

Pulling himself up onto the flatbed of the tow truck.


                                      72.

             DOUG
        (into wrist-communicator)
      You left me hanging!

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      I got my own shit to worry about!

Doug crawls towards the truck cab. 

The Ski Masked Driver YANKS the wheel, FISHTAILING!

Dougs thrown from side to side. He digs in, riding a bronco.

ON THE TESLA

As it cuts across the highway, moving with traffic again. 

ON KAL

Gears grinding, engine screaming in protest-

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      You want moves? I got moves!

KAL tries to activate his turbo jump!  Warning indicators 
flash: low power, low fuel.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Fuck!

ON DOUG

Losing his grip when THE FLATBED LOWERS!

             DOUG
      Ohhh, CRUUUUD!

Doug LEAPS! He BOUNCES off a car, thrown to the shoulder.

ON KAL

ALL of his warning gauges beeping LOUDLY.

             KAL
      Dont tell me no!

KAL HITS the turbo jump again. It MISFIRES!

KAL flips out of control, RICOCHETTING off cars like a 3 ton 
pinball. He comes to a stop and...

WHAM! The Tow Truck SLAMS into him!


                                      73.

KALS POV -- SLOW MOTION -- the world flipping and turning. 
Cars crashing into each other. The Tesla pulling away.

KAL comes to a rest, smoking, hissing, leaking fluid.

The Tow Truck and the Tesla escape in the distance as SIRENS 
approach, growing LOUDER...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. HIGHWAY - HOURS LATER

SQUAD CARS and AMBULANCES are everywhere. PARAMEDICS attend 
to the DOZENS of injured BYSTANDERS.

Adrienne pushes through the crowd, searching for...

             ADRIENNE
      Doug?!

She turns to see Doug and runs up to embrace him. 

             ADRIENNE
	(CONTD)
      Jesus! What happened? 

             DOUG
      It was an ambush. A second driver 
      who knew our exact route and 
      timing. The Courier, he... escaped.

Adrienne pulls back, but Doug hangs onto the hug.

             ADRIENNE
      How? We had SWAT response teams 
      standing by.  

Doug looks past her at KAL limp-driving through the PRESS.

             DOUG
      KAL convinced me not to call it in. 
      Man, I needed this hug right now. 

She pushes him off with force. 

             ADRIENNE
      Doug! How could you be so dumb? 

             DOUG
      Please, I tried-

             ADRIENNE
      Its not the 80s! And youre not 
      your dad! There are rules!  


                                      74.

             DOUG
      I promise, well make it right. 

             ADRIENNE
      I need you to stay out of this 
      case... and stay out of my life.  

She walks off, leaving him alone.  

ON KAL 

Arguing with Sadow. 

             LT. SADOW
      You wrecked half the city and let 
      the prisoner escape!

             KAL
      Me? You had rookies in the back of 
      that van playing dick-swords!

             DOUG
      I need to talk to you.

As Sadow walks away....

             LT. SADOW
      Were not through!

             KAL
      IM HARD JUST THINKING ABOUT IT! 
        (to Doug)
      Can you believe that joker? He 
      actually thinks I fucked up-

             DOUG
      Adrienne broke up with me.

             KAL
      Im sorry, but she was bringing us 
      down. Plenty of cooze in the sea.

             DOUG
      My life is ruined, and its because 
      YOU messed it all up!

             KAL
      Way to throw the car under the bus. 
      Especially after that crack about 
      my dick. You KNOW Im sensitive 
      about that. If your Dad could see 
      you now, hed WEEP with 
      embarrassment.


                                      75.

             DOUG
      But he cant, can he? And whose 
      fault is that? 

KALs grille flashes blue. That one stung. 

Doug turns away, thinking. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Captain Lowe offered to make me 
      detective today. Im gonna accept.

             KAL
      Good, makes our job official.

             DOUG
      Not US. Just me. He says youre a 
      liability. Maybe hes right.

As Doug walks away...

             KAL
      Good! Ive been carrying you long 
      enough! Youre gonna fall on your 
      ass! You hear me?! Youre gonna 
      crash and BURN!

KAL reverses, and limps away, engine CLICKING, leaking oil.

MONTAGE: How Am I Supposed to Live Without You? by Michael 
Bolton

-- Doug straightens his tie, dressing for work. He notices 
the WRISTWATCH COMMUNICATOR and angrily throws it in a 
DRAWER.

-- Doug steps onto the city bus. He jams himself between an 
UNWASHED, TWITCHING SCHIZO and a SLEEPING FAT GUY. He sighs. 

-- KAL drinks deeply from an ETHANOL PUMP... and enters a 
STREET RACE, driving past all the far more advanced vehicles.

-- A VIN DIESEL-WANNABE sniggers at KAL, pointing -- others 
join in; furious, KAL RAMPAGES into the fleeing crowd.

-- Sadow drops a MOUNTAIN of PAPERWORK on Dougs desk, giving 
Doug the finger as he walks away. 

-- Doug sits in his still-fucked up squad car, eating lunch 
alone. He hits the SIRI BUTTON on his iPhone -- BA-DOOP!

             DOUG
      SIRI, tell me about the benefits of 
      an oriental massage. 


                                      76.

             SIRI
      Im sorry. I dont understand.

             DOUG
      Handjobs. Youre supposed to say 
      handjobs.

             SIRI
      Okay- ...Doug. I know that now.

Doug sighs -- its just not the same.

-- KAL rolls to the edge of an OCEAN CLIFF, pondering death. 
As Michael Bolton breaks into the chorus, KAL SINGS ALONG.

-- Doug, in HIS APARTMENT, calls Adrienne...

-- A PICTURE of Doug posing awkwardly pops up on Adriennes 
PHONE -- she hits IGNORE. She turns back to Marco Maces 
CASE FILE, comparing a RECEIPT found on The Courier to an 
ADDRESS for an old Dalton Mace company. Theres a match -- a 
SOFA CLEANING COMPANY located in EAST LA. A huge break!

-- KAL TILTS UP and SPRAYS a stream of OIL on a fire hydrant. 
A POWER-WALKER slows to look. 

             KAL
        (slurring)
      Fucks your problem, Fanny Pack?!

KAL passes out in front of the hydrant, SNORING LOUDLY.

-- A plus-sized parking enforcer (OFFICER PAM) steps out of a 
tiny METER-MOBILE, sizing KAL up.

-- A PARKING BOOT clamps on KALs wheel. He startles awake.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      What the FUCK!

             OFFICER PAM
      Section 21, Code 3. You parked in 
      front of the wrong fire hydrant.

             KAL
        (sweetly)
      Cmooon... Dont you know who I am?

             OFFICER PAM
      Yeah. An old-ass hoopty with a 
      court date.

Officer Pam slaps a ticket on KALs windshield. 


                                      77.

KAL windshield-WIPES it off. 

             KAL
      Oops. It fell. 

She replaces it. Wipe. Replace... Wipe-

             OFFICER PAM
      Dont MAKE me bring you downtown.

             KAL
      Try it, Kool Aid. 

Officer Pam JUMPS on KALs hood, hanging on as he bucks.

             OFFICER PAM
        (into radio)
      OFFICER REQUESTING BACKUP!

             KAL
      YOU CANT TREAT ME LIKE THIS! IM A 
      FUCKING LEGEND!!!

As SIRENS approach...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. MEXICAN DRUG WAREHOUSE - DAY

Marco follows the SOUND of WELDING...

To a COVERED WORKSTATION where MECHANICS are hard at work. 

             MARCO
      We go tonight. Everything on 
      schedule? 

             LEAD MECHANIC
      Seor. There could be some 
      unexpected delays in-

Marco whips out his gun and FIRES into the Lead Mechanics 
chest. He aims at another quivering mechanic.

             MARCO
      Finish that?

             NEW LEAD MECHANIC
        (terrified)
      -Managing the weight of the cargo 
      at high speeds...


                                      78.

             MARCO
        (gesturing with the gun)
      But...?

The Mechanic glances at the corpse at his feet:

             NEW LEAD MECHANIC
      It wont be a problem. We finish 
      tonight.

Marco gently tussles the Mechanics hair with his gun.

             MARCO
      Que bueno!

HIDDEN behind a PACKING CRATE, Adrienne stifles a scream. She 
scrambles for her phone, texting Doug-

             THE COURIER
	(O.S.)
      Roaming charges can be killer. 

Adrienne turns -- The Courier! -- WHAM! He slams her face 
into a packing crate. Marco runs over.

             MARCO
      That fucking D.A.!

The Courier aims his pistol at Adriennes face- 

             MALE VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Stop.

Marco and the Courier turn to a MAN hidden IN THE SHADOWS.

             MAN IN THE SHADOWS
      Well need a hostage. After the 
      first shipment... then she dies. 

Marco and the Courier obediently nod; THIS guy is the boss.

INT. POLICE STATION - DOUGS OFFICE - DAY

Doug reaches Adriennes voicemail. He THROWS down his cell 
phone and charges out to Sadow.

             DOUG
      Ive tried ADA Allen fourteen 
      times. Shes definitely missing!

             LT. SADOW
      Should I round up the whole force 
      cause youre having problems with 
      your girlfriend?


                                      79.

             DOUG
      Some detective you are: She broke 
      up with me yesterday!

             LT. SADOW
      Leave me alone, Marlin. 

             DOUG
      Im telling you, Sadow, something 
      is wrong. And I think you know it!

             LT. SADOW
        (he does, but-)
      Take it up with Captain Lowe. 

             DOUG
      Yeah, I will! Where is he?

             LT. SADOW
      In interrogation. With Marco Mace. 

Dougs eyes go wide. 

INT. INTERROGATION - MOMENTS LATER

Doug BURSTS in, trailed by Sadow. Captain Lowe is shaking 
hands with a LAWYER and MARCO.

             DOUG
      What the hell is he doing here?!

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Easy, Detective Marlin...

             MARCO
      Ah, you must be the son of the 
      legendary Nick Marlin. 

             DOUG
      Oh, you mean the guy you killed?

             MARCO
      Ancient history. I served my time.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Mr. Mace came in voluntarily when 
      he heard he was a person of 
      interest in the Couriers escape.

             MARCO
      I wish I could help. But the truck 
      used in the escape was stolen from 
      me five days ago. 


                                      80.

Doug leans over and sniffs Marco. Sniff sniff. 

             DOUG
      I smell something. You smell that? 

The Captain gives him a questioning look.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Smells like BULLSHIT!

Doug jumps in Marcos face. Sadow pulls Doug back. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      What the hell are you doing?!

             DOUG
      ADA Allen went missing, and this 
      sack of crap know why!

             MARCO
      Im not the man I once was. I would 
      never harm a representative of the 
      law. Especially one as lovely as 
      Ms. Allen. 

Doug burns. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Get back to your desk, Marlin.

As Doug stands-

             MARCO
      Were not so different, you and me. 
      Working so desperately to escape 
      the long shadows of our fathers. 

Marco leans in close... 

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
        (whispering)
      The difference is, Im succeeding, 
      and youre going to fucking fail. 

Doug WALLOPS MARCO in the face, knocking him down. Sadow 
drags Marco out while Captain Lowe holds Doug back-

             DOUG
      YOU LYING BASTARD! WHERE IS SHE?!

As the door slowly closes, Marco rises, smiling at Doug. 

             MARCO
      Bye, Doug. Best of luck. 


INT. CHIEFS OFFICE - LATER

Captain Lowe reams out Doug.  

                                      81.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      You trying to get suspended?!

             DOUG
      Chief, hes a scumbag!

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      A scumbag? Listen to you. That 
      guys guilty of nothing but bad 
      fashion. His alibi is airtight. 
      Thirty employees in his Culver 
      factory put him in the office 
      during the Couriers escape.

             DOUG
      We need to search that factory!

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Slow down. Weve got procedures-

             DOUG
      Your procedures are letting that 
      greasy shit splash all over our 
      white porcelain bowl.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Youre out of line, Marlin-

             DOUG
      No, YOURE out of line! Wipe your 
      pussy and let me do my job! 

The Captain stands and jams a finger in Dougs chest. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      That car got to you, just like it 
      got to your dad. 

             DOUG
      That car and I are Adriennes only 
      hope. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Not anymore.

             SADOW
      KAL threatened a police officer. 
      Hes been impounded and set for 
      destruction. 


                                      82.

             DOUG
      What?! On whose orders?!

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Mine. KAL is a blight on this city. 
      He corrupts everything and everyone 
      he touches. Let it go... and get 
      back to your paperwork.

             DOUG
      I quit.

Sadow watches Doug storm out, wondering if he misjudged him.

INT. DOUGS APARTMENT - DUSK

Doug digs up his wrist communicator, and turns it on. 

             DOUG
        (into wristwatch)
      KAL! Come in, KAL! This is Marlin!

Static. Silence. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      KAL, are you there? I need you! 
      Adriennes in trouble!

             KAL
	(V.O.)
        (drunk)
      Nick? Ill be seeing you soon. 

             DOUG
      No, its Doug-... what do you mean, 
      Youll be seeing me soon?

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      Do me a favor, Nick. Tell Doug -- I 
      shouldnt have been so hard on him. 
      He was right about me. I was born a 
      fuck-up; now Ill die a fuck-up.
        (singing Meat Loaf)
      OH, ITS COLD AND LONELY IN THE 
      DEEP, DARK NIGHT... I CAN SEE-

             DOUG
      KAL?!

EXT. POLICE IMPOUND LOT - SAME

KAL enjoys a last meal of JET FUEL, resigned to death. 


                                      83.

             KAL
        (singing)
      -PARADISE BY THE DASHBOARD LIGHT!

             DOUG
	(V.O.)
      KAL! Listen to me, I apologize-

KAL ends the call. Sadow approaches somberly, flanked by a 
HALF-DOZEN OFFICERS. 

             LT. SADOW
      Its time.

CAR-CRUSHER - CONTINUOUS

KAL is escorted onto a conveyer belt ending in a monstrosity 
of grimy pistons and oil-covered metal, belching black smoke.

             KAL
      Sadow... you think God made a 
      heaven for cars? 

             LT. SADOW
      Sure, pal. 

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

A cop with HAT PULLED LOW -- its DOUG! -- follows a group of 
detectives into the station. As he passes security, Doug 
shows his badge quickly.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Doug uses a key to open the ARMORY.

INT. ARMORY - CONTINUOUS

Doug pulls out a DUFFEL BAG... and spots a BEAN BAG GUN on 
the wall rack. 

             DOUG
      Yahtzee.

EXT. POLICE IMPOUND LOT - NIGHT

A death panel of cops somberly strap KAL to the conveyor 
belt. Captain Lowe moves to the controls.


                                      84.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Any last words?

             KAL
      Yes. Youre all cocksuckers. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Thirty years ago, you were a 
      failure. Now? Youre just 
      irrelevant.

Lowe flips a switch. The metal wedges slam together -- 
PISTONS SCREAM, GEARS GRIND -- the Car-Crusher strains 
against KALs mighty frame. 

             KAL
      That all ya got?! 

KALs frame crumples an inch. His voice distorts.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
        (distorted)
      Feels like...a hug...from a 
      retard...

PLUNK! All heads turn to the SOUND of... 

A METAL CANNISTER BOUNCING off a car -- spitting SMOKE.

PLUNK! A FLASH GRENADE skips across the ground.

             LT. SADOW
      Son of a-

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      -Bitch!

BANG-FLASH! The Officers stagger, momentarily blinded. 

BLAM! The FRONT GATE blows open. 

DOUG EMERGES FROM THE SMOKE -- dressed head to toe in 
TACTICAL GEAR.

DOUG un-holsters a shotgun and RACKS IN a beanbag-round.

             DOUG
      Im cancelling this decommission. 

Doug aims at Sadow -- CLICK! Doug looks at his gun, confused. 

             KAL
      ...safety... dummy...


                                      85.

             DOUG
      Right, here we go-

Doug FLIPS THE SAFETY OFF and aims at Sadow-

             LT. SADOW
      Wait-

             DOUG
      SUCK MY BAG!

Doug blows SADOW off his feet with a WHIZZING BEAN BAG. 

Doug UNLEASHES a volley, dropping the cops nearest him. 
Captain Lowe retreats behind cover and draws. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      What do you think youre doing?!?

             DOUG
      Consider this my resignation.

Doug empties the beanbag clip.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      You already resigned, idiot!

Captain Lowe returns fire -- Doug dives behind salvage.

CRACK! KALs windshield spiderwebs, the crusher still going.

             KAL
      ....fuck....

Doug draws his twin pistols... Love conquers fear.

             DOUG
      IM COMING FOR YOU, KAL! 

In SLOW MO, Doug sprints for the Crushers POWER SWITCH, guns 
out John Woo-style, spraying rubber bullets as he runs. 

BLAM! A bullet SLAMS into his KEVLAR VEST! Doug falls, 
fighting for air. Through his blurred vision, he sees the 
Crusher squeezing KAL, mere feet away. 

Captain Lowe emerges, gun trained on Doug.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Youd trade your family legacy for 
      this THING?

             DOUG
      That thing IS my legacy!


                                      86.

KAL CRIES OUT as his blue light fades out. 

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Son of a legend? What a joke.

             LT. SADOW
	(O.S.)
      And heres the punchline.

WHAM! Sadow COLD COCKS the Captain. The OTHER COPS reach for 
their weapons until Sadow trains his gun on them.

             DOUG
      What are you-

             LT. SADOW
      Goddammit, you save that car before 
      I change my mind!

Doug nods and SPRINTS to the crusher. He pulls a lever, 
reversing the machine. 

The steel jaws slowly open... revealing a mangled KAL.

             DOUG
      KAL!

Doug jumps on the conveyor belt. He touches KALs hood, 
checking for any signs of life. Nothing. 

             LT. SADOW
      Hows he doing?!

             DOUG
      Hes... gone.

Sadow lowers his head. Devastated, Doug drapes himself across 
KALs hood. Heartbroken.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Im so sorry I fucked this up, KAL.
        (tears falling)
      Youre the best friend I ever had.

Dougs cheek grows warm -- KALs engine sputters to life!

             KAL
        (weakly)
      ...Doug...

             DOUG
      ...KAL?!

             KAL
      ...Youre... so... gay...


Doug sighs. Some things never change.

                                      87.

             DOUG
      KAL, listen to me. Marco has 
      Adrienne at his factory. Hes using 
      her as a hostage in his plan.

             KAL
      You figured all that out yourself? 

             DOUG
      You were gone. I had to.

             KAL
      You hear that? Like two cashews 
      falling into a coin purse? I think 
      your balls just dropped. Now, lets 
      go get this motherfu-uh-uh-

KAL grinds his gears and stalls. 

             DOUG
      Jesus... Whats happening? 

KAL restarts and STALLS again.

             KAL
      My auto-drive... Its busted!

The bad news hits Doug like a gut-punch.

INT. TIJUANA WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The Courier finishes duct taping Adrienne to a swivel chair.

             ADRIENNE
      Very Fifty Shades. Do you need a 
      safe word? 

             MARCO
      When did women get so mouthy?

The LEAD MECHANIC appears.

             MECHANIC
      Seor. Its finished.

Marco smiles. 

MOMENTS LATER

Marco and the Courier push Adriennes chair through a parting 
sea of mechanics, killers and drug dealers. 


They arrive at a plastic sheet covering two large MASSES. 

                                      88.

             MARCO
      Today I settle my fathers affairs. 

             ADRIENNE
      Your father had affairs? No wonder 
      youre so dicked up.

             MARCO
      Clever. I can see why the fat 
      degenerate likes you. 

He BACKHANDS her. 

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
      But you WILL NOT ruin my big 
      moment.

The Courier duct tapes her mouth shut.

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
      Lets begin. 

The Lead Mechanic pulls off the sheets and flips a switch. 
The ground rumbles. TWO ENGINES START WITH A ROAR!

The mechanics all back away, whispering in fear.

The Couriers jaw slowly drops. 

             THE COURIER
      Theyre... beautiful.

Out of the shadows, TWIN SUPERCARS emerge. Angular,  
mechanical beasts ripped from a H.R. Giger nightmare. Crammed 
with state of the art electronics, hydrogen super-engines, an 
arsenal of gleaming ballistics... and the RED A.I. MICROCHIP 
Marco stole. KAL just became obsolete.

Marco steps up to the cars. 

             MARCO
      Why were you created? 

BRIGHT RED panels THRUM as the cars speak in MONSTROUS, 
ROBOTIC DRONES. Like Satan smoking Marlboros.  

             EVIL SUPERCAR #1
      WE WERE BUILT TO SERVE.

             EVIL SUPERCAR #2
      PLEASE ENTER COMMAND.


                                      89.

Adriennes eyes widen with fear. 

             MARCO
      Today is for you, dad.

PAN UP to a dark office, where the shadowy MASTERMIND smiles.

                                  PRELAP:

             DOUG
	(V.O.)
      Okay, try it now!

EXT. IMPOUND LOT - NIGHT

KAL squints, concentrating. He JERKS forward, then stalls.

             KAL
      Goddammit!

             DOUG
      Have you tried Jameson?

             KAL
      Fifty fucking times! No answer. He 
      probably realized Captain Lowe was 
      right. I am worthless. 

             DOUG
      Keep it together, KAL...

             KAL
      Its true! Im a relic, with 
      obsolete electronics and a 
      personality disorder. I used to 
      drive down the road, girls would 
      jump from windows to catch a 
      glimpse. Now, even the fatties 
      laugh in my face. 

             DOUG
      Youre not the most sensitive 
      creature, but you can adapt. 

             KAL
      Everything made sense in the 80s, 
      Marlin. The dude with a weird 
      ethnic name was the bad guy. Now 
      hes the President. Back then, we 
      had the Soviets -- fucking awesome 
      enemies, right?! Now, we fight a 
      buncha unarmed goat herders. I 
      dont have a place in this world. 


                                      90.

             DOUG
      Dont say that, KAL. 

             KAL
      Why not? 

             DOUG
      Well, because its horribly racist. 
      But also... because... you still 
      matter to me. A lot.

             KAL
      You told me you hated me. 

             DOUG
      We were fighting. It happens. But 
      KAL:

        (singing)
      AS LONG AS WE GOT EACH OTHER... 

             KAL
      Dont you do it, damn it-

       		DOUG
	WE GOT THE WORLD SPINNIN 
	RIGHT IN OUR HANDS, BABY! 
	RAIN OR SHINE, ALL THE TIME-

		KAL
	You know Growing Pains is 
	my Achilles heel-

KALs headlights cloud over with emotion.

             DOUG AND KAL
        (singing in harmony)
      WE GOT EACH OTHER, SHARING THE 
      LAUGHTER AND LOVE!

KALs windshield fluid leaks tears, which he wipes away.

             KAL
      Thirty years of burying the hurt... 
      It feels good to cry. 

Doug wipes away KALs tears with a rag. He leans in close.

             DOUG
      KAL, I need to ask you the biggest 
      favor I ever have. I need you to 
      let me drive you.

KAL quickly recovers. 

             KAL
      I beg your pardon?! 


                                      91.

             DOUG
      Were running out of time! We need 
      to get to Adrienne!

             KAL
      Tell you what. You can drive me if 
      you bend over and spread your butt 
      cheeks while I ram my tailpipe into 
      your asshole. Cause thats just 
      about what you driving me would 
      feel like!

             DOUG
      You still dont think I have what 
      it takes? 

             KAL
      Clearly.

Doug sets his jaw.

             DOUG
      ...Lower the window.

             KAL
      What? Why?

             DOUG
      Do it.

KALs driver side window slowly rolls down. 

Doug SPRINTS toward KAL... JUMPS...

And SLIDES IN clean, a perfect Dukes of Hazzard entrance!

             KAL
      Ill be damned. 

             DOUG
      You ready to do this?

             KAL
      Um, do you have protection? 

Doug nods, sliding on a pair of driving gloves. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Just go slow...

Doug eases into gear-

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      SLOWER... 


                                      92.

             DOUG
      Shhhh... its okay...

KAL stops short.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Stop fighting me! I care about you. 
      Im not going to hurt you. Okay?

             KAL
      Okay. 

Doug eases KAL forward, cruising around the lot in big loops. 

             DOUG
      There. Not so bad, right?

             KAL
      Kinda feels good.

             DOUG
      I knew youd like it. 

Doug slides on his sunglasses. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Now, lets go fast. 

Doug DOWNSHIFTS and peels onto the road at full speed. 

             KAL
      AHHHHHHH! 

EXT. LA FREEWAY - DAY

Doug drives with purpose, gripping the wheel tightly, cutting 
through traffic. 

INT. EAST LA WAREHOUSE - DAY

Bustling chaos, as WORKERS prepare the two drug transport 
cars for their trip. 

EXT. EAST LA WAREHOUSE / INT. KAL - MOVING - NIGHT

KAL rams a wall, GOING AIRBORNE... 

LANDING with his TIRES against the warehouse wall...

And DRIVING UP THE SIDE OF THE BUILDING!


                                      93.

             DOUG
      Spider-man, eat your heart out!

             KAL
      Please, shut up!

EXT. EAST LA WAREHOUSE - ROOFTOP - MOMENTS LATER

KAL scales the roof, landing clumsily on top of the building. 

             DOUG
      WHOOOO! What a rush. How you 
      feeling? 

             KAL
      A little sore. 

             DOUG
      Your sonar working? 

             KAL
      Fuck yes. Lets see what this girl 
      has up her skirt.

With a sonar PING, KAL EMITS a PULSE BLAST of DIGITAL BLUE 
LIGHT -- on his monitor appears a RETRO 3-D IMAGE of the 
warehouse, revealing ARMED CARTEL GUARDS EVERYWHERE. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Shit. Its like a quinceera in 
      there. If you want to bust the 
      piata, you gotta go in solo.

Doug STRAPS ON his enormous wrist-communicator.

             DOUG
      You guide me on the wrist-comm. 
      And... if anything goes wrong in 
      there, tell Adrienne I love her.

             KAL
      You do realize if you die in there, 
      shes dead, too. 

             DOUG
      Oh, my God, youre right...

             KAL
      FOCUS! The plan is solid: Ill call 
      the plays, you hail the Marys.

Doug gets out of KAL, and KICKS open the door to the...


                                      94.

INT. STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS

Doug hauls ass down the steps-

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      Okay, Marlin. Down two flights... 
      whats that sound? 

Doug wheezes hard -- from the nerves and cardio exertion. 

             DOUG
      Sorry... all that jumping. 

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      What a fuckin -- WAIT!

Doug jumps back. 

             DOUG
      What?

ON KAL

His radar screen lit up by a SWARM of bad guys.

             KAL
      The room between you and Adrienne 
      is packed like a Swedish gangbang.

             DOUG
      Swedish? Do the Swedes-

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      Love gangbangs. Big time.

             DOUG
      So what do I do?

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      Youre gonna have to run. 

             DOUG
      Run?

             KAL
      I got it all worked out. Im 
      sending you a trajectory path now.

BEEP-BEEP -- Doug receives a BLUEPRINT and TRAJECTORY PATH on 
his wrist-communicator. The route is INSANELY COMPLICATED.

             KAL
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      Do exactly what that map says and 
      go fast and youll be fine. 


                                      95.

             DOUG
      This will work?

ON KALS MONITOR

WHIRRING, running the analytics... Calculating... Then, 
Chance of Success: 12%

             KAL
      Yep. But youll want to go fast.

ON DOUG

In ready position -- he SPRINTS AROUND THE CORNER-

GASPING when he sees the SCORES of BAD GUYS, all staring at 
him. They raise their guns-

But Doug keeps SPRINTING in CHARIOTS OF FIRE SLOW-MO -- 
BULLETS EXPLODE all around him!

Doug GRIMACES as a CRAMP rips through his side-

THROUGH THE PAIN, he sprints along KALs trajectory path-

Doug SLIDES through a steel door, SLAMMING it behind him.

             KAL
	(V.O.)
	(CONTD)
      Next right, second door on the left-

INT. WAREHOUSE LAB  - MOMENTS LATER

Doug moves cautiously into the cavernous, darkened room.

             DOUG
      Its quiet...

             KAL
	(V.O.)
      Careful. This whole thing stinks 
      like rotten snatch...

             DOUG
        (spotting)
      Adrienne!

Doug runs over -- Adrienne moans and struggles against her 
bindings. Doug finds the ROPE KNOT, fumbling with it- 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      What kinda Boy Scout bullcrap...?

Doug tugs -- Adrienne moans louder, in pain. 


                                      96.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Dont move. Im gonna look for 
      scissors...

Doug turns back and runs SMACK into-

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Jameson! 

He helps up the quivering Jameson from the floor. 

             JAMESON
      Thank goodness youre here! They 
      grabbed me from HQ. Are you alone? 

             DOUG
      No, KALs on the roof. 

             JAMESON
      Good. I knew youd make it. So I 
      brought friends.

             DOUG
      What?

ON KAL 

His radar depicting TWO MOVING OBJECTS closing in on-

             KAL
      Doug! Look out!

IN THE WAREHOUSE

Like a bullet, EVIL SUPERCAR #1 rockets out of the darkness-

Doug dives out of the way, but cant escape-

EVIL SUPERCAR # 2 as it SMASHES into him -- Dougs body 
tumbles over the hood like a rag doll. 

             ADRIENNE
        (muffled scream)
      DOUG!

             JAMESON
      Surprise!

The Courier and Marco step out of their cars. Doug rolls on 
the ground, gripping his knee in pain.

ON THE ROOF

KAL lurches forward using his hydraulics, positioning himself-


                                      97.

             KAL
        (straining)
      Come on, goddamit! 

IN THE WAREHOUSE

Jameson leans down and pulls out Dougs gun. 

             DOUG
      Jameson... what is this?!

             JAMESON
      KAL and your father ruined my 
      lifes work. I couldnt be 
      remembered as the engineer who 
      built a flop.  I needed someone 
      with deep pockets to finance my 
      newest creations. 

Jameson points to the cars. Marco smiles. 

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      With Marcos funds, Ive created 
      better supercars: obedient, 
      unstoppable drug transport 
      machines.

             DOUG
      But why dig up KAL? Why hire me?

             JAMESON
      You know the shame I felt after 
      that car and your father fucked me? 
      I knew you two would mess this case 
      up spectacularly. And everyone 
      would see that KAL and his drivers 
      were the real failures. Not me. 

             DOUG
      You know what would be cheaper? 
      Therapy.

Marco backhands Doug. 

             MARCO
      But this is more fun.

             DOUG
      Youre forgetting something. Ive 
      got KAL backing me up. 

             JAMESON
      Counting on KAL to save the day? 
      Ask your father how that turns out.


                                      98.

EXT. ROOF - SAME

KALs grille light boils with anguish turning to anger.

             KAL
        (to himself)
      Jameson... You son of a bitch!

KAL strains with all his might and ACTIVATES HIS LASER. Blue 
light slices the roof, cutting a wide circle around himself. 

INT. WAREHOUSE - SAME

The Courier grabs Adrienne and drags her to a car. 

             JAMESON
      Throw her inside!

He shoves her into Evil Supercar #1. 

Marco KICKS Doug hard in the stomach. Doug groans.

             MARCO
      That was for my dad.

EXT. ROOF - SAME

KAL finishes cutting the laser circle. NOTHING HAPPENS. 

             KAL
      Come on! COME ON!

Using his hydraulics, he STOMPS in frustration... KRRRRCK, 
the ceiling starts to give... STOMP! STOMP! STOMP! 

INT. WAREHOUSE - SAME

The Courier looks up... did he hear something?

Marco pulls out his PISTOL...

             MARCO
      But this is for me.

And aims down at Doug...

Jameson and Adrienne look up, too -- but Marco is too focused 
on Doug to notice. 

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
      Goodbye, Marlin.


                                      99.

KRRR-KRRAAAACK! Marco looks up as the CEILING CAVES IN-

             MARCO
	(CONTD)
      You gotta be fucking kidding m-

Doug rolls out of the way a split-second before -- SPLAT! -- 
MARCO IS CRUSHED BY THE FALLING ROOF!

The dust settles -- KAL is perched on top of the debris.

             KAL
      Hiya, butt-fucks! Nice of me to 
      drop in!

             JAMESON
      KAL!

             KAL
      Thats right, dickhead. Now, smell 
      my ass!

KAL activates his SMOKE SCREEN -- clouding the room. Jameson 
and the Courier claw through the smoke, gagging. 

Jameson calls out to the Courier. 

             JAMESON
      You take the girl. Ill handle the 
      shipment!

The Courier JUMPS into a supercar -- he REVERSES through the 
smoke, disappearing with Adrienne. 

Doug locks eyes with Jameson entering the other supercar.

             DOUG
      Youre a traitor!

             JAMESON
      No. An opportunist. 

Jamesons car ZOOMS out of the warehouse. 

KAL jerks over to Doug, opening his door. 

             KAL
      Get in!

Doug hoists himself into the car and starts the engine.

             DOUG
      Hey -- nice work.


                                     100.

             KAL
      No time to jack ourselves off. We 
      gotta stop Jameson. 

             DOUG
      But first, we save Adrienne.

             KAL
      So whatre we waiting for?

Doug smiles and SLAMS THE GAS, SQUEALING out onto...

EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT

Doug weaves KAL through EAST LA. KAL locates the SUPERCAR, 
smashing through TRAFFIC.  

             KAL
      There!

DOUG speeds ahead.

INT. COURIERS SUPERCAR - CONTINUOUS

Adrienne sits with hands tied in the passenger seat as The 
Courier spots KAL in his rearview. 

             THE COURIER
      It seems we have tailgaters. Get 
      rid of them.

             SUPERCAR
      AS YOU WISH. 

TWIN CANNONS pop out of the cars rear bumper, BLASTING ARMOR 
PIERCING ROUNDS!

EXT. FREEWAY - SAME

The bullets RIP into KAL.

             KAL
      FUCK! Get us out of here!

             DOUG
      Im trying! The traffic is crap!

             KAL
      You drive, Ill pick the route.


A DIGITAL READ OUT DISPLAYS over KALs windshield, Terminator-
style. Text crosses the display, HIGHLIGHTING obstacles:

                                     101.

-- Asians in a Hyundai

-- Teenage girls packed into a VW Bug

-- Old Jews in a minivan

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Shit, we got hazards!

             DOUG
      Really?! Old Jews? 

             KAL
      Save it, Oprah. Drive!

Doug SLAMS the accelerator, WHIPPING around the obstacles. 

INT. EVIL SUPERCAR 1 - MOVING

The Courier spots a road sign -- DODGERS STADIUM. 

             THE COURIER
      Car, exit here. 

The car LEAPS off an overpass, speeding toward the crowded 
stadium lot. 

INT. KAL - MOVING - SAME

Doug WHIPS KAL around to follow. 

             KAL
      Looks like its game day. 

They speed ahead, driving under a MASSIVE ELECTRONIC 
BILLBOARD -- TONIGHT: MONSTER TRUCK MOTO-X MADNESS!!!

EXT. - STADIUM PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

THE COURIER tears through the packed parking lot. KAL blitzes 
after him, sending TAILGATERS SCRAMBLING!

INT. KAL - MOVING

Doug sees KAL leaking fluid from the bullet holes. 


                                     102.

             DOUG
      We need to get out of this lot!

             KAL
      I never run from a fight!

             DOUG
      Were not. Hell follow.

KAL brings up the stadium schematics. Pinpoints an entrance.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Hold on!

Doug YANKS the wheel, WEAVING to evade the gunfire and FLYING 
down a VEHICLE LOADING RAMP. 

INT. EVIL SUPERCAR 1 - MOVING

As KAL vanishes below the stadium, the Courier POWER-BRAKES-

             THE COURIER
      A game of Cat and Mouse? Meow.

Adrienne rolls her eyes. The Courier WHIPS the car around. 

INT. ENTRANCE TUNNEL - SAME

KAL speeds through the pitch black tunnel-

INT. KAL - MOVING

Doug downshifts-

             DOUG
      Where do I go? 

             KAL
      Straight ahead. Follow the sound of 
      cheering rednecks. 

Doug looks uncertain as he drives into...

INT. DODGER STADIUM - ARENA - SAME

The CONTROLLED CHAOS of a MONSTER TRUCK JAM:

-- The SCREAMS of THOUSANDS of drunk spectators mix with HIGH 
DECIBEL HAIR METAL as...


-- FOUR huge MONSTER TRUCKS pop off a RAMP OF CRUSHED CARS, 
flying over...

-- A DOZEN MOTOCROSS RIDERS BACK-FLIPPING off vertical ramps.

                                     103.

Doug and KAL zoom into fray. 

             KAL
      Lookout!

Doug CUTS OFF a MONSTER TRUCK! 

             DOUG
      SORRY!

The Monster Truck CAREENS into a wall, EXPLODING IN A 
CONCUSSIVE FIREBALL! 

THE CROWD GOES NUTS! 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      I crash, they cheer? 

             KAL
      Motorsports. God bless America.

The Courier FLIES into the arena, SLAMMING into a MOTOCROSS 
RIDER, separating him from his bike.

             AUDIENCE 
      OOOOOOOOOOH!

INT. ANNOUNCER BOOTH - SAME TIME

Two PUZZLED, grizzled announcers flip through papers.

             ANNOUNCER #1
      These two arent in the schedule!

             ANNOUNCER #2
      Wait... I know that car. 

BELOW -- KAL jumps a rail, entering the RACE.

The Announcer flips on his microphone. 

             ANNOUNCER #2
	(CONTD)
      LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, I DONT 
      BELIEVE IT! THE LEGEND OF LAW 
      ENFORCEMENT IS BACK! THE ONE, THE 
      ONLY... KAAAL!


                                     104.

INT. ARENA - SAME

The crowd ROARS! 

The Evil Supercar PULLS UP behind KAL.

             ANNOUNCER #1
	(V.O.)
      AND HES BEING FOLLOWED BY ANOTHER 
      SUPERCAR... IT LOOKS EUROPEAN.

The crowd BOOS!

INT. EVIL SUPERCAR 1 - MOVING

The Courier loses his temper.

             THE COURIER
      Car! Theyre mocking us. 

             EVIL SUPERCAR 1
      SHALL I DESTROY THE ONE CALLED KAL?

             THE COURIER
      Yes. 

Adrienne screams! The Evil Supercar FIRES its turbo boosters, 
racing through the muck. 

INT. ARENA - SAME

The Courier REAR ENDS KAL, ramming him into a MONSTER TRUCK. 

             DOUG
      Im boxed in!

The Courier activates HEATED LASER CUTTERS, SHEARING into 
KALs bumper. Sparks fly!

             KAL
      Ah! It fuckin burns!

             DOUG
      I got it, buddy!

Doug flips a switch. KALs suspension DROPS, SPRAYING mud. He 
pulls forward UNDER the truck, hiding from the Courier.

             THE COURIER
      COME OUT AND PLAY!


                                     105.

INT. KAL - MOVING

The Evil Supercar pulls up beside KAL...

             DOUG
      We gotta get Adrienne outta there!

             KAL
      This car knows my entire playbook! 

             DOUG
      So lets go off-book. 

             KAL
      What do you mean?

             DOUG
      The Pamchenko Twist.

             KAL
      Goddammit, kid. Youre singing my 
      song.

Doug SLAMS his BRAKES, SKIDDING to a stop as the monster 
truck speeds off. 

The Courier SPINS around -- the two cars facing each other 
HEAD-ON. Their engines REV.

             DOUG
      A Mexican standoff. 

             KAL
      Oh, now whos racist? 

             DOUG
      THATS WHAT ITS CALLED!

INT. EVIL SUPERCAR 1 - SAME

Adrienne sees Doug sticking his head and arm out the window, 
waving at her... A signal?

She rolls down her window. 

             THE COURIER
        (ignoring her)
      And so it ends. 

             ADRIENNE
      You said it.

The Courier shifts -- and CHARGES!


                                     106.

Doug shifts -- and charges right back!

Both cars speed forward, LAUNCHING off huge ramps-

TAKING FLIGHT -- in SLO-MO -- on a mid-air collision course!

             DOUG
      NOW!

KAL groans as he body twists and rotates, FLIPPING into the 
Pamchenko Twist-

KAL passes OVER the Evil Supercar- Doug LEANS OUT his window.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      ADRIENNE!

Adrienne LEANS out as far as she can, REACHING- 

DOUG reaches out, GRABBING onto Adriennes wrist-

He pulls with all his might and YANKS her inside KAL!

JUST before KAL FIRES his LAST MISSILE into the Supercars 
exposed belly...

Striking the gas tank -- the Evil Supercar EXPLODES, CRASH-
LANDING in a fiery heap!

KALs thrown back, sloppily rolling to a stop. 

THE COURIER emerges from his car, FACE BLOODIED. He smiles.

             THE COURIER
      You played well, but I always wi-

The STEEL JAWS OF THE GIGANTIC TRUCK-O-SAURUS CLAMP down from 
above. The Courier disappears in a BLAST of FLAME.

THE CROWD GOES BERSERK! KAL smiles, revelling in the victory.

             KAL
      WHOOOOOOOO!

INT. KAL - SAME

Doug realizes with horror hes GROPING ADRIENNE.

             DOUG
      I am SO sorry!

He quickly pulls away. She grabs his hands and places them 
BACK ON HER BOOBS.


                                     107.

             ADRIENNE
      Dont be. 

They KISS! ITS MAGICAL! The Jumbo-Tron catches the moment, 
PROJECTING Doug and Adrienne on the Kiss Cam.

             KAL
      Well. Ive got a boner.

The two pull apart. 

             ADRIENNE
      You were incredible. Both of you. 

             DOUG
      KAL, you okay, buddy?

             CROWD
        (chanting)
      KAL! KAL! KAL! KAL!

             KAL
        (soaking it in)
      ...Never better.

KAL slowly drives them out of the stadium, savoring the 
adoration of their cheering fans. 

EXT. STADIUM - DAY

As KAL pulls out of the parking lot, Dougs CELL PHONE rings.

             DOUG
        (into phone)
      Hello.... Where?! ...Okay.

He hangs up. 

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      That was Sadow. Jamesons heading 
      for the border in the other 
      supercar.

             ADRIENNE
      If he crosses, we cant pursue! 

             KAL
      That twisted geezers gonna build a 
      master race of those cocksucking 
      cars. We have to stop him!

             DOUG
      Were too late. 


                                     108.

             KAL
      What do you mean, Too late?!

Doug drops his shoulders. 

             DOUG
      We came close. But his car is too 
      fast. Its over. 

             KAL
      God dammit, I cant believe youre 
      gonna make me do this...

KAL opens his glove compartment.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Reach in there. 

Doug hesitates.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Just DO IT. 

Doug reaches in, finding a WORN PHOTO taped to the inside-

ON THE PHOTO: young Nick at the hospital, holding his chubby, 
newborn son. Nick stares lovingly into baby Dougs eyes.

             DOUG
      Ive never seen this before.

             KAL
      Before every mission, your dad 
      would look at that picture to 
      remind himself what he was fighting 
      for. To make the world a better 
      place. For you. If he could see you 
      now, hed be proud as hell at the 
      man youve become.

Doug fights back tears. Adrienne puts a hand on his shoulder.

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Probably embarrassed about your 
      enormous love handles... but proud.

             ADRIENNE
      You can do this, Doug. For your 
      father. For yourself. 

Doug wipes snot from his face. 

             DOUG
      Okay. Im in.  


Adrienne kisses him on the cheek before stepping out of KAL.

                                     109.

             ADRIENNE
      Be safe. 

             DOUG
      No, YOU be safe!

             ADRIENNE
      Doug, Im not trying to banter 
      here. Dont die. Please.

Doug waves awkwardly. He starts up KAL. 

Doug pulls up Jamesons location on KALs display. A fast-
moving 8-bit blip jetting towards the border. 

             DOUG
      Look how fast hes going!

             KAL
      Sweet Jesus... 

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA FREEWAY - NIGHT

A police HELICOPTER swoops past, but cant keep up with...

EVIL SUPERCAR 2 -- blitzing down the freeway at TOP SPEED. 
Scores of FEDERAL and LOCAL cop cars try to keep up. 

INT. EVIL SUPERCAR 2 - MOVING - SAME

Behind the wheel, JAMESON smiles.

             JAMESON
      Car? Are you recording all of this?

Multiple camera angles pop up on the HUD display.

             EVIL SUPERCAR 2
      YES, MASTER. 

Jameson checks his mirrors -- THREE COP CARS on his tail..

             JAMESON
      Good. Lets show the world what we 
      can do. 

Jameson FLIPS an AUTODRIVE switch.


                                     110.

His car shifts, heading right into two oncoming cop cars!

Jamesons car automatically power-slides to a stop. The cop 
cars overshoot... colliding with each other!

Jamesons car POWER JUMPS clear of the wreckage!

             JAMESON
	(CONTD)
      Excellent work! 

             EVIL SUPERCAR 2
      THANK YOU, MASTER.

             JAMESON
      I hope you brought your passport. 

             EVIL SUPERCAR 2
      YOUR HUMOROUS REMARK IS NOTED.

They race towards...

EXT. US/MEXICO BORDER CROSSING - SAME TIME

A handful of BORDER PATROL AGENTS crouch behind cars, 
clutching assault rifles, hands shaking with fear. 

In the distance... kicking up dust... 

The Evil Supercar appears, barreling towards them.  

INT. EVIL SUPERCAR 2 - MOVING

Jameson sees the border ahead.  

             JAMESON
      At last. 

He GUNS the ENGINE, pushing the speedometer past 150 mph. 

WHEN OUT OF NOWHERE, a SCREAMING BLACK VEHICLE CHARGES into 
his REARVIEW. 

Jameson turns to see...

KAL, pulling up beside them, BLUE LIGHT PULSING!

             KAL
      Hola, fuckface!

Doug YANKS the wheel, knocking into Jamesons car. 

Jameson PULLS back, righting himself. 


                                     111.

             JAMESON
        (yelling out the window)
      What do you think youre doing?!

             DOUG
      Putting an old man to bed!

Doug swings KAL into the EVIL SUPERCAR. KAL bumper locks -- 
the two cars race side by side. 

Jameson GRINDS HIS CAR against KAL. SPARKS FLY. 

             JAMESON
      Youre an embarrassment to me! I 
      wish Id never created you!

             KAL
      DONT YOU FUCKING SAY THAT!

ON KAL/DOUG

Racing up to the FORTIFIED BORDER CROSSING -- A warning light 
on KALs display FLASHES.

             DOUG
      If we dont get out of here soon, 
      were gonna crash. 

             KAL
      Let me kill this son of a bitch!

             DOUG
      KAL, no! We have to pull back!

KAL DISENGAGES BUMPER LOCK-ON, falling back-

ON JAMESON

             JAMESON
      Shoot them!

The Evil Supercar PEPPERS KAL with bullets. Doug spins KAL, 
dodging the rounds. 

DOUG DRIVES KAL IN REVERSE, SIDE BY SIDE WITH THE EVIL 
SUPERCAR! KAL GROANS with effort. 

             EVIL SUPERCAR 2
      SURRENDER IMMEDIATELY.

             KAL
      LICK MY ASSHOLE!

BOTH CARS RACE FOR THE BORDER! BUT ONLY ONE LANE IS OPEN!


                                     112.

ON JAMESON

GRABBING the WHEEL tightly and PUNCHING the gas...

             JAMESON
      Faster, car!

ON KAL

Huffing and puffing...

             DOUG
      Come on! We need more speed.

             KAL
      I... I cant. Im fucking done. 

             DOUG
      Theres gotta be something-...
        (eureka!)
      The missile launcher!

             KAL
      Im all out of missiles!

             DOUG
      We dont need em! Just fire 
      backwards! All six barrels!

             KAL
      But-

             DOUG
      KAL...

Doug puts a hand on KALs dash...

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Trust me.

KAL drops the MISSILE LAUNCHER and EMPTY-FIRES backwards-

The force ROCKETS KAL forward, pushing Doug back into his 
seat -- they RACE past Jameson into the one open lane!

ON JAMESON

Wide-eyed as KAL forces him to VEER off-course into the STEEL 
GUARD BOOTH!

             JAMESON
      NO!


                                     113.

             EVIL SUPERCAR 2
      WE ARE DEFEATED- 

The EVIL SUPERCAR SLAMS into the Guard Booth at full speed. 

The Car is THROWN into the air, flipping spectacularly and-

SLAMS into a full roll, bouncing on its frame before-

LANDING IN A SMOKING HEAP!

Doug power-slides to a stop next to the totalled supercar.

             KAL
      NEVER fuck with the original.

Jameson crawls from the wreckage, tears in his eyes; the full 
collapse of his legacy evident. 

             EVIL SUPERCAR 2
        (voice distorted)
      MAZZZTER... I... APOLOGIZZZZE-

             JAMESON
      Youve failed me. Youve all failed-

BAM! Doug reverses into him, knocking him to the ground.

             KAL
      You killed him!

Jameson twitches. 

             DOUG
      Nahhh. Hell live. 

SIRENS approach...

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Ohhh, shhhucks...

SQUAD CARS pull up to the scene, surrounding them. Officers 
pop out, guns pointed. Doug slowly raises his arms. 

             KAL
      Its been a good ride, eh? 

             DOUG
      Fuck yes. 

CAPTAIN LOWE stomps over to them, pissed.


             CAPTAIN LOWE
      Marlin! You have any idea what 
      youve done to your career today?

             DOUG
      Its okay. Im ready for prison. As 
      long as I can share a cell with my 
      friend here.

             CAPTAIN LOWE
      What fucking prison would accept a 
      car? Youre not going to jail. Im 
      sending you someplace way worse.

                                     114.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. SANTA MONICA DMV - DAY

SUPER: One Week Later...

KAL waits outside the ENTRANCE, Adrienne sitting nervously in 
the passenger seat.

KAL spots THE SAME PERSIAN TEEN from the Driving Course, 
license in hand, celebrating with his OBNOXIOUS FRIENDS-

             KAL
      HEY! 

             PERSIAN TEEN
      Oh, shit.

KAL pulls up to him.

             KAL
      I wanted to apologize for the 
      racist comments the other day.
      But if I see you so much as run a 
      stop sign, I WILL crush your 
      fucking legs.

The Persian Teen NODS FURIOUSLY and bolts. 

             DOUG
	(O.S.)
      Well, you were right, KAL...

Doug walks up.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      Any idiot can get a license. 

He proudly lifts his new LICENSE. Adrienne gives him a kiss.


                                     115.

             ADRIENNE
      Congratulations, Detective Marlin. 

             KAL
      Yeah, congratulations. Youve 
      proven yourself as capable as a 
      sixteen-year old girl. Now, Johnny 
      Football Hero will definitely 
      finger you at prom.

             ADRIENNE
      KAL, can we work on turning the 
      misogyny down, like, five percent?

             KAL
      God you have a pretty mouth. 

They both get into KAL. Doug takes the wheel. 

             KAL
	(CONTD)
      Easy, handsy. Im driving. Why 
      dont you two hop in the back seat 
      for a little celebratory fuck? 
      Itll be like Im not even here.

             ADRIENNE
      WERE GOOD. 

As KAL pulls forward...

             DOUG
      Maybe next time...

SUDDENLY, KAL stops short -- a DOZEN BLACK SEDANS pull up, 
surrounding him. A GOVERNMENT AGENT in BLACK SUIT and SHADES 
steps from the nearest car -- AGENT FOX.

             KAL
      What the hell is this?

             AGENT FOX
      Detective Marlin. KAL.
        (flashing a BADGE)
      Agent Fox, Homeland Security.

             DOUG
      If this is about the Cocoa Puffs, I 
      swear KAL made me smoke those!

             KAL
      Nuh-uh, he wanted to!


                                     116.

             AGENT FOX
      Stop! Weve been monitoring your 
      exploits, and we think you show 
      promise as a federal, two-man task-
      force. The President agrees.

Doug and Adrienne share a beat... Is this for real?

             DOUG
      I dont know what to say... 

             KAL
        (to Agent Fox)
      Lets talk benefits. On a scale of 
      one to ten, how slutty are your 
      female mechanics?

MAIN CREDITS

Then...

                                SMASH TO:

                                 FADE TO:

INT. COMMAND CENTER - BATHROOM - DAY

Doug checks himself out in the mirror. Adrienne pops up from 
behind, helping him straighten his new suit and tie.

             ADRIENNE
      Looking good, Agent Marlin.

INT. COMMAND CENTER - HALLWAYS - MOMENTS LATER

Doug walks through the renovated Command Center, admiring the 
improvements, courtesy of federal tax dollars.

             DOUG
        (calling out)
      KAL?

The sound of LOW RUMBLING pulls Doug into the...

INT. COMMAND CENTER - GARAGE AREA - CONTINUOUS

Its dark. Too dark. Doug flips on a light... and sees-

KAL in the corner, struggling, as someone SCREAMS AND CURSES 
inside of him.


                                     117.

             DOUG
      KAL!

Alarmed, Doug runs over, ripping open the door, REVEALING-

OFFICER PAM, THE METER MAID, straddled naked on the shifter 
as KAL shifts back and forth, engine revving.

             DOUG
	(CONTD)
      OH, MY GOD!

PAM jumps off, SCREAMING and clutching her breasts.

             KAL
      Oh-ohhh-ohhh... cant stop it!

             DOUG
      NO!

Doug falls back as KALs hood pops and SPLOOGES OIL all over 
Dougs face. 

             KAL
      ...You might wanna get tested.


