         HOLLAND,  MICHIGAN

                 by

             Andrew Sodroski

               March 2013

Principato-Young Entertainment
c/o Peter Dealbert
9465 Wilshire Blvd. Suite 900
Beverly Hills, CA 90212
310-274-4677


Long stripes of yellow, red, purple, black.  Otherworldly vividness.  

Closer, they resolve into a thousand tiny dots of color. 

Closer still, until we see:  they're tens of thousands of 
TULIPS.  Bright tops bobbing on long green stems.  

A farmer in a wide straw hat and overalls surveys his vast 
tulip fields.  

A windmill turns overhead. 

Victorian houses.  Neat lawns and picket fences.  

An enormous statue of a wooden shoe.  A wooden town sign:

              In                 H                 OLLAND, MICHIGAN
                 it's always
                TULIP TIME

A row of little blonde preschoolers follow their teachers 
past the First Reformed church downtown. 

Except -- they're frozen. 

The cars are stopped too.  A policeman chasing a dog, both 
posed mid-stride.  Lovers in a caf, holding hands forever.  

The whole town is silent.  Frozen in place.  

We hold on those little preschoolers, all blonde, all 
perfect, until we realize:  we're looking at a MODEL TRAIN 
LAYOUT.  

At the town station, a model TRAIN thunders past.  The ROAR 
of speed and smoke takes us to:

THE TOP OF A BED

Looking straight down on a pinwheel quilt, suddenly obscured 
by the contents of a whole DRESSER DRAWER, dumped out. 

A woman's arms sort through it, push the mound around.  Pull 
away the underwear, batteries, phone chargers until it's just 

JEWELRY.  

A tangled bolus of necklaces, bracelets, earrings, pins.  

The woman roots through it.  Searching.  Checks the 
necklace/bracelet sets.  Matches up the earrings. 


                                      2.

We see her face.  Pleasant, Midwestern.  When she speaks it's 
in an accent thick with West Michigan and with annoyance.  

             NANCY
      Gash darnit...

This is NANCY VANDERGROOT, 30s, sharp and sparky and eagle-
eyed and, right now, glaring over at the dresser, where

A BLACK EARRING CASE

Sits open.  A single LARGE PEARL EARRING inside.  

A BIG EMPTINESS where its mate should be.  

Nancy turns back to the metal mound on the bed.  Searching 
for the pearl.  Desperately trying to untangle the knot. 

And off the missing earring, we 

                                  CUT TO:

A HUSKY, PERMED BABYSITTER.  

Nineteen years old, Tasmanian Devil tee, and mystified 
expression.  Staring across the kitchen table at Nancy.

             NANCY
      Is there something you need to tell 
      me, Candy?  

             CANDY
      Uhhh, like what Misses Vandergroot?  
      Did I forget to do something?

             NANCY
      I mean, something you want to tell 
      me before I find out myself.  

             CANDY
      ... Oh.  Uh...  No?  

             NANCY
      Candy.

             CANDY
      Ah, shhh... ugar.  Sugar sugar 
      sugar!  I don't know why I did it, 
      Misses V.  I'm so stupid!  

             NANCY 
      If it was just stupid, that's one 
      thing.  This is theft!  


                                      3.

             CANDY
      Maybe I have a food addiction.  
      People have that, ya know.  That's 
      what it's like for me when I see 
      bacon.  I know it was supposed to be 
      for Harry, but I couldn't help mys--
        (off Nancy's confusion)
      Oh.  You're not talking about that. 

             NANCY
      Well, maybe I ought to be!  

Candy digs in her purse.  For her wallet and her dignity.  
Pulls crumpled bills from a Little Mermaid changepurse. 

             CANDY
      It was two pounds of hickory 
      smoked.  I want to pay you back--

             NANCY
      I don't want that, Candy.  Look, 
      I'm talking about something else. 

             CANDY
      What else?  You said it was okay 
      for me to have that ice cream--

             NANCY
      Candy, enough!  I'm serious here.  

Nancy inspects Candy's face, but Candy's utterly inscrutable.  

             CANDY
      Are...  are you firing me?  

             NANCY
      Take tomorrow off, and think about 
      whether there's something more you 
      need to tell me.  And I'm not 
      talking about bacon.  Then on 
      Monday, we'll see.  

Candy nods, and struggles not to CRY.  

As Candy goes for the door, she's intercepted by HARRY 
VANDERGROOT, 11 years old.  Harry rushes to her and gives her 
a big hug.  

             HARRY
      I'm sorry!  I told her about the 
      bacon.  I didn't mean to.  


                                      4.

             CANDY
      Gosh Harry, it's not your fault... 
      It's okay, Har. 

INT. THE LIVING ROOM - LATER

We see the house now -- middle-class mid-century Midwestern.  
Ducks on the wallpaper.  A big TV, always on.  

Nancy watches Candy drive away, past the neighbor's four-foot-
high sign, in red cutout letters:  JESUS IS LORD.

             HARRY
      She's not a thief, mom!  God, I'm 
      so sick of this, this... sugar!

             NANCY
      So now it's okay to use that kind 
      of talk in our house?  I could bean 
      you for that!  

             HARRY
        (screaming mad)
      Then bean me!  

He stomps upstairs.  

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Harry talks on the cordless phone.  Dwarfed by Redwings and U 
of M posters.  

We can't hear what he says over the roar of the VACUUM.  On 
the other end of the line is 

FRED VANDERGROOT

Harry's dad.  40s, about 10 years older than Nancy.  Glasses, 
beard, middle-aged spread under his blue button-down and 
pocket protector. 

He's in his 

OPTICIAN'S OFFICE 

Holland Eye Care, right in downtown Holland.  Loons on the 
wallpaper, Bibles in the waiting room.  

He speaks with Harry, hands the phone to his receptionist, 
then heads back into the EXAMINATION ROOM.  

             FRED
      Sorry about that.  My son.  Let's 
      check those pupils now...


INT. THE LIVING ROOM - LATER

Nancy makes dinner.  Fred comes in, hangs up his coat and 
hat.  Without eye contact:

                                      5.

             FRED
      Hey, Nancy.  Coupla hours?  

             NANCY
      Sure.  Gotta keep em on time...

Fred puts on a train engineer's hat and disappears into the 
GARAGE.  A moment later, Harry flops down after him.

LATER

Nancy washes ground meat off her hands, peeks into 

THE GARAGE

A MODEL RAILROADER'S HEAVEN.  Workbenches and shelves of 
tools, and in the middle, the incredible

MODEL TRAIN LAYOUT.  

The buildings and people we saw in the opening.  Several 
train stations.  Three model trains chug around the track.  

The most extraordinary part is twenty tiny HOUSES built into 
the layout.  Custom-built, perfect.  There are even lights on 
inside.

Fred works under a big ring-light magnifier.  Harry stands by 
with the other parts.  They're deep in conversation.  

Nancy closes the door.  Back to the kitchen. 

AT DINNER

Slabs of greyish meatloaf, slathered in Ketchup.  

             FRED
      Lord, bless this food to our use, 
      and us to thy service.  Amen.  

The kitchen and living room are connected, so they all watch 
the big TV in the other room while they eat.  

             NANCY
      Imagine it, Fred.  Sitting right 
      where you are.  In my own home.  In 
      Holland!  This isn't Allegan, for 
      gosh sakes.  Are you listening?  


He's not.

                                      6.

             FRED
      I just think you're getting a 
      little overly worked up is all. 
        (off the meatloaf)
      You do something different here?  

             NANCY
      Brown mustard!  Instead of yellow.  
      What do you think?  

             FRED
      Very nice.  So tomorrow morning, I 
      gotta head to Frankenmuth.  Another 
      Alcon junket.  Just the one night.

             NANCY
      Oh.  When'd that happen?

             FRED
      This new contact lens.  Micro-
      matrix.  I'm skeptical, but Amtrak's 
      running a narrow-gauge classic out 
      that way, so there ya go.
        (off the CNN)
      Jeez.  Since when do Lady Gaga's 
      tweets count as "news"?

Eating in silence now.  Nancy pokes at her meatloaf. 

INT. NANCY AND FRED'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Fred, in his PJs, packs his overnight bag.  An old routine.  
Nancy watches Ice Road Truckers from bed. 

             NANCY
      You know, I can't stop thinking 
      about Candy.

             FRED
      There's Twizzlers in the fridge.

             NANCY
      No, Candy DeBoer.  

Fred's suitcase is disturbingly neat.  He zips it closed. 

             FRED
      Oh.  Well, try to forget her.  Not 
      worth it.  G'night.

A peck on her cheek, then he turns out his bedside lamp.  
Their first physical contact we've seen. 


                                      7.

Nancy mutes the TV.  Watches for a minute, then pokes Fred.

             NANCY 
      Where'd you say those Twizzlers were?  

A SMILEY-FACE BREAKFAST PLATE. 

A pancake head, sausage mouth, two strawberries for the eyes, 
and pieces of bacon arranged to make hair.  

Harry stares blearily at it.  A morning show in the b.g. 

INT.  NANCY AND FRED'S BATHROOM

Fred flosses at the his-and-hers sinks.  

             NANCY
      Have a good trip.  Breakfast's on 
      the table.

A peck on his cheek.

             FRED
      Mmrpg.

IN THE KITCHEN

She notices: Harry's happy-face breakfast is eaten -- except 
the bacon hair, which he's left precisely untouched. 

             NANCY
      Oh for Pete's sakes.  Come on, 
      Harry!  We gotta go!

INT. SUPPLY CLOSET

A vast supply closet for a High School health class.  The 
contents are bewildering:  rubber babies, wax food. 

Harry stands in front of a cutaway model of a woman's torso.  
Transfixed by the plastic half-vagina.  

             NANCY
      Harry, where's my pound of fat? 

             HARRY
      Okay already!

He grabs a gelatinous block from a shelf and hurries out into 

THE FOOD SCIENCE CLASSROOM

Like a science lab, but with ovens, stoves, and cooking 
utensils.  Empty, sparkling, set up for the day.  


                                      8.

             NANCY
      Come on, I'll drive you over. 

LATER

The food science classroom is filled with HIGH SCHOOLERS.  
Mostly girls, almost all blonde haired and blue eyed.  A 
contingent of LATINAS, self-segregated, poorer.  

             NANCY
      Aprons on, mouths closed!  We've 
      got a lot to cover.  We're going 
      make Dutch Babies today. 

A SNARF of laughter from the only boys in the room.

             TALL SLACKER
      Misses Vandergroot?  If we're gonna 
      to make a Dutch baby, Tod and I are 
      going to need new partners.

             PIMPLY SLACKER
      Yeah.  And a little privacy.  

             NANCY
      I have a feeling you two might need 
      a liiiitle more instruction before 
      you get anywhere close to making 
      Dutch babies.  Of any kind. 

Oooohs from the class, blushes from the boys, and a 
respectful silence.  

             NANCY
      Now.  A Dutch Baby...

LATER

Nancy patrols the classroom.  Twenty highschoolers with knives 
should be a disaster, but somehow she keeps meticulous order.  

Nancy's really good at this. 

She pulls apart a Hispanic girl and a rail-thin Dutch girl in 
a ruffled shirt, who are bickering.

             NANCY
      Separate!  See me after.  

WHEN THE BELL RINGS

Twenty finished pancakes with apples.  A surprising number 
seem edible.  


                                      9.

The class is gone, except the two girls. 

             LATINA
      She kept saying my pancake won't turn 
      out because Catholics are the devil.  

             RUFFLES
      It's in the Bible!  It's not wrong 
      to say the truth. 

             NANCY
      That's not in the Bible.  Honestly.  
      You think John F. Kennedy is the 
      devil?  And what about Mr. Delgado?  

Ruffles twists her pretty face into a little knot of spite.  
But who could criticize JFK?  Not to mention:

JAVIER DAVE DELGADO

He's handsome, 30s, and Latino.  In 

THE SHOP CLASS

The male equivalent of the Food Science classroom.  The 
students are gone, except one:  SHAWN GRAUMANN, hugely fat 
and wearing white powder makeup. 

             DAVE
      Most teachers look at this and 
      think, ICP, uh-oh.  

He holds up Shawn's notebook -- an intricate drawing of 
Insane Clown Posse.  

             DAVE
      I see this, and I think, there's no 
      way a kid with an eye like this 
      should be getting less than an A in 
      my class.  You're better than C's.  
      You gotta believe in yourself. 

Dave notices Nancy at the classroom door.  He lights up.  

             DAVE
      All right, go to lunch.  

             SHAWN
      Okay Mister Delgado. 

Dave pulls off his shop apron and grabs his lunch.  


                                      10.

EXT.  THE SPORTS FIELDS - DAY

Dave and Nancy walk and talk around the edges of the sports 
fields.  Sparks flying, even if they don't realize it.

Nancy speaks in double-time -- it's the opposite of the 
listless dinner conversation.

             NANCY
      Well that's just it!  It's not 
      about the bacon, for darned sure.  
      You think you know a person, and 
      then -- this. 

             DAVE
      Well, everyone's got secrets. 

             NANCY
      Not you, Dave!  That's why we get 
      along so good. 

             DAVE
      Oh, me too.  Even me. 

             NANCY
      Really, like what?  

             DAVE
      So.  What's Fred say about all this?

             NANCY
      Nothing!  As usual.  

Across the field, a huge man in a red pickup.  Watching them.  

             NANCY
      Who's that over there?  

             DAVE
      Squiggs Graumann.  Bus driver?  School 
      let him go cause of his weight.  

             NANCY
      Stop! 

             DAVE
      Serious.  435.  Can't fit in the 
      bus any more.  Got his son in shop.  
      Good kid.  

             NANCY
      Ew, he's creepy.  Let's turn around.  


ON A BENCH - LATER

They unwrap their sandwiches.  

                                      11.

             NANCY
      There's no swearing in that?

             DAVE
      Mm, Samuel L. Jackson says "butt."

             NANCY
      I can deal with that. 

             DAVE
      Say, how long's Fred gone for?  I 
      have an appointment next week.

             NANCY
      You do? 
        (laughs)
      You're gonna get glasses?

             DAVE
      Hope not.  

             NANCY
      You'd look cute.  Like a professor 
      or something.

             DAVE
      Yeah?

             NANCY
      Yeah. 


They both laugh.  A moment of intimacy.  Then, when they 
realize it, they pull away.  

Dave starts to say something -- wants to so badly -- then 
stops himself.  

             DAVE
      Guess I could get contacts if I 
      wanted to. 

             NANCY
      Oh.  Yeah.  Those can be nice.  

Spell broken.  Dave finishes his sandwich, crumples the wax 
paper.  

             DAVE
      Welp.  Back we go. 


                                      12.

EXT. THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - AFTERNOON 

Nancy pulls up in front of the grade school.  A flood of tow-
headed kids and moms.  Harry on the steps with a friend. 

             NANCY
      Harry!  Over here.  

Harry doesn't move.  Instead, his NERDY FRIEND runs over.

             NERDY FRIEND
      Misses Vandergroot, can Harry sleep 
      over my house tonight?  My mom says 
      it's okay.  

             NANCY
      Yeah.  Fun.  Okey doke...  

When she rolls up her window, it's just her and A VHS of 
JURASSIC PARK on the passenger seat. 

                                  CUT TO:

NANCY

Alone in the house, eating Little Caesar's and watching 
Jurassic Park. 

             SAMUEL L. JACKSON
      Hold onto your butts.

             NANCY
      Tsk, language.

As soon as she says it, she feels stupid.  Looks around at 
the empty room.  

LATER

The movie's over, the Diet Coke's gone, she's all alone, and 
it's only 5 o'clock.  

On the phone:

             NANCY
      Can you put me through to Fred 
      Vandergroot's room?  Thanks.  

Ringing and ringing.  No answer.  She hangs up.  

On the TV, HOARDERS.  A massive woman whose house is 
completely filled with papers and cats.  Nancy shudders.


                                      13.

Nancy catches a glimpse of the EARRING CASE in her purse.  
Opens it up.  The SINGLE PEARL EARRING inside.  

Her dark, empty house. 

INT. NANCY'S CAR - NIGHT

Nancy PROWLS through the deserted streets of Holland.  

EXT. STRIP MALL - NIGHT

Nancy, the only car on the road, drives by a bunch of 
teenagers hanging out by the payphone in the deserted strip 
mall parking lot. 

Then, a block away, she SCREECHES TO A HALT.  Reverses all 
the way back to 

THE PAY PHONE

The TEENAGERS gathered around the phone gawp as Nancy rolls 
down her window, blasts a FLASHLIGHT beam until she finds 

CANDY. 

             NANCY
      Candy DeBoer.  Get over here.  

             CANDY
      Misses Vandergroot? 

             NANCY
      What are you doing here? 

             CANDY
      Hanging out?  By the payphone?

             NANCY
      Yeah?  That a joint you're smoking?  
      A marijuana joint?

             CANDY
      It's an American Spirit.  Like the 
      Native Americans smoked.  I'm 18, so.

             NANCY
      Mm.  Let me see your ears.

             CANDY
      What?

             NANCY
      Pull your hair back and let me see em. 


Candy does.  She's got five piercings, but no pearl earring. 

                                      14.

             NANCY
      Where'd you get those?

             CANDY
      Accessorize?  At the Grandville Mall?

             NANCY
      Any other piercings?

             CANDY
      My belly button.

             NANCY
      Lemme see it. 

             CANDY
      Misses Vandergroot, I'm really 
      sorry about the bacon, but you 
      don't have the right -- 

             NANCY
      Anything else?  Besides the bacon.  
      You want to tell me now?  

             CANDY
        (almost in tears now)
      That's everything, Mrs. V, I swear! 

             NANCY
      Okay.  Fine.  

But as Candy turns to go, Nancy can't help herself.

             NANCY
      Belly button first.  

Candy looks back at her friends, embarrassed.  Comes close to 
the car and lifts her shirt to show her ample belly, pink 
rhinestone bellybutton, and fluorescent green lace panties 
poking out of her jeans.  

             CANDY
      I feel really uncomfortable, Mrs. V.  

             NANCY
      Me too, Candy.  Believe me. 
        (driving off)
      And pull your pants up!

EXT. A SPLIT-LEVEL HOUSE - NIGHT

Small, run-down, a bit shabby.  On the outskirts of town.  


The contrast with Nancy's house is so great that she checks 
again in the Teacher Directory before getting out of the car.  

                                      15.

ON THE PORCH

DAVE DELGADO opens the door.   Shocked.  

             DAVE
      Nancy, what're you dong here?  

             NANCY
      I needed to talk--

A woman calls out something in SPANISH in the b.g.  Dave 
answers her sweetly in Spanish.  

             NANCY
      Gosh, Am I, uh, interrupting... 
      something...?

             DAVE'S VOICE
      Yeah, I got an older woman in there.

Nancy's face sinks.  

             DAVE'S VOICE
      Just kidding.  My mom's visiting.  
      From Columbus. 

             NANCY
      I knew you were hiding something.  
      You're a secret Buckeye!  

             DAVE'S VOICE
      Heh, don't go spreading that 
      around, I'll get fired.  

Nancy thrusts the earring box at him. The one earring inside. 

             NANCY
      She has an odd number of piercings.

ON THE SIDE PORCH

Nancy paces.  Dave takes it in.  Not unskeptical.

             NANCY
      See, if she took both, I would know 
      she did it.  One, it seems like 
      maybe I just lost it. 

             DAVE
      Well...?  That isn't impossible. 


                                      16.

             NANCY
      Don't tell me to forget it.  Or to 
      calm down. That's what Fred's gonna 
      say.  I need at least one person in 
      my life to take me seriously.

             DAVE
      I'm taking you seriously.  That's 
      why I say you have to search.  

             NANCY
      So I'm supposed to upend my own 
      house, because she stole from me?

DAVE'S MOM appears at the window.  Harangues him in Spanish.

             DAVE
      Okay, mama, I'm coming.  Sorry, 
      Nancy.  I gotta...  

             NANCY
      Yeah, okay.  Thanks, Dave.  

             DAVE
      Listen, my advice?  Don't make 
      accusations until you're SURE.  If 
      you're right, nothing's gonna 
      change in a few days except you'll 
      have a stronger case.  But if 
      you're wrong, that can ruin a lot 
      of reputations.  Hers, and yours. 

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nancy takes a deep breath.  Then starts the SEARCH:

- The dresser drawers.  Shaking clothes out, searching the 
corners. 

- The closet.  The mountain of shoes.  Finds an old pair of 
sexy red pumps.  Tries them on.  A hint of a past life.

- The closet shelves.  Piles of sweaters, of junk untouched 
for years.  Her wedding dress, mothballed in a box.  

Then, FRED'S THINGS:

- His dresser, drawer by drawer.  Totally neat and orderly.  
Knickknacks, tighty-whities, some travel brochures for Italy 
from twenty years ago.  Yellowed dreams. 

- In the closet, tips out his loafers, one by one.  Nothing.  


                                      17.

On his side of the closet, one pair of the dozen nearly-
identical khakis is missing a BUTTON.  The only sign of 
anything out of order.  

UNDER THE BED - LATER

Nancy SNORES amid the Tupperware containers. 

THE NEXT MORNING

In the LIVING ROOM, no earring under the couch cushions -- 
but an old after-dinner mint.  She pops it into her mouth.  
Grimaces, spits it out and covers it back up.   

LATER

The whole downstairs is searched.  Nancy contemplates it.  
Then finds herself in 

HARRY'S ROOM.  

On his dresser, a handmade wooden TREASURE BOX.  LOCKED with 
a cheapo diary lock.  A moment of hesitation.  Then Nancy 
turns the tumbler with a fingernail and it POPS open.  

Inside, the treasures of an 11-year-old boy:  a shark tooth, 
a Civil War bullet, a Sacred Heart medallion.  Nancy smiles 
as she sifts through it all. 

She collects his laundry into a basket, hefts it up. 

But out in the hallway, she stops.  Goes back to the BOX.  

A coin stuck vertically along the edge.  She pulls at it --  

False bottom.  She pries it up. 

It's with some relief that she sees a stack of Victoria's 
Secret catalogues and Xena comics.  Nothing worse than PG-13. 

But underneath them -- A PAIR OF WOMEN'S PANTIES.  

Fluorescent green lace.  Exactly like CANDY'S.  

             NANCY
      Oh God...  

LATER, she lifts the panties with YELLOW RUBBER GLOVES.  
Deposits them into a ZIPLOCK BAG.  

A glance at the KEEP OUT sign on Harry's door takes her to 

THE DOOR TO THE GARAGE.  


                                      18.

             AMTRAK EMPLOYEES ONLY
             ALL OTHERS KEEP OUT

She hesitates in the doorway.  Then steps in.  

It's dark and cold and she's hardly been in here before.  

She walks through the garage, slowly, appraising.  
Everything's neat and labeled.

She circumnavigates the RAILROAD TRACK.  It's a loop, with a 
hole cut out of the middle.  She ducks down underneath the 
tables, then pops up in the middle of the layout.  

Surrounded by it.  She fingers one of the unmoving trains.  
Tentative, afraid to break it.  A foreign world to her. 

The houses, incredible.  This close-up, you can see the 
precision of the work, the care.  

She crawls back out, underneath. 

As she does, she peers under the work benches.  Lots and lots 
of DUST -- except in ONE CORNER.  

A BOX.  Jammed into the back corner.  All around is dusty, 
but the box itself ISN'T. 

Nancy's just working her way back towards it when -- 

             HARRY
	(O.S.)
      Dad says you're not allowed in here!  

Nancy jumps.  Turns to see HARRY in the doorway.  Her face 
reddens in a deep BLUSH.

             HARRY
      What? 

IN THE KITCHEN

             FRED
      I've got Frankenmuth.  Looks like 
      you've been busy.

             NANCY
      Why couldn't I get hold of you?  
      I've been in crisis mode here.  

             FRED
      Nance, come on.  You're all worked 
      up over nothing.


             NANCY
      That's just what I thought you'd say. 

Fred hands Nancy a tiny Frankenmuth plastic camel.  She can't 
help but smile.  Takes Fred's arm.  

                                      19.

             NANCY
      I'm glad you're back.  I was lonely.  

             FRED
      Awww, now.  It was only one day. 

             NANCY
      I know.  It's just nice having you 
      around.  Like a golden retriever.  

             FRED
      Yeah, woof!  

She laughs.  Fred kisses her forehead, then turns to Harry.  

             FRED
      Practice time?  

             NANCY
      I dunno, you think the railway can 
      survive another hour without you?  
      Could be mass carnage if one derails.

ORGAN MUSIC fills the house: ONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS.  

Harry and Nancy sing while Fred plays on the HAMMOND ORGAN. 

INT.  FIRST DUTCH REFORMED CHURCH - DAY

Fred plays the CHURCH ORGAN for the solemn congregation.  
Everyone in black suits.  The pastor straight out of a Frans 
Hals painting.  

Towards the front, Nancy and Harry sing along.  Harry really 
belts it out, loud and proud.  

LATER

             PASTOR
      What is family time for you?  Is it 
      sitting in front of Satan's Box?  Or 
      a clean, active hobby?  Quilts, 
      models:  our inoculation against 
      sexuality and sin. 

Harry and Fred share a surreptitious fist-bump -- got that 
one covered.  Nancy shifts uncomfortably.  


                                      20.

The Pastor then turns to:

             PASTOR
      Now, in the end times, the Beast 
      causeth all to receive a Mark.  
      Revelation 13.  What is the Mark of 
      the Beast?  Let's look at the 
      character of the Mark, and then at 
      the capabilities of the iPhone 5....

AT THE END, Fred wraps things up with some exuberant improv 
on the church ORGAN.  Then ends it with heavy chords. 

OUTSIDE CHURCH

Fred, Nancy, and Harry chat with the Pastor and his family.  

             PASSING KIDS
      Hey Deacon Fred.

             FRED
      Hey, scout.  How those specs 
      working out?

Nancy surveys the post-church crowd -- little knots of gossip 
and chatter.  

LATER, Nancy tries to get away from the Pastor's Wife and 
another ROTUND MOM. 

             ROTUND MOM
      Like I always say, "If it ain't 
      Dutch, it ain't much!"

             NANCY
        (rolling her eyes)
      What about the other 7 billion 
      people on the planet?  Honestly.

EXT. TULIP FIELDS - LATER

They drive past the fields of young tulips.  Just beginning 
to crown in long strips of different colors. 

A Dutch overseer in straw hat and suspenders inspects the 
HISPANIC DAY-LABORERS who are actually working. 

             NANCY
      They're like slaves.  Poor guys.  

             FRED
      Well it's almost Tulip Time.  
      Someone's gotta do it.


                                      21.

             NANCY
      Why don't you show THAT on your 
      train layout.  You make it all seem 
      so...  happy. 

             FRED
      Maybe I will.  Actually, I'm 
      working on a new house.  Cedar 
      shingles.  Or maybe shakes?  Gonna 
      try index cards, fringe them.  

Nancy watches the tulips flicker past.  Bored.  Alone. 

They pull into the driveway.  Harry jumps out and heads right 
inside.  Nancy just sits there.  Staring at Jesus Is Lord.  

             FRED
      You all right?

             NANCY
      Sometimes I just wonder -- why God 
      would ever want to come down into 
      this messed-up old world.  

LATER 

From the garage, the sound of Fred and Harry LAUGHING 
together.  

She peeks through the door.  Fred's at his drafting table, 
drawing up PLANS for a new house.  Harry watches.  

             FRED
      This is the fun part.  You get to 
      make up a story about someone you 
      never met before, and direct their 
      whole life.  Like you're making 
      your own movie, but even better. 

OUT IN THE HALL

Nancy VACUUMS furiously.  When she's done, she DUMPS the 
whole vacuum cleaner bag out onto the floor.  Sifts through 
it.  Sneezes. 

             NANCY 
      There's that button, anyhow.

The khaki button from Fred's pants.  She re-vacuums up all 
the lint and dirt from the floor.  


                                      22.

IN THE BEDROOM

She sews the button back on.  As she does, she feels 
something in the pocket.  Pulls out 

A WAD OF PAPER that's been through the washer and dryer. 

             NANCY
      I keep telling you to clean out 
      your pockets...

             FRED'S VOICE
      Honey?  I'm taking Harry out to get 
      some glue.  We'll be back in five.  

Nancy sits at attention.  

And as soon as the door slams, she slips downstairs into 

INT. THE GARAGE 

THE BOX.  Dusty all around it, but the box itself isn't.  

She opens it.  Inside:  TWENTY PACKS of POLAROID FILM.  
Unopened, still shrink-wrapped. 

             NANCY
      What in the heck.

She looks at the box top.  The shipping labels have been 
pulled off.  

The sound of the CAR.  She quickly replaces the box, slips 
out of the garage.  

IN NANCY'S BEDROOM

Nancy sits on her bed, trying to figure out...  everything.  

She realizes -- she's absent-mindedly pulling at the WAD OF 
PAPER from Fred's pants.  

The washer and drier have melded all the papers into one grey 
wad -- except for a FLASH of FLUORESCENT PINK.  

She kneads it, and the paper cocoon splits. 

The pieces are wrinkled, falling apart -- but she assembles 
them into 

A PARKING TICKET.  


             NANCY
        (calling)
      Fred, did you pay...  

And then she stops.  Realizes--it's from MADISON, WINSCONSIN.  

                                      23.

             NANCY
      Madison?  When...  

             FRED'S VOICE
        (coming up the stairs)
      What's that, hun? 

The dots vaguely connect in her mind -- and she scoops the 
pieces of the ticket up and shoves them into her pocket.  

And, in the same movement, she scoops up the ZIP-LOC bag of 
CANDY'S PANTIES and shoves them under her shirt.  

Fred comes into the room. 

             NANCY
      Nothing, hun, just found your 
      button for those khakis. 

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nancy sits awake in bed.  A grin on her face.  She looks over 
at Fred, sleeping, shakes her head in wonder. 

Then sees his still-packed suitcase.

INT. NANCY'S BATHROOM/BEDROOM - MORNING

Nancy does her hair in the bathroom.  

             FRED 
        (from the bedroom)
      You unpacked all my stuff!  What a 
      nice surprise.

             NANCY
      Well I couldn't sleep anyway, so -- 

She catches sight of

FRED, standing at the closet in his TIGHTIE-WHITIES.  His 
pale legs, his pot belly.  

And she can't help it -- she CRACKS UP.  

             FRED
      What?  What's so funny?  


                                      24.

She waves helplessly at him, collapses on the bed, LAUGHING 
uncontrollably.  

Fred grins.  Not sure what's going on.

             FRED
      You're quite the Jolly Rancher today.  

IN THE KITCHEN

Nancy makes Harry's PB&J.  Has to stop because she CRACKS UP. 

             HARRY
      Mom, you are officially weird.

INT. DAVE'S SHOP CLASS - DAY

The bell rings.  

             DAVE
      Okay, glasses on hooks!  Get a 
      sheath on that saw, Mitchell.  

As the students file out, Dave turns over the small jewelry 
box that big Shawn Graumann's working on.  It's beautiful.

             DAVE
      Niiice.  You're killing it, man.  
      This edge, you can use the diamond 
      rasp.  I can show you after school.

             SHAWN
      Actually, my dad doesn't like me 
      staying after.  For shop.

             DAVE
      Ah.  Okay.  I could give him a 
      call, if you think--

             SHAWN
      No!  No, please.  Don't do that.  I 
      just-- it's better if you don't. 

             DAVE
      You all right?  Everything okay at 
      home?  I know your dad lost his job.

             SHAWN
        (panic)
      Everything's fine!  Just -- please, 
      don't call my dad.  

Shawn waddles out.  Dave looks down at the box.  The top is 
sketched for inlay: a picturesque house with a picket fence. 


                                      25.

IN NANCY'S CLASSROOM

She sits at her desk, taping together the pieces of the 
PARKING TICKET.  Ignoring the class, who take a pop quiz. 

IN FRONT OF THE SCHOOL

Dave exits the Principal's office.  Watches Shawn get into 
Squiggs Graumann's red pickup at the edge of the lot. 

             DAVE
      God, I hate that.  I reported it.  
      But I don't know...

             NANCY
      You know what?  If you don't know, 
      you know.  You know? 
        (as Dave puzzles that out)
      Can we go someplace we can talk?  
        (mouthing the word:)
      Secretly?

                                  CUT TO:

AN ENORMOUS IRON HORSE 

Not just big.  We're talking the biggest goddamn metal horse 
in the world.  Because we're in the 

FREDERICK MEIJER GARDENS

Gardens, greenhouses, and Leonardo's horse, 500 years after 
it was designed.  Finally constructed in the Florence of 
America -- Holland, Michigan.  

From the ground, the main thing you see is its 8-foot balls. 

Nancy and Dave approach through the small parking lot. 

             NANCY
      Ugh, look at that.  Minnesota 
      plates.  Land of 10,000 Lakes.  

             DAVE
      So?

             NANCY
      WellferPetesakes, Michigan's got 
      11,000 lakes!  Is that all they've 
      got to brag about, being second-
      best in lakes?  It's pathetic.

             DAVE
      What's eating you?  


                                      26.

             NANCY
      I just-- let's go in.  I can't 
      think with that huge crotch 
      dangling over me.  

They walk into the park, to 

EXT. GREENHOUSES 

A series of interconnected, airlocked glass houses, each one 
with a different ecosystem. 

As Dave heads through the first airlock, Nancy blurts out:

             NANCY
      I think Fred's having an affair!

As soon as she says it, she clamps her hand over her mouth, 
and rushes inside to

INT. THE DESERT HOUSE

Dave stares at the crazy, taped-together parking ticket as 
Nancy lays it out in an urgent whisper.  

             NANCY
      Here's the thing, he's never BEEN 
      to Madison.  Not that he's ever 
      told me.  He told ME he was at a 
      conference in Fort Wayne that day.  

             DAVE
      Okaaaay...

             NANCY
      PLUS, if he paid that ticket, how'd 
      he pay it?  

A family comes into the desert house.  Nancy pulls Dave into

INT. THE JUNGLE HOUSE

A steamy jungle greenhouse.  They immediately start to sweat.

             NANCY
      I checked all our credit cards and 
      our bank accounts.  So he's got 
      secret credit cards somewhere.  So 
      what's that tell you?  

Two teenagers on a sweaty date come in and start making out. 

Nancy pulls Dave behind a palm tree, shoves her phone at him.  


                                      27.

             NANCY
      Look at these pictures. 

             DAVE
      What, is this Candy? Are you still--

             NANCY
      No, the next one.  We don't own a 
      Polaroid.  Never did!

             DAVE
      Probably just for his trains.  

             NANCY
        (victorious)
      Nope!  Researched it!  The lens is 
      no good.  So why's he need a 
      Polaroid so bad?  No computer 
      files, no film developer.  Nobody 
      sees your kinky sex photos except 
      you and your lover.  

Dave hands her back the phone.  

             NANCY
      Don't you think he goes to an awful 
      lot of conferences for an 
      optometrist?  

             DAVE
      I dunno.  He's the only optometrist 
      I ever knew.  And I never even met 
      him.  You think he wasn't actually 
      in Frankenmuth last week? 

Nancy hates to admit it, but:

             NANCY
      Nah, he was.  Even found this in his 
      suitcase.  

She hands over a tiny orange plastic camel.

             DAVE
      So a woman travels around the whole 
      mid-west to optometry junkets, just 
      to have sex with Fred.

             NANCY
      Maybe he has a few different ones. 

             DAVE
      Fred Vandergroot has hoes in 
      different area codes? 


                                      28.

Nancy blushes, but can't help but laugh.  

             NANCY
      I know!  Just the thought of it.  I 
      saw him this morning in his undies.  
      I cracked up!  He must be a sex 
      machine on the road, cause he sure 
      isn't at home.  

An awkward beat between them.   

             DAVE
      Well.  There must be something 
      there.  After all, he got you.  

The compliment, the attraction, the fact of her marriage -- 
it all registers for Nancy. 

             NANCY
      Well.  A lot's changed since then.  
        (after a moment)
      When I met him, I was pretty...  low-
      down.  He fixed me up.  Got me, you 
      know.  Clean.  And back then, he 
      seemed, I dunno... glamorous.  He'd 
      tell me about these trains...   I'd 
      imagine like, North by Northwest.  

A wave of vulnerability, of fear, washes over her. 

             NANCY
      It's hot in here.  I don't feel great.

They walk together into 

INT. THE CARNIVOROUS PLANTS HOUSE

She leans on the railing.  Breathing in the air.  

             DAVE 
      I dunno, Nancy.  

             NANCY
      You think I'm making it up?  Why 
      would I WANT to think he's having 
      an affair? 

             DAVE
      Well you're the Great Mouse 
      Detective here, you tell me. 

They look down, annoyed with each other.  At the pitcher 
plants, the Venus fly traps, the strange marsh plants 
digesting flies in pools of acid.


                                      29.

             DAVE
      You know what I think?  You're like 
      one of those flies.  The more they 
      flail around, the deeper they get, 
      until they go right into the acid.  
      If they'd just sit still, they 
      could live forever on the funnel, 
      drinking that nectar.  But they 
      flail around, even though they know 
      it's not going to get them anywhere 
      except deeper in. 

Nancy stares down at the pitcher plant.  A fly in the hairs, 
flailing, getting sucked, oh-so-slowly, down inside.  

             DAVE
      You're flailing, Nancy.  And you're 
      gonna get yourself in trouble.  You 
      have a good life.  Sit still, drink 
      the nectar, and enjoy it.  

Nancy shakes her head and turns her back on the plants.  

             NANCY
      That's the dumbest thing I ever 
      heard.  

             DAVE
      Well.  It's the best I got.  

And he leaves her alone in the greenhouse.  With the flies 
trapped in the pitcher plants.  

She blows a dejected raspberry as he strides off.  

INT. A NAIL SALON - DAY

Nancy gets her hands massaged and manicured by two Laotian 
women.  

             MANICURIST
      You want toes too?

             NANCY
      Heck, why not.  He gets to do what 
      he wants, why can't I.

LATER, she stares down at her pink toes, spread like pearls 
in the white foam toe-separator.  Those perfect little nails.  
Not quite what she's looking for.  

INT. NANCY'S HOUSE - DINNER TABLE

Staring blankly at the CNN.  


                                      30.

             FRED
      Oh, got a call from Alcon today.  
      They want me to come back out there 
      next week.

             NANCY
      To Frankenmuth.

             FRED
      Ay-up.  Advanced training.  Should 
      be kinda fun.  Just a three-dayer. 

             NANCY
      A little vacation getaway.

             FRED
      Well.  Nancy.  It's work.  I don't 
      stay up to date with this stuff, 
      1-800-CONTACTS will kill me. 

Harry looks from his mom to his dad.  Is this a fight?

             NANCY
      Of course!  I'm just glad you get 
      to get away.  Must be nice.  Just 
      get up and leave it all behind. 

Nancy smiles a tight smile.  Gets up to do the dishes. 

INT. FRED AND NANCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nancy sits on the edge of the bed in her nightgown.  Fred 
comes in.  

             FRED
      Hey, hun, if this Frankenmuth thing 
      is worrying you--

             NANCY
      Fred--

             FRED
      I'll tell them, no more two-
      parters.  I only do this one every 
      nine months or so anyway--

             NANCY
      Fred, I found a pair of Candy's 
      underwear in Harry's room. 

             FRED
      Pfft-- What?!


             NANCY
      What, is that funny?

She tosses him the plastic bag with the panties in it.  He 
catches it, tries to keep from laughing.  Unsuccessfully. 

                                      31.

             FRED
      Sorry, I mean -- how'd he even get 
      them?  Master pickpocket...

             NANCY
      You need to go in there, tell him 
      we know everything, and that it's 
      unacceptable and needs to change.  

             FRED
      Jeez, Nancy, you don't know much 
      about teenage boys.

             NANCY
      There's another woman's underwear 
      in my house!  I feel so violated--

             FRED
      You feel violated?  How you think 
      Harry will feel when we barge in 
      there dangling these in his face?  
      You go in there, snooping in his 
      private things-- 

             NANCY
      Oh, so now the problem is me. 

             FRED
      There is no problem.  Harry's a 
      good kid.  He's entitled to a 
      private life.  Sometimes love means 
      letting him have his secrets.  

             NANCY
      Is that true of our marriage too?  

Fred's taken aback.  A long beat.  He indicates her toes.

             FRED
      You mean about the mani-pedi you 
      got today and didn't tell me about?  
      I wasn't gonna mention it.  

She curls her toes under so the nails can't be seen.

Fred looks at her.  Searching her profile for... something. 


                                      32.

             FRED
      There's nothing wrong with our 
      marriage, is there?  Nancy?

             NANCY
      ... No, Fred.  There isn't.

And she actually means it.  

             NANCY
      I just wish I could go back to, 
      like, a week ago.  

             FRED
      You can.  I'll get Harry downstairs.  
      You put those back,  and forget 
      them.  Hit the reset button. 

THE PANTIES.

Go back into Harry's box.  Nancy covers them over. 

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - NIGHT

Nancy digs the old PARKING TICKET out of her purse.  Crumples 
it, shoves it down into the trash.  Reset. 

IN BED

Nancy scrolls through her phone.  One by one, deletes the 
photos of the Polaroid box.  She notices -- the partially 
visible POSTMARK on the box.  Zip code: 49014.  Notes it.

She turns to Fred.  Watches him snore.  The frothy puddle of 
drool by his mouth.  She stares at it.  Until--

EXT.  DOWNTOWN HOLLAND - DAY [RAIN]

DAVE trots down the sidewalk of the perfectly manicured 
downtown.  It's POURING RAIN and he's SOAKED.  

NANCY pulls up alongside him.  Rolls down her window.  

             NANCY
      Get in.

             DAVE
      Car's just a few blocks up.

He keeps walking.  She drives alongside.

             NANCY
      Get.  In.  


                                      33.

INT.  MINNIE ZAFRONA'S - DAY [RAIN]

A back booth in the dark old diner filled with truckers from 
the furniture mills.  Nancy leans in close. 

             NANCY
      Sometimes in life, there are 
      opportunities.  To go beyond the 
      walls we've built for ourselves.

She slides her cell phone across the table to Dave.  The 
picture of the BOX'S POSTMARK on the screen. 

             NANCY
      See the zip code?  Fred's office.  
      We're going to break in.  

             DAVE
      Pfft--  Nancy, forget it. 

He stands up -- comes face to face with the elderly WAITRESS.

             WAITRESS
      Honey glazed kruller?  

Dave stands there a beat.  Then sits back down.  Accepts his 
kruller. 

             WAITRESS
      And chocolate for the lady. 

They both wait until she's out of earshot.  

             NANCY
      I've got a whole plan.  But I need 
      your help.  I need you, Dave.  No 
      one else will even listen to me.  
      One kruller and one coffee.  Can 
      you give me that?

             DAVE
      ... Well.  I'll listen.  But 
      nothing more. 

INT. NANCY'S CAR - DOWNTOWN HOLLAND - DAY [RAIN]

Nancy drives slow through the downtown.  

Rolls past HOLLAND EYE CARE.  Plate-glass storefront, green 
awning, old-fashioned wooden sign.  Inside, the last few 
patrons try on glasses. 

             DAVE
      It's alarmed -- see the sensors?


                                      34.

             NANCY
      Yeah, but look around here.

She pulls into

THE REAR PARKING LOT [RAIN]

Behind the shop.  A sturdy back door and three windows.  Two 
are BARRED.  One ISN'T. 

             NANCY
      When's your eye appointment?

             DAVE
      Why?

             NANCY
      During your eye exam, you go to the 
      bathroom.  And rig the window so 
      when they close it, it only SEEMS 
      locked.  You could do that, right?  

Dave considers the window, the surroundings, the office. 

             DAVE
      It's too hard.  Too... crazy.  

             NANCY
      That's what's so brilliant!  No one 
      would suspect two old bores like us 
      would do something so... DARING. 

Dave drains his to-go cup.

             DAVE
      I'm done with my coffee, I'm done 
      with my kruller.  I'm gonna go now. 

But just as he opens the car door -- Nancy grabs him and 
YANKS him down in the seat.  

             NANCY
      Get down!

FRED comes out the back door.  Holding a file folder over his 
head as an umbrella.  

They watch intensely, slouched way down, until he drives off. 

Then Dave realizes -- Nancy's been SQUEEZING HIS HAND the 
whole time.  They linger there.  In the intimacy of it. 

Dave considers a long beat.  


                                      35.

             DAVE
      My appointment's Friday morning. 

Nancy beams.  Victorious.

INT. DAVE'S SHOP CLASS - DAY

The big BANDSAW slices big Shawn Graumann's box to ribbons. 

             DAVE
      Shawn!  The heck --

Dave hits the emergency stop.

Shawn turns to reveal: he's wearing tons of white facepaint 
to hide the fact that he's been BEATEN.  

             DAVE
      Jesus.  Shawn, I--

             SHAWN
      You WHAT?  WHAT?  Huh, BITCH?!  You 
      wanna make some phone calls now?  
      Some friendly advice?  Call DSS?  
      FUCK YOU, Delgado!

Shawn flings a table over on his way out the door.  

AFTER SCHOOL

Dave sits at a workbench.  Miserable.  Piecing together 
Shawn's shattered box.  Back into the quaint farmhouse scene.  

Dave pulls a WINDOW FRAME from the storage closet.  

Quickly builds a little jig that screws into the frame.  A 
wingnut, a few pieces of wood. 

He slips the device into the frame.  Now the window closes, 
but doesn't lock.  

INT. KITCHEN - THAT EVENING

Nancy prepares dinner.  Fred and Harry in the living room, 
newspaper and homework.  

             NANCY
      I talked with Gwen.  She wants to 
      go to Whole Foods Friday.

             FRED
      Pfft.  Hope you talked her out of 
      it.  


                                      36.

             FRED
	(CONT'D)
      Three hour drive, with gas at four 
      bucks?  She just got her kid 
      contacts too.  

             NANCY
      There's some kind of cheese... 
      Anyway, I told her I'd go. 

IN THE KITCHEN

As Fred says GRACE, Nancy texts under the table:

TO:  DAVE
MESSAGE:  It's on.

Nancy surveys the room, her life.  Her secret excitement 
makes everything shine.

INT. DAVE'S LIVING ROOM - SAME

Dave looks up from his TV dinner as the TEXT comes in.

It's on.  A deep sigh.  Dave looks around his crummy house.  
The messy little room, the TV tray, the futon bed.  

Leans back to stare at the ceiling.  Like, What am I doing?

EXT. HOLLAND EYE CARE - MORNING

An obese man in measuring-tape suspenders stares at 

DAVE, nervously waiting in Fred's waiting room.  Pretending 
to read "Dutch Life" magazine. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Mister Delgado comma Dave?

Dave looks up to see FRED looming over him.  A moment of just 
staring up at Fred.  He's never seen him before. 

             FRED
      Let's get those peepers checked out. 

IN THE EXAMINATION ROOM

Dave's head is pressed into the strange bondage contraption.  

Fred sits REALLY CLOSE -- his face no more than an inch from 
Dave's.  The kind of intimacy normally reserved for lovers.  

Fred's breath on Dave's face as he peers blandly into Dave's 
eyes.  Intensely creepy. 


             FRED
      So.  You're familiar with my wife.  
      Nancy.  Straight ahead for me.  

The bright light in Dave's eye.  Tearing up.  Dave sweats.

                                      37.

             DAVE
      Don't think so.  No.

             FRED
      Look up for me.  I saw you've got 
      MESSA.  Through Holland High. 

             DAVE
      Yessir.  Yes.  That's true. 

             FRED
      So you must know my wife.  Nancy 
      Vandergroot.  Life Management.  
      Look left now.  

The light, the questions, the orders.  Interrogation.  

             DAVE
      I may know her.  I, uh, I don't 
      know all the people there.  

             FRED
      Pretty small place.

             DAVE
      I cut the grass.  Maintenance. 

Fred pulls Dave's head forward against the straps. 

             FRED
      You're drifting backwards.  You 
      nervous?  

Dave's hand nervously toys with the jig in his pocket. 

             DAVE
      ... Nope. 

Fred's hands on Dave's forehead, pulling back his eyelids.  
Intense eye contact, at less than six inches.  It could be an 
inspection of Dave's eyes -- or of his soul.

             FRED
      Well don't worry Mister Delgado.  I 
      don't bite. 

Dave almost stops breathing -- then, Fred rolls away.  Enters 
everything into the computer.  


                                      38.

             FRED
      Well sir, we like to say that only 
      God has perfect vision, but you 
      come pretty darned close.  

             DAVE
      You, uh-- you got a bathroom I can 
      use?  

             FRED
      Let's get these guys in there first 
      real quick.  Dilate you out so we 
      can check the retina.  

Two drops in each eye.  

             FRED
      There ya go.  Bathroom's down back.  
      When you're done, you can wait out 
      front, I'll call you back.  

Dave rubs his eyes.  That strange fizzy feeling of dilation.  

IN THE HALL

Everything haloes and goes soft-focus.  The drops kicking in.  

Then he notices -- a man in uniform talking to the 
receptionist.  He blinks, rubs his eyes -- it's a COP. 

He spins and runs to the 

BATHROOM

Locks the door.  Opens the window.  Through his dilated eyes, 
the world is a glittering, blinding blur. 

He pulls out the WOODEN JIG.  Slots it in -- but a glint of 
intense light from a passing car; he BOBBLES it -- and the 
jig FALLS OUT THE WINDOW.

             DAVE
      Shit.

He stands on the toilet -- there it is, on the concrete under 
the window.  So close, yet so far...

KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK!

             DAVE
      Uh, occupied, occupied--

Panicking now.  Pulls a Swiss Army knife from his belt.  
Frantically unscrews the lugs from the windowframe.  


                                      39.

KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK!

             DAVE
      Jesus...

The lug comes out -- but so does a whole strip of the FRAME, 
with a KLANK.  Dave fumbles, drops the knife INTO THE TOILET.

             VOICE
      The heck you doing in there? 

Dave rips his jacket off, plunges his arm into the toilet.  
Grabs the knife, pushes the window closed.  It swings open.  

             VOICE
        (pounding)
      Don't make me break down this door!

             DAVE
      Shit shit shit...

He wets a wad of toilet paper, smears it onto the window 
frame, squishes it closed.  It sticks.  

             DAVE
      This is so stupid, Dave...

He shoves the knife in his pocket, flushes the toilet.  Opens 
the door to find himself face to face with 

THE COP.  Huge, muscular.  Looming over him, eyes narrowed.  

             COP
      What you been doing in there?

             DAVE
      Uhhh...  I...

             COP
      God, I nearly bust my bladder. 

He moves Dave bodily aside and charges into the bathroom.  
The sound of an awesome PISS.  

Dave forces himself to walk, not run, to the EXIT.  But -- 

             RECEPTIONIST
      Mister Delgado, you're not done 
      yet.  You need a retina check. 

             DAVE
      I don't know-- if, uh, I have time-- 


Dave heads for the door.  The COP bursts out of the bathroom, 
comes striding after him.

                                      40.

             COP
      Hey, buddy-- Stop!  

DINGLE-DINGLE!

OUTSIDE

Dave can barely see.  Bumps into a woman as he strides off.

             COP
      Hey!

Dave glances back -- HOOOOONNNK!  A car wooshes past.  Dave's 
in the street -- Blind -- Reeling -- The Cop GRABS HIM -- 

             COP
      Buddy, you forgot your jacket in 
      the can.  They put those drops in 
      your eyes?  I hate that sugar.

             DAVE
      Yeah.  I'm...  Thanks for...

Dave gestures vaguely.  The cop chuckles, slaps Dave's back.  

             COP
      Just don't drive for half an hour.  
      Don't wanna have to arrest you!

Dave leans on a lamppost for support.  Jesus H. Christ.  

INT. NANCY'S CAR - DAY

In the Wal-Mart parking lot.  Nancy touches up her RED 
LIPSTICK.  She's dressed up, looking young.  Looking SEXY. 

Dave glances around, gets in.  He looks ashen.  

             DAVE
      I'm out.

             NANCY
      You can't be out.

             DAVE
      I'm so out.  I got a date tonight 
      anyway.  So.  We gotta call it off.  

             NANCY
      ... What do you mean you have a 
      DATE?  Can't you cancel?

             NANCY
	(CONT'D)
        (off his silence)
      Are you excited about it?  About her?

A long beat while Dave stares out the windshield.  Sullen.

                                      41.

             DAVE
      There's a lot you don't know about 
      me, Nancy. 

             NANCY
      Yeah.  Evidently.  I thought we 
      were in this together.  This isn't 
      more interesting than some date you 
      clearly don't want to go on? 

             DAVE
      No.  I mean.  There was a cop there 
      today.  It freaked me out.

             NANCY
      Okay, but you still--  I mean, 
      mission accomplished. 

             DAVE
      No.  It freaked me out because... 
      I've been in trouble.  With the law.  

             NANCY
      Well heck we've all gotten speeding 
      tickets and all that.

             DAVE
      Nancy.  I've been in JAIL.  I have 
      a RECORD.  

This takes the wind out of Nancy's sails.  She stares blankly 
ahead.  

             NANCY
      ...  Oh.  What... what did you do?  
      Was it... bad?

             DAVE
      I was seventeen.  Some friends 
      stole a car, went joy riding.  
      Nobody got hurt, but the other guys 
      ran faster than me, so.  

             NANCY
      Oh fer pete's sakes!  That's hardly 
      nothing.  You were just a dumb kid! 


                                      42.

             DAVE
      But look, you get caught, no 
      biggie.  Hispanic guy, criminal 
      record, in Holland?  I'm guilty 
      until proven innocent.  

             NANCY
      Well, I understand.  Go on your 
      boring date.  

             DAVE
      There's no date.  I just.  Didn't 
      want you to think less of me.

             NANCY
      Ah Dave.  You never have to worry 
      about that with me.  

A sweet moment between them. 

             NANCY 
      But you gotta know -- with or 
      without you, I'm going in.  So you 
      gotta show me one thing.  

INT. HOME DEPOT - DAY

An endless aisle of DOOR HANDLES displayed on mini doorjambs. 

             DAVE
      Okay, just take the card, slide it 
      in thirty degrees, it should pop.

Nancy tries to use her credit card to pick the lock.  Can't 
get the angle right.  

Dave puts his hand over hers, guides it.  The lock CLICKS 
open.  His hand lingers on hers. 

             HOME DEPOT GUY
	(O.S.)
      Help you with anything?

They spring apart.  Dave hides the card. 

             DAVE
      We're good.  Picking out doors.

             HOME DEPOT GUY
      Arright.  Holler if you need me. 

Dave and Nancy watch him move off.

             NANCY
      It... might be like this one here.


                                      43.

             DAVE
      That's more tricky.  See, it's got 
      a tongue, then a safety bar.  Gotta 
      lean against it, do the card, then 
      come round with it.

             NANCY
      Guide me.  C'mon.

He comes up behind her.  His hand on her hand.  Their bodies 
together.  The scent of her hair.  

CLICK!

She half-turns -- his face right against hers.  Whispers:

             NANCY
      I got it.

             DAVE
      Yeah.  You sure did. 

And then -- they KISS.

It's impossible to say who made the first move -- they've 
both been wanting this for so, so long.

             HOME DEPOT GUY
	(O.S.)
      How you folks-- Oh.  Gosh. 

They spring apart.  Turn bright red.  The worker chuckles. 

             HOME DEPOT GUY
      Don't mind me!  I'm into doors too.  

EXT. NANCY'S CAR / HOME DEPOT PARKING LOT - DUSK

Nancy pulls out.  Dave comes running after, taps the window. 

             DAVE
      Wait.  I'm coming.

             NANCY
      You shouldn't.  You're right--

             DAVE
      I'll stay outside.  Keep watch.  
      Just in case something happens.

             NANCY
      Okay then.  Get in!

Dave jumps in, and Nancy revs the engine and peels out. 


                                      44.

INT. THE LIVING ROOM - DUSK

Fred throws his briefcase on the entry table.

             FRED
      Arright slugger, who's ready for 
      some Mi Ranchito? 

             HARRY
      Ol!

EXT. HOLLAND EYE CARE - NIGHT

The dark, empty downtown.  Nancy parks a block away.  

EXT. HOLLAND EYE CARE PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Nancy and Dave sneak through the empty back lot.  

Nancy pops open the bathroom window.  Flakes of dried toilet 
paper rain down. 

             DAVE
      I'll keep watch.  Good luck. 

Nancy nods.  Nervous now. 

Dave boosts her up through the window into the dark bathroom.  

IN THE HALLWAY

The bathroom door creaks open.  Nancy takes it in -- the 
whole office dark, silent, forbidden.

She cracks a smile.  And steps inside. 

INT. MI RANCHITO - NIGHT

A blast of Mexican music as Harry and Fred tuck into 
chimichangas.  Harry gushes about some collectible card game. 

Fred's cell phone rings.  Then again.  We catch snippets--

             FRED
      So the contact is still in the eye?  
      No, it's okay.  Can you get to my 
      office? 
        (hanging up)
      Bad news, Har.  

EXT. BEHIND THE OFFICE - NIGHT

Dave keeps watch.  Pacing. 


                                      45.

             NANCY
	(O.S.)
      Psst! 

Her face in the bathroom window.

             NANCY
      Can I borrow your credit card?

             DAVE
      You're kidding.

             NANCY
      I left my purse in the car.  

INSIDE

Nancy pauses before a door marked OFFICE - PRIVATE.  

Stares up at the motion detector just over her head:  glowing 
green, but facing the other way. 

She slides the card in, leans on the door.  POP!  

INT. FRED'S PRIVATE OFFICE

Loon wallpaper, bookshelves, some display model trains.

Nancy sits at the broad desk.  Fingers a plastic pull-apart 
model of the eye.  Turns it so it's not looking at her. 

She goes through the drawers.  Laughs at a hidden stash of 
mini-Snickers.  Eats one. 

One locked drawer.  She looks around.  "If I were Fred..."  
Inspects the model train on the desk.  Lifts it: the KEY is 
underneath. 

             NANCY
      Bingo.

The locked drawer is nothing but patient records.  

Nancy swings around in the chair.  Empty-handed.  

Her eye catches a big FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH: her, Fred and Harry.

An old formal studio portrait.  They all look a little dorky 
and stiff.  But Harry's just three years old, fat and 
laughing.  Nancy and Fred are beaming.  Happy.  Truly happy.  

Nancy touches the photo.  Wistful.  How did she ever get from 
there.... to here? 


                                      46.

And she's about to leave when she notices -- the photo's hung 
crooked.  She adjusts it, and realizes:  behind the photo is

A HIDDEN WALL SAFE. 

INT. A FORD FOCUS - NIGHT

A woman, GWEN, and her teenage son ride through the downtown.  
The boy holds a compress to his eye.

             GWEN
      I don't know why this couldn't 
      happen during normal business hours.

             GWEN'S SON
      I already said I was sorry, mom.  

OUT BEHIND FRED'S OFFICE

Dave HIDES as they pull into the BACK PARKING LOT.

AT THE HIDDEN SAFE 

             NANCY
      Anniversary?
        (tries it)
      Of course not.

Thinks for a minute.  

             NANCY
      Harry's birthday.  

Ten, fifteen, ninety three -- CLICK!  The safe swings open. 

INSIDE:  a half-dozen neat white envelopes, and a pair of 
archival boxes.  Nancy dives in.  

OUTSIDE

Dave stares in horror as FRED pulls up in front of the 
office.  Dave jabs at his cell phone. 

IN THE PRIVATE OFFICE

             NANCY
      Ah-hah!

She pulls out CREDIT CARDS in Fred's name from an envelope.  
Flips her phone into camera mode, photographs them.  

She doesn't notice that as she takes the pictures, she 
DISCONNECTS Dave's calls. 


                                      47.

OUTSIDE

             DAVE
      Dammit Nancy...

He hides as Gwen and her son get out of the car.

             GWEN
      He's here.  Hurry up!  

             DAVE
        (dialing again)
      Nancy, pick up, pick up... 

INSIDE

Nancy opens the archival boxes and gapes. 

The boxes are FULL OF POLAROIDS. 

She was expecting women.  But-- they're all photos of HOUSES.  
Nancy pulls one out.  Recognizes it.

             NANCY
      From the train set...  and inside.  
      How'd he get inside?  

She starts flipping through the Polaroids -- pulling them out 
randomly -- there are hundreds -- where to even start?  

A front yard and a hand-lettered sheet that says LACEY ANN 
FOR BOLOGNA QUEEN.

             NANCY
      Baloney Queen?

Houses and more houses...  Then -- one photo with a PERSON in 
it.  The only one.  

A GIRL.  Blonde--but she's distant, motion-blurred.  A GHOST.  

OUT FRONT, 

Fred throws up the cage, unlocks the front door -- 

DAVE

Peeps at him from the alley. Dials again as Gwen greets Fred.

             NANCY'S VOICE
      Dave--

             DAVE
      He's here.  Get out.  NOW! 


                                      48.

NANCY

Electrified -- stuffs the photos of Ghost Girl and the 
Bologna Queen front yard into her pocket -- 

Shoves the rest away, closes the safe -- And just as she 
rushes toward the hall -- 

THE HALLWAY LIGHTS GO ON.  

The BATHROOM is across the hall -- no escape now.  She SHUTS 
the Private Office door.  Shutting herself in.  Whispering:

             NANCY
      I'm trapped.  Dave?

FOOTSTEPS in the hall.  She CLICKS the door lock closed.  

             FRED'S VOICE
      Just gonna wash my hands.  

Fred's shadow passes the door. Running water in the bathroom. 

OUTSIDE

Dave HOLDS the bathroom window closed while Fred washes his 
hands.  When Fred leaves, he lets it go, and the window 
swings back open.  

INSIDE

             NANCY
      My light.  Can you see?  

She waves her cell phone light at it. 

OUTSIDE

Dave comes into the alley to see A SMALL TRANSOM WINDOW high 
up on the wall. 

             NANCY'S VOICE
      You'll have to catch me. 

IN THE EXAM ROOM

Fred examines the boy's eye with the scope.

             FRED
      Well, it looks like everything's 
      okay.  The contact--

Fred looks up at a NOISE from next door.


                                      49.

             FRED
      Um, will you excuse me one sec?

IN THE PRIVATE OFFICE

Nancy is climbing up the bookcase, trying to get through the 
small, high window.  She gets her head through when --

CLUK-CLUK-CLUK.  The DOOR HANDLE turns behind her.

IN THE HALL

Fred tries the door.  Locked.  Puts his ear to it.  Listens.

INSIDE

The jingle of Fred's KEYS -- Nancy wriggles frantically -- 

             NANCY
      Darn Zone diet...

As she does, a CHARM gets ripped from her bracelet, and falls 
onto the thick shag carpet -- but she doesn't notice -- 

OUTSIDE

NANCY

             DAVE
      Give me your hands -- 

Squeezes her shoulders through -- reaches for Dave -- 

FRED

Unlocks the door and comes in just as

DAVE

Grabs hold of Nancy and PULLS and 

NANCY'S FEET

Disappear through the window and she falls into Dave's arms 
just as 

FRED 

Turns on the light to find -- 

His empty office.  Nothing out of place.


                                      50.

EXT. ALONG THE WOODED RIVERBANK

Dave and Nancy RUN through the night -- At first, it's fear -- 
but then it turns to ELATION -- 

The rush, the wind, laughing and running free.  Together. 

BACK INSIDE

Fred lingers in his office.  Then returns to Gwen and son.

             FRED
      So.  Wear your glasses tomorrow, 
      then try again Sunday, kay Matt? 
        (to Gwen)
      Hope you didn't come back early for 
      this.  I know Nancy was looking 
      forward to it.  

             GWEN
      Uh, how's that?

             FRED
      Whole Foods?  With, uh, Nancy?

             GWEN
      Whole Paycheck?  Pfft, with gas at 
      four bucks a gallon?  No thank you. 

             FRED
      Huh...  Well I guess we got our 
      wires crossed there then. 

             GWEN
      Yah, you think so?  Whole Foods, 
      gosh.  Hafta tell Jim that one.  

INT. DAVE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Dave and Nancy spill into the futon.  Kissing furiously, 
hungrily.  

She pulls his hips into hers.  Dave hesitates.

             DAVE
      You-- you sure about this?

             NANCY
      I've wanted it for so long--

He kisses her.  Hard.  Then they're fumbling at his shirt 
buttons.  


                                      51.

She pulls her shirt off over her head -- and the lacy 
lingerie underneath is so alluring that 

THEY DON'T SEE:

Through the big windows:  A RED PICKUP TRUCK pulls in front 
of the house.  The two men inside pull on WHITE HOODS.  

INT. FRED'S PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHT

The CHARM from NANCY'S BRACELET.  A tiny pair of silver baby 
booties.  Deep in the shag carpet.

FRED'S HAND plucks it up.  Fred holds it in the palm of his 
hand.  Considering it.  

BACK IN DAVE'S HOUSE

Dave and Nancy grind away on the futon.  Dave kisses Nancy's 
neck.  She moans with pleasure.  

Nancy rolls on top.  Straddles him.  Bites his bare shoulder.  

She straightens up to take her bra off -- then sees--

             NANCY
      Fire.  FIRE!

Dave pops up -- and for a second they're both topless deer in 
headlights -- staring out at

A BURNING CROSS in the front yard.  No more than three feet 
tall.  Flanked by two figures in ratty homemade KKK hoods and 
XXXL capes.

             DAVE
      Why those--

OUTSIDE

A shirtless Dave strides across the lawn. 

             KLANSMAN
      Here's a message from the Brotherhood--

             DAVE
      Squiggs Graumann, you think I don't 
      know that's you?

The Klansman stares out from the pathetic pillowcase hood.  
The cloak is a stained bedsheet with a hole, and can't nearly 
disguise Squiggs's immense girth.  


                                      52.

             SQUIGGS GRAUMANN
      Uhhh...  You don't know nuthin. 

             DAVE
      I know one thing -- I'm gonna kick 
      your ass!  

Squiggs turns to run away, TRIPS, and falls in the dirt.  

Squiggs squeals as Dave literally KICKS HIS ASS.  Dave pulls 
off the hood.  Squiggs covers his face, tries to crawl away.  

             DAVE
      I'm not even black, you idiot!  
      Shawn, man, you are SO suspended.  

The second hooded figure, quite obviously Shawn Graumann, 
watches from the pickup.  

             SHAWN
      Fuck you!  Go back to Mexico!  

             DAVE
      I was born in Fenville!  
        (to Squiggs)
      You teach him that shit?  Huh?  
      While you were beating him?  

He KICKS Squiggs Graumann again.  Squiggs squeals like a pig, 
struggles to his feet and limps to his pickup. 

             SQUIGGS
      Learn English!  Keep your hands off 
      our white women! 

             DAVE
      WHAT?

He CHARGES.  Squiggs leaps into the truck and locks the door.  

             SHAWN
      Yeah, learn English, Beaner! 

             DAVE
      You, Shawn--I thought better of you.

The PICKUP squeals off down the block.  

             DAVE
      It's a cul-de-sac! 

A moment later, the pickup speeds by in the other direction.  
Dave just shakes his head as it disappears into the night.  


                                      53.

INSIDE

Nancy watches the whole thing.  Wide-eyed, drinking it in.  
When Dave comes back in, she pounces on him.

             NANCY
      God, that was so MANLY!

Her hands on his bare chest.  The sheen of sweat on it. 

             DAVE
      Nancy.  We shouldn't do this. 

             NANCY
      So SEXY!  Come here, my warrior!

             DAVE
      Stop!  I mean ANY of this. 

He pulls his shirt back on.  After a moment of disbelief, 
Nancy flops down on the futon.  Exasperated.  

             NANCY
      You're going to let Squiggs 
      Graumann tell you what to do?  

             DAVE
      I'm gonna let my CONSCIENCE tell me 
      what to do!  Like I should've in 
      the first place.  You're married. 
        (closing the curtains)
      You got your evidence now, right?  
      Your photos or whatever?  So work 
      it through.  Leave him.  I want you 
      so bad, Nancy.  But not like this.

             NANCY
      I CAN'T.  You know I can't. 

             DAVE
      You can.  You just don't WANT to.  

             NANCY
      I CAN'T!  For Harry.  Look, when I 
      fired CANDY, Harry blamed ME.  She 
      stole, she lied, he blamed ME.  If 
      I took his FATHER away--?!  

             DAVE
      Please.  It's not for Harry.  It's 
      for YOU.  For your nice house, nice 
      car, front pew at church, pancake 
      dinners.  


                                      54.

             DAVE
	(CONT'D)
      You want all that, and a little 
      excitement, a little brown boy on 
      the side, without sacrificing 
      ANYTHING.  Except ME.  Except my 
      self-respect.  But you can't have it 
      all, Nancy.  If you want THIS, you 
      commit to it.  Otherwise...

             NANCY
      Dave...

And the way she says it means:  I can't.

             DAVE
      Okay then.  Don't forget your purse. 

INT. NANCY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Nancy stares at the muted TV.  Falling asleep on the couch. 

THE NEXT MORNING

Fred, dressed for work, sits on the arm of the couch.  
Considering Nancy.  Touches the CHARM BRACELET on her wrist.  

             FRED
      Hey, sleepyhead.  I'm heading in.  
      How was Whole Foods?

             NANCY
      Fine.  I bought those truffles for 
      Har, but Gwen ate them on the drive. 

Fred, watching her.  Knowing.  She hides her face in the 
cushions, pretends to go back to sleep.  

LATER, 

Nancy examines her photographs of Fred's secret credit cards.  
She's on the phone with the card company.

             INDIAN WOMAN
      I'm seeing doo cash advances from 
      ATMs, and one charge of dree 
      hundred dollar and seventy cent, at 
      a Harbin Jewelers, Grand Rapids. 

             NANCY
      Great.  And does it say anything 
      about buying jewelry for his whore?

             INDIAN WOMAN
      I'm not seeing dat on my screen.


                                      55.

Nancy HANGS UP.  Rolls over, buries herself in the couch.  

Then -- her hand finds something deep between the cushions.  
She pulls it out.  Stares.

THE PEARL EARRING.  The one she thought was missing.  

She stares at it.  Stunned.  

LATER

Nancy, shell-shocked and holding the earring like a stick of 
dynamite, heads upstairs into 

HER BEDROOM

Stops short.  On her dresser, a big WRAPPED PRESENT.  She 
approaches it, uncertain.  

             FRED
        (behind her)
      It's for you.  Open it.  

She starts. 

Fred sits on the bed.  Watching her.   It's not a joyful gift-
giving.  Something solemn, slightly dangerous about it. 

Nancy strips the paper off of a big JEWELRY BOX.  Polished 
wood, delicate carvings, sturdy lock.  It's beautiful.

             NANCY
      From... from Harbin's?  

             FRED
      It's got a good lock.  Because it's 
      so important to me that you feel safe 
      here.  In our house.  In our family.  

Fred sits on the bed, watching her.  Waiting for something.   
Nancy opens the new jewelry box -- and freezes.  

Inside, the CHARM from her bracelet.  Two silver baby shoes.

             FRED
      Found that in my office last night.  
      When Gwen brought her son by.  

             NANCY
      Uuuuu--  Fred, I--

He's the spider.  She's the fly.  Everything he wanted to 
know, he just learned from her reaction.  


                                      56.

             FRED
      Remember when we were first 
      married?  We fought over so many 
      stupid little things.  And then we 
      learned to let things go.  That's 
      when things got good.  When we 
      learned to trust each other.  

He stands, takes the charm from the box.  

             FRED
      So.  I'm not gonna ask.  I'm just 
      gonna repair the bracelet.  Get it 
      back the way it was.  Get everything 
      back.  If you think we can. 

Silence.  Nancy looks down at the charm.  At the pearl 
earring in her hand.  Then, in barely a whisper:

             NANCY
      Yeah Fred.

             FRED
      Hm?

             NANCY
      Yes.  I want to.  

She uncurls her fist to show him the pearl earring.  Found.

             NANCY
      I'm so sorry--

He waves her off.  A peck on the lips.  And a smile.  

             FRED
      Reset.  

She holds out her wrist, and he snaps the charm back on. 

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Nancy and Harry sing while Fred practices on the organ. 

INT.  FIRST REFORMED CHURCH - THE NEXT MORNING

In the front pew, singing loud and proud with Harry.

EXT.  FIRST REFORMED CHURCH - SUNDAY MORNING

After services.  Nancy at the center of things, chatting up 
the Pastor's Wife.  


                                      57.

             NANCY
      Not too late to volunteer, is it? 

INT. THE CHURCH HALL - LATER

The HALL is decorated for a big PANCAKE SUPPER.  Women buzz 
over the decorations and place settings. 

IN THE KITCHEN

A gaggle of blonde women in head-to-toe Talbot's and mile-a-
minute gossip.  

Nancy stands over a griddle, flipping pancake after pancake.  

             NANCY
        (over their cackles)
      Gosh, I'd hate to hear what y'all 
      say about me.  

The ladies share a glance.  Then one of them goes for it.  

             SOCCER MOM
      WELL!   There was something about 
      you and a certain dark handsome 
      colleague.  Nobody believed it, of 
      course.  But still... juicy. 

Nancy's mock-horror is confident and pitch-perfect.

             NANCY
      Ladies, you know me better than 
      that!  When it comes to men, my 
      motto?  If it ain't Dutch...  it 
      ain't much.  

Squeals of laughter.  And she's instantly back in the group.  

On Nancy's face, just the slightest hint of inner death. 

IN THE CHURCH HALL - LATER

The EMCEE talks about the TULIP TIME festival. 

The women serve pancakes, wearing white DUTCH CAPS with 
yellow blinders on either side of the face.

Fred watches Nancy serve.  Proud.  

AT THEIR TABLE - LATER

Nancy sits down next to Fred and Harry.  


                                      58.

             PASTOR'S WIFE
      Harry should do Tulip Time this 
      year!  He'd look so handsome.  

             HARRY
      Didn't Pastor Bob say that dancing 
      was the Devil?  

             NANCY
      Not DUTCH Dancing, silly.  Just all 
      the other kinds.  

Fred watches.  Smiling.  Under the table, his hand on Nancy's 
thigh.  She starts, recoils.  Controls herself, smiles back.  

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nancy stares at the ceiling, bored, while Fred screws her.  
His flabby white body jerks clumsily. 

After.  He sleeps, curled against her.  She stares at the 
ceiling.  

In her eyes, the question:  Is this the rest of my life? 

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Nancy finishes arranging her jewelry in the big jewelry box.  

It's her life.  Shiny, neat, and dull.  The PEARL EARRINGS, 
back together again.

She peeks underneath one tray.  The TWO POLAROIDS she took 
from Fred's office: Ghost Girl and the Bologna Queen sheet.  

Hides them again. 

INT. FIELD'S FABRICS - DAY

Nancy and Harry examine the DUTCH COSTUMES hanging from the 
ceiling.  Beautiful, hand-sewn takes on Dutch peasant wear.

AT THE CHECKOUT

The Field's Fabrics lady peers over her glasses at the roll 
of ELASTIC BAND that Nancy has with her fabrics.

             FABRIC NAZI
      I sure hope you're not planning to 
      use THIS elastic with THESE fabrics.  

             NANCY
      Well, I sure was. 


                                      59.

             FABRIC NAZI
      Well were you planning to pass 
      inspection?  Because you won't.  
      Not with conventional elastic.  

She points to a sign:  DUTCH ELASTIC KEPT BEHIND COUNTER. 

Nancy just stares.  Like -- Seriously?

INT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY

Dave eats alone in the grey, lifeless teacher's lounge.  
Miserable.  

On the other side of the room, NANCY eats at an all-female 
table.  Nobody talks to her.  

Both of them, trapped, separately. 

INT. THE GARAGE - EVENING

Nancy wanders into the garage.  Listless.  Fred and Harry are 
hard at work.  

Nancy sits down.  Surveying the tiny happy town. 

Notices -- the house with the SHEET SIGN out front.  
Identical to the POLAROID, except:  on the sheet, instead of 
BOLOGNA QUEEN it says PROM QUEEN.  

Nancy peers at it.  Confused -- Why the change? 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      New house.  Take a look.

She turns.  He's built a tiny balsa frame, and now is cutting 
strips of paper into cedar shingles.  

             NANCY
      Tulip Time steering committee 
      meeting tonight.  We'll see about 
      getting you that blue scarf, Har.  

A tiny woman in the model town carries groceries to her car.  
Frozen in place.  Perpetually running some pointless errand. 

INT. SHITTY LATIN BAR - NIGHT

A miserable hole.  Mexican music blasts.  Dave slumps into a 
barstool.  The bartender sets a tequila and Tecate in front 
of him.  

             DAVE
      I didn't order--


                                      60.

             BARTENDER
      From The Folks. 

The Bartender indicates the back corner, where

LATINO GANGSTERS play pool.  Gang ink.  They all have QUARTER 
BURNS on their forearms, some haloed in tattoos.  

Their leader nods to Dave.  Recognition.  

And we notice for the first time:  Dave has an IDENTICAL 
QUARTER BURN on his own forearm.  

Dave turns away.  Rolls down his sleeve to cover his own 
burn, forces his cash on the bartender.  Slams the tequila. 

A short Latina in a velour leisure suit sidles up to him. 

             TRASHY GIRL
      Hey, papi.  You look niiice. 

Dave considers her.  Is this is his only alternative?  

He turns away, then slams a second nasty tequila. 

INT. TULIP TIME CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Nancy makes her case to the sour women of the TULIP TIME 
STEERING COMMITTEE, including the FABRIC NAZI.  A sea of 
Stepford moms watches.  

             NANCY
      I think if you went to Spankenburg, 
      you'd see people wearing all 
      different scarves.  Not just red.  

The Fabric Nazi whispers about Nancy to another board member. 

             QUEEN BEE
      Thanks for your input.  Hands?  The 
      motion fails unanimously. Moving on--

             HOCKEY MOM
      Can I make a quick point?  I hear 
      there's been some question about 
      the use of Dutch elastic in the 
      costumes...  

It's a sledge hammer.  And Nancy's the nail.  

I/E.  DOWN THE STREET FROM NANCY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Nancy sits in her car.  Parked down the street from her 
house.  Trying not to cry.  


                                      61.

The dark house in front of her.  Dreading it.  

Her CELL PHONE on her lap.  She scrolls down to Dave's name.  
Hesitates for a long moment.  Then dials. 

EXT. LATIN BAR PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Dave sits alone in his car.  Resting his head against the 
wheel.  In a nearby car, the slutty Latina makes out with 
some other random dude. 

Sees his phone ring.  Sees who it is.  Lets it ring and ring.  

NANCY

Waits.  Listening to the tinny BRRP-BRRRRRP. 

DAVE

Waits til the last moment -- then PICKS UP.

A long beat of silence.  Then, 

             DAVE
      Hey. 

NANCY has her fingers over her mouth. Silent a moment.  Then, 

             NANCY
      Hey. 

And the silence that follows says everything.  The sound of 
their breathing on the line takes us to

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

It's so tentative, so fragile -- undressing each other, piece 
by piece.  Delicate with each other. 

She's naked, standing so stiff.

             DAVE
      It's okay.

             NANCY
      I know.  I'm sorry, it's...

             DAVE
      I know.  I know. 

He lays her on the bed.  Like porcelain.  

Kisses her.  Then her neck.  She GASPS and arches her back as 
he mouths a nipple.  


                                      62.

             NANCY
      Dave...  Dave...  God...

She guides him -- and as he eases inside she begins to 
tremble -- her whole body SHAKING -- 

And she can barely breathe as he moves so slowly, so 
lovingly, 

Until she BURSTS into tears, and Dave holds her and kisses at 
the tears until she stops shaking. 

             NANCY
      I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's just...

             DAVE
      Shhh...  it's okay.

LATER, IN BED

Nancy runs her finger around the quarter-size BURN MARK on 
Dave's forearm.  He searches for an explanation.

             DAVE
      From a, uh, tea kettle. I was a kid. 

             NANCY
      Young Hhhhhhaa-vee-air. 

             DAVE
      Javier.

             NANCY
       KHaveeair.

She trills the r in a funny way.  They laugh.  

             NANCY
      Least I don't call them queser-
      dillers any more.  What's mine?

             DAVE
      Anamaria.  

             NANCY
      Anamaria and Javier.  Gosh, we sound 
      so romantic!  Like from a novel. 

He laughs.  She nestles into his chest.  

             NANCY
      I'll leave him, Dave.  I will. 


                                      63.

             DAVE
      You don't have to.  Not for me.  

             NANCY
      For ME.  It's for me.  My life, it's 
      carbon monoxide.  You're so 
      comfortable and sleepy you don't 
      even know you're being strangled.  
      They can cast me out, I don't care.  
      At least I'll be ALIVE.  

EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT

Nancy's just about to drive off when Dave comes running out.  
She rolls down the window.  

             DAVE
      Listen.  Fred's trip.  I'll follow 
      him.  Bring a camera.  Like, 
      private-eye style.  

             NANCY
      You can't do that, Dave.

             DAVE
      Why not?  He doesn't know who I am.  
      Look, for Harry.  You need Fred to 
      make it not your fault.  If there 
      are pictures of him with some girl, 
      he'll have to just slink off and 
      leave us all alone.  

             NANCY
      But Dave, the truth is...  
      Honestly, the cards, the photos...  
      I...  I don't even know any more.  

             DAVE
      I thought you knew?

She shrugs helplessly.  Her mind in total confusion.  

             DAVE
      I'm gonna go.  For you, Nancy.  
      Cause if there's any chance we 
      could get out of this whole thing 
      clean, I gotta go for it.  

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Nancy gets ready for work.  Comes in from the bathroom to see 
FRED hovering over his packed suitcase.  Glum. 


                                      64.

             FRED
      Listen.  Nan.  Honey.  I'm...  I'm 
      really sorry about this trip.  It's 
      just, I... I get into these patterns, 
      and they're so hard to shake.  

             NANCY
      Hun, what's gotten into you?  It's 
      just a trip to Frankenmuth.  

A peck on the top of his head.  Dismissed. 

EXT. HOLLAND TRAIN STATION PARKING LOT - MORNING

DAVE sits in his car.  Waiting.  Watches out the rear-view as

FRED pulls into the parking lot and heads into the station.

Dave gets out of his car, dressed like a business traveler.  
Takes a small grip from the seat, follows Fred inside. 

INT.  HOLLAND TRAIN STATION - MORNING

Dave strides right behind Fred to the TICKET WINDOW.  

Leans forward to listen to Fred's order.  When Fred leaves:

             DAVE
      I'll take the exact same thing. 

EXT. TRAIN PLATFORM - MORNING

Dave pretends to watch the tracks.  Glances at FRED, who's 
reading the Detroit Free News on a bench.  

The TRAIN pulls into the station.  Dave follows Fred on 
board.

INT. TRAIN - MORNING

Dave sits in an aisle seat, where he can see Fred's arm and 
the back of his head a few rows ahead.

INT. TRAIN/CHICAGO CENTRAL STATION - DAY

The train pulls into CHICAGO CENTRAL STATION.  Fred takes his 
bag down at the last minute and gets off.  

Dave gets off right after him -- just in time.  Follows him 
through the crowded PLATFORM. 


                                      65.

INT. EASTBOUND TRAIN - DAY

On a smaller train now.  Heading East across Michigan.  Flat, 
fertile land.  Fields of corn, huge mounds of sugar beets. 

Fred returns to his seat with a microwave cheeseburger and a 
beer.  The Amtrak self-indulgence special.  

Dave checks his watch.  Then gets up himself and heads to

INT. THE DINING CAR - DAY

Where he takes a cup of coffee from the man behind the 
counter.  The train is pulling into a tiny regional station.  

Dave's just mixing the creamer into it when he sees

FRED walking right past the window.  With his bag and coat.  
Heading into the station.

             DAVE
      Shoot!  

BACK IN HIS TRAIN CAR

             DAVE
      Wait, hold the doors, please!

He grabs his GRIP -- and DIVES out onto the platform just 
before the doors close.  

IN THE STATION

Where he spots FRED at the distant CAR RENTAL BOOTH.

Fred takes a key from the attendant -- and, a moment later, 
drives off in a nondescript BLACK IMPALA.  

INT. CAR RENTAL KIOSK

DAVE rushes into the tiny office.  

             DAVE
      I need a car.  Fast.  

             ATTENDANT
      Well for our best rates and 
      speediest service, we should get 
      you signed up for the SpeedyPass 
      Gold Club.  Members get SpeedyPass 
      Golden Carpet Service and--

             DAVE
      Just get me a car.  Now. 


                                      66.

LATER, Dave takes the keys and the agreement from the 
Attendant, who's now pissy and tight-lipped.

             DAVE
      And I need a list of hotels.  Every 
      single hotel within ten miles.

The Attendant wordlessly puts a booklet on the countertop.  

             DAVE
      This everything? 

             ATTENDANT
      It's what we have. 

             DAVE
      Okay.  And which hotels are down 
      that way?  If I turn left?

             ATTENDANT
      You want full concierge, sign up 
      for SpeedyPass Golden Carpet 
      Service.  Otherwise, your car's in 
      the lot.  

Oh snap.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY

Dave has the booklet of hotels open in front of him, and a 
big pile of quarters.  Calling every hotel, one by one.  

             DAVE
      Can you connect me to Fred Vandergroot's 
      room please?  Sorry.  Thanks.  

He crosses off yet another hotel.  Dials again.  

             DAVE
      Can you connect me to Fred 
      Vandergroot's room please?

             CONCIERGE'S VOICE
      Vandergroot...  One moment. 

Some CLICKS, then the phone RINGS.  Dave instantly hangs up.  

Circles the hotel in the booklet. 

I/E. DAVE'S CAR / HOTEL - DAY

The HOTEL is a Bavarian cottage on steroids.  


Dave, in a clunky old rental car, pulls into the parking lot 
just as FRED drives past in the opposite direction.

                                      67.

             DAVE
      Shoot.  

He pulls a 180, follows FRED 

ALL THROUGH FRANKENMUTH:

Driving through the town center.  The old Bavarian village, 
Zehnder's, the Glockenspiel.  Like an obese Disney Germany. 

Fred pulls in front of a HARDWARE STORE.  Emerges a few 
minutes later with a shopping bag. 

IN A SMALL STRIP MALL,

Dave watches Fred emerge from a CLOTHING STORE with some 
small bags, then go into a RITE-AID. 

It's all so mundane.  

EXT. STEAK N SHAKE - EVENING

Dave saunters up to FRED'S CAR in the parking lot.  Peers 
through the windows into the BACK SEAT.  The half-dozen 
plastic shopping bags.  But he can't see what's inside.  

He makes his way around the lot.  Until he can see

FRED, inside the crummy strip-mall STEAK N SHAKE.  Eating 
chili and a burger, all alone.  Slumped in his booth.  

THROUGH DAVE'S ZOOM LENS:  Fred drops a chunk of chili on his 
shirt.  The ultimate indignity.  

Fred's face, washed out and tired in the blue fluorescents. 

Dave watches from the parking lot as Fred dabs at the big 
grease stain on his shirt.  Feeling sorry for him. 

             DAVE
      Poor guy...  

INT. NANCY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Nancy and Harry snuggle on the couch.  Eating Little 
Caesar's. 

             NANCY
      This is our little secret, okay?  
      Don't tell your dad.  


                                      68.

And she pulls out the JURASSIC PARK VHS.

             NANCY
      Hold onto your butts!

LATER

Just the two of them.  Happy together.  Eating popcorn and 
watching Jurassic Park.  

A scary part.  Harry hides his face in Nancy's sweater.  She 
grabs onto him.  

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Dave reads the sign in the lobby:  ALCON Pharmaceuticals 
Welcomes its Michigan Optometrists!  

Sits down in the lobby.  Peers around a column at 

THE CRUMMY LOBBY BAR

Where Fred drinks what looks like an appletini.  His third.  
The chili stain still on his shirt.  

Fred pushes himself up to go to the bathroom.  Dave hides 
himself in East Michigan Magazine.  A thrilling read. 

Then -- A HAND on Dave's shoulder.  FRED.  Looming over him.  
A little drunk.  

             FRED
      I know you from somewhere.  Where 
      do I know you from?  

And Dave realizes -- Fred's searching his memory.  And he has 
to intervene before Fred finds the answer.  

             DAVE
      Amtrak, right?  10:34 from Chicago, 
      Northliner from Port Huron?  

             FRED
      Huh.  Yeah.  Guess that's it.  

             DAVE
      Trains.  Love 'em.  

As Fred nods and moves off, Dave thinks -- what the hell.  

             DAVE
      You by yourself?  Mind if I join 
      you for a drink?  Little lonesome, 
      away from the wife and all.  


                                      69.

             FRED
      Well... I'm just going to finish the 
      one I've got.  But sure, why not.  

A FEW MINUTES LATER

Dave signals for the bartender to bring them both fresh 
drinks.  Fred tries to protest.

             DAVE
      Ah, come on.  We're off the rez, we 
      can go a little wild.  Sometimes at 
      home, it's like, God, the same old 
      same old same OLD.  You know?

             FRED
      Heh, alright.  But it's the last one.  

A beat as they sip their cocktails.  Fred runs his hands over 
the formica tabletop.  

             FRED
      Being an optometrist, that wasn't 
      like my dream or anything.  I was in 
      school, and my mom... well, my 
      choices were dentistry or optometry. 

             DAVE
      Well, optometry's better than 
      dentistry, right?  

Fred shrugs.  

             FRED
      Then I met my wife.  Nancy.  That 
      energy, that excitement.  I thought 
      we'd end up just taking off together.  
      Just, new worlds.  You know?

             DAVE
      Why didn't you?

             FRED
      Funny thing.  I think she liked me 
      for the stability...  Kind of a 
      cruel joke, if you think about it. 

             DAVE
      So it's like, there's this whole 
      side of your self you can't share.  

             FRED
      Yes.  Exactly.  Yes.  


                                      70.

             DAVE
        (shrewdly)
      And so you end up with this whole 
      secret, forbidden life.  

             FRED
      ... Oof.  It's past my bedtime.  
      Conference tomorrow.  Beauty sleep.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dave shadows Fred back to his room.  

             FRED
      Night.

Fred closes his door and locks it.  

Dave doubles back, listens.  He hears Fred pee, then flop 
into bed.  

INT. NANCY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Nancy's CELL PHONE rings.  She and Harry are both asleep, 
cuddled together, on the couch.  

INT. DAVE'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Dave gets Nancy's voicemail.

             DAVE
      Nance...  I dunno about all this.  
      I almost think... I don't know what 
      to think.  Maybe he isn't...  
      anything.  Well.  Okay.  G'night.

Dave sits on the edge of his bed in his boxers.  Thinking. 

In the bedside drawer, the Gideon's Bible.  Inside, an "Index 
of Life's Problems."  He runs down the list:

Where to Find Help When:
- Anxious:  Philippians 4:6, 1 Peter 5:6-7
- Backsliding:  Psalm 51, 1 John 1:4-9
- Bereaved:  Matthew 5:4, II Corinthians 1:3-4...

It goes on and on.  But this particular problem isn't there.  
Go figure. 

He dumps the Bible back into the drawer.  

INT. THE GARAGE - DAY

Nancy ducks under the table, into the center of the layout.  


                                      71.

She's surrounded by the model town.  Uses Fred's magnifying 
glass to examine the HOUSE with the SHEET.  

Pulls out the POLAROID.  It's uncanny.  Everything's 
identical, except the SHEET:  BOLOGNA QUEEN to PROM QUEEN.  

Nancy scrutinizes them.  This time, she's not letting it go. 

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY

Dave knocks at Fred's door.  No answer.  Jimmies the door.  

Dave takes in the room.  The fanatically neat suitcase -- 
even Fred's dirty clothes are perfectly folded.  

The PLASTIC BAGS of all Fred's purchases.  A weird 
assortment:   Electrical wire.  Leather gloves.  A black 
duffel bag.  Some pillowcases.  Fishing line and a fishing 
knife.  And, in the middle of everything else, 

             DAVE
      "Pup-eronis"?  

Dave looks inside.  It really is a box of DOG TREATS.

Then -- someone BEHIND HIM.  He freezes -- turns to see 

THE MAID.  As embarrassed as he is.  

             MAID
      So solly.  I come rater?  

             DAVE
      It's fine, I'm leaving.  Thanks.  

He hands her two dollars and strides out.

INT. NANCY'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Nancy sits at the big iMac on the living room table.  

Googling:  Bologna Queen.  

On a notepad, jotting down what she finds:  Yale, Michigan.  
Bologna Festival.  July.  

Then, Googling:  lacey yale michigan bologna queen

And on an amateurish website, photos of the 2008 Bologna 
Festival.  Riding a huge bologna FLOAT, LACEY HARTNETT, 
middle-aged, with a big perm and a BOLOGNA QUEEN sash. 

Lacey looks like a friendly 50-something nurse.  Not what 
Nancy was expecting.  


                                      72.

Nancy finds her PHONE NUMBER on YellowPages.com.  Dials.  

             NANCY
      Hi, is this Lacey Hartnett?  

A long silence.

             NANCY
      Lacey?

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      No, she's not here.  

             NANCY
      You sure?  I'm a friend of hers.  

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      Is this a crank call?  

             NANCY
      Why would it be?  I'm just an old 
      friend.  We haven't talked in a 
      while, so.  It'd be real nice to 
      connect with her again.  

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      Oh.  God.  

             NANCY
      I'm not trying to cause a problem 
      or anything.  If you're Lacey, you 
      can say so.  

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      Lacey doesn't live here any more.  
      I'm just the lady who bought the 
      house.

             NANCY
      Okay, well do you have a new 
      address for her? 

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      Gosh, lady.  Don't you read the 
      papers?  

             NANCY
      Well not the Yale ones.  I'm over 
      in Holland.  Why?  What happened?

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      Well, Lacey Hartnett's gone missing.  
      I mean, she disappeared.  Like three 
      years ago.  Without a trace.  


                                      73.

             NANCY
      Oh.  Did she...  Did she run off 
      with a man?  Maybe someone from out 
      of town?

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      No.  I don't know.  I only read in 
      the papers.  They never found the 
      body, but they think she's dead.  

             NANCY
      Oh.  Gosh.  

The woman's voice trembles.

             WOMAN'S VOICE
      I'm real sorry to give you the news 
      about your friend.  I'm just the 
      lady who bought her house, you 
      know?  She seemed like a real nice 
      lady.  I mean from the papers.  

             NANCY
      ... It's okay.  We weren't so 
      close...

Click. 

I/E. HOTEL PARKING LOT - DAY

Dave sits in his car.  Watching FRED chat with the other 
optometrists.  Fred detaches from the group, gets his car. 

Dave FOLLOWS him as he pulls onto the road. 

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Nancy raids her jewelry box, pulling out all her hidden 
scraps of evidence.  

IN THE GARAGE

She puts a sheaf of HOUSE PLANS into her canvas bag.   

             NANCY
      Harry, ready to hit the library?

I/E. PAYPHONE - DAY

Dave watches Fred makes a phone call from a gas-station 
PAYPHONE.  Fred hangs up immediately when someone answers.  

             DAVE
      Weird...


                                      74.

INT. GRAND RAPIDS PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

Nancy pulls the Ghost Girl picture out of her canvas tote.  
Examines it.  The house in the background.  

Barely visible in the background, a green sign:  FISHER AVE.  

Pulls the matching HOUSE PLANS from the model railroad.  
They're marked as REVISIONS 4-26-99.

The date: then follows it to the MAP:  a blue flag on FORT 
WAYNE, INDIANA, marked 2 x April 1999.

AT A COMPUTER TERMINAL

On Google Maps.  None in Fort Wayne.  "Did you mean: Fisher 
Avenue, South Paw-Paw, Indiana?"  Clicks it. 

Street View.  

THE HOUSE.   

AT THE REFERENCE DESK, 

Nancy dashes off a Local Newspapers Archive request slip.  
South Paw-Paw Indiana, Yale Michigan, Madison Wisconsin.  
Shoves it at the librarian. 

Glances over at Harry.  Oblivious, buried in a book on bees. 

I/E.  DECKERVILLE ROAD - DAY

DAVE follows Fred into Deckerville, Michigan -- nothing more 
than a crossroads with a convenience store and a bar. 

INT. GRAND RAPIDS PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

The librarian returns with boxes of local newspapers.

             LIBRARIAN
      Keep these in order.  We're still 
      microfiching.  

Nancy pulls out the YALE OBSERVERS -- like a fast-forward 
montage of newspapers as she piles them on the tabletop:

- Yale woman missing
- Tearful appeal from Hartnett's family
- Police search forest, reservoir; no leads
- Hartnett presumed dead, family still hopeful


                                      75.

EXT. LAKEFRONT DRIVE - DAY

Dave follows Fred along a quiet two-lane road.  VACATION 
HOMES looking onto LAKE HURON beyond.  

Most are CLOSED UP for the off-season. 

INT. GRAND RAPIDS PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

Nancy roots through the box from SOUTH PAW-PAW, until: 

On the front page, a photo of a DEAD WOMAN.  Half-covered in 
leaves, being retrieved from the forest floor.

It's the GHOST GIRL.  

             NANCY
      My god...  Oh my God...  

And suddenly, she sees the whole MAP she made of Fred's 
travels.  All those post-it flags...  Could they mean...?

I/E. LAKEFRONT COTTAGE - DAY

A small, cedar-shingled lakefront cottage.  We recognize it 
as the new house Fred's building on his train layout.  

The neighbors' houses are empty, screened by tall shrubs.  

FRED approaches down the long front lawn.  A half-dozen YAPPY 
DOGS spill out of the doggie door.

Fred's ready.  He pats them, scatters treats on the grass.  

We see all this through DAVE'S ZOOM LENS.  Click-Click-Click. 

A WOMAN opens the cottage door.  She's about 45, short hair, 
jean cutoffs, menthol Kools.  

             DAVE
      Cha-ching...

Dave snaps photos at light speed:  Fred shaking the woman's 
hand -- her slight confusion -- then Fred, bringing his small 
duffel bag inside. 

INT. GRAND RAPIDS PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

A strangled MEWING in Nancy's throat as the papers cover the 
table -- A flood of headlines from all over the Midwest:

   Murdered...   Missing....   Police searching... 
   Woman Found Dead in Home...  Woman... Unidentified Body...  


The long library table is COVERED in newspapers.  PHOTOS of 
the women staring up....  their CORPSES.... their HOUSES....

                                      76.

             HARRY
	(O.S.)
      Mom?  I finished my book. 

             NANCY
      Harry, get out of here!  Go back to 
      your table!

He does.  And she realizes -- 

             NANCY 
      Dave!

             HEAD LIBRARIAN
      No cell phones in the library!

Nancy ignores her -- heads for the front doors -- RINGING --

             NANCY
      Come on, Dave.  Pick up, pick up...

DAVE'S CELL PHONE 

Buzzes on Dave's passenger seat -- but 

DAVE isn't there.  He's sneaking past the dogs, toward 

THE COTTAGE.

Dave peeks through the screen door.  A moment of hesitation.   
Then, what the hell...  He steps. 

INSIDE.  

Camera ready.  Through the empty KITCHEN, filled with dog 
bowls.  Dave's feet crunch on spilled dog food.  

Camera ready.  Into 

INT. THE LIVING ROOM 

The room is dark, quiet.  Filled with cutesy vacation-home 
knickknacks.  An impressive view of the LAKE.  

A freighter on the horizon.  The setting sun.  Beautiful.  

Dave listens.  HEAVY BREATHING coming from a side room.  

He creeps toward it.  Camera ready.  Alert to every sound.  

Through the sliver of open door: 


                                      77.

FRED'S BACK, as he leans over the WOMAN.  Humping her.  Dave 
snaps a surreptitious photo.  

Then he steps closer -- realizing: Fred's PANTS are still on. 

One of the DOGS is just outside the door to the bedroom.  
Lapping at a dark liquid spilling out from the bedroom. 

THE DOG laps at the liquid furiously -- the most delicious 
thing it's ever tasted -- then, panting just like Fred, the 
dog pushes open the bedroom door with its snout and 

DAVE realizes all at once -- 

The dog is lapping at BLOOD -- flooding the floor, sticky, 
black-red -- and 

FRED isn't humping the woman -- he's panting as he SAWS 
THROUGH HER NECK with the fishing knife -- her arms bound 
with fishing line and her head covered by a PILLOWCASE once 
white but now RED and 

The DOG laps blood off Fred's shoes -- it has an erection -- 
and so does Fred, if we care to notice, as the thin fishing 
knife slices through the fine flesh and 

DAVE is too stunned to photograph-- to do anything but STARE-- 

But even as he does, the setting sun makes the reflections in 
the windows more visible, and FRED looks past the woman's 
flopping, dying body to see DAVE's reflection in the glass.

And for a moment neither one reacts -- just locking eyes in 
the reflection -- 

Then the DOG sees its mistress's hand dangling down and YOWLS 
-- and in that instant of distraction 

DAVE grabs a HAND-CARVED WOODEN GIRAFFE by the bedroom door 
and SWINGS just as 

FRED brings up the knife to LUNGE at DAVE -- the giraffe 
snaps at the neck, just as a real giraffe would, a testament 
to the verisimilitude of the carving -- and the headless 
giraffe and the bloody knife both go flying --

And they both LUNGE for the knife -- and DAVE gets it, but 
FRED has the momentum and TACKLES Dave -- they roll into 

THE LIVING ROOM -- 

The red sunset burning through the windows, the waves red-
peaked and the WRESTLING strangely silent -- the two men 
barely breathing as they grapple -- until


                                      78.

FRED lets out a feral animal WAIL -- his hands in plastic 
gloves and his cuffs and ankles banded with rubber bands -- 
his yellowed teeth BARED and he 

BITES Dave -- HARD -- on the SHOULDER -- there's blood -- but 

DAVE recovers -- Brings up the knife and STABS FRED -- in the 
upper arm, just a graze, but Fred HOWLS -- pulls back -- 

Then Fred's at the FIREPLACE, going for the POKER -- gets the 
SHOVEL instead and CRACKS it down on DAVE'S BACK -- 

Fred's a bloody beast going for the kill -- SWINGS the shovel 
down -- Dave DIVES and the shovel SPARKS the stone floor and 

FRED flings the shovel at Dave and runs into 

THE KITCHEN 

The KNIFE BLOCK -- and he's drawing the big BUTCHER'S KNIFE 
from the wooden block as 

DAVE 

TACKLES him -- and Fred falls THROUGH THE SCREEN DOOR, 

OUTSIDE --  

But the knives go flying out the door too and 

FRED gets his fingers around a knife handle and he SWINGS -- 
makes contact -- but it's just the SHARPENING STEEL and 

DAVE's unharmed and they're GRAPPLING -- rolling down toward 
the LAKE -- and finally FRED gets his fingers around a STEAK 
KNIFE and DAVE, no choice now, takes the fish knife, LUNGES -- 

And FRED stares down at the knife in his BELLY and at his 
hands and the blood pouring out and then, wide-eyed, at DAVE, 
who's so shocked that all he can think to say is

             DAVE
      Gosh.  I'm sorry.  Gosh.  

But FRED is UP now -- on his feet, RUNNING down the lawn 
toward the RETAINING WALL and the LAKE beyond -- 

The SIX TINY DOGS pour after him, excited, yapping -- their 
hair in bows, faces happy with this strange game until

FRED kicks the lead dog in the face, sends it airborne -- and 
then disappears down the WOODEN STAIRCASE.  The dogs line the 
retaining wall, barking into the DARKNESS.


                                      79.

DAVE leans against the house.  The screen door is a twisted 
mesh net on the ground and then Dave VOMITS everywhere -- but 
then he realizes -- 

             DAVE
      Shit.  Shit!  

He picks the KNIFE back up and RUNS to the retaining wall -- 

The LAKEFRONT BEACH stretches in both directions -- EMPTY and 
DARK.  

On the WOODEN STAIRCASE down, Fred's BLOODY HANDPRINTS.  

And Dave doesn't want to, but knows he has to FOLLOW -- down 

DOWN THE SANDY BEACH

At the FIRE PIT -- one rock OVERTURNED -- and BLOOD.  

Dave SPRINTS down the beach in that direction -- But after 
that first spoor, there's no trace.  NOTHING. 

Dave runs and runs until he can't run any more.  He doubles 
over, wheezing for breath at the end of a long spit of sand.

             DAVE
      Fred?  Fred, you out there?  

Movement.  An EYE in the reeds.  Dave fingers the KNIFE in 
his jacket pocket.  

             DAVE
      Fred?  I can help you.  You're gonna 
      die otherwise.  I can help you.

Dave steps toward the eye and --

WHIP-WHP-WHP-WHP!  A huge BLUE HERON explodes from the reeds 
and flaps off into the night. 

In the dim moonlight, the realization that Fred could be 
ANYWHERE.

BACK IN HIS CAR

Dave SLAMS the door.  Slaps the locks down.  His hands shake.  
How did all this just happen?  

He closes his eyes.  Deep breath.  When he opens them, sees:

Notices his phone.  Sixteen missed calls from NANCY.  


                                      80.

Then notices:  FRED'S RENTAL CAR.  Tucked away at the 
roadside.  Right by the house.  

He looks from FRED'S CAR... to NANCY'S CALLS... to the 
HOUSE...  And realizes:

             DAVE
      They'll connect it.  Her... Fred... 
      Nancy...  They'll connect the dots...

He looks around.  Thinking.  A sinking awareness of what 
needs to happen.  

BACK IN THE HOUSE

Dave steels himself.  Steps back into the CRIME SCENE.  

Gathers up all the items from Fred's BLACK DUFFEL.  Pulls on 
a pair of Fred's LATEX GLOVES. 

Cuts the pillowcase off the dead woman, the fishing line from 
her wrists.  Choking back the vomit. 

Seals everything into the black duffel.  

Wipes down door handles, the giraffe, everything he touched.  

The DOGS follow him through the house.  Barking and 
whimpering alternately.

             DAVE 
      You guys'll need some food, huh?

In the kitchen, he opens a big bag of kibble and dumps it all 
onto the floor.  

Wipes down the door handle on his way OUT.  

I/E. DAVE'S CAR - NIGHT

Dave DRIVES down the long riverfront road.  At a crawl, 
because he's TOWING FRED'S CAR by a piece of rope.  

LATER

Crawling on.  Through the interminable East Michigan 
farmland.  

EXT. A CLOSED PRICE CHOPPER - NIGHT

Dave PUSHES Fred's car into an out-of-the-way parking spot.  

At the payphone in the lot, he thumbs through the phonebook.  
Looking something up.


                                      81.

INT. NANCY'S HOUSE - THE GARAGE - NIGHT

Nancy stands in the center of the train layout.  

All the tiny houses.

Nancy's matched each one to a NEWSPAPER CLIPPING -- 

             NANCY
      Trophies...  these are trophies...

The whole room spins around her.  

She nearly jumps out of her skin when

             HARRY
      Mom? 

             NANCY
      Don't come in here!  Harry, go 
      upstairs and get a suitcase.  Okay?  
      Pack your clothes.

             HARRY
      Why?  Which ones?

             NANCY
      Any ones.  Just go!  

When he leaves, she CALLS DAVE.  Goes to voicemail.  Again.

             NANCY
      Gosh.  Gosh gosh gosh!

The possibilities running through her head.  All the horrible 
possibilities.  

Then she takes a deep breath.  Dials again.  

FRED'S VOICEMAIL.

             NANCY
      Hey honey!  Just wanted to check in 
      with you.  I miss you, hope your 
      trip is going okay.  Looking forward 
      to getting you back here.  Love you!

And she whisks all the clippings into hiding.

ON THE TV

Jurassic Park.  The water glass quivers as the T-REX gets 
closer -- Thump.  Thump.  Thump.  


                                      82.

She turns it off. 

INT. TINY RURAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Dave talks to the sleepy NIGHT NURSE.

             DAVE
      It's my brother, you know?  Said he 
      was going to the hospital.

             NIGHT NURSE
      This here's the hospital.  If we're 
      talking about Deckerville.  Which 
      we are.  

             DAVE
      There isn't some little clinic or 
      nothing?

             NIGHT NURSE
      This ain't Port Huron or some big 
      city, you know.  We're talking 
      about Deckerville here.  

EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT / DAVE'S CAR - NIGHT

Dave sits in the parking lot.  Watching nervously.  

A CALL from Nancy.  He ignores it.  The HOURS tick by.  Until 

DAWN.  

The sun rising slow and clean over the flat fields.  And the 
relief washes over him in a trembling wave -- 

             DAVE
      Jesus.  Jesus.  Dead.  He's dead...

He almost sobs in relief.  

Finally, he calls NANCY.  Holding himself together. 

             DAVE
      I'm okay.  Yeah, I know.  Everything.  
      I saw it, Nancy.  I'm taking care of 
      it.  You gotta trust me.  

INT. FRED'S HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Dave pops the door to Fred's hotel room.  

Clears it out, wipes it down. 


                                      83.

INT. THE FRONT DESK

Dave lays the keys on the desk. 

             DAVE
      My friend asked me to check him out 
      too.  He's in room 215.  

EXT.  STATE FOREST - ROADSIDE - DAY

Dave splashes gasoline onto a pile of ALL OF FRED'S STUFF.  
In a ditch by the roadside.  Lights it.  Watches it burn.  

INT. NANCY'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - DAY

Nancy peeks through the window -- sees it's DAVE.

             NANCY
      OthankGod--

She unlocks the door -- lock after lock. 

Lets Dave in.  He stares at the KITCHEN KNIFE in her hand.  

A moment where they just stare at each other. 

             DAVE
      You gonna put that down?  

             NANCY
      Can I?

             DAVE
      He'll never be back.  Ever.  I 
      promise you.  

She comes forward to hug him -- but he pulls back.  

             DAVE
      Don't.  I gotta clean off.  

IN THE BATHROOM

Dave strips down.  SCRUBS his hands, his face, in the sink. 

Nancy paces.  Scratching at her forearms.  A wreck. 

             NANCY
      Is he-- Is he...
        (mouthing the word)
      --dead?


                                      84.

             DAVE
      God.  No.  No!   C'mere.  I'm not 
      capable of that.  I'm not.  I-- I'm 
      just upset about...  Listen.  I 
      caught him.  In the act.  

             NANCY
      Oh God Dave--

             DAVE
      I know.  It was...  I never seen...  

Trying to hide his emotional fragility.  Unsuccessfully.  

             NANCY
      I been thinking about it, Dave.  
      Those women, they got families, you 
      know?  We gotta tell the police. 

             DAVE
      No.  No way.  No police. 

             NANCY
      We tell them everything, the truth--

             DAVE
      Sure.  Then they start asking why I 
      was there.  Why I didn't stop it.  
      About you -- how long you knew, why 
      you never said anything... 

             NANCY
      We can tell them the truth.  We 
      didn't do anything wrong!

             DAVE
      Maybe they'll believe it.  But the 
      CNN won't.  You think Nancy Grace 
      will leave it be?  You'll be 
      crucified!  This is Harry's childhood 
      we're talking about.  You want his 
      picture on 60 darned Minutes? 

             NANCY
      Someone'll make the connection 
      anyway, figure it out, and then--

             DAVE
      They WON'T.  I PROMISE you.  They 
      WON'T.  I fixed it.  
        (taking her hands)
      Nancy, I fixed it so we can get 
      out, clean.  Fred didn't see me at 
      the house.  

                                      85.

             DAVE
	(CONT'D)
      I sat him down later, in the hotel.  
      Confronted him.  I had photos, 
      evidence, everything.  And we 
      talked it out.  

             NANCY
      You did?

             DAVE
      He agreed, for Harry's sake.  To 
      disappear and never come back.  I 
      got everything in a safe deposit 
      box now, and he knows, if any of us 
      ever see him again, or if anything 
      happens to me or to you or Harry, 
      the police get the key.  It's over.  

             NANCY
      ...But Dave-- is it okay now?  

A long hug.  They both desperately need it.  Need more, but--

             DAVE
      It's okay now, Nancy.  This is what 
      you wanted, right?  

And the question hangs there. 

INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Harry's sitting on his bed, holding his suitcase.  Scared.  

             HARRY
      Who's that downstairs?  Is it dad?  

             NANCY
      Harry.  This is hard to tell you.  
      But your dad decided he needed some 
      time by himself.  For a while, 
      anyway.  Maybe a long time. 

A long silence.  Harry processes this.  A noise downstairs.  

             HARRY
      Who is that, then?  

             NANCY
      Dave Delgado.  He's a friend of 
      mom's.  A good friend.

Harry just sits there.  Clutching his pillow.  As Nancy's 
about to leave--


                                      86.

             HARRY
      Is everything going to be okay?  Do 
      we still have to be scared?  

             NANCY
      Oh, honey.  Come here...  

INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Dave spreads sheets, blankets, pillows on the couch.  

             DAVE
      It's better for Harry this way.  
      For now.  

             NANCY
      You can shower upstairs if you want. 

They stand there.  Across the room from each other.  Unsure 
of the rules for their relationship.  

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dave comes out of the bathroom.  Freshly showered.  Notices 
HARRY, watching him through his open bedroom door.  

             HARRY
        (off the PJ bottoms)
      Those are my dad's.  

             DAVE
      I know.  That okay?

             HARRY
      Doesn't matter what I say.

             DAVE
      Sure it does.  You're the man of 
      the house now. 

             HARRY
      Won't...  won't he be coming back?  

             DAVE
      Harry--  I--
        (coming into Harry's room)
      Man to man?

             HARRY
      Yeah.  Man to man.

             DAVE
      He won't.  It's better that way, 
      even if you can't understand now. 


                                      87.

             HARRY 
        (hiding the pain)
      Okay.  I guess... you can use his 
      PJs then.   

DOWNSTAIRS - THE NEXT MORNING

Dave opens the blinds to look out on the perfect lawn, the 
bright tulip beds.  The DAWN CHORUS from the woods behind the 
house.  Peace.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Nancy and Harry come down in their pajamas to find DAVE 
making them breakfast.  Harry pokes at his huevos rancheros 
suspiciously.  

             HARRY
      What is this stuff?

             DAVE
      Salsa.  Just try it.  

Harry takes a tiny, tiny bite.  His face lights up.

             HARRY
      Mom, why didn't you ever make this?  

A few minutes later, they're LAUGHING together.  A family.  

I/E. FREDERICK MEIJER GARDENS - JUNGLE HOUSE - A FEW DAYS LATER

Dave, Nancy, and Harry surrounded by trees.  Nancy leans 
over, whispers in Dave's ear:

             NANCY
      Can we be Anamaria and Javier again? 

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

The sunlight POURS through the windows, illuminating their 
bodies as they strip each other naked.  

A strong, silent moment.  Holding, inhaling each other.  

The SEX is a wave of bright relief washing over them.  

Afterwards, they lie wrapped together.  Quietly.  At peace.  

             NANCY
      We could be a family.  A real FAMILY.

She pokes the ROUND BURN MARK on Dave's forearm.  Kisses it. 


                                      88.

He smiles down at her.  And the bedroom glows.  

INT. NANCY'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING

A few days later.  Harry puts on his big WOODEN SHOES, 
practices his Dutch Dance as Dave and Nancy watch.  Harry's 
gotten pretty good, his loud STOMPING mostly in rhythm now.  

BRRING-BRING!  The phone rings.  Dave glances at the caller 
ID.  It's SPEEDY CAR RENTAL.  

Panic.  Dave grabs the phone and dashes into 

THE KITCHEN

             RENTAL GUY
      Mister Vandergroot, this is--

             DAVE
      Yessir -- I'm real sorry, but I had 
      a family emergency, had to leave 
      the car at a Price Chopper in--

             RENTAL GUY
      Well, not any more it isn't!  I'm 
      looking at it right out my window.  
      JCR-143!  I was just calling to 
      thank you for your business. 

             DAVE
      ... Oh.  And...  the keys?

             RENTAL GUY
      Got them right here in my hand!  
      Heck, sounds like you got yourself 
      a real guardian angel there! 

Dave goes pale.  

Holy.  Shit. 

BACK IN THE LIVING ROOM

Dave sinks into the chair.  Ashen.  

             NANCY
      Who was it?

             DAVE
      Nobody.  Telemarketers.  

Harry dances on.  An ominous storm of sound.  


                                      89.

EXT. NANCY'S HOUSE - EVENING

Dave stands outside the house.  Surveying the darkness.   
Watching.  A deep terror creeping over him.  

He STARTLES as Nancy puts her arms around his shoulders.  

             NANCY 
      You wanna come upstairs?  Javier? 

             DAVE
      Not, uh.  Not tonight.  I got 
      something I gotta take care of. 

Nancy watches, confused, as Dave heads to his car. 

EXT. BODEGA - NIGHT

Dave approaches a corner bodega.  A drug corner, held down by 
a half-dozen Latino toughs.  

A couple of SLANGERS move to intercept Dave.  He shows them 
the QUARTER BURN on his arm.  They glance at the BANGER on 
the steps, who nods.  They stand aside.  

Dave approaches the Banger.  One SLANGER circles him in a low-
rider bicycle.  Hamburger tattoo on his calf. 

             BANGER
      J-spot.  Damn.  Put your face on a 
      milk carton, yo.  

             SLANGER
      Homes too good for The Folks until 
      he needs something.  

             DAVE
      Hey.  We just took different paths, 
      B.  Not better and worse.  Just 
      different.

             SLANGER
      Don't fucking condescend to me!  
      Bitch leaves The Folks couple years, 
      thinks he's Edward James Olmos.  All 
      inspirational and shit.  

             BANGER
      Hey.  Chill.  We businessmen, right?

AROUND THE CORNER

The Slanger shoves a PAPER BAG into Dave's hands.


                                      90.

             SLANGER
      Now I KNOW you gonna keep your 
      mouth shut, homes.  

             DAVE
      Dimes?

             SLANGER
      Full up.  You want more, you hit 
      the Wal-Mart, yo.

The Slanger flashes a peace sign and pedals off.  

INSIDE DAVE'S CAR

He opens the paper bag.  

Inside, a chrome .22-CALIBER PISTOL.  

He conceals it inside his pants.  

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dave sneaks in.  All quiet, lights out.  He makes up the 
couch as his bed.

Nancy pads into the room.  Watches him from the doorway.  

             NANCY
      I thought you were going to sleep 
      upstairs tonight.  

             DAVE
      Well, you know, Harry n'all.

             NANCY
      What's that mean?  What's going on 
      with you, Dave?  

             DAVE
      Nuthin.  Everything's fine.  

             NANCY
      This is fine?  You know Harry's 
      having a rough time since you told 
      him his dad wasn't coming back.  

             DAVE
      He asked me straight out.  Maybe 
      it's time to be honest with the kid.  

             NANCY
      Well you're the one who won't come 
      upstairs!  How honest is that?


                                      91.

A tense stand-off.  Then Nancy stomps upstairs.  

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Nancy lies awake.  Catches a whiff of something.  Follows it 
to a COLOGNE BOTTLE.  

She gives it a spritz.  The smell takes her back.

             NANCY
      Fred...

A moment of missing him.  His empty half of the bed.  

INT. GARAGE - DAY

Dave stands over the train layout.  

The Lakeshore COTTAGE is there.  It's incredible.  Totally 
accurate.  There are even miniature dogs playing on the lawn.  

Dave shivers.

INT. GARAGE/HALLWAY - DAY

Dave pries the Amtrak signs from the door.  Secures the 
outside garage door with a Kryptonite bike lock. 

Installs a stout PADLOCK on the inner garage door.  

Locks the garage shut.  Sealing the train set in.  

EXT. HOLLAND HIGH SCHOOL / DOWNTOWN - A FEW DAYS LATER

The whole town is preparing for the TULIP TIME FESTIVAL.  

Nancy DRIVES SLOWLY, watching everything:

Chairs being arranged in perfect rows around the bandstand.

Out behind the high school, the marching band is practicing 
furiously, blasting Dutch songs.  

By the CHURCH, Dutch Dancers practice their steps.  

EXT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLYARD - AFTER SCHOOL

Nancy spies Harry in the back corner of the playground.  
Talking to someone--to himself?  Nancy can't tell. 

             NANCY
      Harry?  Harry, come on!

Harry turns and runs to her.  


As he does, Nancy glimpses A SHADOW disappearing into the 
trees at the edge of the playground.  

Huh.  Must've been just a trick of the light.  

                                      92.

INT. NANCY'S CAR - DAY

Driving home.  

             HARRY
      I saw dad today.  He came by the 
      recess yard after school.  

             NANCY
      Harry.  I know this is a hard time, 
      and you have a great imagination--

             HARRY
      I'm not lying!  And I'm not an idiot!

             NANCY
      Okay!  Enough!

Harry sulks.  Nancy drives on. 

EXT. NANCY'S HOUSE - DAY

They pull into the driveway.

             NANCY
      Wait a sec, Harry.  I know you miss 
      your dad.  But it's not mommy's 
      fault.  It's not because of you or 
      me.  It's because of him.  

             HARRY
      ...Can I get out now?

She sighs.  Harry stomps inside.  

When Nancy gets out, a FLOODLIGHT clicks on.  She stares. 

The whole house is now rigged with new MOTION-SENSOR LIGHTS.  

IN THE BACK YARD

She circles the house until she finds DAVE, setting a LADDER 
against the side of the house. Installing sensors and lights.

             NANCY
      Dave, what's all this?  Weren't you 
      feeling sick? 


                                      93.

             DAVE
      Thought it couldn't hurt.  

He shrugs.  Climbs up the ladder with a floodlight.  

Nancy notices the BULGE at the small of his back.  Under his 
shirt.  She can't tell what it is--just that it's suspicious. 

INT. THE FRONT DOOR - DAY

Nancy fiddles with the BRAND-NEW DEADBOLTS on the front door.  
Peels the transparent plastic off of one. 

The GARAGE DOOR.  New locks there too.  Meanwhile, the 
infernal CLOMPING of Harry's wooden shoes as he practices. 

Amongst all the noise, the tiny HUM of the electric trains.  
Just a trick of the ear?  

             HARRY
      Mom?

She startles.

             HARRY
      You wanna watch?  I think I got it.

INT. THE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dave moves the ARMCHAIR to face the DOOR.  A view of the 
front yard through the windows.  His nighttime sentry-post. 

Fishes the pistol from his waistband.  Rests it on his knee.  

INT. NANCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nancy puts on her nightgown in the lonely bedroom.  

Out her window, a GLIMPSE of -- SOMEONE, down in the street.  
Watching the house.  

But when she goes to look--he's gone.  Just the empty street.  

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Nancy comes down.  Sits on the couch. 

             DAVE
        (off Nancy's look)
      Can't sleep.


                                      94.

             NANCY
      You know Harry says he saw his dad 
      at school today.  There's no chance 
      that--

The hair on Dave's neck stands on end.  

             DAVE
      No.  None.  Didn't I promise you?

Dave surreptitiously pushes the pistol under the chair 
cushion as she approaches. 

             NANCY
      Because if--  I don't think I could 
      deal if--

             DAVE
      He knows, if he comes anywhere in 
      the STATE, he's going to jail.  He 
      knows it.  I promise.  On my life.  

Nancy comes and sits on the arm of the chair.

             NANCY
      You know, this isn't how I imagined 
      this.  I thought it'd be...simpler. 

             DAVE
      Yeah.  Well.  When there's blood 
      involved.  Nothing's simple. 

             NANCY
      Is-- is there anything you need to 
      tell me, Dave?

             DAVE
      Just... that I love you. 

It was a serious, sincere question.  And he just blew it off.  

Nancy nods.  Hurt.  Heads back upstairs.

Dave reaches under the cushion.  Takes the pistol back out. 

LATER THAT NIGHT

Dave comes awake just in time to see the MOTION-SENSOR LIGHTS 
turn OFF.  

Shit shit shit.  He pulls the pistol from its nylon holster.  
The click of the SAFETY lever loud in the silence. 


                                      95.

He sits stock still.  No movement.  No sound.  Just the light 
from "Jesus is Lord."

At the farthest edge of his perception, the faintest 
shhhhk... shhhhk... shhhk...

Follows the noise to

THE GARAGE DOOR.

Where the new padlock is OPEN.  The door AJAR. 

The shhhhk...shhhhk...shhhk of the RUNNING TRAINS.  Dave's 
hair stands on end.  

INSIDE 

The lights are off.  But the TRAIN IS ON.  All the tiny 
houses are LIT UP from inside.  

The TRAINS circle the track, lights on and steam puffing.  

As one of the trains swings round a bend, its headlight 
suddenly illuminates

HARRY.  Sitting in the middle of the train set, back to Dave.

Dave jumps out of his skin.  Shoves the pistol away. 

             DAVE
      Jesus.  Harry.  You really 
      shouldn't be in here. 

Harry doesn't turn.  The clack of the trains orbiting him.

             HARRY
      Can you keep a secret?

             DAVE
      Yeah, buddy.  I can keep a secret.

             HARRY
      My dad was here.  He said he'll 
      come to my dance.  He said he 
      wouldn't miss it for the world.  
      But you can't tell Mom. 

The trains' headlights throw eerie shadows over everything.  
A bead of sweat on Dave's upper lip.

             DAVE
      Are-- are you sure you weren't 
      dreaming, bud?  


                                      96.

             HARRY
      I know the difference.  

Harry turns the dial.  The trains slow, then stop.  In one of 
the headlight beams, Dave notices -- 

Out in front of the cedar-shingled cottage, there's a CAR 
PARKED.  The same color and model as DAVE'S RENTAL CAR.  

A tiny MAN sitting inside with a camera.  His clothes exactly 
like DAVE'S.  

             DAVE
      Was-- was that there before? Harry? 

But Harry's gone.

INT. HARRY'S ROOM - DAY

A few days later.  Harry fusses with his DUTCH COSTUME.  He 
looks like a fairy-tale Hansel.  Wants to get it perfect.  

EXT.  HOLLAND TOWN CENTER - DAY

TULIP TIME is in full bloom.  The Mayor leads the SWEEPING OF 
THE STREETS, pushing a broom.  Behind him, a brigade of girls 
in DUTCH COSTUMES with PUSH-BROOMS and WOODEN SHOES. 

Harry notices CANDY among the sweepers.  He waves.  She 
smiles at him, then averts her gaze when she notices Nancy.  

OUTSIDE THE AUDITORIUM

Nancy watches the POLICE harass a group of loitering Latino 
GANGSTERS.  

As the police move them along, she notices:

All the GANGSTERS have QUARTER BURNS on their forearms.  Some 
haloed with tattoos.  

Just like Dave has.  

             HARRY
      C'mon, mom!  We're gonna be late!

She's pulled along through the crowd.  But her mind is 
working.  Trying to understand what she saw...

INT. AUDITORIUM - BACKSTAGE - DAY

Harry and the other kids line up for costume inspection.  Two 
old biddies work the line like drill sergeants. 


                                      97.

They send one little girl away SOBBING.  Non-reg klompen.  

The biddies arrive at Harry.  Whisper to each other.  

             OLD INSPECTOR
      Check the elastic...

The Inspector rolls back Harry's cuffs.  She's disappointed 
to find that the elastic is, in fact, Dutch.  

INT. SCHOOL AUDITORIUM - DAY

Dave keeps glancing around.  Scanning the crowd.  His hand on 
the PISTOL in his pocket.

Nancy puts her hand on Dave's knee to stop it bouncing. 

             NANCY
      Relax.  He's gonna do fine.  

ON THE STAGE

Applause as the curtain opens to reveal the YOUNG DANCERS.  
Thirty kids in identical costumes, with big wooden shoes. 

Nancy waves at Harry.  He smiles out at her and Dave.  

The MUSIC begins, and the dancers begin to SING:

             DANCERS
      Tulips are blooming 
      In Holland, Michigan,
      Tulips bright-colored and gay...

AFTER THE PERFORMANCE

Harry comes out for his bow, and Nancy gives a little WHOOP.  

Up on the stage, Harry waves to them, then scans the crowd.  
Looking for his dad.  His face LIGHTS UP.  

Dave blanches -- WHEELS AROUND -- and for an instant, he 
catches a glimpse of the TOP OF FRED'S HEAD -- or is it?  

Dave gets up to look, but the man DISAPPEARS into the crowd.  

             DAVE
      Excuse me, sorry -- 

Dave LEAPS over the other parents toward the aisle -- 

             NANCY
      Dave, what're you doing?  


                                      98.

IN THE BACK OF THE AUDITORIUM

Dave pushes through the parents flocking to the stage -- 
desperately searching for his ghostly adversary.  

NANCY AND HARRY

Work their way toward the exit.  

Nancy suddenly stops.  Smells the air in the back of the 
auditorium.  An old, familiar scent.

             NANCY
      Oh God.  His cologne... Harry, was-- 

             HARRY
      Just like he said he would!

She GRABS Harry's arm and pulls him --

OUTSIDE 

Into the insane TRIBAL DRUMMING of a THOUSAND WOODEN SHOES on 
the concrete.  

DAVE finds himself in the thick CROWDS watching 

THE TULIP TIME PARADE

THOUSANDS of husky high-school DUTCH DANCERS in wooden shoes, 
DANCING in pinwheels down the street.  

A glimpse of FRED'S BACK through the crowd -- Dave CHASES 
after him -- 

The NOISE is OVERWHELMING -- the music, the clomping -- Dave 
hops up to see over the heads -- 

PUSHES through the people -- His HAND on the PISTOL -- He 
loses sight of Fred-- A MARCHING BAND blares past --

Dave, turning, reeling around in the thick crowd, searching -- 
And suddenly FRED IS RIGHT THERE -- his BACK to Dave -- 

Dave pulls the PISTOL from his pocket -- His moment, his one 
chance -- the DRUMS and the SHOES so loud -- 

Just a few yards now -- Sweat pouring from him -- A man steps 
aside, a CLEAR SHOT -- But then -- 

             NANCY
        (behind him)
      DAVE!  What's going on, Dave?


                                      99.

And FRED hears too -- sees DAVE, sees the GUN -- and a moment 
where the men lock eyes through the crowd before 

             NANCY
      Dave?!

Dave's distracted for a split second -- just long enough for 

FRED

To melt away into the crowd.

NANCY

Pushes Harry behind her because 

SHE SEES THE GUN in Dave's hand-- Color drains from her face-- 

             DAVE
      He's here.  Come on, we have to go!  

And suddenly it's all reversed -- Fred is somewhere in the 
crowd, following -- 

             DAVE
      We'll go -- we'll go in the car, 
      right now -- 

Dave pulls Nancy through the crowd, glancing behind them, 
terrified -- rushing into

THE PARKING LOT

Nancy, the FURY growing inside her, mixed up with the fear -- 

             NANCY
        (off the PISTOL)
      You had that in my house?  Around 
      my SON?!?

             DAVE
      You don't understand, Nancy--

             NANCY
      Darned right I don't understand!  
      Because if it happened like you 
      TOLD me, like you PROMISED-- 

             DAVE
      I'll explain, but we gotta go -- 


                                     100.

             NANCY
      No.  Me and Harry are gonna go.  
      You can follow.  I'm not gonna have 
      that weapon in my car! 

             DAVE
      What are you saying?

             NANCY
      I dunno, Dave, where should I 
      start?  With THIS?  I know what 
      this is!

She pulls his jacket sleeve up to reveal the QUARTER BURN.  

             DAVE
      It was a long time ago--

             NANCY
      The lie wasn't!  None of the lies 
      were, Dave!  

And she jumps in her car and PEELS OUT.

Dave runs to his car, jumps in, and FOLLOWS.  

In the rush, neither one sees the GREY METAL BOX affixed 
inside the back fender of Nancy's car.  

EXT. SLEEPING BEAR MOTEL - DAY

A small vacation motel on the shore of Lake Michigan.  A 
wooded parking lot on one side, the DUNES on the other.  

INT. SLEEPING BEAR MOTEL - RECEPTION - DAY

The chunky receptionist looks askance at Nancy.

             RECEPTIONIST
      It's the same price for lakefront.  
      We're famous for our views.

She points to a sign: a picture of a bear drinking coffee 
under the words We're FAMOUS for our VIEWS.

             NANCY
      I don't want lakefront.  Just get 
      me something on the lot side, okay?  
      And can I use that computer?  

The ancient Windows 95 PC in the corner of the lobby.


                                     101.

AT THE COMPUTER

Nancy visits the COOK COUNTY DoJ website.  Browsing mugshots.  

She searches:  David Delgado.  No results.

Remembers.  Types:  Javier Delgado.

And DAVE'S MUGSHOT appears.  Fifteen years younger, razor-
sharp eyes and facial hair.  A hard man.  

Nancy shudders.  

Prints the screen. 

             RECEPTIONIST
      That's a dollar a page!

Nancy snatches the pages and her room key.  

             NANCY
      Bill me.  

INT. NANCY'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

The view of the parking lot wipes to BLACK as Nancy pulls the 
curtains closed.  Triple-locks the door.   

She spreads out the prints.  We see: ...Charge of ASSAULT 
WITH A DEADLY WEAPON... GRAND LARCENY... ATTEMPTED MURDER... 

             NANCY
      Lied...

Criminal affiliations:  Low-level member, Los Pueblos gang.  

I/E. DAVE'S CAR - DRIVING - DAY

DAVE curses under his breath.  He's lost Nancy's car.  

Then -- catches a glimpse of it in the motel parking lot.  
Squeals a u-turn. 

INT. NANCY'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Nancy sits on the bed next to Harry.  Staring. 

Then, a moment later, she's SOBBING.  

             NANCY
      If I'd never looked...  I coulda 
      been happy forever...  


                                     102.

             HARRY
      We can, mom.  We can be happy.  Is 
      this because of me? Because of Candy?

             NANCY
      No, baby, no...  I just wish we 
      could go back...

             HARRY
      You mean like dad would come back?  

             NANCY
        (clings to him)
      Oh, love bug... 

EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT - DAY

Dave parks out of sight.

INT. MOTEL RECEPTION - DAY

             DAVE
      The lady who just checked in asked 
      me to get the room adjoining.  

             CHUNKY RECEPTIONIST
      That's the side we're famous for!

She points up at the sign. 

INT. DAVE'S MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Dave checks out the room.  It opens right onto the SLEEPING 
BEAR DUNES.  The flat expanse of Lake Michigan beyond.  

Dave opens the CONNECTING DOOR to Nancy's room.  

It's a double door, so you have to open both sides to get 
through.  Nancy's door is still closed.  

INT. NANCY'S ROOM - DAY

             DAVE'S VOICE
      Hey Nancy?  Open up, it's me.  

Nancy stares at the door.  Frozen.  Terrified.

             NANCY
      Dave?  Harry and I are going away.  
      To Canada.  To disappear.  
        (beat)
      Maybe it'd be best if you went 
      away.   Just for a while.  


INTERCUTTING between DAVE and NANCY, on opposite sides of the 
thin door.  Just inches from each other, but so far apart.

                                     103.

             DAVE
      I can't.  I...  I tried to kill 
      him, Nancy.  Out in Deckerville.

             NANCY
      Oh my God--

             DAVE
      It just happened.  I didn't plan 
      it, didn't mean to.

             NANCY
      You didn't think to tell me?!  My 
      God, that's why you said no police--

             DAVE
      I thought he was dead!  And we'd 
      never have to worry.  Nancy, I 
      was... I was falling apart.  I don't 
      know how to... hold it all inside.  
      That's not the kind of guy I am.

             NANCY
      What IS, Dave?  What kind of stand-
      up guy are you?

She slips the printouts under the door.  His rap sheet. 

             DAVE
      Let me come in.  Let me explain.  

Silence.  

He SLAMS his hand on the door.  

Nancy quietly props a chair under the connecting door's knob.  
Dave paces.  Mad.  Then calms himself down.  Thinking.

             DAVE
      You'll need your passports, right?  
      If you want to go to Canada.  From 
      the house.  Someone has to go back. 
        (off her silence)
      You're safe here, for now.  I'll 
      go.  Just tell me where they are.  
      Let me prove myself.  

Nancy thinks for a long moment.  The dresser, pushed against 
the connecting door.  The papers, halfway under the door.


                                     104.

             NANCY
      In the kitchen.  Drawer next to the 
      stove.  There's a folder.  Harry's 
      birth certificate too.  

             DAVE
      I'll be back, then.  Don't open the 
      door for anyone else.  Don't answer 
      the phone.   Just lie low.  

His hand on the door.  Her silence.  

He wants so much more.  But this is all he's gonna get.

EXT. NANCY'S HOUSE - DAY

Dave circles the house.  Watching the windows, the neighbors. 
For any sign.  For anything.

Then KICKS IN THE DOOR.  Gun in hand.  

INT. THE HALLWAY - DAY

Dark.  Silent.

Listening.  Is it a trap? 

INT. THE KITCHEN - DAY

The FRIDGE clicks on behind him -- Dave nearly jumps out of 
his skin.  Listens for a moment.  Then goes to the drawer.

INSIDE, piles of junk.  Old batteries, rubber bands.  Old 
PHOTOS of Nancy, Fred, and Harry.  At the beach.  They look 
so happy.  

In the back, an envelope.  Passports, birth certificates.  He 
checks them -- Fred's is there too.  

INT. NANCY'S HOUSE - DAY

Dave, on his way out with the passports.  

He notices -- all the TRAIN SIGNS are back on the GARAGE 
DOOR.  The lock is open. 

And he knows he shouldn't go in.  But he can't help himself.  

INT. NANCY'S ROOM - DAY

Nancy sits by the door.  Waiting for something.  She doesn't 
even know what. 


                                     105.

Harry sits on the bed.  Reading aloud, slowly and not 
understanding, from the Gideon's Bible.

             HARRY
      He is coming!  Every eye will see 
      him, even those who pierced him.  On 
      his account all the tribes of the 
      earth shall wail.  So it is to be.

INT. THE TRAIN ROOM - DAY

The door to the garage CREEEAKS open.  

The garage is pitch-black.  Dave steps inside.  Shivering.  
Maybe from the cold air.  Maybe from what he sees.  Because

ON THE TRAIN LAYOUT

There's a new building.

It's the SLEEPING BEAR MOTEL.  

Down to the last detail.  The room where they're staying.  
Nancy's car and Dave's car, both parked out front. 

And as Dave gets closer, he sees

FIGURES:

Out in front of the motel room, a figurine of DAVE stands 
over the BLEEDING BODY of a WOMAN.  A tiny silver nub in his 
hand that must be a gun. 

Out behind the motel, a laughing BOY in Dutch costume runs 
into the arms of his DAD.

And on a nearby street, a second DAVE FIGURINE leaves his car 
and boards a NORTHBOUND TRAIN at the STATION.  Escaping.  

And in the middle of it all, a POST-IT NOTE.  Written on it:

My Offer.

EXT. THE LAKEFRONT DUNES

The expansive, shocking beauty of the pale dunes.  As the sun 
sinks lower. 

INT. NANCY'S ROOM - DAY

The PHONE rings.  

             NANCY
      Wait, Harry--


                                     106.

             HARRY
      Hello?  Oh, hi!  ...  She's pretty 
      sad.  ...  Sure.  
        (to Nancy)
      It's dad.

A long beat before she takes the offered receiver.  Terror.  

FRED

Holds his cell phone to his ear.

             FRED
      You understand, Nancy.  I'm trying 
      to save us.  Save our family.  

INTERCUTTING WITH 

             NANCY
      I am too, Fred. 

             FRED
      He found his way out.  His only way 
      to stay alive.
        (beat)
      Do you understand me?

             NANCY
      What's his way out, Fred?

             FRED
      I'm telling you this for Harry's 
      sake.  And because I love you, Nan.  

             NANCY
      Fred--?

             FRED
      He goes to jail.  For murder one.  
      And I don't mean me.  

             NANCY
      ...I don't believe you, Fred.

             FRED
      He left me there to DIE, Nancy.  
      That's who he is.  

NANCY

Realizing -- she's totally alone.  

             NANCY
      Fred--


                                     107.

FRED

Hangs up.

We pull back to reveal:  Fred's in a CAR.  IN THE MOTEL LOT.  

Watching EVERYTHING.  Like it's in miniature on his table. 

DAVE

Roars into the motel lot.  Hides his car out of sight.

Runs to Nancy's car.  Looking around.  Freaked out.  Squats 
down and feels under the car.  

NANCY

Watches out the PEEPHOLE.  From her POV, she can't see what 
Dave's doing -- only that he's messing with her car.  

DAVE

Finds the TRACKER.  A small grey box with a nubby antenna, 
attached inside Nancy's fender. 

Switches it off, pockets it.  

NANCY

Through the peephole, sees 

DAVE, striding toward her.  He cocks his PISTOL, then HIDES 
it back in his jacket.  

             NANCY
      Oh... God...  

She glances at Harry, on the bed.  Flings open the door to 
DAVE'S ROOM.  

             NANCY
      Harry, come here -- 

THUMP-THUMP.  Dave's knock at the door. 

             DAVE'S VOICE
      Nancy, open up!

The room door handle jiggles.  Locked.  But flimsy.

She shoves Harry through into Dave's LAKE-FRONT ROOM.  

             HARRY
      What's happening, mom?  


                                     108.

             NANCY
      You stay in there two minutes.  Then 
      go out that back door, real quiet, 
      and meet me at the car.  Count to 
      one hundred, then go, okay?  

Harry nods.  Scared.  Nancy fixes his shirt.  Lingers on what 
might be their last moment.  Kisses his forehead.  

             NANCY 
      Love you, babe.  Start counting 
      now.  Go head.

             HARRY
      One Mississippi, two Mississippi...

She nods, eases the connecting door closed.  

Nancy steps silently toward the door.  Picks up the LAMP from 
the nightstand.  

             NANCY
      Dave.  You gotta leave.  Right now.  

             DAVE
      I got the passports.  And Fred's 
      too, so he can't follow us.

             NANCY
      Dave.  Just walk away.  I mean it.  

HARRY

Stands by the lakefront door.  Eyes closed.  Fidgeting with 
the door handle.  COUNTING Mississippies under his breath. 

DAVE

             DAVE
      I'm not kidding around here.  Open 
      the door, we gotta go!  

He SLAMS his hand against the door.  

NANCY

Leans against the wall by the door.  Coiled.  Tense. 

DAVE

Sees a car reflection in the window -- turns to see 

FRED in his CAR.  Watching.  


                                     109.

Dave FREAKS OUT.  The PISTOL in his hand.  

             DAVE
      Open it, Nancy!  We gotta go -- 
      NOW!  NOW! 

             NANCY
      Leave, Dave!

             DAVE
      OPEN THIS FUCKING DOOR!

He SLAMS himself against the door -- 

HARRY

Gets to one hundred -- Steps out into the WHITE LIGHT -- 

NANCY

Watches the doorjamb SPLINTER -- The door holds a second, 
held in place by the CHAIN -- 

Then CRASHES OPEN -- 

             DAVE
      I'm not jokin--

And Nancy SLAMS the LAMP down as Dave bursts in -- and the 
PISTOL flies out of his hand, skews across the floor, under 
the bed -- and that flash of metal confirms everything, 
confirms her worst fears and 

NANCY brings the lamp back up and SWINGS it again, but he's 
too close and 

He GRABS at her -- trying to stop her -- YANKS at her arm and 
she spins and he gets his ARMS AROUND HER from behind -- 

             DAVE
      Stop!  Nancy--

SWINGS her off her feet and she DROPS the lamp -- she SCREAMS 
THRASHES -- Twists around -- RAKES her nails down his FACE -- 

             DAVE
      Whhhoh--

He DROPS her, clutches his EYES and 

She falls face-down on the floor, scrambles toward the GUN -- 
but DAVE grabs her cuff and DRAGS her away -- 

She KICKS out, flailing -- catches his KNEE and Dave FALLS -- 


                                     110.

             DAVE
      Nancy!  Stoppit!  It's ME!

             NANCY 
      KEEP YOUR HANDS OFF ME!  

And in a sudden burst of strength -- Fighting for her life, 
for her child --  she could lift a bus right now, but there's 
only the 

TELEVISION -- and it's suddenly in her hands and she BRINGS 
THE TV DOWN onto Dave's HEAD -- 

And everything's silent.  Dave STARES at her -- a vacant, 
confused expression -- and then

His head SPLITS and an unbelievable quantity of blood GUSHES 
out.

NANCY

Falls backward-- slips in the BLOOD-- stumbles backward into 

DAVE'S ROOM

Slams the connecting door behind her -- the blood oozes 
UNDERNEATH the door -- 

             NANCY
      Harry?  Harry baby?

Squints in the SINKING SUN, blinding bright over the Lake.  
Steps out into 

EXT. THE LAKEFRONT DUNES - DUSK

Where she freezes when she sees

FRED.  

Standing there with HARRY in his arms.  It's the image from 
the train set.  So happy together. 

Fred waves to Nancy.  A serene smile on his face.

EXT. THE LAKESHORE - EVENING

Nancy staggers after the terrifyingly perfect image of Fred 
and Harry, walking along the beach.  Harry still in his 
spotless Dutch costume.  

             FRED
      Hey, hun?  Why don't you come down 
      here, wash your hands off.  


                                     111.

Nancy stares at her hands.  Brown with blood.  

She staggers toward the water.  Squats at edge, immerses her 
hands.  The blood lifts off in a strange red haze.  

Fred helps Harry pull his SHOES off.  Sends Harry ahead.  

             FRED
      Gosh, didn't we do great with him?  

He whistles Tulips are Blooming as they walk side by side

DOWN THE BEACH

After a long silence, Fred SIGHS.  

             FRED
      I'm so disappointed in you, Nancy.  
      Do you have any idea, any CLUE, how 
      hard I worked to keep you and Harry 
      safe from all that?  Can you imagine 
      what a sacrifice that was for me?

He's getting mad now.  Holding it in.  He puts on a smile, 
waves to Harry up the beach. 

             FRED
      Thirteen years.  Not one trophy, 
      not one slip.  I never crossed the 
      line.  Not once.  YOU did. 

And right now, in this moment, she actually believes it's 
true.  Because, in a way... it is.  

             NANCY
      I...  I couldn't stop myself.  Even 
      when I wanted to.  Even when I wanted 
      so badly to... to go back.  To reset.  

They pass a FAMILY of big people packed into small swimsuits-- 
i.e., Canadians.  Fred nods to them.

             FRED
      Beautiful day, isn't it?

             CANUCK
      Sure is, eh.  Enjoying your va-ca?

             FRED
      Second honeymoon.  Remembering why 
      we fell in love.  

Fred sighs as they pass out of earshot.  


                                     112.

             NANCY
      But, God-- Fred-- How could you do 
      that?  How could you?  

             FRED
      That's not ME.  I'm not evil.  It's 
      just...  it's not ME who does all 
      that.  It's someone else.  The real 
      me is here, with you and Harry.  
      Just like the real you isn't back 
      in that motel room, is it?  

Nancy looks down at her hands.  The nails etched in blood.  

             NANCY
      No.  It's not. 

             FRED
      But you did what you had to do.  To 
      protect your family.  Right?  

             NANCY
      Fred, I--

             FRED
      Shhh.  Take a look at Harry there.  

Harry's splashing in the water.  His Dutch costume, his 
blonde hair glowing.  An icon of innocence.  

             FRED
      Now you know what it's like for me.  
      Look at him.  We'd do anything for 
      him, wouldn't we?  To give him the 
      life he deserves.  All we have to 
      do is... hit the reset button.  

             NANCY
      How can we?  How could I ever...

             FRED
      Because now we both have something 
      to hide.  We're in it together now.  
      And we can talk about it, as a 
      couple.  And work through it.  

Nancy stares at Fred.  So harmless-looking, so loving.  

             FRED
      We've both made mistakes.  Didn't 
      appreciate what we had.


                                     113.

             NANCY
      God.  I didn't.  I didn't 
      appreciate it... until it was gone.

And she struggles not to CRY.  Fighting back the tears. 

             FRED
      Hey, hey...  Lovey, it's not too 
      late.  It's never too late.  That's 
      what we believe.  "Forgive us our 
      trespasses, as we forgive those who 
      trespass against us."  We believe 
      that, don't we?

             HARRY
	(O.S.)
      Come down here, guys!  It's cold! 

Fred smiles, indicates the water with his head. 

             FRED
      Let's go in.  Wash it all away.  
      Come out nice and clean and ready 
      for a fresh start.  

             NANCY
      It's not that easy, Fred.

             FRED
      Why not?

He's got a big, childish grin on his face.  Nancy can't help 
but smile a little through her tears.  

             HARRY
	(O.S.)
      Come on!

             FRED
      Okay, here we come!

He grabs Nancy's hand, and they RUN TOGETHER down the sand 
and then

Fred scoops up Harry and all three SPLASH right 

INTO THE LAKE

A baptism, a new beginning.  

EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT - EVENING

They all gather at Fred's car.


                                     114.

             FRED
      We should take a real second 
      honeymoon.  Someplace exciting.  
      Paris?

             NANCY
      Silly.

             FRED
      I'm serious!  We gotta start over.  
      Do it right.  

Nancy giggles.  The genie is back in the bottle. 

INT. FRED'S CAR - EVENING

A memory troubles Nancy's brow.  

             NANCY
      What about...  you know.  

             FRED
      I'll take care of it.  After I drop 
      you two home.  The desk woman went 
      home for the day, so.  

             NANCY
      Our passports, though.  Paris!

She squeezes Fred's hand excitedly.  He relents. 

INT. THE MOTEL ROOM - EVENING

Nancy braces herself, steps into the room.  

Averts her eyes as she steps to the CORPSE.  Holds her 
breath, reaches into Dave's pocket.

Pulls out the three passports.  

But something falls out of Dave's pocket when she does.  A 
small yellow packet.

She picks it up.  Unwraps it.

It's two tiny FIGURINES -- Dave with the gun, and Nancy, dead 
in a puddle of blood.  Wrapped in the POST-IT NOTE:  My 
Offer.

A CAR HORN outside.  

She starts.  Looking from the car to the figures to the note.  
What does it mean?


                                     115.

I/E. FRED'S CAR - EVENING

Nancy gets in, holds up the passports.  

             NANCY
      Got 'em!  You buckled up?  

             HARRY
      Yeah.  

             FRED
      All aboard, Team Vandergroot!

Nancy TURNS UP THE RADIO.  

             NANCY
      Actually, wait a second.  Harry, 
      your belt's all wrong.

             HARRY
      It's fine, mom. 

             NANCY
      No it's not.  Here--

She hops out of the car, opens the back door.  

Leans over to fix Harry's seatbelt.  And as she does, she 
WHISPERS to Harry -- nice and quiet under the RADIO NOISE:

             NANCY
      Harry -- get out of the car now and 
      run as far as you can.  

             HARRY
      What?

             NANCY
      It's a game.  Trust me.  Go!  Now!  

Harry's confused -- but he does as he's told. 

             FRED
      Harry?  Where're you going?

Harry gives his dad a SHRUG as he RUNS along the roadside.  

Fred turns off the car, starts to get out -- but then NANCY'S 
THERE.  Back in her seat.

She takes his hand.  Loving.

             NANCY
      He just has to pee.  


                                     116.

Fred smiles at her -- then the smile fades when he sees THE 
FIGURINES on the dashboard.  

She sees the knowledge leap into his eyes.  Her face twists 
in scorn. Everything was just confirmed by his reaction. 

THE PISTOL in Nancy's hand.  

             FRED
      Nan--  It's not what-- I love you--

             NANCY
      This, right here?  This isn't ME, 
      Fred.  This is YOU.  This is YOU.

And Fred LUNGES for the gun -- but too late -- Nancy FIRES -- 

ON THE SIDE OF THE ROAD

Harry hears the POP-POP-POP-POP, looks back to see the 
FLASHES from inside the car.  

             HARRY
      Mom?  Dad?  MOM??

BACK IN THE CAR

Nancy pries Fred's hands off her wrists.  Pushes him away.  
He flops down under the steering wheel. 

His face wide-eyed and already BLUE.  

DEAD.  

Nancy's hands tremble.  Drops the gun onto the floor of the 
car.  And BREAKS DOWN SOBBING.  

Notices HARRY, small in the distance, staring at the car.  

Nancy opens her car door, goes to him --

             NANCY
      Harry baby, it's--AAAAH!

FRED'S HAND reaches out -- GRABS her by the hair and YANKS 
HER back into the CAR -- 

             FRED
      GRAAAAH!  

Nancy SCREAMS as Fred PULLS her down by the hair -- Works his 
blue hands around her THROAT -- 

Brutal, his face a grey mask of HATE -- 


                                     117.

Nancy SCREAMS -- Grabs his hands, fighting to break his grip 
on her neck -- but he's unnaturally strong -- his final act, 
bringing her down with him -- 

Her hands scramble along the car floor -- then one closes on 
HARRY'S WOODEN SHOE. 

She brings it up and SLAMS the shoe against Fred's skull -- 
OVER AND OVER -- Bashing him down with the WOODEN SHOE until 
he RELEASES HER and falls back. 

His eyes stare blankly at the ceiling of the car.  A gurgling 
sound in the back of his throat.  Then silence.  No life left 
in him.

Nancy throws the shoe down.  Leaps out of the car and SLAMS 
the door closed.  

DOWN THE SIDE OF THE ROAD

             NANCY
      Harry!  Harry!

She RUNS for Harry -- 

Harry stares at her for a moment -- this bloody, ashen woman 
running for him -- 

And Harry turns and FLEES -- CRASHING through the brush and 
onto

THE DUNES -- 

Harry RUNS for his LIFE -- 

And Nancy GIVES CHASE -- Down the long, bright beach -- 

And we FREEZE FRAME -- And suddenly, they're like figurines:

Nancy, frozen -- forever chasing that innocence, that light, 
that blonde little dream -- 

Harry, glancing back at the bloody monster on his heels -- 

And the sun glows golden on the dunes, the lake, everything.

THE END.


