             I'M PROUD OF YOU

               Written by

      Micah Fitzerman-Blue & Noah Harpster

      (Based on the memoir by Tim Madigan)

UTA
Jon Huddle
310.273.6700

Kaplan/Perrone
Alex Lerner
310.285.0116


EXT. A RESIDENTIAL STREET, IN MINIATURE - DAY

Balsawood and papier-mâché HOUSES of every size and color and 
PLASTIC blooming trees pepper the streets. MODEL CARS wait 
for the passing toy TROLLEY.

A familiar vibraphone chimes in.

Up ahead, a quaint YELLOW HOUSE comes into focus.

We are in the opening credits of MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD.

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD HOME - CONTINUOUS

FRED ROGERS (71), swings open the door, smiling.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      It's a beautiful day in this 
      neighborhood. A beautiful day for a 
      neighbor. Would you be mine? Could 
      you be mine?

At the closet, Fred takes off his sport coat and hangs it up. 
His movements are slow - he’s not as young as he once was.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      It's a neighborly day in this 
      beauty wood. A neighborly day for a 
      beauty. Would you be mine? Could 
      you be mine?

He plucks a RED CARDIGAN off the hanger.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      I've always wanted to have a 
      neighbor just like you. 

Fred points right into the camera. You.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      I've always wanted to live in a 
      neighborhood with you. So, let's 
      make the most of this beeeeutiful 
      day. 

He playfully zips up the sweater before sitting on the bench.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Since we're together we might as 
      well say.


                                      2.

Fred slips off his dress shoe and tosses it to his other 
hand. He replaces it with the BLUE BOAT SHOE and ties it 
tight before moving on to the next foot.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Would you be mine, could you be 
      mine? Won't you be my neighbor? 
      Won't you please, won't you please? 
      Please won't you be my neighbor?

He smiles and settles in - then, that soft warm voice. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Hello television neighbor...

Fred pulls a large WOODEN BOARD checkered with several little 
patterned DOORS. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Do you see this big board that I 
      brought to show you? It has lots of 
      little doors on it. Different 
      material for each door. Behind 
      these doors are pictures of people. 
      Look who this one is.

Fred opens a door to reveal a soft-focus headshot of BETTY 
ABERLIN (40s), brunette, then closes it. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s Betty Aberlin. Look here. 

He opens another - this time, MISTER McFEELY (50s) in a white 
wig, goatee, and hat.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Who is that? It’s Mister McFeely. 
      He says “speedy delivery,” doesn’t 
      he?

He closes it, then opens a couple more. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      All these are friends. You know 
      what it means? A friend? It means I 
      know that person. I know how that 
      person looks. And what kind of 
      things they do. And I like to be 
      with them. Most of these friends 
      are people that I’ve helped you to 
      know on television. Today I'd like 
      to introduce you to a new friend. 


He opens the last door. TIM MADIGAN (37), with a fat bloody 
lip and the look of a spooked deer. Something awful happened 
to this guy.

                                      3.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Tim Madigan. Tim lives in the state 
      of Texas. We haven’t known each 
      other very long, but we have grown 
      to be very close. Let’s go say 
      hello, shall we?

We travel out the window and into...

THE MINIATURE NEIGHBORHOOD

The same houses, cars, trees and trolley - in reverse. 

We expand out to reveal much more than just Mister Rogers’ 
Neighborhood. Now we see all of...

MINIATURE PITTSBURGH

And then further out, to the entire...

MINIATURE UNITED STATES

We stop over TEXAS, then DIP DOWN to a cul-de-sac of tract 
homes, passing a sign that reads “Welcome to Forth Worth.”

Behind the sign, a comfortable three bedroom with the name 
MADIGAN carefully etched onto the tiny mailbox.

Through the BEDROOM WINDOW, we’re suddenly in...

INT. MADIGAN HOME - BEDROOM - MORNING

Tim lies in bed awake, unblinking, staring at a hairline 
crack in wall. His paunch peeks out from under the sheets.

Very faintly, almost inaudibly, Tim MOANS.

Light pours in the window. The sound of TV News burbles in 
from downstairs.

Tim’s wife CATHERINE (35) appears in the door. She’s pretty, 
all-American, in an old bathrobe.

             CATHERINE
      Honey, I need get ready. Can you 
      keep an eye on Patrick?


                                      4.

Nothing.

Tim stirs.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
        (louder)
      Honey. Tim.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      I need to get ready.

KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Cluttered. CNN drones from the small TV on the counter.

Tim pours milk onto some Crispix. His son Patrick (3) looks 
on - he’s got a mop of brown hair, bright blue eyes and a 
perpetually runny nose.

             TIM
      Here you go bud. Grab yourself a 
      spoon.

Patrick gets one from the drawer, takes the bowl and plops 
down in front of the TV in the LIVING ROOM. 

             PATRICK
      Dad?

Tim hits the remote, turning the TV on, stopping on POKEMON. 

The sound of cartoon violence intermingles with the news - 
it’s a peaceful American morning.

Tim dumps Nescafe into a coffee mug, sits down at the kitchen 
table,  unfurls the paper and settles in with the box scores.

The coffee’s not mixed in, so he takes a sip of grounds and 
grimaces.

             ANCHOR
	(ON TV)
      Now, just two weeks after the 
      horrific disaster at Columbine High 
      School, our thoughts and prayers 
      have turned to introspection and 
      reflection. How did we let this 
      happen to our children? I’ll turn 
      it over our panel...

Catherine hurries in, three bags on her shoulder.

             CATHERINE
      Can we talk about this wedding?


                                      5.

Tim doesn’t look up. Catherine glances into the living room 
and frowns. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Patrick, sweetie.

Catherine opens a drawer and takes out a CHILD SPOON, then 
heads over to Patrick and replaces the LARGE WOODEN SERVING 
SPOON he was using. 

             PATRICK
      Mom!

             CATHERINE
      Sensible spoons, P.

She kisses his forehead.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Three minutes.

She crosses back to the Kitchen, where Tim hasn’t looked up.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      He was eating with this.

Tim finally looks up.

             TIM
        (to Patrick)
      C’mon, you’re supposed to use 
      regular spoons, buddy.

             CATHERINE
      I looked at the invitation, and the 
      rehearsal dinner starts at five, so 
      we’re not gonna make it on time to 
      sit down, but we can probably get 
      there for toasts if we wear what 
      we’re gonna wear on the plane. 

             TIM
      I’m thinking we skip the rehearsal 
      dinner. 

             CATHERINE
      Aren’t you giving a toast?

             TIM
      Wasn’t asked.

             CATHERINE
        (a little surprised)
      It is her second wedding...


             CATHERINE
	(CONT'D)
        (then)
      Is Steve giving one?

             TIM
      Don’t know.

                                      6.

Patrick karate chops his hand in sync with a monster on the 
screen. 

             PATRICK
      Slam! 

             CATHERINE
        (to Patrick)
      Come on honey, we gotta go. 

             PATRICK
      Slam - slam!

Catherine turns the TV off. It’s noticeably quieter - but the 
news continues to drone on the kitchen TV.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
      Mom - I was slamming.

             CATHERINE 
      We’re late sweetie. 

             PATRICK
      Nooo. 

             CATHERINE
        (to Tim)
      What was that?

Tim shrugs. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      What was he watching?

             TIM
        (shrugs)
      I was in here.

             CATHERINE
      Hug daddy.

Patrick hugs Tim.

             TIM
      See ya later, kiddo. 

             CATHERINE
      What time are you home tonight? 


                                      7.

             TIM
      Depends. Late probably.

She kisses him.

             CATHERINE
      Okay.

Catherine grabs her purse, work bag, Patrick’s lunch box, her 
keys, and her travel mug of coffee, and fumbles with the 
doorknob. She finally gets it open, but -

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Honey - 

Now Catherine’s caught between the door and the screen-door. 

Patrick laughs. Catherine fumes.

Tim doesn’t look up. Catherine maneuvers her way through the 
screen door, looking back at Tim - and losing a little more 
faith in him.

TITLE: BASED ON A TRUE STORY

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD HOME - DAY 

Fred stands by the door.

             FRED
      Welcome back, television friend.

There’s a knock at the door.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Is that knock in your pretend or is 
      it right here in my place?

Another knock. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s here. Let’s see who’s at the 
      door.

Fred looks out the window.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, it’s Mr. McFeely.

He opens the door.


                                      8.

             MR. MCFEELY
      Speedy Delivery. Speedy newspaper 
      delivery.

Mr. McFeely hands Fred a newspaper. 

             FRED 
      Oh, newspapers are filled with all 
      sorts of interesting information. 
      Let’s take a look.

Fred reads the paper. The headlines are all about Tim.

“TIM’S SISTER PICKS OUT WEDDING DRESS.”

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Looks like Tim’s sister has finally 
      picked out a special dress for her 
      wedding day.  

“POKEMON SELLS OUT MADIGAN LIVING ROOM AGAIN”

"TIM PLANS WORK TRIP TO SAN DIEGO”

“CATHERINE’S FRIENDS SAY: LEAVE HIM!”

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Everyday, my friend Tim and a whole 
      group of people work very hard to 
      make a newspaper. 

             MR. MCFEELY 
      That reminds me. I have a video I 
      found, and I thought you and your 
      neighbor may like to see it. 

             FRED
      What is it?

             MR. MCFEELY
      It’s called “How People Make a  
      Newspaper.” I know a lot of people 
      like newspapers so I thought you 
      might find this interesting. 

             FRED
      I certainly would – do you have 
      time to show it to us?

             MR. MCFEELY
      I’d be glad to see it again. 

             FRED
      Let’s put it on Picture Picture.


                                      9.

Mr. McFeely takes the video out of the sleeve. 

             MR. MCFEELY
      Here’s the tape. 

Fred takes the tape and slides it in the wall by the 
painting. 

             FRED
      We’ll take a look at Picture 
      Picture and see how people make a 
      newspaper.

In the painting: video of an historic four-story building. A 
green awning reads Fort Worth Star-Telegram. We push into the 
painting...

INT. FORT-WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - NEWSROOM - DAY 

Busy and drab. Industrial carpeting underfoot, fluorescent 
lights overhead.

Tim sits in his small office, sipping more coffee. He looks 
at the brochure for SAN DIEGO OFFSHORE FISHING EXCURSIONS.

A shelf behind him contains a slew of plaques and statuettes 
from a lengthy and successful career. 

On the walls: framed clippings, some Texas Rangers 
memorabilia, and a few of Patrick’s finger-painted 
masterpieces.

On his desk: a picture of Tim and Catherine, giddily happy on 
some beach ten years ago. 

The sweet sports editor GREG DRURY (40) appears. 

             GREG
      Hey Tim.

             TIM
      Morning Greg. 

Tim looks at this watch.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Editorial?

             GREG
      Yep. 

Tim grabs his notebook and coffee. They head down the 
hallway.


                                      10.

             GREG
	(CONT’D)
      So hey. Iván Rodríguez is throwing 
      a benefit for his foundation next 
      week, I was thinking you - the 
      sports desk gets four tickets, and 
      it’s at the Four Seasons - maybe 
      you and Catherine wanna come with 
      Vicky and me. Free champagne and 
      stuff.

             TIM
      I got my sister’s wedding this 
      weekend. 

             GREG
      The event’s next week, but...

Tim gives him a look - not gonna happen. 

             GREG
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, okay.

They walk into the...

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The meeting’s already in progress.

ELLEN THE EDITOR (40s) presides over her staff, a dozen 
REPORTERS, mostly middle-aged men. 

             ELLEN 
      We’re pulling Kosovo coverage from 
      Reuters for the lead, unless anyone 
      wants to strap on a bullet proof 
      vest and get me a human interest 
      angle?

CHARLIE, the city writer, slaps his gut. 

             CHARLIE
      I would, but I’m too big a target, 
      boss.

Laughter.

             ELLEN
      And Dwayne’s gonna get us copy for 
      the appeal of the Clinton 
      acquittal, right Dwayne?

A chirp from the phone on the table.


                                      11.

             DWAYNE
	(O.S.)
      You got it. 

             ELLEN
      And that’s the news. Features. Tim, 
      have at it.

There’s a grudging respect for Tim in the room, but no one 
likes him.

Charlie mutters to NICOLE from the Business desk.

             CHARLIE
        (sotto)
      A baby sloth is born...

             NICOLE
        (sotto)
      A blind girl sees...hope.

Tim takes his time, milking a dramatic silence.

A beat.

             TIM
      Obviously, the Daphne Reynolds 
      nursing home strangling was a big 
      hit for us...

             ELLEN
      Years ago.

             TIM
      Right, but remember her son Bob? 
      Well he and wife Lydia Reynolds 
      have relocated to San Diego, where 
      they run a botanical supply shop. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      It’s called Daphne’s.

             CHARLIE
      Gorgeous. 

             TIM
      He named it after his mom.

             ELLEN
      You wanna go to San Diego for a 
      follow up with her kid?

             TIM
      Fort Worth still cares about the 
      Reynoldses. 


                                      12.

             ELLEN
      I think I wanna stick with 
      Columbine.

             TIM
      Isn’t it over?

             NICOLE
      It’s all they talk about on TV.

             ELLEN
      How about that?

             TIM
      What?

             ELLEN
      TV. What if the angle is about all 
      the TV coverage? 
        (quickly)
      No that’s horrible. 

             DWAYNE
	(O.C.)
      How about violence on TV again?

             TIM
      Wasn’t it violence in videogames?

             CHARLIE
      It was Marilyn Manson. Case closed.

             ELLEN
      Okay, yes. We go way back, back to 
      what the shooters were watching 
      when they were young. Barney and 
      Sesame Street. Ask them about 
      violence on TV. Haven’t seen that.

             TIM
      Just, okay here me out. The 
      Reynolds case- 

             ELLEN
      I like this Tim.

             TIM
      Sesame Street?

             ELLEN
      People want to be comforted. 

             TIM
      Come on, really?


                                      13.

             ELLEN
      No one does comfort like you do.

Ellen’s moved on. Tim has his assignment. 

             ELLEN
	(CONT’D)
      Okay. Arts and Leisure.

TIM’S DESK - LATER

The fishing brochure is in the trash. 

Tim’s leaving a phone message.

             TIM
      ...with the Fort Worth Star 
      Telegram, and I’d love to do an 
      interview with the Captain. I mean, 
      Mr. Keeshan. Kangaroo. Captain 
      Kangaroo. Take care. 

Tim hangs up, then dials another number.

Across the hall, Charlie bear-hugs Greg. 

             CHARLIE
      Free champagne!

The phone rings in Tim’s ear. A overly earnest SECRETARY 
answers.

             SECRETARY
	(O.S.)
      Thank you so much for calling 
      Family Communications. 

             TIM
      I’d like to schedule an interview 
      with Fred Rogers...

INT. TIM’S EXPLORER ON THE ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The Rangers’ game is on the radio. Traffic is bad.  

Tim turns the radio down and dials his cell phone. Catherine 
answers. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Hello. 

             TIM
      Hey honey. I’m stuck at the office. 


                                      14.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Oh, okay.. 

             TIM
      They’re making me do some awful 
      assignment.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      What is it - 

             TIM
      Anyways, I don’t want to bore you. 
      You gonna be okay with dinner and 
      everything?

The car behind Tim HONKS. He covers the receiver. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Hello? 

             TIM
      So hey, I need to jump in. 

Tim pulls off, into the parking lot of a CRACKER BARREL 
restaurant.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Love you.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Love you too.

INT. CRACKER BARREL - MOMENTS LATER

Chock full of knickknacks and flare. 

Tim waits in line to be seated, behind two ELDERLY COUPLES 
catching the early-bird special. They all wear cardigans.

Tim’s cell phone rings. 

             TIM
      Tim Madigan.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Hello, Tim. This is Fred Rogers. 

That familiar voice. Very sweet, very slow.

             TIM
      Oh, Hi...that was fast.


                                      15.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Well, I figured if you wanted to 
      talk to me, I should want to talk 
      to you.

Tim snorts.

             TIM
      Can I set a time for an interview 
      with you, or should I go through 
      your office?

The PRETTY HOSTESS smiles at Tim. 

             PRETTY HOSTESS
      How many?

Tim holds up a finger: just one.

             PRETTY HOSTESS
	(CONT’D)
      This way.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      I’m happy to schedule something, 
      except for one thing.

             TIM
      What’s that?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      You have me here right now. 

A beat.

             TIM
      Yeah, okay. One sec. 

Tim grabs a pen and kids menu from the stand. The activity on 
the back has a Trolley on it.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - KITCHEN - SAME

Catherine makes scrambled eggs and toast. Patrick whines at 
her feet.

             PATRICK
      I need to poop. 

             CATHERINE
      Okay, then go in and sit down and-

             PATRICK
      I want help. 


                                      16.

             CATHERINE
      I’ll come in and help you after you 
      go. 

             PATRICK
      I want help now.

             CATHERINE
      I can’t help you up right now. I’m 
      sorry, you’re a big boy now and I 
      need to make dinner. 

             PATRICK
      That’s eggs.

             CATHERINE
      I know. Sorry, I just...we’re 
      having breakfast for dinner.

Patrick grabs his behind. 

             PATRICK
      Ahhh. Mommy, it’s coming. The poop 
      is coming. 

Catherine quickly turns of the gas, pushes the pan off the 
heat, picks up Patrick and bolts to the bathroom.

We stay on the soupy, half-cooked eggs.

INT. CRACKER BARREL - SAME

A perfect bacon cheese burger and fries have just arrived at 
Tim’s table. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      I try to look through the camera, 
      into the eyes of each child 
      watching, and speak to them, as if 
      individually, trying to be fully 
      present to their feelings and 
      needs. 

             TIM
      Okay. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      This is important when people of 
      any age come together, under any 
      circumstances. 

Tim rolls his eyes.


                                      17.

             TIM
      Right.

Fred senses Tim’s disbelief. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Do you know what the most important 
      thing in the world is to me, right 
      now? 

             TIM
      Uh, no.

Tim takes a big bite.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Talking to Tim Madigan on the 
      telephone.  

Tim stops chewing.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - PATRICK’S BEDROOM - LATER

Catherine tucks Patrick into bed.

             CATHERINE
      What song do you want to hear?

             PATRICK
      Rudolph.

             CATHERINE
      Christmas isn’t for months, honey. 

             PATRICK
      I like Rudolph.

             CATHERINE
      Okay. 
        (then, sings softly)
      Rudolph the red nosed reindeer... 

Patrick settles in. 

TIM’S BEDROOM - LATER

Catherine’s asleep. Tim climbs into bed and stares at the 
hairline crack in the wall.

Patrick CRIES in the other room. 


                                      18.

Tim doesn’t move. Catherine gets up and heads out to comfort 
Patrick.  

Off the chime of a VIBRAPHONE...

INT. DALLAS/FORTH WORTH AIRPORT - MORNING

Tim, Catherine and Patrick wait in the security line. Tim 
holds their bags and the carseat. He’s on his phone. 

             TIM
        (into phone)
      Yes, that’d be great. Thanks. Look 
      forward to it. 

Tim hangs up. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      So, it looks you’re gonna have to 
      travel back from the wedding on 
      your own. 

             CATHERINE
      That’s a bummer.

             TIM
      Mister Rogers invited me to meet 
      him in person, in Pittsburgh.

             CATHERINE
      Really? Can you take Patrick? He’d 
      love that.

Tim frowns.

             TIM
      It’s work, you know?

                                  CUT TO:

THE AMERICAN MIDWEST, IN MINIATURE

We lift off from Texas, coast over the flat green plains, 
until the sparkling lakes of Minnesota come into view - we 
dip down toward a tiny rental car on I-35, headed north.

INT. RENTAL CAR - FREEWAY - NIGHT 

Rain pours down. Catherine and Patrick are asleep. Tim’s eyes 
are locked on the road. 


                                      19.

He takes the exit for DULUTH.

His jaw is clenched tight and his mind is elsewhere. 
Suddenly, he sucks in a blast of air, then exhales quickly. 
He’s been holding his breath for miles.

Catherine stirs, eyes still closed, she reaches over and rubs 
the back of Tim’s neck. 

INT. SHERATON - FRONT DESK - LATER

Tim checks in - he’s agitated. Catherine holds a sleeping 
Patrick. 

Tim hands his license to the front desk ATTENDANT.   

             ATTENDANT
        (looking at the card)
      Thanks, Mr. Madigan. 

The Attendant punches at the keyboard. 

             TIM
        (to Catherine)
      Did my sister say if anyone else is 
      staying here?

             CATHERINE
      It was the hotel on the invitation.

             ATTENDANT
      Looks like we have you in a king 
      bed for two nights.

             TIM
      Do you have two queens? 
        (turning to Catherine)
      I’m sure we requested that. 

Catherine nods.

             ATTENDANT
      Unfortunately, we are sold out 
      tonight - I can put a request in 
      for tomorrow -

             TIM
      No that’s fine, it’s fine. I don’t 
      wanna have to move rooms.

             CATHERINE
      He can just sleep between us.


The sound of a group of DRUNK MIDDLE-AGERS cutting across the 
lobby pulls Tim’s attention. 

                                      20.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      You know them?

             TIM 
      Not sure.

             ATTENDANT
      Okay here are your keys and room 
      number. Elevator is down the hall. 

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Catherine and Tim get into their pajamas.

Patrick is stretched out in the middle of the bed, asleep. 

             CATHERINE
      How long has it been since you’ve 
      seen everybody? 

             TIM
      I don’t know.

             CATHERINE
      Was it Mason’s christening?

             TIM
      Long time. 
        (then)
      We can still back out. 

             CATHERINE
      No.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. SHERATON - RECEPTION HALL - EVENING

Pachelbel’s Canon blasts through the PA system.

The GROOMSMEN in rented tuxes and a handful of BLONDE KIDS 
make up the wedding party up front. The groom, TODD (35), is 
a bearded and heavy-set guy who’s nervous as hell.

The BRIDESMAIDS walk down the aisle.

Tim sits near the back in a suit but no tie. Catherine looks 
beautiful, but tense, by his side. Patrick rolls a toy car 
along the back of the seat in front of him.


                                      21.

The music changes. The small crowd stands and turns. Tim’s 
sister, LORRAINE MADIGAN (35) processes down the aisle with 
STEVE MADIGAN (40s), his brother, who looks skinny and 
haunted.

Lorraine sees Tim and her smile brightens.

Steve shoots Tim a playful but menacing smile - the smile of 
an older brother.

OUTSIDE THE RECEPTION HALL - LATER

Lorraine and the Groom walk through the small greeting line, 
her TWO BLONDE KIDS by her side. 

She works her way Tim and family. 

             LORRAINE
      Tim! Ahh! I’m so glad you’re here. 

She leaps into his arms with a big hug.

             TIM
      Congrats, Lorraine.

             LORRAINE
        (to Catherine)
      And, hi honey!

             CATHERINE
      You look so beautiful..

             TIM
      Yeah, Congrats.

             LORRAINE
      Second time’s a charm!

Noticing the Groom. 

             TIM
      To you both. I’m Tim, Lorraine’s 
      brother. 

             GROOM
      I know. I’m the husband.

Lorraine gasps when she sees Patrick.

             LORRAINE
      And look at you! Last time I saw 
      you, you were a peanut. 


                                      22.

             PATRICK
      I’m not a peanut. I’m Patrick. 

             LORRAINE
      Aww!

That’s the cutest thing Lorraine’s ever heard. The FLOWER 
GIRLS troop by.

             LORRAINE
	(CONT’D)
      Patrick, this is Mason and Maddy. 

They couldn’t care less. 

Tim notices Steve on the other side of the room. He’s 
lecturing his BOYS (7 and 9) about some rule they broke. 
Standing next to them is CALLY, his plump and pretty wife.

Tim meets his brother’s eyes, and looks away quickly.

             LORRAINE
	(CONT’D)
      So, I have to work my way down the 
      line, but I’m gonna see you later, 
      right?
        (adding, singsong)
      We rented out the ba-ar.

Catherine keeps a smile plastered onto her face.

             TIM
      I have a flight out super early.  

Lorraine looks genuinely sad.

             LORRAINE
      Oh. Okay.

             CATHERINE
      Of course we’ll be there.

INT. SHERATON BAR - LATER

Crowded and festive. The Eagles blast through the PA system.

Catherine does the twist with Patrick.

Tim’s at the bar nursing a beer. Steve approaches.

Steve sits down and nods to the BARTENDER, signaling another 
drink for Tim. 

             STEVE
      He’ll have another.


                                      23.

             BARTENDER
      You got it. And for you?

             STEVE
      Rootbeer. 

             TIM
      Rootbeer?

             STEVE
      Glad you’re here, Tim.

             TIM
        (nodding)
      Glad to be here. How’s the plumbing 
      stuff? 

             STEVE
      It’s not stuff... 

The Bartender sets down Tim’s beer.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      But, it’s a mess. I mean I’m busy, 
      not busy enough, but... It’s just 
      me and Cally. She’s answering 
      phones all day and people are 
      always pissed at us, so we’re 
      pissed at each other. 

The Bartender brings Steve’s rootbeer.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      They don’t understand that I’m not 
      the problem.  I’m there to unclog 
      the pipes. The roots busting 
      through the pipes are the problem. 
      People don’t want to chop down the 
      tree cause it’s been there forever, 
      and they don’t want to pay to move 
      the pipes, so food and crap keeps 
      coming up their pipes over and 
      over. It’s good for me I guess 
      cause it’s work, but people think I 
      didn’t do the job like I’m supposed 
      to, like I’m ripping ‘em off but, 
      it’s the roots, or their wife’s 
      hair that keeps falling out. I’m 
      not the problem.

             TIM 
        (looking around)
      Cally and the boys here?


                                      24.

             STEVE
      Over there. 

Across the room Steve points out Cally - talking with 
Catherine. 

ACROSS THE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cally and Catherine sip white wine. Cally’s genuinely 
relieved.

             CALLY
      I’m so glad they’re talking.

             CATHERINE
      Me too. 

             CALLY
      Steve’s been avoiding this.

Catherine raises her eyes, avoiding what?

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I wish they’d talk all the time. I 
      mean, those two jerks deserve each 
      other. 

Cally laughs. So does Catherine - unsure if it’s a joke. 

BACK AT THE BAR

Steve chuckles to himself.

             STEVE
      You coulda borrowed a tie, you 
      know.

Tim takes a drink.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Surprised you’re not wearing one of 
      those cowboy string things, 
      whatever they’re called.

             TIM
      Huh?

             STEVE
      Feel good to be back in Duluth?  

Tim nods.


                                      25.

UNCLE JERRY (60s, big hair) leans over.

             UNCLE JERRY
      Hey Stevie, you got a cig for me?

             STEVE
      Sorry Jer. There’s a machine in 
      there I think. 

             UNCLE JERRY
      But that ain’t free.

Steve shrugs.

Uncle Jerry grunts and leans back to his conversation. 

             TIM
        (to Steve)
      You quit?

             STEVE
      He didn’t recognize you. 
        (then)
      Uncle Jer, this is Tim. 

             UNCLE JERRY
      What? Well, I’m sorry about that - 
      blame it on the lack of free 
      nicotine. How are ya, son?

             TIM
      I’m fine. 

             UNCLE JERRY 
      Auntie Carol is over there. 
      Mickey’s right there. 

             TIM
      Yeah, I know that. 

             UNCLE JERRY
        (calling out)
      This is Timmy!

             TIM
      Know what, Steve, I’m gonna turn 
      in. 

             STEVE
      Oh come, on. Don’t get upset. They 
      don’t ever see you and they’re old. 

             TIM
      It’s okay, I’m beat.


                                      26.

             STEVE
      We just wish we saw more of you.

Tim is starting to boil. 

             TIM
      Planes fly into Forth Worth.

             STEVE
      No, I know, but I can’t really 
      afford to miss work right now and, 
      well, your whole family’s here. 

             TIM
      Sorry, that’s where I got a job. 

             STEVE
      Look, I’m not trying to rile you 
      up. 

Tim reaches for his wallet.

             TIM
      I’m fine, I’m fine.

             STEVE
      Sit down, please. I’m need to tell 
      you something.

             TIM
      No really, it’s okay, I should just 
      get back to the room.

             STEVE
      Can you just shut up for a second? 

             TIM
        (to the Bartender)
      Can I have the bill please!

Tim rifles for some cash in his wallet. 

             UNCLE JERRY
      It’s open bar, son.

Uncle Jerry’s been watching the whole thing. 

             STEVE 
      I want you to know my kids. They 
      think you’re pretend.  

             TIM
      Where are they? They can pinch me. 


                                      27.

             STEVE
      I want you to be here for them. I’m- 
      I’m trying to talk to you like a 
      man here, Tim. Can we just sit 
      down?

             TIM
      Steve - you don’t get to push me 
      around. I’m a professional 
      journalist. You’re a plumber.  

Steve’s angry now and in Tim’s face. 

             STEVE
      You’re with your family for the 
      first time in years and all you can 
      think about is yourself. What’s 
      wrong with you? 

Tim explodes -  throwing his hand under Steve’s chin. Steve 
grabs Tim’s shirt as he falls back, bring them both down. 

             LORRAINE
      Stop! Stop it!

Steve BANGS against Lorraine, who dumps her drink on her 
dress.

             TODD
      Whoa, whoa! Knock it off!

Tim takes an awkward swing at Steve, who swats Tim’s fist 
away and shoves him back.

Catherine grabs Patrick and moves towards the door, shielding 
his eyes.

Tim falls back against the bar. Steve swings a wild fist at 
Tim and connects with his mouth.

Blood dumps out onto Tim’s chin. Tim LUNGES for Steve - but 
the Groom and Uncle Jerry pull them apart.

             STEVE
      What’s wrong with you? 

Tim looks around the room. 

             TIM
        (panting)
      I know! I know. My fault. It’s my 
      fault everyone.

Silence. 


                                      28.

Tim blinks. The walls of the bar suddenly seem thin - like 
they’re made of cardboard. Faint vibraphone music streams in. 

Tim’s eyes land on Catherine, who is consoling Patrick - the 
violence sent him into hysterics. 

             PATRICK
      Mom-my. Mom-my. Mom-my. Mom-my. 

HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Catherine walks several feet in front of Tim. She holds 
Patrick, trying her best to comfort him. He’s stopped crying 
but he’s still gasping heavily as his little body calms down.

Tim staggers, holding a bloody bar towel to his mouth and 
chin.

INT. TIM’S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Catherine positions Patrick on the bed.

She hears Tim wince as he cleans his wound in the bathroom.

Catherine takes off her earrings and steps out of her dress, 
then puts on a T-shirt. 

She lays down next to Patrick, facing the wall.

Tim comes in. The cut on his lip is no joke. His eye is 
swelling.   

             TIM
      Wish we had two queens. I’m getting 
      up at four. Do you want to return 
      the car? 

Silence.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, I can do it. Three-thirty, 
      then.

Catherine eyes Tim as he sets the alarm clock. 

             CATHERINE
      Tim.

Tim turns on ESPN. He leans back and tries to get 
comfortable.


                                      29.

             TIM
      Hmm.

Tears are welling in her eyes. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      What?

Catherine tries to gather the courage.

Unable to say what she wants to say, she shakes her head and 
rolls over.

We push in on Tim’s face - his broken nose, swollen eye and 
split lip. 

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD - LIVING ROOM - DAY

We pull out on the photo of that same face.

Fred sits beside the big wooden board with little patterned 
doors.

He stares at Tim’s photo as a jazzy vibraphone riff floats 
in.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      What do you do with the mad that 
      you feel When you feel so mad you 
      could bite? When the whole wide 
      world seems oh, so wrong. And 
      nothing you do seems very right? 
      What do you do? Do you punch a bag? 
      Do you pound some clay or some 
      dough? Do you round up friends for 
      a game of tag? Or see how fast you 
      go?

INT/EXT. RENTAL CAR - JUST OUTSIDE PITTSBURGH - MORNING 

Tim speeds toward the Fort Pitt tunnel, the engine whirring.

In the rearview mirror, he notices his lip has started to 
bleed.

As the car enters the tunnel, Tim grabs a jacket and holds it 
up to his face. 

He wipes the blood from his face and chin - then notices it’s 
all down the front of his shirt.


                                      30.

             TIM
      Ah, man. 

Driving out of the tunnel, the skyline of downtown Pittsburgh 
comes into view - the sun gleams off the towers of glass, the 
shimmering Monongahela River. 

It’s unexpected, almost magical - for a moment, it grabs Tim, 
taking his attention off himself.

EXT. WQED BUILDING - PITTSBURGH

Tim pulls up in front of the corrugated metal building. 

He pulls clothes from his suitcase and changes in the street, 
trying his best to stay hidden behind the open car door.  

Across the street, a HOMELESS WOMAN hollers at him.

             HOMELESS WOMAN
      That ain’t right!

INT. WQED BUILDING - HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Tim checks his notes, glances up at a door: STUDIO A, then 
walks in.

INT. STUDIO A - CONTINUOUS

Tim spots a stocky, tattooed guy helping himself to a candy 
bar at craft service. This is NICK (45).

             TIM
      Excuse me, I’m looking for Fred 
      Rogers?

             NICK
      Who?

             TIM
      I’m here for an interview with, um, 
      Mister Rogers?

Nick shrugs. Never heard of him. He heads toward the Stage 
Door.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I’m from the Forth Worth -

             NICK
      I’m messing with you, guy.


                                      31.

Nick kicks open the stage door. 

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      This way.

INT. STAGE B - CONTINUOUS

The sweet sound of JOHNNY COSTA noodling on the grand piano.

             NICK
        (re: Tim’s face)
      You’re not gonna fight him are ya?

             TIM
      Oh, no. Softball league. Play at 
      the plate. 

             NICK
      Cause Mister Rogers would mess ya 
      up. 

Nick and Tim round the corner, and suddenly they’re in the  
iconic set: The fish tank, the stop light, the closet full of 
cardigans, the boat shoes, and the magical Trolley that 
bridges Mister Rogers house with the “Neighborhood of Make 
Believe.”

Everything is painstakingly checked and re-checked by a dozen 
PRODUCTION CREW.

Johnny Costa’s BANDMATES chat while sipping coffee.

The CAMERA OPERATORS sit behind the cameras, ready.  

On the famous brown couch, at the center of all the 
commotion, sits a very focused Fred Rogers. 

He’s deep in conversation with a severely disabled BOY and 
his MOM and DAD.

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
        (to Tim)
      Sorry guy. Could be a minute. 

             TIM
      Is this a Make-a-Wish thing?

Producer MARGY WHITMER (40s) stern, walks by. The FIRST AD 
trails her.

             NICK
      How we doing Margy?


                                      32.

She points to her watch.

             MARGY
      He’s ruining my life.  

             NICK
      How long?

             MARGY
      Half-hour already, which puts us 
      seventy...three minutes behind. 

             FIRST AD
      Yikes.

             MARGY
      I gotta go in. Cover me.

Margy’s face and body language transforms from stern to warm 
as she enters. 

Tim observes as she points to her watch most apologetically. 

The Dad lifts his Boy from the sofa as Mom stands and hugs 
Fred, tearful. 

Fred pats her shoulder, comforting.

Fred watches the family walk off the set. Tim rolls his eyes. 
This must be an act for the crew.

             TIM
        (to Nick)
      How often does this happen?

             NICK
      Everyday.

As soon as they are gone, Fred quickly moves to his mark in 
front of the couch. 

A PRODUCTION ASSISTANT hands Fred a helium balloon.

             FRED
      Thank you.

Margy nods to the First AD.

             FIRST AD
        (calling out)
      Okay here we go! Quiet please. 
      Everyone settle.


                                      33.

             NICK
        (whispering to Tim)
      Just step back here.

Tim follows Nick, well behind the cameras.

             FIRST AD
      Roll sound. 

             SOUND GUY
	(O.C.)
      Speed.

             FIRST AD
      Mark it. 

The LOADER steps in front of the camera and snaps the slate.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      And...

Fred spots Tim. 

             FRED
      I’m sorry, one sec. 

He leaves his mark, marching across the set, balloon in hand, 
grinning with delight.

             FIRST AD
      Hold please!

             MARGY 
      We can’t fire him can we?

             FRED
      You must be Tim! Welcome to our 
      neighborhood.

Fred extends his hand. Tim shakes it. Behind Fred, a sea of 
glares.

             TIM
      Hi. We can chat afterward if that’s 
      better.

Fred notices his face.

             FRED
      Oh, dear. Are you all right?

             TIM
      Softball. Play at the plate.


                                      34.

             FRED
      It looks like it hurts. 

             MARGY
      We have to keep moving Fred. 

             FRED
      Can we have Evan look at him?

             TIM
      No, no - I’m fine. We can talk 
      later.

             MARGY
      I’m sorry, Fred. 

             FRED
      Yes, I know. Thank you for being 
      here. I do look forward to talking 
      with you.

He looks to Margy. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      After this. Everyone, that’s Tim 
      Madigan!

Silence.

             MARGY
      Thank you, Fred. 

             FIRST AD
      Okay, resetting. 

Fred stands at his mark.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      Roll sound. 

             SOUND GUY
	(O.C.)
      Speed.

             FIRST AD
      Mark it. 

The Loader snaps the slate.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      And action.

             FRED
      Do you know what this is? I’ll bet 
      you do. It’s a balloon. 


             FRED
	(CONT'D)
      And not just any kind of balloon. 
      It’s a  hee-lee-um balloon...

                                      35.

INT. WQED BUILDING - LUNCH - LATER

Tim lines up behind Fred, waiting behind the rest of the crew 
at the buffet.

Fred loads up on veggies and rice.

             TIM
      Are you a vegetarian?

             FRED
      I can’t imagine eating anything 
      with a mother. 

Tim holds back a chuckle, then helps himself to half a 
chicken.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s take our lunch over to my 
      office so we can talk.

INT. FRED’S OFFICE - LATER

Small and cluttered. Rust carpet and old, cheap furniture.

The walls are filled with children’s drawings sent from all 
over the nation.

Tim’s tape recorder is running. Their plates are empty.

             FRED
      Oh yes, I’ve had to defend this 
      television program before. In 1969, 
      the US Senate held hearings about 
      the Corporation for Public 
      Broadcasting, which funds PBS. I 
      testified because there was a 
      proposal from Richard Nixon to cut 
      the budget in half.

             TIM
      What did you think of him?

             FRED
      I’m afraid I never had a chance to 
      meet him.

Above Fred’s desk : L'essentiel est invisible pour les yeux.


                                      36.

             TIM
      The Little Prince.

             FRED
      Yes. A good daily reminder. 

On a filing cabinet, Tim notices two gold statues, like 
neglected bookends.

             TIM
      Are those Emmys?

             FRED
      I don’t know how to speak of it. 

             TIM
      They’re covered in dust. 

             FRED
      If it’s the outside stuff that’s 
      going to nourish you...

             TIM
      So, obviously Columbine is still on 
      everyone’s mind. 

             FRED
      It hurts my heart.  

             TIM
      And everyone is looking for someone 
      else to blame. 

             FRED
      I tell the children there are many 
      things you can do with your 
      feelings that don’t hurt yourself 
      or anybody else, particularly the 
      so-called negative feelings.

             TIM
      Like what?

             FRED
      Why, you can pound a lump of clay. 
      Or kick a ball. Or play the lowest 
      keys on the piano all together. 
        (pretending to play)
      BOOOOM BOOM-BOOM.

Tim laughs - but he’s not buying it.


                                      37.

             TIM
      Pounding clay is one thing, but 
      sixteen-year-olds with assault 
      rifles-

             FRED
       	(SINGING)
      What do you do with the mad you 
      feel when you feel so mad you could 
      bite?

This startles Tim. Fred looks right into Tim’s face.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      We can’t give up on children.

Fred gestures to Tim’s wedding ring. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      I see you’re married. 

             TIM
      I am.

             FRED
      Are you a father, Tim?

Nick knocks on the door frame. 

             NICK
      We’re back, Fred. 

             FRED
      Oh, thank you. 

Fred gets up. Tim shuts off the tape recorder.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      You know, Maggie Stewart taught me 
      the most beautiful piece of sign 
      language last week. 

Fred interlocks his index fingers.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It means “friend.”
        (then)
      You will stick around, wont you?

INT. WQED - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Tim’s phone rings. The Caller ID reads “STEVE.”


                                      38.

Tim snorts, ignoring it.

INT. STUDIO A - NEIGHBORHOOD OF MAKE BELIEVE - LATER

The whimsical fantasy land, crafted in cardboard around a 
flimsy looking CASTLE. 

DANIEL TIGER (an aged, rugged, tiger puppet with a soft 
falsetto voice) sits on the ledge of a large Grandfather 
CLOCK. 

The crew settles in. 

Tim wanders to the side of the set. He runs his fingers along 
the Trolley. This place is ridiculous.

             FIRST AD
      Daniel, you set?

Daniel Tiger turns and responds to the First AD.

             DANIEL
      Set.

             FIRST AD
      Thank you, Daniel. Let me know when 
      you’re ready, Betty. 

BETTY ABERLIN (50s), as Lady Aberlin, takes her mark. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      Okay.

             FIRST AD
      Trolley... Action.

The Trolley comes out of the tunnel and into the Neighborhood 
of Make Believe. It glides by Lady Aberlin, spraying a 
VINTAGE PERFUME ATOMIZER. She sniffs between sprays. 

She steps out next to Daniel’s Clock. 

             DANIEL
      Hi, Lady Aberlin. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      Oh - Hi Daniel. 

Tim comes around the back of the camera and stands next to 
Nick.

             DANIEL
      Are you making that funny smell?


                                      39.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Uh, you mean that skunk kinda 
      smell?

             DANIEL
      Yes, I’ve been smelling it for a 
      little while now. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      No, I’m trying to help that smell 
      go away. 

             DANIEL
      By squirting another smell?

             LADY ABERLIN
      That’s right. A sweet smelling 
      smell. Wanna smell?

             DANIEL
      Okay. 

Daniel leans in - she pulls the sprayer away from him.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Don’t get too close. 

Tim chuckles. He’s warming up to it.

She sprays, and Daniel takes a few sniffs. 

             DANIEL
      Hmm - that does smell good. Where 
      did the bad smell come from?

             LADY ABERLIN
      That was mister skunk. He got 
      scared and he just sprayed this 
      smell - that’s what skunks do when 
      they get scared.

             DANIEL
      Did he spray it right on anybody?

             LADY ABERLIN
      Yes. He sprayed it right on 
      Handyman Negri and Audrey Duck. 

             DANIEL
      Oh no. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      And they were all feeling pretty 
      upset about it. 


                                      40.

             DANIEL
      Especially Mister Skunk, I guess. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      I’ll say. 

             DANIEL
      Did he say he was sorry?

             LADY ABERLIN
      Oh yes, and he knew it was a 
      mistake - and he was really feeling 
      ashamed about it. 

From where Tim is, he can see Fred crouched under the 
scenery, his hand reaching up into the Daniel Tiger Puppet. 
Fred strains to stay crouched, he’s probably too old for 
this. 

             DANIEL
      You know something Lady Aberlin?

             LADY ABERLIN
      What, Daniel?

             DANIEL
      I’ve been wondering something 
      myself.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Something about Mr. Skunk?

             DANIEL
      Something about mistakes.

             LADY ABERLIN
      What is it?

             DANIEL
      I’ve been wondering if I was a 
      mistake.

Tim is TRANSFIXED - his breathing quick and shallow.

             LADY ABERLIN
      If you were a mistake? What do you 
      mean Daniel? 

             DANIEL
      Well, for one thing, I’ve never 
      seen a tiger that looks like me.

             LADY ABERLIN
      No. 


                                      41.

             DANIEL
      And I’ve never heard a tiger that 
      talks like me.

             LADY ABERLIN
      No.

             DANIEL
      And I don’t know any other Tiger 
      who lives in a clock. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      No, neither do I. 

             DANIEL
      Or loves people.

Tim gasps for air.

             TIM
        (to himself)
      Oh, gosh.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Oh, Daniel. 

Lady Aberlin takes Daniel’s little hand. 

             DANIEL
      Sometimes, I wonder if I’m too 
      tame.

Johnny Costa’s band starts in.

             DANIEL
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes I wonder if I'm a 
      mistake. I'm not like anyone else I 
      know. When I'm asleep or even 
      awake, sometimes I get to dreaming 
      that I'm just a fake....

Overcome, Tim slips out the stage door as the song 
continues... 

INT. WQED - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Tim brushes by Nick.

             NICK
      Take care, guy.


                                      42.

EXT. WQED - CONTINUOUS

Tim staggers to his car. 

The Homeless Woman across the street clucks at him 
disapproving. 

             HOMELESS WOMAN
      You keep that shirt on.

INT. RENTAL CAR - CONTINUOUS

Tim sits at the wheel, catching his breath.

THE MIDWEST, IN MINIATURE

From Minnesota back over to Texas, then down.

AS THE MUSIC CONTINUES...

Tim exits the plane, back in Fort Worth. 

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - NEWSROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Tim pulls up to his office, carrying a box filled with VHS 
tapes and DVDs.

It’s the end of the work day.  The newsroom is emptying out. 

There are FIVE STICKY NOTES stuck to his computer. He grabs 
one.  

1:45 - Your brother called. 

Greg comes up. 

             GREG
      Hey Tim, you know, the new hockey 
      arena just opened and I thought 
      maybe we could -

             TIM
      You know where the AV cart is?

             GREG
      Arts, usually.

Tim is gone, down the hall.


                                      43.

             TIM
      Thanks.

CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER 

He drops the box on the table. He rolls the cart in and plugs 
it in. He puts in a DVD. 

INT. MADIGAN HOME - PATRICK’S ROOM

Catherine searches through Patrick’s closet.

Patrick sits on the floor, barefoot.

             CATHERINE
      Come on Patrick, we’re in a hurry. 
      I need you to help find your shoes. 

             PATRICK 
      They’re in the car.

             CATHERINE
      Did you take them off?

Patrick nods. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      From after school? You walked 
      inside barefoot?

Patrick nods. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Honey. 

             PATRICK
      Where’s Dad?

             CATHERINE
      I don’t know, honey.  

Downstairs, the phone rings. Catherine bolts for it.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
        (calling)
      Maybe that’s him.

Before she can get there, the answering machine picks up. 

Beep.


                                      44.

             TIM
	(ON THE MACHINE)
      Hi. This is the Madigans. Leave a 
      message. 

Patrick’s face lights up. 

             PATRICK
      That’s dad. 

             CATHERINE
      Honey, that’s the machine. It’s a 
      recording. 

Beep.

             FRED
	(ON THE MACHINE)
      Hello, this is Fred Rogers calling 
      for Tim. 

This stops her. She picks up Patrick. 

             FRED
	(ON THE MACHINE)
	(CONT’D)
      And well, the rest of Tim’s family 
      as well over there in Texas. You 
      see, I wanted to say how wonderful 
      it was having you for a visit and 
      sorry we didn’t get a chance to say 
      good-bye. I hope we can do it 
      again. And to Tim’s family, thanks 
      so much for sharing him with me 
      this past weekend.

She picks up. 

             CATHERINE
      Hello.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Catherine?

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Tim’s sipping coffee, staring at the TV screen on a roll-away 
media cart. A stack of VHS tapes sits at his elbow.

It’s old footage, black and white. 

ON THE SCREEN: A MUCH YOUNGER Fred Rogers sits behind a 
microphone. 

SENATOR PASTORE, a gruff man in his 50s, gets things started.


                                      45.

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Alright Rogers, you've got the 
      floor.

Fred gestures to a document. 

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      Senator Pastore, this is a 
      philosophical statement and would 
      take about ten minutes to read, so 
      I'll not do that. 

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Will it make you happy if you read 
      it?

The audience laughs. Fred is unphased.

Charlie and Nicole barge in, Chik Fil-A in hand.

             ELLEN
      That Mister Rogers?

             TIM
      Yes.

             CHARLIE
      So you think he’s a perv?

             NICOLE
      He was like my dad growing up.

             TIM
      Guys.

             CHARLIE
      You working?

             TIM
      Yes. 

             ELLEN
      We’re doing the city council 
      election preview. Need to spread 
      out. It’s a news thing.

             TIM
      Sorry. I have the room checked out.

Tim half-hears an exchange on screen.

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Do you narrate it?


                                      46.

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      I'm the host, yes. And I do all the 
      puppets and I write all the music, 
      and I write all the scripts-

             CHARLIE
      Any idea when - 

             TIM
      Can you guys - I mean, I’m in the 
      middle of something. 

Charlie mouth-farts. Nicole giggles.

Tim turns his attention back to the TV.

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      I give an expression of care every 
      day to each child, to help him 
      realize that he is unique. I end 
      the program by saying, "You've made 
      this day a special day, by just 
      your being you. There's no person 
      in the whole world like you, and I 
      like you, just the way you are."

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Well, I'm supposed to be a pretty 
      tough guy, and this is the first 
      time I've had goose bumps for the 
      last two days.

The crowd laughs.

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN) 
      Well, I'm grateful, not only for 
      your goose bumps, but for your 
      interest in - in our kind of 
      communication. 

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      I think it's wonderful. It's 
      wonderful. Looks like you just 
      earned the 20 million dollars.

The crowd applauds.

Tim pauses the VCR, capturing Fred looking directly to 
camera, smiling.

Charlie and Nicole stand behind Tim. They never left, and 
they’re floored.


                                      47.

             CHARLIE
      Wow.

             NICOLE
      Wow.

Tim ejects the disc and puts in another...

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT

The rest of the floor is empty and dark. 

Tim’s eyes are fixed on the screen: Mister Rogers goes 
shopping for a pair of galoshes. 

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      And would you look at this pair. 
      This is a shoe that you might wear 
      when it’s raining out side and you 
      don’t want your feet to get wet.

Tim feels a low rumble. Behind him, the RED TROLLY pulls up 
along the edge the table, and gives a friendly TOOT TOOT!

             TIM
      Shhh.

Tim looks back. The Trolley’s gone. 

He pushes his chair back. He’s done for the night.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - MORNING 

Tim enters, holding the box of tapes and DVDs.

He sits down on the couch and puts on the TV. 

Catherine hurries around the corner from the hallway. 

             TIM
      Hey honey. 

             CATHERINE
      Tim! Are you okay?

             TIM
      Yeah, why?

             CATHERINE
      What do you mean why?


                                      48.

             TIM
      What’s wrong?

Patrick runs in and jumps on Tim. 

             PATRICK
      Dad!

             CATHERINE
      What’s wrong? Your flight was 
      supposed to get in last night.

             TIM
      It did. I’m sorry. I slept at the 
      office. I mean, I didn’t sleep 
      there.

             CATHERINE
      I’ve been calling you. 

Tim looks at his phone. 

             TIM
      Oh, sorry.

             CATHERINE
      You slept at the office?

             TIM
      I got caught up watching these old 
      Mister Rogers’ videos. 

             PATRICK
      Is Mister Rogers your friend?

             TIM
      I talk to him cause of work, bud.

Catherine swallows her anger.

             CATHERINE
      I’m gonna start the bath.
        (then)
      I’m glad you’re okay.

She goes. 

Tim leans into Patrick. 

             TIM
      Watch this.

He reaches for a DVD.


                                      49.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Catherine draws a bath. Her hands tremble.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Tim and Patrick sit on the couch watching an episode of 
Mister Rogers in which Fred learns break-dancing with a boy.

Patrick’s snuggled up beside Tim, and he’s staring with rapt 
attention.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      That’s a really neat way to move.

             TIM
        (to Patrick)
      Try it.

             PATRICK
      I can’t.

Patrick doesn’t move.

Catherine appears.

             CATHERINE
      C’mon. Tub’s ready.

On screen, Fred does the wave with his arms. It’s incredibly 
awkward. Even the boy on screen knows he’s not cool.

             TIM
      Fred’s break-dancing. Pretty cool, 
      right?

             PATRICK
      Pretty cool!

             CATHERINE
        (ignoring)
      Let’s go, P. 

Catherine moves over, lifts him up, and carries him upstairs. 

             PATRICK
      Nooo!

             CATHERINE
      Sorry sweetie.


BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Catherine bathes Patrick. She takes a handful of suds and 
puts it on his head. She rubs in the shampoo, hands still 
trembling.

                                      50.

             CATHERINE
      Okay, sweetie. Lean back. Let’s 
      rinse you out. 

             PATRICK
      I don’t like the rinse. 

             CATHERINE
      I know, but we gotta do it. You 
      wanna go slow or fast. 

             PATRICK
      Fastest.

             CATHERINE
      Okay, I have your head. 

She cradles the back of his head, supporting him. She uses 
her shoulder to wipe tears from her eyes.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Ready, fast... go. 

She dips him back quickly... 

             PATRICK
      Ahhh. 

And back up. 

             CATHERINE
      See. That was nothing. 

Catherine’s barely able to talk - she’s losing it. Patrick 
doesn’t notice.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s get you out. You want Buzz or 
      Woody?

             PATRICK
      Buzz.

She wraps Patrick in the Buzz towel, hugs him tight. Tears 
stream down her face.


INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Catherine comes down the stairs and sits next to Tim - he is 
still deep in an episode, and barely acknowledges her. 

                                      51.

             TIM
      He asleep?

She turns off the TV. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I need to watch that, hon. 

             CATHERINE
      I have to say something.

             TIM
      Can we do it after I finish this? 

She shakes her head, no.

             CATHERINE
      I think you should get a place. 

             TIM
      A place for what?

             CATHERINE
      For you.

             TIM
      What?

             CATHERINE
      I’m sorry but...

             TIM
      Why?

She’s careful in choosing her words. 

             CATHERINE
      I think you need to be by yourself.

             TIM
      Like a time out?

             CATHERINE
      Tim.

Another pause as Catherine measure it out.


                                      52.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      You’re hurting us. 

             TIM
      Cath, what are you talking about?

             CATHERINE
      Well -

             TIM
      How am I hurting you? I provide for 
      us. I haven’t so much as looked at 
      another woman since I met you.

             CATHERINE
      I’m exhausted.

             TIM
      Being a parent is hard. 

             CATHERINE
      That’s it. That’s exactly it. What 
      I want from you is to go through 
      this together. I don’t want you to 
      tell me it’s hard. I want you to 
      know it’s hard and to care that 
      it’s hard and to come out of it 
      together.

             TIM
      What? Do you want to go on 
      vacation? Do you want to go on a 
      weekend by yourself? Do you want to 
      be in counseling?

             CATHERINE
      Please listen to me.

             TIM
      I work late. I’m sorry, but that’s 
      the job. I mean, I can try - 

             CATHERINE
      Listen.
        (then)
      Patrick loves you so much. 

             TIM
      I know. 

             CATHERINE
      He wants to be important. 

Tim’s not getting it. 


                                      53.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      To you.

             TIM
      He is...

             CATHERINE
      But?

             TIM
      If your problem is I’m not paying 
      enough attention to him-

             CATHERINE
      It’s not just that-

             TIM
      Then why would you want me to go 
      away?

             CATHERINE
      Because- 

             TIM
      That doesn’t make sense.

             CATHERINE
      It’s not fair for him to only have 
      this part of you. 

             TIM
      What part?

             CATHERINE
      The part that hides behind his 
      laptop. The part that lies just to 
      eat alone at some weird restaurant 
      instead of coming home, to us.  The 
      part that doesn’t think about 
      calling home - to check in, to say 
      hi, to say I love you. The part 
      that, I pray, cares about something 
      more than itself.   

             TIM
      Honey- 

             CATHERINE
      Tim. I need you to go. 

Tim is worked up. He’s sucking air.

             TIM
      Where am I supposed to go?


                                      54.

             CATHERINE
      I don’t know.

             TIM
      Cath...

             CATHERINE
      You’re choosing, for some reason, 
      not to participate in your own life 
      and-

Tim’s mouth is moving like a fish.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      I love you, Tim. 
        (then)
      But, please get out of this house.

EXT. EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - NIGHT

Generic, by the highway.

INT. EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - MOMENTS LATER

Again, at a hotel front desk. He snaps his credit card down.

             FRONT DESK CLERK
      One bed or two?

Tim holds up one finger.

INT. TIM’S ROOM - LATER

Tim sits in bed typing on his laptop. Through his headphones 
he listens to his voice recorder. He hears - 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
     	(SINGING)
      What do you do with the mad you 
      feel when you feel so mad you could 
      bite?

Tim types. 

A pause.

             FRED 
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      We can’t give up on children.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      I see you’re married. 


                                      55.

             TIM
	(O.S.)
      I am. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Are you a father, Tim?

The sound of a knock.

             NICK
	(O.S.)
        (barely audible)
      We’re back, Fred. 

             FRED
      Oh, thank you. 

The recording continues, but it’s just static. Dead air.

Tim’s heart is pounding. He presses his hands against his 
chest trying, somehow, to slow it down. He tries to calm 
himself with deep breaths. 

He’s having a panic attack.

Tim pushes the computer off his lap.  

He falls to the floor, gasping. 

             TIM
      I need air. 

He pulls himself up and staggers to the window, pushing it 
open.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I - I think I’m dying. 

Suddenly - Fred is next to him, wearing pajamas.  

             FRED
      Anything mentionable in manageable.

Fred lays a hand on Tim’s shoulder. 

Tim is now dressed as Daniel Tiger. Furry ears stick out of 
his head, and a banded tail drags on the floor.

Music floats in and Fred reprises “What If I Were A Mistake?”

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes I wonder if I'm a 
      mistake. I think you are just fine 
      as you are. I really must tell you 
      I do like the person that you are 
      becoming. 


                                      56.

Tim looks out the window: it’s not the highway. It’s the 
Neighborhood of Make Believe. 

Now, he’s on the ledge of the Grandfather Clock.

Tim joins in. 

             FRED/TIM
	(SINGING)
      When you are sleeping, When you are 
      waking, You are my friend.

EXT. PITTSBURGH AIRPORT - MORNING

Tim exits, still dressed as Daniel Tiger.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Well hello. This is Fred Rogers, 
      please leave me a message and I’ll 
      try my best to return your call. 

             TIM
	(O.S.)
        (choking down tears)
      Hello, uh, Fred. This is - I’d like 
      to come see you. 

INT/EXT. RENTAL CAR - JUST OUTSIDE PITTSBURGH - MORNING 

Tim drives.

             TIM
	(O.S.)
      I realize it’s very late, sorry, 
      but I’m writing the article or I’m 
      staring to...Anyway I was hoping I 
      could speak to you again. If you 
      might have some time to... anyway, 
      sorry for calling so late. Bye. Oh, 
      this is Tim Madigan. Wondering if I 
      can come back to Pittsburgh. 

Driving out of the tunnel, the skyline of Pittsburgh, the sun 
off the buildings, the river. It all seems smaller, further 
away than before. 

The TROLLEY crosses on an overpass right in front of Tim.

EXT. WQED - STREET

Tim pulls the rental car up. 

The building is no longer corrugated metal - it’s BALSAWOOD. 
The trees are PLASTIC. 


                                      57.

Across the street, the Homeless Woman BREAK-DANCES. 

INT. MISTER ROGERS NEIGHBORHOOD SET

Tim staggers through the stage door, despite the flashing red 
filming light.

A few crew members toss concerned looks. 

             FIRST AD
      And...action. 

Fred bursts through the front door, wearing sunglasses. 

The crew try their best not to laugh, but a few squeak out.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, cut. 

Everyone lets out a good solid laugh. Tim’s unsure if that 
really happened.  

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      Resetting.

Fred has a giant smile across his face as he goes back out 
the front door. 

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, settle... 

Tim looks over to Johnny Costa as the piano starts - except 
it’s not Johnny, it’s Gary Drury from the office playing the 
piano. His band is made up of other folks from the office.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      And action.

Fred bursts through the door, again with sunglasses.

             FRED
      Hello neighbor. Do you know who I 
      am?

He slowly pulls his sunglasses off. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      I’m still Mister Rogers even when I 
      wear dark glasses. 


                                      58.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      You know some very little children 
      get quite upset when they see their 
      mother or father wearing something 
      that’s very different then what 
      they usually wear. Those little 
      children are afraid it’s a 
      different person they’re seeing. 
      You see I’m still myself with the 
      dark glasses on... And off

Tim’s phone rings.

The crew turns to him. 

             FIRST AD
      Cut! 

Tim looks at his phone. Catherine. 

Not realizing he’s interrupted the shot, he walks toward the 
back of the stage - and into...

THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF MAKE-BELIEVE

             TIM
      Hey honey. 

It’s Catherine - she’s right in front of him, dressed as Lady 
Aberlin. 

             CATHERINE
      Hi, Tim. 

             TIM
      Miss you. 

             CATHERINE
      I miss you too. 

             TIM
      I’m in Pittsburgh. I know you asked 
      me to tell you where I’d be...so.

             CATHERINE
      Mister Rogers?

             TIM
      He’s...wearing sunglasses.

             CATHERINE
      Tim. 


                                      59.

             TIM
      Have you changed your mind?  

             CATHERINE
      No. 

             TIM
      I’ve never been alone.

             CATHERINE
      I know.

             TIM
      I wanted to go to San Diego alone.

             CATHERINE
      Tim.

             TIM
      I wanna come home.

             CATHERINE
      I need to tell you something. 

             TIM
        (hopeful)
      Yes?

             CATHERINE
      Steve’s been calling all week.

             TIM
      I don’t want to hear him apologize, 
      and feel guilty and do it all 
      again. I have nothing to say to 
      him. 

             FIRST A.D.
	(O.S.)
      And...Action!

             TIM
      I have to go.

Tim snaps his phone shut, hanging up on Catherine.

He starts back to towards the living room set. 

             CATHERINE
        (calling)
      Tim!

We pan over to- 


                                      60.

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD - LIVING ROOM

Mister Rogers is sitting at the bench.

             FRED
      Welcome back neighbor. Our new 
      friend should be here any minute. 
      He’s coming to ask me what it’s 
      like to make television.

A knock at the door. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Is that knock in your pretend or is 
      it right here in my place?

Fred moves to the window and looks out. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s our friend Tim.  

Fred opens the door and Tim walks in.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Hi Tim. 

             TIM
      Fred. 

             FRED
      What can I do for you?

             TIM
        (struggling)
      I think I’m getting a divorce. 

             FRED
      Oh, my dear. That can be so 
      difficult for a family. 

             TIM
      I don’t know what I’m going to do.

Fred leans into Tim and begins to sing.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      You are my friend. 

Fred signs the signal for “friend”, inter-locking his 
fingers, every time he sings the word. 

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      You are special. You are my friend. 
      You're special to me. 


                                      61.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      You are the only one like you. Like 
      you, my friend, I like you.

Cast and Crew gather in to sing along - but now they’ve all 
been transformed into people from Tim’s life...

Catherine is Lady Aberlin. Steve is Mr. McFeely. Gary Drury 
is Johnny Costa. And Patrick is Nick the PA. 

             ALL
	(SINGING)
      In the daytime. In the nighttime. 
      Any time that you feel's the right 
      time. For a friendship with me, you 
      see. F-R-I-E-N-D special/ You are 
      my friend / You're special to me.

Catherine/Aberlin steps forward.

             CATHERINE
      I was trying to tell you 
      something...

Steve/McFeely steps forward, his voice is raw and broken.

             STEVE
      I was trying to tell you something.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      You are special.

             STEVE
      Something very serious. It’s in my 
      throat. It’s about the size of a 
      golf ball. 

             FRED
      I hate cancer. With everything I 
      have. 

Margy steps forward, pointing to her watch. 

             MARGY
      I’m sorry, but we have to keep 
      moving Fred. 

The room spins and Tim collapses - he’s gasping for air - in 
a full fit of panic. 

             FRED
      It’s okay, dear. Take deep breaths. 

Fred kneels next to Tim and breathes.


             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      In and out. 

Fred strokes Tim’s hair, cradling his head.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Breathe.

Tim’s eyes roll back and he’s out. 

                                      62.

                                FADE OUT:

INT. ROGERS HOME - GUEST BEDROOM - EVENING

Tim lies on top of the bed. 

A wet washcloth rests on his forehead. A glass of cool water 
sits on the nightstand. 

A Chopin piano concerto wafts in from another room. 

LIVING ROOM

Spacious and well appointed, but not showy in the least. The 
room is dominated by two GRAND PIANOS. 

Tim ambles in, in socks. 

JOANNE ROGERS (stout, late 60s) sits at the piano closest to 
the window playing effortlessly, her fingers light on the 
keys.

Light pours in as the sun sets.

Tim is confused. He tries to figure out where he is.

A wall of pictures. Fred with President Reagan. With Eddie 
Murphy backstage at SNL. With the entire cast of CATS.  

Fred enters wearing a track suit.

             FRED
        (to Tim)
      Oh good, you’re up.

Joanne stops playing.

             JOANNE
      Goodness, I didn’t know you were 
      there, I would have stopped. 


                                      63.

             TIM
      You’re incredible. 

             FRED
      She certainly is. 

             JOANNE
      Hello, dear. Joanne Rogers. 

             TIM
      Tim.

Joanne laughs. 

             JOANNE
      I know who you are, darling, but 
      nice to officially meet all the 
      same.

Fred grabs a camera off the mantle and snaps a photo. 

             JOANNE
	(CONT’D)
      Him with his pictures.

             FRED
      I’ll bet you’re hungry. 

Tim shrugs. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      How about some Chinese food?  

             TIM
      Okay.

             JOANNE
      Go, go. I need to practice.   

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - LATER

A hole in the wall. Two couples and a small family eat beside 
Fred and Tim, who sip tea, menus out before them.

Everyone steals sidelong glances at the famous Mister Rogers. 
Fred’s comfortable. Tim isn’t. 

             FRED
      Joanne really is a special person. 
      I’m not one to brag, but in this 
      case I think it’s okay... we are 
      about to celebrate our fiftieth 
      wedding anniversary. 


                                      64.

             TIM
      Fifty. 

             FRED
      That’s no small feat these days. 
        (then)
      She’s such a blessing to me and our 
      two boys. 

             TIM
      You have children?

             FRED
      James and John. 
        (then)
      Brothers. 

             TIM
      I never asked that. 

             FRED
        (smiling)
      Well. I have three-grandsons too.

             TIM
      Thank you...for... 

Tim is frozen with hurt. Fred reaches for his hand.  

             FRED
      We all have people who have helped 
      us along the way. Who have helped 
      us become who we are. Who cared 
      about us and who wanted what’s best 
      for us in life. Even and especially 
      you, Tim. 
        (then)
      Let’s try something, shall we?

Tim glances around - everyone’s staring. Fred notices, but 
rather than whisper, he speaks a little louder.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Together, let’s take one minute to 
      remember the people...

The patrons lean in. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      ...who loved us into being. 

Fred pulls back his sleeve and looks at his watch. 


                                      65.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      One minute of silence. I’ll watch 
      the time. 

The WAITRESS approaches. 

             WAITRESS
      Have you decided - 

A WOMAN at a nearby table politely shushes her. 

The Waitress freezes. 

             TIM
      I can’t do this. 

             FRED
      Please, Tim. 

Ten seconds in, Tim sniffs. 

He sniffs again. 

Now his eyes are welling. 

His face contorts as the emotions build.

For once, finally, Tim experiences a brief moment of clarity. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you for doing that with me. I 
      feel much better.

Fred smiles at Tim, who is a mess. Tears falling. 

The Woman nearby dabs her eyes with a napkin. The Waitress 
clutches her hands to her chest.

             TIM
      Thank you.
        (then, joking)
      What you all looking at?

Laughter.

INT/EXT. FRED'S HONDA - PITTSBURGH HWY 79 - DAY

Fred's old, shabby car crossing the Sewickly Bridge in the 
slow lane.

He probably should be driving faster - cars fly by him.


Tim doesn't mind - he looks out the passenger window, at the 
river shining through the slats of the bridge.

                                      66.

EXT. PITTSBURGH AIRPORT - DROP OFF - LATER

Tim waits by the curb. 

Fred leans toward the open passenger window.

             FRED
      Will you ring me and let me know 
      you've arrived safely?

             TIM
        (laughs)
      I will.

Fred snaps a PHOTO.

He pulls away - then hits the brakes too hard. Screech.

He turns back to Tim.  He links his hands together making the 
sign for "FRIEND."

HONK! - traffic piles up.

However embarrassing, Tim returns the sign.

HONK!

Fred rights the car and putters off.

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - DAY

Tim’s at his desk, typing away. He’s sitting up a little 
straighter. 

Greg and Charlie walk by. 

             GREG
      Hey, wanna eat?

             TIM
      Is it lunch?

Annoyed, Charlie nods and keeps walking.  

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      No thanks, guys. 

Greg turns to go. 


             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Actually, yeah. I do. I want to eat 
      with you.

                                      67.

             GREG
        (surprised)
      All right. 

INT. MONGOLIAN BBQ - LATER

The COOKS stir-fry food, while Greg, Charlie and Tim sit side-
by-side, awkwardly.

             GREG
      So, um. How’s it going?

             TIM
      Not bad.

             GREG
      What seasoning did you get?

             TIM
      Chimichurri.

             GREG
      Same.

             CHARLIE
      Peanut Curry.

Another pause.

             GREG
      How’s Patrick?

             TIM
      He’s three.

             GREG
      Three! Oh man. 

             CHARLIE
      Being a parent is hard. 

             GREG
      They say terrible twos but really 
      three is the worst. 

             TIM
      You have kids?


                                      68.

             GREG AND CHARLIE
      Nah.

             TIM
      We should do this everyday. 

             GREG
      We do.

INT. TIM'S CAR - OUTSIDE THE MADIGAN HOME - NIGHT

Parked across the street. Tim calms his nerves.

With one final sigh, he leans to open the car door.

INT./EXT. MADIGAN HOME - MOMENTS LATER

Tim approaches the front door. He takes out his key - then 
decides to knock.

He hears laughing and music inside.

Catherine answers, surprised.

             TIM
      Hi.

             CATHERINE
      Hi.

Inside, a group of WOMEN drink wine, argue and laugh.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Book club.

Tim glances inside - the Women have quieted down. They’re 
trying to eavesdrop. It’s embarrassing.

             TIM
      Aw jeez. Hi Trisha. 

             TRISHA
	(O.C.)
      Hi Tim.

Laughter from inside.

             TIM
      Anything good?

             CATHERINE
      Probably, but no one read the book.


             TIM
      Patrick asleep?

She nods.

                                      69.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I know it's late, but I felt like I 
      needed to come here. I -

             CATHERINE
      This isn't the time.

             TIM
      Cath - it's sort of important? 
      Maybe we can sit in my car for a 
      second.

             CATHERINE
      I’m not going to do that. 
        (then)
      Did you call Steve?

             TIM
      Actually, I'm going to see him.

This grabs her attention.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
             CATHERINE
      Tomorrow. 

      I'm glad.
        (then)
      How is he?

             TIM
      Not really sure.
        (then)
      The’s actually why I’m here...

             CATHERINE
      Okay?

             TIM
      I'd like to bring Patrick with me.

Catherine steps out and closes the door behind her.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I'm gonna drive. I thought he could 
      come with me.

             CATHERINE
      To Minnesota.


                                      70.

             TIM
      It'll take a couple of days, but I 
      thought - 

Catherine smiles. 

             CATHERINE
      Yes. I think that would be great. 
      Okay.

             TIM
      Okay.

INT. TIM'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

He grips his cell phone. Gaining the courage, he dials.

             TIM
        (into the phone)
      Hey, Cally. It’s Tim. 
        (then)
      Yeah, Tim.

EXT. MADIGAN HOME - THE NEXT MORNING

Tim's car is in the driveway - the doors and trunk are open.

Patrick runs in circles on the front lawn.

Tim's legs hang out of the back door - he struggles to get 
the car seat latched in.

             TIM
      Come on.

He gives up.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
        (calling)
      Hey Cath?

Catherine comes out of the garage with several bags and a 
suitcase.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I can't get that thing to latch. 
      Where's it supposed to go - there's 
      a hole on this side, but -

             CATHERINE
      I'll do it.


                                      71.

There is still a coldness between them.

             TIM
      Where am I supposed to loop it 
      through on that side?

She sets down the bags and hops in the back seat of the car.

             CATHERINE
      He has snacks and his water bottle 
      in his rocket bag and he has plenty 
      of clothes if he has an accident. 
      But, remember, if he says he has to 
      go, he has to go. It's a matter of 
      seconds, till -

She puts a knee into the car seat, using all her weight to 
press it down.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Blast off.

             TIM
      I know.

             CATHERINE
      And keep the toys where you can 
      reach them, so when he wants one 
      you can just hand it back.

             TIM
      Cath, I know this stuff.

             CATHERINE
      I know you do. 
        (to herself)
      This is good. 

She reaches behind the seat and loops the latch through the 
base. Click. She pulls the strap tight and shakes the seat. 
It doesn't budge.

Tim shakes his head - how did she do that?

             TIM
        (to Patrick)
      Come on, bud.

             PATRICK
      Mom said we are a road trip, dad.

             TIM
      We are a road trip.


Catherine kneels and grabs Patrick, wrapping him up in a hug. 
She whispers something in his ear.

                                      72.

             PATRICK
      I will.

             CATHERINE
        (to Patrick)
      I love you, sweetie.

Patrick grips her tight.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, time to go.

             TIM
      Let's go bud, hop in.

Patrick climbs in the car and Tim straps him into the car 
seat.

             CATHERINE
      I'm gonna go inside, so he doesn't 
      freak.

Tim nods.

Catherine walks back inside. Tim begins to call out to her - 
but decides against it. There is still a coldness between 
them.

EXT. TIM'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - MINUTES LATER

Tim's car pulls on to the freeway. 

We crane up on the long road ahead. Just as the car is about 
to disappear into the horizon, not more than a hundred yards 
from the on-ramp - Tim pulls over. 

He runs out, opens Patrick's door, unlatches him, picks him 
up and hurries to the side of the road.

Patrick pees.

They get back in the car and pull back onto the freeway.

INT. TIM’S CAR - ON THE ROAD - LATER

Tim sees a Cracker Barrel up ahead. He looks to Patrick in 
the rearview mirror.


                                      73.

             TIM
      Hey bud, you hungry?

Patrick nods.

INT. CRACKER BARREL - MOMENTS LATER

Same as usual. Tim and Patrick wait behind an ELDERLY COUPLE.

             HOSTESS
      Hello there. How many?

Tim holds up two fingers.

             TIM
      Two please.

Patrick puts his two fingers up and points them at SINGLE MAN 
behind them in line.

             PATRICK
      That's two.

             HOSTESS
        (to Patrick)
      Would you like some crayons?

AT THE TABLE - LATER

Patrick draws on his paper place mat.

Tim fiddles with the table’s puzzle game. 

             TIM
      Do you know where we are going?

             PATRICK
      Nimmesota.

             TIM
      Right. You know why?

Patrick shakes his head.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      To see Uncle Steve.
        (then)
      He's my brother.

             PATRICK
      Is he Mom's brother too?


                                      74.

             TIM
      No.

             PATRICK
      Will Mom be there?

             TIM
      No. It’s just gonna be you and me. 

Patrick lowers his eyes.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You miss her?

Patrick shakes his head. Tim strokes his hair - as if to say 
"me too."

INT. TIM'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - LATE NIGHT

Tim drives in the RAIN. His mind wanders. Patrick sleeps in 
the back.

EXT/INT. TIM'S CAR - NEIGHBORHOOD - DULUTH, MN - DAY

Tim drives through the quaint neighborhood of simple tract 
homes.

He's looking for addresses.

             PATRICK
      Is that one it?

             TIM
      Nope.

             PATRICK
      Is that one it?

A beat-up plumbing van marked MADIGAN PLUMBING is parked in 
the driveway. 

             TIM
      Actually...

He pulls in.

             PATRICK
      We’re here!


EXT/INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Tim and Patrick are at the door. Luggage at their feet. Cally 
answers.

                                      75.

             CALLY
      Tim and Patrick!

She hugs Tim - he's rigid, nervous.

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      Come on in. 

Cally gives Tim a real hug - a hug with meaning behind it.

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m so grateful you’re here. 
        (relaxes)
      You’re here.
        (then)
      Everyone’s out back. I’ll meet you 
      out there with some Arnold Palmers.

BACK PORCH - MOMENTS LATER

Steve is fragile, thin and bald. His voice is raw and dry.

             STEVE
      Scoot back. I'm gonna send it way 
      out there, so you gotta scoot.

Timmy (9) and Tyler (7) jockey for the best position. Tyler 
has random hockey pads on - he shoves his older brother.

             TYLER
      This one's mine. It's mine.

Steve swings a whiffle bat sending the ball over their heads 
into the yard.

             STEVE
      Go!

Patrick yells in excitement and runs past Steve - chasing the 
ball.

Steve sees Tim - a big grin appears on his face.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      I thought you might've crapped out 
      on me.


                                      76.

             TIM
      I wouldn't do that.

             STEVE
        (smiling)
      Sure ya would.

Steve puts his hand out.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Great to see you.

Tim shakes his hand.

             TIM
      Oh, I got something for the boys.

Out of a bag, he pulls a Dallas Stars and Texas Rangers 
jersey.

             STEVE
      Nice.

Steve holds up the Stars jersey.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      They'll fight over this one. Stars 
      used to be a Minnesota team, ya 
      know. Before moving to Texas.

Tim takes the shot with a smile. 

             TIM
      I know.

Cally arrives with drinks, a bowl of pretzels and an Ensure 
weight-replacement drink for Steve.

             STEVE
      You spike it with Jack like I like?

             CALLY
      Oh shut up.

She heads back inside.

Tim and Steve watch their boys - full of energy and joy, 
running, falling and rolling in the grass.

             TIM
      I want to apologize for the 
      wedding.


                                      77.

             STEVE
      No need - there was a lot going on.

             TIM
      I punched you in the face. 

             STEVE
      Hey, I got a few in too.

             TIM
      Of course there’s a need.

             STEVE
        (a wry smile)
      Done.
        (then)
      Should we just get this out of the 
      way?

Apprehensive, Tim nods.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      It's lung cancer. It's in my liver 
      too. Inoperable. I'm about to 
      finish my second round of chemo. 
      I’m tired and I upchuck a lot but 
      I'm okay.

             TIM
      Upchuck?

             STEVE
      Vomit? Puke? Barf? What do you like 
      better? Honk?

Tim struggles to crack a smile.

             TIM
      Okay.

             STEVE
      Sit down. Watch this. Tyler loves 
      him some Steve Miller Band.

Steve flips on old boom box - out blasts some tinny “Fly Like 
an Eagle.”

             TYLER
      Yes!

Like clockwork - the boys start a dance off. Tyler has moves. 

Patrick tries his best to break-dance like Fred in the video.


                                      78.

             TIMMY
      Mommy!

Cally comes out from the kitchen.

             CALLY
      Here comes Mama!

She joins in doing some hippy-mom-noodle dance.

Everyone is having a great time - but Tim's mind is 
elsewhere. He leans in to Steve, who is dancing in his own 
way.

             TIM
      I'm not really sure what to do, 
      Steve.

             STEVE
      About what?

             TIM
      You have a matter of weeks, months, 
      what?

             STEVE
      Years if I can help it.

             TIM
      "Inoperable" means years?

             STEVE
      Why not? I'm doing what I can. 
        (then)
      Beyond that, I’m trying hard not to 
      think about it.

             TIM
      That’s great, but...what do I do? 
      What does a brother do here?

             STEVE
        (incredulous)
      You wanna help?

             TIM
      Anything.

Tim nods, so Steve takes Tim's hand...

             STEVE
      Here.

He puts it on Tim's hip.


                                      79.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      And this one.

He takes Tim's other hand and puts it in the air, pointing 
his index finger to the sky.

Tim does. 

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Now shake it.

             TIM
      You’re a moron, you know.

Trying to forget the seriousness of the situation.

             STEVE
      Now turn.

Tim turns slowly.

INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN TABLE

Tim and Patrick join the family for dinner. 

Everybody scoops up Mac and cheese with cut-up hotdogs.

Steve pushes his food around the plate but he isn’t eating. 
He’s sweaty and wearied. 

             TIM
      ...so Fred is putting up this tent 
      while the whole crew - 

             STEVE
      Wait - you call him Fred? 

             TIM
      Mmhmm. 

             STEVE
      That’s crazy.

             TIM
      Can I finish my story?

             STEVE
      It’s your house, you can do what 
      you like.

             TIM
      So as soon as the tent is up, it 
      collapses - a pole goes flying. 


             TIM
	(CONT'D)
      He puts it all together again and 
      SPROING! The tent does it again!

                                      80.

Tyler giggles.

             TYLER
      Sproing!

Patrick and Timmy join in.

             TIMMY AND PATRICK
      Sproing sproing!

             TIM
      And now the crew is calling to him - 
      “Need a hand? Let us help.” He 
      waves them off and he holds the 
      pole in place, with all his might, 
      he’s shaking and sweating, but his 
      temper never rises, but now he has 
      to keep it there. So we’re all just 
      waiting to see if he can hold it 
      together.

The boys are DYING of laughter.

Steve leaves the table, hurrying to the bathroom to vomit.

Nobody seems to care, except Tim. He has to keep telling the 
story.

             TIM CONT'D)
      Finally, he finishes his lines, and 
      they yell “cut” so he just let’s 
      the thing go. Poles shoot 
      everywhere - one of them lands in 
      the lunch. Nick says “I guess we’re 
      having shish kabob.” 

             TYLER
      Shish Kabob!

The boys can’t breathe. Best story they ever heard.

             TIM
        (laughs)
      The next weeks episode was about 
      “persistence.” The guy’s amazing.

             CALLY
      How does strawberry milk sound for 
      dessert? Or is that going to go up 
      everyone’s noses?


                                      81.

             TIMMY
      Yes!

             CALLY
      But we have to clear the table. 

Timmy and Tyler scoot out and grab plates.

Patrick follows their lead - already shadowing the boys’ 
every move like a poodle.

Steve’s out of the bathroom. He’s sweaty and flushed. 

             STEVE
      Do I get dessert?

             CALLY 
      You didn’t eat your dinner.

             TIM
      You all right? 

             STEVE
      Routine upchuck. 

The boys run by, Steve turns and chases them into the Living 
Room. 

The home phone rings.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Money phone!

Cally answers in the makeshift office in the corner of the 
kitchen. 

             CALLY
      Madigan Plumbing. 

She jots down info. 

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay... It’s after hours, so it’s 
      time and a half...He’ll be there in 
      about fifteen minutes. 

Steve takes her note, grabs his work shirt.

             STEVE
      Time to pay the bills.


                                      82.

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

TV blares from the living room.

Tim washes dishes at the sink. Cally dries them and puts them 
in the cupboard.

She opens a cupboard next to the sink. Inside, Tim catches a 
glance at the dozen or so bottles of medication.

             TIM
      I can’t believe he’s still going on 
      jobs. 

             CALLY
      Yep. 

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATE NIGHT

On the pullout couch, Tim types on his laptop, connected with 
an ethernet cable draped over a sleeping Patrick.

Tim gazes at the flashing cursor at the top of his 
article...then types the title, “Mister Nice Guy.”

He emails it off.

Patrick whimpers in his sleep.

Tim rubs his back, soothing him.

Suddenly Patrick jolts awake in terror, screaming.

Tim sits up. He grabs the boy, holding him tight, trying his 
best to comfort him.

             PATRICK
      Mommy. Mommy. Mommy.

Tim picks him up and stands.

             TIM
      It's okay, it's okay. It's me. Take 
      deep breathes, bud. In and out. 

Patrick starts to calm down - but he's still gasping for air.

             PATRICK
        (quietly)
      Mom.

             TIM
      You're okay. It's daddy.


                                      83.

Tim rocks him slowly. 

Down the hall Tim hears Steve getting home. 

Tim peaks out the door, waves. Steve throws a very tired hand 
up. 

INT. HOCKEY RINK - THE NEXT DAY

Timmy practices with his team on the rink. 

Steve hollers at the kids on the ice, still managing to 
coach.

             STEVE
      Keep your head up Cam! How are you 
      gonna stop him if you’re staring at 
      your skates?! Set it up again! 

Tim, Patrick and Tyler watch at the glass, sipping cokes. 
Tyler still has his leg pads on from an earlier practice.

Tim notices a HOCKEY DAD going for a donut. None left. He 
slams the box down in frustration. He looks to the other 
parents.

             HOCKEY DAD
      Somebody take two donuts?

             STEVE
      That’s a two on one! Give and go, 
      Timmy! Give and GO!

Steve blows the whistle and gets up. It takes some effort.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Alright guys, bring it in. 

Steve’s legs wobble and GIVE OUT. He goes to the ice hard, 
his body falls limp. 

             TIM
      Oh, no...

Cally screams and runs to Steve. 

             HOCKEY DAD
      Call 911! Somebody. 

Tim dials 911. 


INT. HOSPITAL - OUTSIDE STEVE’S ROOM - LATER

Tim paces, Patrick sits in a hallway chair.

                                      84.

             TIM 
        (into phone)
      Yeah, the tumor’s wrapped around 
      his spinal cord. He can use his 
      arms, but has no feeling below 
      that.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Oh, honey. 
        (then)
      Is that something he’ll get back?

             TIM
      Probably not.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Are you with him?

             TIM
      Cally’s in there right now.

             PATRICK
        (to Tim)
      Is that mommy?

             CATHERINE
      That P?

             TIM
      Yeah, he misses you. 
        (to Patrick)
      You wanna say hi?

Patrick shakes his head no.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You sure?

Tim holds the phone out. Patrick won’t take it. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Well, he’s being shy. 

             CATHERINE
      Kiss him for me.

             TIM
      I will.
        (then)



                                      85.

             TIM
	(CONT'D)
      So, Cath, I know I was supposed to 
      come back tomorrow, but think I’m 
      gonna need to stay here. For a 
      while. 

             CATHERINE
      Okay.

             TIM
      He’s gonna need my help. 

             CATHERINE
      How long is a while? 

             TIM
      I don’t know. Steve’s not gonna be 
      able to work, so...

             CATHERINE
      How will Patrick get home? 

             TIM
      Maybe, he could stay here too. 

             CATHERINE
      He should come home.

             TIM
      I’ll get a one way for him and the 
      cheapest round trip I can find for 
      me. 

Tim sighs.

             CATHERINE
      He just needs to be -

Catherine’s changing her mind.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t know. I just can’t see him, 
      so I don’t know how he is. 

             TIM
      It’s awful to say, all things 
      considered, but he’s having the 
      time of his life. He’s got two 
      older brothers who are off for 
      summer break.

             CATHERINE
      That’s a pretty good life.


                                      86.

             TIM
      Why don’t you come up here?

             CATHERINE
      I don’t think I’m ready for that.

             TIM
      It’s okay. I’ll wait for you to be 
      ready.

Cally comes out of Steve’s room. She’s trying to stop her 
crying - her face is red and her eyes are swollen.

Timmy and Tyler trail behind.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I have to go. 

Tim hangs up and picks up Patrick. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
        (to Cally)
      You okay?

             CALLY
      We’re gonna get some sleep.
        (then)
      Come on boys.

Cally and her boys and Patrick head down the hall. 

Tim and Patrick poke their heads in the room.

Steve’s body is covered. He’s conscious, but weak.

             TIM
      You’re awake. 

             STEVE
      There he is.

             TIM
      How are you feeling?

             STEVE
      Sit, sit.

Tim takes a deep breath.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s the weirdest thing. 

Steve points to his chest.


                                      87.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s like I stop right here. Like 
      it’s just empty space, but I can 
      see it all down there.

             TIM
      You in pain?

             STEVE
      I’m not sure.

             TIM
      Cally gonna be okay?

             STEVE
      She’s just worried. I’m expensive. 

             TIM
      I know. Can I help you?

             STEVE
      Tim. 

             TIM
      You’re gonna need help. I’ll give 
      you whatever money I have, but it’s 
      not a lot. What about a fundraiser 
      or something? 

Steve starts to resist.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You can be pissed at me, you can 
      bitch and moan all you want, but I 
      can totally beat you in a fight 
      now. And I will. I will fight you. 
        (then)
      Let me do this. 

INT. DONUT SHOP - DAY

An EMPLOYEE packs up three large boxes for Tim, who’s got his 
phone up to his ear — it’s connecting.

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
      So, Tim. This article...

             TIM
      Ellen - I know it wasn’t what you 
      wanted. The Columbine angle just 
      didn’t jive. There was just more to 
      the story, something more personal, 
      so I’m sorry, but-


             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
      Oh dear. So you haven’t been 
      following? We printed it, Tim.

Tim pays for donuts and carries them outside in one hand.

                                      88.

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      AP picked it up, Reuters too. 

             TIM
      Oh. Wow, I um - that’s great.

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
      You’ve got mail, Tim.

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - TIM’S OFFICE

Ellen the Editor thumbs through a HUGE PILE of fan mail on 
Tim’s desk. 

             ELLEN
      Mister-Rogers-saved-my-life-too 
      mail. Some of them are bunk. A lot 
      of them are...here in your office 
      blotting out the sky. It’s getting 
      to be an issue. 

Charlie and Gary walk by. 

             GARY
      Is it true that Mister Rogers was a 
      green beret?

             CHARLIE
      God, I hope so. 

INT. HOCKEY RINK - THE NEXT DAY

Tim has a big box of coffee along with the donuts. He joins 
Cally and the other PARENTS in the stands. 

             TIM
        (to Cally)
      Hey there.

             CALLY
        (re: the donuts)
      Wow, Tim. 

He sets down the donuts. The Parents notice. 


                                      89.

             TIM
      Time to make some friends.

He opens the box of donuts. 

A Dad looks over. Tim reaches out and shakes his hand.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Tim Madigan - I’m Tyler and Timmy’s  
      uncle...

INT. STEVE’S NEIGHBOR’S HOUSE - DAY 

Tim knocks on the door, with a flyer and a donut. The 
NEIGHBOR opens the door. 

             TIM
      Hi, I’m Steve’s brother, Tim. We’re 
      having a little party to help raise 
      some money.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER

There’s a huge potluck set up in the kitchen. Kids and 
parents everywhere. 

A hospital bed is set up in front of the TV, where Steve sips 
a beer from a straw. There’s a tight huddle round him. He’s 
animated, but gaunt and wasted, much worse than when we last 
saw him.

A stack of Minneapolis Tribunes rest at the foot of Steve’s 
bed. The top issue is turned to the Style section, where 
TIM’S ARTICLE appears on the front page.

Lorraine and Todd enter bearing two tubs of ice cream.

Lorraine gives Tim a big hug.

             LORRAINE
      Thanks for doing this.

             STEVE
      You see this?

Steve holds up the paper, proud as can be.

             LORRAINE
      I bought copies for everyone at the 
      office.


                                      90.

             TODD
      Pretty cool, man.

             TIM
      You bring rocky road?

             TODD
      And bubble gum.

Lorraine turns to Cally, stricken.

             LORRAINE
      How is he?

             STEVE
      He’s right here with perfect 
      hearing.

             LORRAINE
      And he’s a liar who won’t give me a 
      straight answer.

Steve grumbles.

             STEVE
        (to Tyler)
      Go get us some spoons, bud.

Tim’s phone rings.

             TIM
      Hello?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Tim I am so thrilled with the 
      article, as was everyone in 
      Pittsburgh.

             TIM
      Thanks, Fred.

Everyone stops cold. They’re mouthing to each other “that’s 
Mister Rogers!”

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Tell me how you are.

             TIM
      Well - 

             PATRICK
      Mister Rogers!


                                      91.

             TIM
      Excuse me for a second...

Tim walks out. 

             STEVE
        (to Patrick)
      Your dad is so cool.

EXT. STEVE’S HOUSE - DAY

Sunny and bright.

The street is jammed with cars. Friends and family pour 
inside.

A taxi putters up to the driveway.

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Tim enters the front door, light pouring in. 

             TIM
      Look who I found.

FRED follows behind Tim. He’s got a backpack, and he’s 
wearing a heavy jacket despite the warm weather.

             CALLY
      Holy shit. 

Fred laughs. Then, so does everyone. 

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry, I mean, I’m Cally. 

             FRED
      Hello to you. I’m Fred Rogers.

Fred turns to Lorraine and Todd.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Hello, and congratulations on your 
      wedding. 

             LORRAINE
      Thanks.

             FRED
      May I take your picture?


                                      92.

             CALLY
      Oh my god, yes.

Cally, Lorraine, Todd and Tim smush together awkwardly. 
Click.

             FRED
      Lovely. And where is Steve?

Steve waves.

             STEVE
      The invalid.
        (then)
      I thought Tim was making things up. 

             FRED
      Certainly not. Thank you so much 
      for inviting me. Look at all of 
      these people here to be with you 
      today.

The party quiets down as the news of the guest of honor 
spreads.

Fred notices, and seizes the moment. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Can everyone gather together? I’d 
      love to snap of a picture of 
      everyone.

The entire family obliges, gathering around Steve.

             STEVE
      See? No need to hire a 
      photographer.

CLICK.

THE HALLWAY - LATER

A few Hockey Dads chat. A few people bid on items at the 
SILENT AUCTION in the Kitchen.

Fred and Tim have a lemonade. Patrick can’t stop staring at 
Fred. 

             TYLER
      Are you the real Mister Rogers?

             FRED
      I am. 


Tyler runs to Patrick and Timmy who are waiting nearby. 

                                      93.

             TYLER
        (calling)
      I told you!

Tim looks to Fred. 

             TIM
      I didn’t think you’d come. 

             FRED
      It was important for me to be here.    
      Is Catherine here?

Tim shakes his head, no. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Look at these...

Fred studies the family photos on the wall. A small one in 
the corner grabs his attention: Two young boys, on the lawn, 
arms around each other. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      That’s you, Tim?

Tim takes a close look. 

             TIM
      And Steve. 

             FRED
      You look inseparable. It’s 
      wonderful. 

A MOM exits the bathroom.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      If you’ll excuse me. 

Fred enters the bathroom.

             HOCKEY DAD
      Mister Rogers takes a leak?

             TIM
      I know what you mean.

KITCHEN - LATER

The massive clean-up effort is nearly complete, the party 
over. 


Cally transfers a tea-bag from one cup to the next, and sets 
the steeped tea on the table beside Tim, who’s adding up the 
checks. 

                                      94.

             CALLY
      Good news?

             TIM
      Eight thousand and change. 

             CALLY
      That’s unbelievable.

Tim notices Fred sitting with Steve in the Living Room. He’s 
leaning in close, intimate, speaking softly. 

Tim can’t make out what they’re saying. 

Steve looks confused. 

Finally, Fred stands up and walks to the kitchen.

Steve wrinkles his nose, moved. 

EXT. STEVE’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Tim walks Fred to the waiting cab. 

             TIM
      Thank you for being here. 

Fred gives him a big hug. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Can I ask you... What did you say 
      to Steve?

             FRED
      I asked him to pray for me.

             TIM
      For you?

             FRED
      I figure anyone who’s been what 
      he’s been through must be very 
      close to god. 

             TIM
      Thank you.

Fred reaches into his pocket and hands Tim an envelope.


                                      95.

             FRED
      My contribution.

             TIM
      You don’t have to do that.

Fred struggles to get into the cab. 

             FRED
      Oh, brittle bones.
        (then)
      You’re a good man. I’m glad you’re 
      my friend. 

Fred shuts the door and waves as it drives away. 

Tim glances in the envelope.

             TIM
      Wow.

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - GUEST BEDROOM - 4AM

Tim and Patrick lie next to each other in bed. Tim’s wide 
awake.

INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - 4AM

It's dark and quiet except for the oxygen machine breathing 
in and out, next to Steve's bed.

Tim walks across the hall, on his way to pee - Steve waves.

             TIM
      What are you doing awake?

             STEVE
      Just lying here. What else? Sit 
      with me.

             TIM
      It's 4am.
        (then)
      Can I pee first?

             STEVE
      I'm not going anywhere.

The sound of Tim peeing joins the oxygen machine. Flush.

Tim sits next to Steve.


                                      96.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      You didn't wash your hands. 

             TIM
      Sorry.

             STEVE
      Gross.
        (then)
      I can't believe Mister Rogers was 
      here.

Tim nods.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      He's a good guy.

             TIM
      Pretty amazing - but he's got 
      nothing on ya.

The birds begin to chirp. Morning.

Tim puts his hand on Steve's.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I don't know how I can say this 
      right now, but...life is good.

             STEVE
      Good.

Tim leans over and kisses Steve on the forehead. 

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Tim.

        (then)
      This really can be a new beginning 
      for us all.

Tim smiles.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Were you gonna tell me you’re 
      living in hotel? Why wouldn't you 
      tell me that?

             TIM
      Didn't think it mattered, with 
      everything going on.

             STEVE
      Okay.


                                      97.

             TIM
      Okay.

             STEVE
      Can I help?

Tim shrugs. 

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Do whatever she says. There, I’m 
      helping. 

They chuckle.

             TIM
      I don’t know if she wants me back. 
      It’s hard.

             STEVE
      Lean into it. 

             TIM
        (whispers)
      You know I've loved you longer than 
      I’ve loved anyone else in the 
      world?

             STEVE
      I love you too.

Tim leans back. 

Steve closes his eyes.  

                             FADE TO BLACK:

EXT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD - YARD

Fred sits on a grassy patch next to a house. He talks to 
camera, slow and introspective.

             FRED
      When I was very young I had a dog 
      that I loved very much. Her name 
      was Mitzi. And she got to be old, 
      and she died. I was very sad when 
      she died, because she and I were 
      good pals. And when she died, I 
      cried. And my grandmother heard me 
      crying, I remember, and she came 
      and just put her arm around me, 
      because she knew I was sad. She 
      knew how much I loved that dog. 


                                      98.

             FRED
	(CONT'D)
      And my dad said we’d have to bury 
      Mitzi, and I didn't want to. I 
      didn't want to bury her because I 
      thought I’d just pretend that she 
      was still alive. But my dad said 
      that her body was dead and we'd 
      have to bury her. So we did.

Soft music starts. 

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes people get sad and they 
      really do feel bad, but the very 
      same people who are sad sometimes 
      are the very same people who are 
      glad sometimes. It’s funny but it’s 
      true. Its the same isn’t it, for 
      me, isn’t it the same for you. 

INT. MADIGAN HOME - NIGHT

Catherine folds laundry, the phone rings. 

She picks it up. 

             CATHERINE
      Hello.

INT. CEMETERY - DULUTH

Friends and family walk to the grave site, where Tim, 
Lorraine, and Cally greet people.

At the end of a line of cars, a taxi. Catherine gets out. 

Tim spots her.

             TIM
        (to the Hockey Dads)
      Excuse me one sec.

             PATRICK
        (spotting Catherine)
      Mommy!

Patrick runs over, Tim follows. 

Catherine showers Patrick with kisses. 

             CATHERINE
      I missed you so much!


                                      99.

             PATRICK
      My cousin Tyler plays hockey.

             CATHERINE
      He does?! That’s so cool.

             PATRICK
      Tyler!

             TIM
      He’s obsessed with Tyler.

Catherine hugs Tim. He hugs her back.

             CATHERINE
      Fred told me to give you an extra 
      hug.

             TIM
      Thank you both.

LATER

As the Pastor delivers the eulogy, Tim notices Patrick’s not 
there.

He gets up and finds him.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Hey bud.

             PATRICK
      Grandma and Grampa are dead.

             TIM
      That’s right.

             PATRICK
      And Uncle Steve is dead.

             TIM
      He is.

A pause.

             PATRICK
      Can I be dead someday?

Tim smiles. 

             TIM
      Not for a long, long time.


                                     100.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Patrick sleeps between Tim and Catherine. 

             TIM
      I was thinking.

             CATHERINE
      Hmm?

             TIM
      I was thinking - that when we get 
      back, for the time being, I should 
      keep my hotel room. 

             CATHERINE
      Okay.

             TIM
      And we should get a sitter...and go 
      to dinner. On a date.

Catherine grins.

             CATHERINE
      Yes.

Tim looks away...and allows himself to smile.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. MISTER ROGERS' NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Fred’s back with the cardboard with a window for each of his 
friends. He looks at Tim’s photo - bruised and bloodied. 

             FRED
      I wonder if you realize how special 
      you really are. Your place in this 
      life is unique, absolutely unique.
        (the)
      This is my friend Tim.

He turns the board over, revealing one large “window.” 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      And these are my new friends. The 
      Madigans.

He opens the window to reveal the group photo from Steve’s 
party - everyone gathered around, smiling.


                                     101.

             TROLLY
	(O.S.)
      Toot toot.

The Trolley passes by, then stops and comes back.

             FRED
      What’s that?

             TROLLEY
      Toot. Toot. Toot.

Fred chuckles - Trolley is such a kidder.

             FRED
      Oh, I will, thank you.

The Trolley speeds away as Johnny Costa noodles on the vibes.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      It's such a good feeling to know 
      you're alive. It's such a happy 
      feeling.

Fred takes off his blue boat shoes, one at a time.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      You're growing inside. And when you 
      wake up ready to say...

He stands and unzips his Red Cardigan, then moves to the 
closet and opens the door.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      "I think I'll make a snappy new 
      day."

Fred snaps twice, once with each hand.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      It's such a good feeling, a very 
      good feeling, the feeling you know 
      that I'll be back when the week is 
      new.

He carefully hangs up the sweater, then pulls his gray sport 
coat off a hanger.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      And I'll have more ideas for you. 
      And you'll have things you'll want 
      to talk about. I will too.

He grabs the board with windows on it from the bench.


                                     102.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Be back next time.

He waves moves toward the front door.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Bye bye.

He goes, smiling.

                             FADE TO BLACK:

CLOSING CREDITS

The show logo over the Miniature Version of Fred's house.

Credits roll as we pan out over the small mini neighborhood.

Then, a snapshot of the real Tim Madigan and Fred Rogers.

SUPER: From 1968 to 2001, Fred Rogers wrote, produced, and 
performed in 995 episodes of Mister Rogers Neighborhood. 

He died in 2003, at the age of 74.

His red cardigan hangs in the Smithsonian. It was knitted by 
his mother.

SUPER: Tim and Catherine are still married. Today, they are 
the happiest couple they know.

The END.


