              INK AND BONE

             by Zak Olkewicz

Daniel Cohan 
WME Entertainment 
310.859.4087

Will Rowbotham 
Prolific 
212.412.9188


BANG BANG of a fist on wood.

INT. DARK BEDROOM - NIGHT

The sound echoes through a large, windowless bedroom.  A king 
size CANOPY BED the only landmark.

The deep shadows in the room unaffected by a small OIL 
LANTERN, guttering, the only light source.

The BANGING continues, far off.

DERRICK STONE (37) sits up from the bed -- spills the heavy 
comforter to the floor.  Eyes blink at the darkness.

His fingers move to tired eyes, rub the sleep away.  He was 
attractive, a lifetime ago.

The shadows pool close to the bed -- 

-- almost hiding DOZENS OF FIGURES IN THE GLOOM.

They stand just out of the light’s reach, shadowed faces 
STARING SILENTLY.

At the foot of the bed crouches a DARK MAN -- his skin 
painted black with FLAKING PITCH TAR.  Crusty hands clutch 
the bed frame.

Stone winces into the shadows -- reaches for the lamp.

The Tar Man moves CLOSER TO THE LIGHT -- his lips OPEN, bare 
WHITE TEETH that float in the black shadows.

Stone’s fingers quickly snatch the lantern -- TURN THE DIAL --

-- the small fire GROWS --

-- to reveal an empty room.  Wood floors lead to barren, dark 
oak walls, devoid of any decoration.

Stone tries to peer into the shadowed corners for any sign of 
the intruders -- 

BANG BANG BANG

He quickly stumbles out of the bed -- drags the lantern with 
him like a lifeline.


                                      2.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

A heavy front door marks the entrance to the house, past an 
expansive and modestly furnished entryway.

The smoked glass window in the door obscures whoever is on 
the other side -- whoever continues BANGING for entry.

The front hall sits below a high second floor balcony -- the 
swinging light announces Stone’s approach seconds before he 
reaches the bannister.

He looks at the front door -- 

BANG BANG BANG

Licks his lips.

In the pitted black of the lower floor, he can see MORE OF 
THE DARK FIGURES.

They CLUTCH with black hands, scrabbling in the dark TOWARDS 
THE FRONT DOOR -- whoever lays beyond it.

The wind BUFFETS against the outside of the house -- sounds 
almost hungry.

Stone lowers the lantern.

             STONE
      GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE! LEAVE ME 
      ALONE!

A pause -- the slapping of feet on pavement from outside.  
The LAUGHING of teenagers.

Stone looks into the cold dark below him.  The hands creep 
back into the shadows, denied.

He turns back to the second floor hallway.  It leads away 
from him, a dark abyss.  He LIFTS the lantern.

Stares.

Deep in the dark -- pitch tar lips pull away from WHITE 
TEETH.

He lowers the lantern -- CASTING THE HALL INTO BLACK.

                                SMASH TO:


					3.

TITLE

The darkness becomes filled with car horns, traffic -- a taxi 
cab emerging out of a TUNNEL into 

EXT. BROOKLYN RESIDENTIAL - DAY

KEATS LOWELL (26), a confident woman with a brown BOMBER 
JACKET contrasting her business skirt, sits in the back 
staring out the rain streaked taxi window.

Distracted -- her hand idly plays over the tip of a BURN SCAR 
creeping out of her right sleeve.

Residential buildings slide past. 

The cabbie eyes her in the mirror.

She ignores him -- watches the buildings blur.



INT. ADAM’S BUILDING - DAY

A small lobby trying to be charming.  A wall of mailboxes 
sits above floors that need cleaning.

The glass front door pushes open -- Keats rushes in, shaking 
the rain out of her hair.

Looks around the dim entrance -- no one in sight.

Small duffel in hand, Keats glances at a small residence 
placard -- sees FIELDS 1B -- moves down the hall.

1A on her right -- baby crying inside.

1B the next door down -- one last hand through her wet hair -- 
KNOCKS --

-- the door nudges AJAR.

She pushes forward -- lets it swing open.

             KEATS
      Hello?

An open living room -- PICTURES line the walls and furniture, 
surrounded by a clutter of complex looking machinery and 
devices.

Her eyes stray to the snapshots -- professional, showing 
SOLDIERS in varying countries.


					4.

A small cluster shows a PRETTY FEMALE SOLDIER holding hands 
with ADAM FIELDS, a journalistic boy scout with a camera.  
His smile is engaging, even on film.

             JORDAN
	(O.S.)
      I’m Jordan, who are you?



Keats JUMPS -- caught -- spins to face JORDAN (8).  The young  
boy eyes her suspiciously.

             KEATS
      I’m, ah-- I’m Keats Lowell.  
      Derrick Stone’s copy editor.  I’m 
      here to see your-- ah, Adam.





Jordan relaxes a little bit -- moves to the small kitchen off 
the living room.

As he passes closer, Keats BACKS UP -- her purse knocking 
into the bookshelf and toppling a frame.

She turns and rights it, face red.

Jordan shows only mild interest -- he points across from her 
to a CLOSED DOOR -- disappears back into his room with a mug 
of water.

Keats tries to catch her breath, hands SHAKING.

Smiles, to no one -- approaches the door.

It OPENS before she reaches it -- reveals CHLOE (23), tattoo 
sleeves beneath pierced lips and bruised makeup.

The two women size each other up.

             KEATS
      ...Adam?

             CHLOE
        (snorts)
      Do I look like an Adam?

Keats takes in the girl’s faux hawk and jack boots.

             KEATS
      I have no idea what you look like.

Chloe goes to respond -- a hand moves her out of the way, 
revealing ADAM FIELDS (30), the man from the photos in name 
only -- a beard and dark eyes in place of the bright smile.

             ADAM
      Mrs. Lowell?


					5.

She smiles and sticks a hand out.

Chloe rests on the open door, POPS her gum -- Keats’ eyes 
stray to the room behind them --

-- sees the walls are COVERED IN CLIPPINGS, DOCUMENTS, 
PICTURES.

Whiteboards line the living room -- filled with scrawled 
writing and symbols.

Pictures of DERRICK STONE pinned up -- multiple shots of a 
BROWNSTONE HOME.

Dozens of COPIES OF STONE’S BOOKS stacked on the floor.



Standing in the center is PROFESSOR HAMILL (38), tweed jacket 
over a band t-shirt.  

He cleans his glasses, avoids eye contact.

On the floor cross legged sits MITCHELL (23), the poster 
child for the internet generation.  

Dark hair hangs over his face -- he studies the carpet past 
the torn legs of his jeans.

             KEATS
      Hello.

No one meets her eyes -- Chloe’s gum POPS.

Adam quickly slides into the living room -- SHUTS the door 
behind him.

             ADAM
      Sorry.  It’s a, uh -- project we’re 
      collaborating -- you’re not in 
      until tomorrow.  Your flight wasn’t 
      until tomorrow.

             KEATS
      It was.  Instead, here I am, now.

             ADAM
      Right.  It’s nice to meet -- I wish 
      you’d called.

             KEATS
      I bet.



She looks knowingly at the closed room behind them.  The soft 
sounds of ARGUING can be heard behind the door.


						6.
	
             ADAM
      We should get going then, I’m sure 
      you’re eager to meet him.  I was 
      about to make my morning delivery 
      anyway --

             KEATS
      You do that every morning?

Adam pauses, a little unsure.

             ADAM
      Ah.  Yeah.

             KEATS
      Hm.


She turns and looks at the walls, the pictures -- moves on to 
the several HIGH TECH DEVICES lining the furniture.

Behind them sit books on the PARANORMAL -- GHOSTS -- AMERICAN 
HAUNTINGS.

Keats smiles back his way.

             KEATS
      This why you requested to be Mr. 
      Stone’s assistant?

             ADAM
      ...I don’t really understand what --

             KEATS
      You were a photojournalist, right?  
      Stationed overseas during Operation 
      New Dawn.

             ADAM
      I was a documentary film maker.

             KEATS
      My mistake.  Why the switch?  I 
      think you took a pay cut.

             ADAM
        (bristles)
      The same reason a popular true 
      crime writer might suddenly switch 
      to editing books instead of writing 
      them.

Keats smiles, thin.




					7.

             KEATS
      I hope not, for your sake.

Keats continues to admire the walls -- Adam stares at her, 
unsure.

             ADAM
      ...I don’t entirely understand 
      what’s going on.  I was told you 
      were being sent to assess the 
      progress of Mr. Stone’s latest 
      novel.

             KEATS
      I am.  In part.  What do you 
      deliver?

             ADAM
      Food, mostly.  Fresh bread, 
      vegetables, jugs of water.  A ream 
      of paper, two typewriter ribbons --

             KEATS
      He still writes using a typewriter?

She turns from the device she’s holding, curious.

                                           

             ADAM
      You don’t seem to know a whole lot 
	about the writer you’re here to 
      help, Mrs. Lowell.

             KEATS
      What do I need to know?

             ADAM
        (sarcastic)
      You know his name right?  They at 
      least told you his name?

             KEATS
      Pretty sure everyone knows who 
      Derrick Stone is.

             ADAM
      You know anything not on the dust 
      jacket?

             KEATS
        (air quotes)
      Highest selling horror novelist of 
      the last decade, the master of the 
      macabre, baron of blood--


					8.

             ADAM
      Read any of his books?

             KEATS
      I don’t read a lot anymore.  How 
      often do you make deliveries?

             ADAM
      Every day.

             KEATS
      And do you believe the house is 
      haunted?

Adam freezes.

             KEATS
      Stone hasn’t left his house in over 
      ten years.  He claims it’s because 
      it’s haunted.  Yes?

             ADAM
      Yes.

             KEATS
      Have you ever seen a ghost on the 
      premises?

             ADAM
      I’ve never been inside.  No one 
      has.

             KEATS
      Because of the “ghosts”?

             ADAM
      What exactly are you here for?  
      Exactly?

Keats puts what she’s holding down and turns to face him, 
still smiling politely.

             KEATS
      I’m here to prove the house isn’t 
      haunted.

             ADAM
      Why?

             KEATS
      The new manuscript is fifteen 
      months behind schedule.  Mr. Stone 
      refuses to answer emails from us --




                                      9.

             ADAM
      He doesn’t have a computer.

             KEATS
      -- phone calls --

             ADAM
      He doesn’t have a phone.

             KEATS
      -- and the company’s sick of it.  
      Derrick Stone and his haunted house 
      act are only worthwhile when he’s 
      putting out product.

             ADAM
      You think he’s faking it?

             KEATS
      Either he’s faking it, or he’s 
      insane.  Regardless, my goal is to 
      provide proof to the upper floor 
      that the house is just a house.

             ADAM
      You think he’ll leave of his own 
      free will?  If you can find proof?

             KEATS
      It doesn’t matter.  If I can prove 
      he’s insane, they can have him 
      removed.  Be great for his sales, 
      probably.

             ADAM
        (realizing)
      Jesus Christ.  You’re going to stay 
      in that house?

             KEATS
      Can’t prove much from a Motel 6.

             ADAM
      You don’t understand -- once you go 
      into that house, there’s no coming 
      back out.

             KEATS
      So I’ve heard.

             ADAM
      I can’t help with this -- you can’t 
      possibly expect me to help you go 
      through with this.


Adam moves to the kitchen -- grabs a small bottle of vodka, a 
glass.

                                      10.

             KEATS
      You might want to hold off on that 
      for two shakes there, Adam.

He looks at her -- leaves the bottle.

             KEATS
      You’re aware that any plan to 
      publicly release information you’ve 
      researched about Derrick Stone is a 
      violation of the non-disclosure 
      confidentiality agreement you 
      signed when you took this job, yes?

Adam goes white.

             KEATS
      Whatever book you’re planning with 
      the A-Team in there --

             ADAM
      It’s a documentary.  About the 
      house.  Not Stone.

She smiles.

             KEATS
      You mean it’s only about the house 
      he owns and currently resides in.  
      Not about him at all then. I’m sure 
      that will hold up.

He sinks -- caught.

             KEATS
      You can go ahead and have that 
      drink now.

He unscrews the top -- drinks STRAIGHT from the bottle.

             KEATS
      I’m not going to tell the company 
      about your side project.

Adam wipes his mouth -- looks at her sideways.

             KEATS
      You can breach your contract.  I 
      don’t care.  Not even a little bit.  


                                      11.

             KEATS
	(CONT'D)
      But I need your help, your 
      research, to prove the house is 
      harmless.

             ADAM
      And what if it isn’t?  Harmless?

She smiles, placating.

             KEATS
      Then I suppose I won’t be around 
      for you to say I told you so.

Adam pours a large gulp into the glass -- DOWNS IT.

             KEATS
      Cab it is.

EXT. STONE HOUSE - DAY

The house sits, menacing -- a MASSIVE FOUR STORY BROWNSTONE 
shoved into the middle of a Brooklyn apartment block.  As 
wide as FOUR of the apartment buildings that share its walls.

Kid’s CHALK DRAWINGS mar the sidewalk twenty feet away in 
either direction -- none even come close to the steps leading 
up to Derrick Stone’s front step.

Keats stands out front -- rain bounces off the fur lined 
collar of her jacket.  She hefts a duffel.

Looks puzzled up at the front of the building.

             KEATS
      Something’s off.

Adam lifts a crate of supplies from the back of his car -- 
doesn’t look up.

             ADAM
      No windows.

Keats looks back.  The apartments on both sides of the home 
have glass breaking up the front -- Stone’s home simply has 
dark brick FACADES where windows should be.

             KEATS
      Commitment.

Adam slams the trunk -- steps up behind her.

             ADAM
      Not too late.


                                      12.

She smiles -- gestures him up the steps.

He sighs -- produces an old BRASS KEY from his pocket.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Black shadows pool in the corners -- the bustle of the street 
completely SILENT in the wood halls.

The CLUNK of the key -- the front door OPENS.

Adam sets the first box down immediately inside, careful not 
to step over the threshold.  Goes back for a second load.

Keats leans through the door.  Admires the old woodwork.  
Peers up at the second story balcony, empty, dark.

             KEATS
      Hello?

A CREAK, somewhere inside.  No reply.

She looks down -- the dividing line of the doorstep before 
her.

Feet firmly on the outside.

Looks back up -- the shadows, the dark.  The unknown.

             ADAM
      ‘Scuse me.

She JUMPS despite herself -- he gently brushes past to put 
the box down.

Delivery done, he stands -- looks at her.  A hint of pleading 
on his face.

She avoids his gaze -- STEPS INTO THE HOUSE.

He closes his eyes.

             KEATS
      Adam.

Opens them.

             KEATS
      I’ll be--

             STONE
	(O.S.)
      Who the fuck are you?


                                      13.

She turns.  

On the balcony above stands STONE.

             KEATS
      Keats Lowell.  Your editor.

             STONE
      What happened to Eli?

             KEATS
      He quit.

Stone grunts.

             STONE
      Shit.  I liked Eli.  What do you 
      want?

             KEATS
      I’m here for your new manuscrip--

             STONE
      Isn’t ready.

The air hangs thick around them.  Adam takes an involuntary 
step back -- COUGHS.

Keats smiles sweetly.

             KEATS
      Then I’ll be staying here with you 
      until it is.

Stone’s face betrays no emotion -- just a narrowing of his 
eyes.

             STONE
      That’s not possible.

             KEATS
      I’m afraid it is.

             STONE
      This is my house.

             KEATS
      Not for long, if we pull out of 
      publishing your next novel.

             STONE
      That won’t happen.

She shrugs.


                                      14.

             KEATS
      I’m staying.  Unless you want to 
      catch a flight to Boston.  We can 
      all discuss the new book with the 
      backers.  Ease some of the tension.

             STONE
      I have money.  I don’t need yours.

             KEATS
      It’s been fifteen months since your 
      last deadline.  Three years since 
      your last book.  We’re completely 
      within our rights to demand 
      compensation for marketing, 
      promotion, fiscal...

His face studies her.  She smiles again.

             KEATS
      Look, I’m staying.  Call the cops, 
      or show me the guest room.

He lowers the lantern.  Peers down at her.

             STONE
      The house won’t let you stay.

             KEATS
      That’s funny.  I keep hearing it 
      won’t let me leave.

Stone lets it hang there -- 

             STONE
      Your choice.

-- TURNS, disappears back into the house.

Keats turns to Adam.

Looks up at the old walls.

             KEATS
      It’s so quiet.

             ADAM
      Thick walls.  Original masonry.  
      Electricity is spotty, from what 
      I’ve heard.  Phone line never even 
      installed.


                                      15.

             KEATS
      I suppose I won’t get cell phone 
      reception either.

Adam scoffs.

             ADAM
      Please.  You’re in the middle of 
      Brooklyn.  Walls aren’t that thick.

He holds out her duffel -- carefully hands it to her across 
the threshold.

Their hands meet, part as the luggage slips into her hand.

             KEATS
      I’ll be fine.

She sounds less sure.

He reaches for the door knob.

             ADAM
      I’m five minutes away.  Any time of 
      night.

Hesitates.

             ADAM
      Be careful.  Please.

Swings the door SHUT.

The latch CATCHES with the sound of a tomb sliding shut.

The lack of sound is claustrophobic.  Just rain pounding on 
the old roof above.

Keats turns -- looks up at the second story.

With no lantern, no lights, all she can see of the house 
comes from the small light casting through the front door 
glass.

Hallways lead off to her left -- right -- another in front of 
her.

A dim WHITE LIGHT glows from the middle hall -- far off, 
reflected.

She hesitates -- moves towards it.

The light falls away around her -- she reaches into her bag -- 


                                      16.

-- pulls out a small PENLIGHT -- CLICKS it on.

             KEATS
      Mr. Stone?

No sound in the black halls.  Nothing but her own steps.

She shines the light over the polished wood -- DOZENS OF 
PICTURE FRAMES line the walls.

Looking closely she can see they are ALL EMPTY.

The light at the end of the hall is brighter, reflecting 
around the corner.

She peers in a dark side room -- furniture, covered in THICK 
WHITE SHEETS.

A floorboard creaks -- she JUMPS, SPINS -- nothing.

She moves quickly to the corner, turns it to face the

ATRIUM

The light comes from a GLASS WALLED ROOM, a dozen feet 
across, FILLED WITH PLANT LIFE -- 

A white limbed CHERRY BLOSSOM TREE reaches skyward from the 
center of the garden.

Keats approaches the glass -- peers up -- 

-- the glass walls go up four stories to a WIDE SKYLIGHT. 

Sunlight spills down onto the peaceful scene.

The glass wall in front of her has a small handle -- a door 
to enter the garden.

She reaches for it --

             STONE
	(O.S.)
      What are you doing?

Keats spins, hand clutching her chest.

Stone stands a few feet away, lantern in his hand -- face 
passive.

             KEATS
      I was -- I’m sorry, I --

             STONE
      Spare bed’s this way.


He turns back to the dark halls leading away from the garden.

Keats looks wistfully at the sunlight.

                                      17.

             STONE
      Come on.

She follows.

INT. STONE HOUSE - GUEST ROOM

Stone uses his lantern to light a SMALL CANDLE -- 
illuminating the small bedroom they stand in.

The walls contain more frames, empty.  The furniture sparse, 
the bedsheets dusty.

             STONE
      I need you to stay in this room.

             KEATS
      I’m sorry?

He points to a side room.

             STONE
      Bathroom. 

             KEATS
      Where will you be?

             STONE
      My bedroom is across the way.  
      My... study... is upstairs.  I’ll 
      be there while writing.  I write 
      most the night.  The day too.

             KEATS
      Then you should be close to done.

Stone turns to leave.

             KEATS
      I need to see what you have.

He stops.

             STONE
      I’ll bring you what I have.  If you 
      stay in this room.

             KEATS
      What’s outside of this room?


His eyes flicker with something -- fear maybe.

                                      18.

             STONE
      What kind of name is Keats?

             KEATS
      My parents were literary snobs.  I 
      was named after --

             STONE
      I know who you were named after.  
      For a book editor, don’t you think 
      that’s a little on the nose?

             KEATS
      I used to be a writer.  It was even 
      more on the nose then.

             STONE
      Why’d you stop?

             KEATS
      I don’t like being obvious.  It was 
      either that or change my name.

Stone studies her.

             STONE
      I hope you live until morning.

Without waiting for a response, he LEAVES.

Keats lets out a TENSE BREATH.

LATER

Keats sits on the floor of her room -- MANUSCRIPT PAGES 
spread around her in a circle.

She makes notes in RED -- CIRCLING typos, repetitive words, 
crossing out sections.

Her pen skips feverishly over words like BLOOD -- CHILDREN -- 
RIPPED -- TEAR -- DEVOUR --

-- her pen SCRATCHES into a page, halting the flow.

She stops.  Raises a hand to the bridge of her nose.

Checks her watch.

11:15 PM.

Slides out her cell phone -- 


                                      19.

TEXTS Adam: YOU UP?

She stands, stretches.

Looks at the closed door.

Moves to it -- LOCKED.

She smirks -- reaches into her jacket pocket --

-- FLICKS out a black pocket knife.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

The door to Keats’ room POPS open -- her face appears in the 
crack.

She walks into the hall with a CANDLE.

Looks to her right, the dark stretching away from her.

Turns to her left --

-- illuminates a BLACK SNOUT RIMMED WITH TEETH.

She takes a backwards step -- brings the candle back up --

-- casts light on a MASSIVE BLACK HOUND -- its black eyes 
stare into her -- drool DRIPS from its jaws.

Breath coming ragged in her chest -- she extends a hand 
forward, palm out.

A heartbeat -- 

-- the hound walks forward, LICKS her hand -- tail WAGGING.

She sighs.

             KEATS
      Jesus Christ.  Some ghost.  

The dog turns, tail wagging -- walks down the hall.

             KEATS
      Guess he’s not totally alone here, 
      is he boy?

Keats casts a look around at the empty darkness.

The dog STOPS a dozen yards away -- SITS -- watching her.

She moves to the door a few feet down -- KNOCKS gently.


                                      20.

No sound from within.

Slowly opens the door to reveal

STONE’S BEDROOM

The high canopy bed, thick blankets, barren edges that 
Derrick Stone calls home.

The room seems bigger from this side.

Lonely.

Keats moves back into the

HALL

Closes the door silently behind her.

The dog sits patiently at the end of the hall.  Still 
watching.

She follows slowly.

Her foot CATCHES, almost trips -- steadies --

-- looks down to find a WINDOW, set squarely in the middle of 
the floor.

She frowns -- looks up -- another window above her in the 
ceiling.

             KEATS
        (joking)
      So that’s where you put them.

Steps over.

The dog calmly disappears around a corner.

She follows into the

KITCHEN

High counters circle a center island -- grey spices hang from 
an overhead vegetable rack, forgotten.

She moves past an oven caked with dust.

Stoops to investigate a brick fireplace -- runs her fingers 
over a METAL SPIT resting above.

Opens the fridge -- light’s out -- 


                                      21.

-- the candle reveals shelves full of ROTTING FOOD.

Near the bottom sits the fresh produce Adam delivered.

She rips off a chunk of BREAD.

Chews thoughtfully -- looks around for the dog.

             KEATS
      Here boy.  Here creepy dog.

Nothing answers.

She looks up at the small dark bulb near the back of the 
fridge -- sets the candle down on the floor.

Reaches an arm back -- TWISTS -- pops it into place.

The fridge light comes on with a STUTTER --

-- REVEALING A MAN LEANING OVER HER SHOULDER -- a WHITE 
PLASTIC SACK WHERE HIS FACE SHOULD BE --

The opaque plastic SUCKS into the man’s mouth with each 
breath, FURIOUSLY -- INCHES FROM HER EAR --

-- Keats’ fingers SLIP -- the light goes out, casting the 
figure back into BLACK --

She readjusts, reaches further in -- seats the bulb home.

The light COMES ON, STEADY -- reveals the EMPTY KITCHEN 
behind her.

She picks up the candle, lets the door slide shut -- unaware.

Looks around for the dog.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Searching -- she comes back out into the entrance hall.

She’s above it now, on the second floor balcony.

Grey light filters in from the small front door window -- 
shining on a GIANT SYMBOL INLAID IN THE FLOOR.

Keats frowns -- pulls out her cell phone.

Aims its lens down, finger on the camera button --

-- the phone BUZZES TO LIFE -- RINGTONE LOUDLY echoing in the 
halls.


She curses, hits ANSWER --

-- Adam’s face comes up on the screen.

                                      22.

             ADAM
        (on screen)
      Are you ok?

             KEATS
      Yes.  Christ.

             ADAM
      You sound out of breath.

             KEATS
      You scared the shit out of me.  I’m 
      looking around the house now--

             ADAM
        (excited)
      What’s it like?  Move the camera 
      around, I want to see it.

She hits the FLIP button -- the small square showing her feed 
shifts to where she points the phone instead of on her face.

             ADAM
      Holy shit.  It’s --

             CHLOE
	(O.S.)
        (on screen)
      Boring.

Chloe leans over Adam’s shoulder to see.

             ADAM
        (annoyed)
      Keats, this is Chloe.

             CHLOE
      We met.

             ADAM
      Chloe hosts a ghost busting video 
      series on YouTube, they visit --

             CHLOE
      It’s not just ghosts.  And it’s a 
      paranormal investigation blog.  We 
      have our own channel.


                                      23.

             ADAM
      Right.  Keats, can you swing it 
      around?  We want to see more of the 
      architecture.

             KEATS
      Who else is there with you?

Adam’s face shifts away on the screen, shuffles -- reveals 
MITCHELL in front of a laptop.

             ADAM
	(O.S.)
      Mitchell, say hi.

He doesn’t.

             CHLOE
	(O.S.)
      My brother’s strictly behind the 
      scenes.

The view gets pulled back to Chloe’s face, CLOSE UP.

             CHLOE
      I’m the talent.

A SNORT from Mitchell off camera -- Chloe lets go of the 
phone to SMACK him.

Keats keeps panning the camera around the room, using the 
light to examine the dusty wood BEAMS overhead.

Adam hands the phone to PROFESSOR HAMILL, who smiles.

             HAMILL
        (loudly)
      I’m Professor Jacob Hamill, Mrs. 
      Lowell.  The academic backbone of 
      this little --

             CHLOE
	(O.S.)
      The mic is right there, you don’t 
      need to yell.

             HAMILL
      Oh.

Adam snags the phone back, his face sliding back in front of 
the lens.

             ADAM
      I met Professor Hamill through the 
      university.  He set me up with 
      Chloe and most of the equipment.  
      We’ve been running--


                                      24.

             KEATS
      Adam.

She stops panning the camera, turns it into her face.

             KEATS
      I don’t care.

The screen facing away from her, Adam rolls his eyes and 
FLIPS HER OFF -- 

-- nothing but SMILES when she brings it back around.

Adam stays in the center -- the others crowd around to try 
and see the small screen.

             KEATS
      What am I looking at?

             HAMILL
      Ah... looks like typical turn of 
      the century architecture.  That 
      block was built early 1910, which 
      lines up with what we’re seeing--

             KEATS
      Great.

She shifts it down to the lower floor -- the SYMBOL.

             KEATS
      Any idea what that is?

             ADAM
      What is that?  Is that in the 
      floor?

             KEATS
      It’s big.  Covers the whole 
      entryway.  Doesn’t look like much 
      until you see it from above.

             MITCHELL
	(O.S.)
      It’s from his book.

The screen shifts to the stringy geek, still in front of his 
laptop.

             MITCHELL
      His first book.  Feast of 
      Innocence.


                                      25.

             KEATS
      I thought the house was built in 
      1910.

             HAMILL
      It was.

             KEATS
      So he saw it here, put it in his 
      book?

             ADAM
      No.  He didn’t buy the house until 
      after Feast made it big.

             KEATS
      Who owned the house before then?

Adam looks at the others, a little nervously.

             ADAM
      Ah.  No one did.

             KEATS
      What do you mean?  He had to buy it 
      from someone.  Who paid to build 
      it?

             ADAM
      We, uh, we can’t find that out.  
      Public records show he bought it 
      from an unknown third party.  
      Before that it’s just... it’s not 
      listed at all.

             KEATS
      Right.  Of course it wasn’t.

She leans into the wall, trailing the camera over the EMPTY 
PICTURE FRAMES.

             KEATS
      There has to be dozens of empty 
      frames on the walls -- hundreds 
      maybe.  You know what kind of 
      person hangs empty frames in their 
      house?

They have no answer.  She hits the button -- FLIPS the feed 
to the front lens, facing her.

Looks into their scared eyes.


                                      26.

             KEATS
      The same person with enough 
      commitment, enough money to bribe a 
      public works officer to change 
      ownership records for his home.

             HAMILL
      You think he’s faking it?

She looks around the dark halls, devoid of life.

             KEATS
      I think I’m tired of crawling 
      around in the dark.

             ADAM
      Maybe we can--

             KEATS
      Find out what that symbol means.  
      See if it shows up anywhere other 
      than his writing, this house.  If 
      we can find out who owned the house 
      before, we can prove at least that 
      part is fake.

She hangs up without waiting for a response.

Lifts the candle to peer at the ceiling up above.

             KEATS
      Derrick Stone, in the Study, with 
      the typewriter.

INT. STONE HOUSE - STAIRWELL

Keats opens a heavy door -- coming out onto the SECOND FLOOR 
STAIRWELL.

The stairs around her spiral up a center space -- she 
approaches the middle and peers over.

A bundle of RAGS sits on the floor below her.

She frowns -- looks UP at the two flights above --

-- below, the bundle of rags MOVE -- 

-- a GAUZE WRAPPED FACE turns towards the light -- rodent 
like eyes REFLECT ORANGE at the candle light.

Keats lifts the candle higher -- the figure falls into shadow 
-- only those REFLECTING EYES remain.


                                      27.

The figure SCURRIES out of sight --

-- just as Keats turns back to look below.

She frowns, unsure if she saw something.

Begins to ASCEND the stairs.

The third floor landing comes too soon -- no door leading 
out.

She frowns.

A few feet further, she sees the third floor door set flush 
in the middle of the next set of steps.

The RAILING has ENDED -- nothing between her and open air.

Keats moves closer to the wall -- looks down and confirms 
that the STAIRS ARE GETTING NARROWER.

Frames still line the walls, but inside are MIRRORS instead 
of photos.

The candlelight bounces around her -- reflects oddly in the 
gloom.

She stops to examine a large mirror -- peers close -- wipes 
away DUST.

In the reflection behind her she sees a LARGE SHAPE HANGING 
FROM BENEATH THE STAIRS.

She frowns -- 

-- the shape MOVES, a TANGLE OF EXTENDED LIMBS.

Keats SPINS --

-- TOO FAST -- 

-- STUMBLES, candle SWINGING out over the open air -- 

-- GRIPS the wall for balance -- TURNS --

-- to nothing.

The candlelight bounces off the underside of the far 
staircase.

She looks back at the mirror.  Nothing.

Tries to catch her breath.


                                      28.

Moves higher -- the stairs only a few feet across now.

Four stories stretch out beneath her.  The light doesn’t 
reach the bottom.

Her head HITS THE CEILING.

She looks up -- lifts the candle.

The stairs go STRAIGHT INTO THE CEILING, without stopping.

The middle remains OPEN a few feet away.

Keats LEANS as carefully as she is able -- lifts the candle 
to peer above.

BEAMS crisscross overhead -- hold the roof up over the ATTIC.

More FURNITURE sits forgotten above, DOZENS of odd shapes 
casting odd shadows -- all covered in WHITE SHEETS.

She leans FURTHER -- trying to see more -- stretches out over 
the abyss.

On the beam straight above -- the same SYMBOL from 
downstairs.

She grabs her cell phone out of her pocket -- tries to angle 
a picture.

Can’t.  LEANS -- uncomfortably aware that she isn’t holding 
onto the wall anymore --

-- presses the button --

-- FLASH --

-- ONE OF THE WHITE SHEETS MOVES --

Keats SHRIEKS -- DROPS the candle.

Throws herself back against the wall to keep from going over.

Eyes SHUT TIGHT with vertigo --

Misses the small light as it falls silently down the center 
passage -- 

-- ILLUMINATING DOZENS OF FIGURES HUDDLED AROUND THE 
STAIRCASE.

The candle hits BOTTOM -- SNUFFS OUT.

Keats is left in BLACKNESS.


                                      29.

Breathing -- heavy, panicked.

A fumbling -- 

-- the light from her cell phone dimly illuminates her face.

She reaches into her pocket, struggles -- pulls out her 
PENLIGHT.

Snaps it on -- glances around.

She’s alone on the stairwell.

Pockets the cell phone -- leans back into the center -- peers 
up --

-- the ATTIC IS COMPLETELY BARREN.

Her light flashes over the support beams -- NOT A SINGLE 
WHITE SHEET, let alone whatever was beneath them.

             KEATS
      Holy shit.

Leans back, glances around.

             KEATS
      How the fuck.

She retreats down the stairs -- carefully.

Back presses into a HANDLE set into the wall.

Stops.

Reaches back -- TURNS the handle --

-- pushes the SMALL FOURTH FLOOR DOOR open.

A normal sized hall rests beyond the miniature portal.

With only a small glance behind, Keats LEAVES the stairwell.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOURTH FLOOR

The beam of her penlight casts claustrophobic light on the 
surrounding walls.

The hall looks like all the others -- smooth woodwork, bare 
decorations and dust.

A DOOR on the left -- tries the handle, OPEN.


                                      30.

Swings it toward her to reveal a WALL -- set only a few 
inches in.

Keats looks left, right -- confirms that the small inch of 
space goes on into black.

Like the room was built that way.

On the floor she can see DOZENS OF BROKEN FRAMES -- crowded 
into the small space on top of one another.

She takes a PICTURE with her phone -- FLASH.

Shuts the door.

Moves to a door on the right -- opens it --

-- four walls, normal sized -- more FRAMES --

-- she almost steps into NOTHING.

Glances down -- the room has no FLOOR.  Her penlight lights 
on a BED -- FURNITURE -- FOUR STORIES below.

Frames line the walls the whole way down.

FLASH of her camera.

The door swings shut.

Ahead the hall opens into a LARGE OPEN ROOM -- candles sit on 
wood pillars, dancing light.

A pair of worn stairs lead UP into the OPEN RAFTERS of the 
ATTIC.

Keats looks nervously above -- the wood support beams block 
any view of the attic past a dozen yards.

The stairs in front of her look worn, faded --

She reaches the bottom -- glances up.

At the top sits a RED DOOR.

The flicker of CANDLELIGHT can be seen from underneath -- 
behind the faint TAP TAP TAP of a TYPEWRITER.

Phone out -- FLASH on the door.

The bright light shows the same SYMBOL resting above the 
door.

Her foot rests on the first step -- CREAK -- the next one.


                                      31.

Behind her the house sits quiet.

All she can hear is the TAP of the typewriter -- the faint 
BEATING of rain on the roof above.

She reaches the door -- places a palm on it.

The typing inside hits a fever pitch -- TAPTAPTAPTAP

--she turns the handle -- pushes it open into the

WRITING ROOM

-- The room has NO WALLS -- simply more SUPPORT PILLARS that 
extend the length of the attic.  

A simple table marks the center.  A small stool in front.

On top rests an ornate TYPEWRITER.  UNOCCUPIED.

The sound of typing is gone.

Keats looks to the left, right -- whoever was typing is 
nowhere to be found.

             KEATS
      Stone?

Moves deeper into the room.

As she passes the pillar closest, she STOPS -- peers closer.

An odd design marks each pillar, the floor.

Closer, she sees it isn’t a design.

A single word CARVED into the wood, varying sizes and shapes, 
THOUSANDS of times.

WRITE.  

WRITE.  

WRITE.

Keats stoops down -- the FLOOR is covered in the same 
carvings.  Every square inch.

She approaches the table in the center.

A small worn stool sits in front.

The typewriter lays dormant -- a PAGE caught in its feed.


					32.

A STACK OF PAPER sits to one side.

Her fingers stretch out to grasp the typed sheet.

             STONE
	(O.S.)
      You can’t be here.

Keats JUMPS -- SPINS to face Stone.  The red door rests open 
behind him.

             KEATS
      What is this place?

             STONE
      I told you to stay in your room.

             KEATS
      This whole house.  I’ve never seen 
      anything like it.

He takes a step closer -- ANGRY.

             STONE
      What are you doing here?!?

She steps back -- bumps into the table.

             KEATS
      I’m here to help.

             STONE
      I don’t need your help.

His face is manic -- trembling.

             KEATS
      You believe all this, don’t you?  
      The hauntings, the ghost stories --

He moves for the table -- she BLOCKS him.

             KEATS
      Why haven’t you left this house?

Stone’s eyes are fearful -- darting to dark corners of the 
attic nervously.

             STONE
      You don’t understand.

             KEATS
      What exactly do you think is here 
      with you?






					33.

             STONE
      ...Everything I’ve ever written.

She looks closer -- tries to see if it’s a joke.

             KEATS
      Are you -- what do you mean?

             STONE
      They... KEEP me here.  

Suddenly he GRABS her hand, holds it TIGHT.  The words flow 
like a dam burst.

             STONE
      They make me stay.  They make me 
      write.  Terrible, terrible things.  





             KEATS
      You can’t be serious.

His face shows he wishes he wasn’t.

             KEATS
      We can leave.  Right now.

             STONE
      No.  No, we can’t.  They stop me.  
      They’d stop you.  They’d do such 
      terrible things.  They need me.  To 
      write more stories.  You, they... 
      you shouldn’t have come here.

             KEATS
      How is it possible?  That the 
      things you write come to life.

             STONE
      Not everything.  Just the worst.

He SITS on the stool -- head in his hands.

             STONE
      I’m so tired.

Keats moves around him, unsure.

She PULLS at the page -- rips it free of the typewriter.

             KEATS
      It’s been over ten years.  Since 
      you shut yourself in here.  Since 
      your wife died.


					34.

Stone’s head raises.

             KEATS
      You suffered a break.

             STONE
      You’ve seen things.  I know you 
      have.

             KEATS
      I’ve seen what anyone will see in a 
      dark house, left to their own 
      imagination.  Especially someone 
      who hasn’t seen the outside in ten 
      years.

             STONE
      You don’t--

             KEATS
      I said I was a writer.  Truth is, I 
      was a true crime writer.  I was 
      paid to follow cases.  The bad 
      kind.  When the dust had settled, I 
      would stay in houses, some like 
      this one, and I would separate the 
      truth from the fiction.

His head has returned to his hands.

             KEATS
      The walls here have their fair 
      share of truth.  But also a good 
      dose of the other thing.

             STONE
      Please.

             KEATS
      You think you create these beings?  
      That you have some kind of power?

             STONE
      No.  I don’t know.  Of course not.

             KEATS
      Then if they’re real, these ghosts, 
      they must write the stories for 
      you, yes?  A kind of inspiration, 
      from beyond the grave.

             STONE
      I don’t know.




						35.

She holds up the PAGE -- full of black type.

CRUMPLES IT INTO A BALL -- SHOVES it into a jacket pocket.

             KEATS
      What did you write?

He looks at her, defeated.

             KEATS
      If it’s coming from a higher power, 
      what did it say?

Stone’s face breaks into a sad smile.

He stands.

             STONE
      My first book, have you read it?

             KEATS
      Feast of Innocence.

             STONE
      Yes.

             KEATS
      Not really my thing.

He stops.

             STONE
      Then you don’t understand.  The 
      Beast.  Devourer of children.  The 
      worst thing I’ve ever--

             STONE
      Everything I write is in these 
      halls.  Except for... that.  I 
      wrote it before I came here.  
      Before I knew I was cursed.

His finger traces the typewriter, the cool black keys.

             STONE
      I don’t want it here, to join the 
      others.  Not that.  I don’t want it 
      in the dark -- to wake and find 
      it...

Turns to her.  Looks at the page, hidden in her pocket.




						36.

             STONE
      “His world was nothing but the 
      thing’s breath; hot, sticky with 
      hunger.  Small fingers clutched at 
      rough blankets, seeking aid, 
      escape.  None would come.”

Keats’ face drains of color -- she doesn’t need to check the 
pages to know the words match.

             STONE
      “The weight of the creature pressed 
      the child’s body down, 
      suffocating.”

Keats TURNS away -- 

             STONE
      “The teeth descended, splitting 
      flesh, and hair, and cartilage, and 
      bone”-- 

-- she RUSHES through the red door -- down the steps.

             STONE
        (to himself)
      They’re making me write the Beast 
      again.





It swings SHUT as she passes -- Stone stares after her before 
it BLOCKS him from view.

INT. STONE HOUSE - KEATS’ ROOM

Keats BURSTS through the door -- out of breath.

Runs a hand through her hair, tries to control the panic 
clutching at her neck.

Her eyes find the bed -- STONE’S MANUSCRIPT IS STACKED NEATLY 
ON HER PILLOW.

The floor is clean, free of the mess she left while working 
earlier.

Face a grim line -- she SNATCHES the pages off the bed -- 
rushes into the

GUEST BATHROOM

Sets her lit CANDLE down on the sink, opposite a BATHTUB 
surrounded by a plastic curtain.


                                      37.

Grips the pages in her hand -- stares at the flame.

Lifts the manuscript over the fire -- holds it there.

On the curtain behind her DOZENS OF HANDS PRESS AT THE 
PLASTIC.

The paper hovers over the heat -- starts to CURL.

The hands PUSH CLOSER -- STRAIN against the fabric.

Keats SIGHS.

Pulls the paper away.

The hands RECEDE -- the curtain falls limp.

She sets the manuscript to the side.

             KEATS
      Get a fucking grip.

Turns -- GRABS THE PLASTIC CURTAIN TO OPEN IT --

-- her PHONE RINGS.

She takes it out of her pocket -- 

-- SLIDES BACK THE CURTAIN --

-- reveals an empty bathtub.

Answers the call -- Adam’s face pops up.

             KEATS
      Did you get the pictures I sent 
      you?

             ADAM
        (on screen)
      Sure, but, ah, Keats, what exactly 
      are we looking at here?

             KEATS
      Honestly?  I have no idea.  This 
      house -- I’ve never seen anything 
      like it.  Halls double back, stairs 
      lead to nowhere, it’s like M.C. 
      Escher’s wet dream.  There are 
      windows in the floor, the ceiling--

Adam shuffles some papers on screen -- hands the phone to 
Chloe.


                                      38.

             ADAM
      The symbol you sent us, we haven’t 
      been able to link it to a 
      particular architect, but there’s a 
      lot of early history to sort 
      through.  We might still get lucky.

             KEATS
      Also, I’m not sure, but I think 
      it’s... bigger somehow.  On the 
      inside.

             CHLOE
        (on screen)
      It’s not.

Keats chuckles.

             KEATS
      You’re not seeing what I’m seeing.  
      I’m not saying it’s anything 
      supernatural, but there is 
      something going on in this house.

             CHLOE
      It’s called a ghost house.

             KEATS
      Comforting, really.

Professor Hamill leans into view.

             HAMILL
        (on screen)
      It’s not what it sounds like.  Turn 
      of the century, dozens of them 
      started popping up.  The rich and 
      lonely would build these elaborate 
      houses, hundreds of rooms, no 
      discernible layout.  The staircases 
      and windows you’re describing -- 
      I’m very confident this is exactly 
      what you’re seeing.

             CHLOE
      They’re ghost traps.  People who 
      thought they were haunted, by the 
      dead, their family, their dog, 
      whatever.  The houses were made to 
      trap restless spirits, make it 
      impossible for them to get out, 
      find the owners. 


                                      39.

             HAMILL
      Didn’t know we had any this far 
      into the city, but it makes sense.  
      Out on the West Coast, a few have 
      become tourist attractions, if you 
      can believe--

Keats turns the FAUCET -- water begins to fill the tub.

Adam pulls the camera over to his face.

             ADAM
      Are you taking a bath?

             KEATS
      Calm down.  The house isn’t really 
      haunted.

The camera slides back to Chloe.

             ADAM
	(O.S.)
        (muttering)
      I’d be more worried that Stone 
      hasn’t had a girl in his house for 
      a decade...

Chloe rolls her eyes.

             CHLOE
      Look, I’ve stayed in ghost houses 
      before.  Plenty.  They’re spooky.  
      That’s the point.  It’s all optical 
      illusions, make it look bigger, 
      hallways that go on too long.  
      There’s a science to it, nothing 
      more.

             KEATS
      None of that helps me get Stone out 
      of this house.  Whatever is going 
      on, he really believes it.

             ADAM
	(O.S.)
        (to himself)
      Maybe you should too.

             KEATS
      What was that?

The camera slides back over to Adam.  He pulls it close.

             ADAM
      Maybe you should too.


						40.

The view returns to Hamill, who eyes off screen nervously.

Keats lets her hand run underneath the faucet.

             HAMILL
      There’s a lot of things that can’t 
      quite be explained in the world.  
      But there just might be some 
      scientific explanations as to the 
      existence of the paranormal.

             KEATS
        (disinterested)
      Oh yeah?

             HAMILL
      I’m glad you asked.  The book I’m 
      researching --

Chloe pulls the camera back.

             CHLOE
      All right, we’re all trying to stay 
      awake Professor.  Keats.  Don’t let 
      the house get to you.  It’s just a 
      house.

             KEATS
      The voice of reason.

Turns the faucet -- the water STOPS.

She removes her boots.

             KEATS
      Stone believes the stories aren’t 
      coming from him.  They’re coming 
      from outside, from ghosts.  There 
      has to be a way to disprove that.

Adam comes back on the screen.

             ADAM
      We can cross reference all the 
      dates in his books, the victims.  
      The killers.

             KEATS
      He believes the killers in his 
      books, the monsters... he believes 
      they’re in here with him.

Adam’s smile falters.




                                      41.

             ADAM
      Then I hope you’re right about that 
      house.

Keats goes to answer.  Doesn’t.

             ADAM
      I’ll see you for the morning 
      delivery.  Just...

Not sure how to say it.

Chloe smiles into view.

             CHLOE
      Sleep with a light on.

The call ENDS.

Keats thinks -- taps the phone on her leg.

Stands -- starts to undress.

Behind her the bath tub rests full --

-- A SCREAMING WOMAN WRITHING UNDER THE WATER’S SURFACE.

The top remains STILL despite the THRASHING LIMBS underneath.

Keats leans to place her phone on the counter -- the tub 
drops out of view -- she turns --

-- to EMPTY clear water.

Pulls off her pants, deep in thought.

LATER

Her head rests comfortably on the tub lip.

Hand draped over the side -- casually tracing the cold floor.

Eyes closed -- drifting off.

The candle on the sink FLICKERS.

BLOWS OUT.

Keats remains unaware of the darkness.

Her hand draws up into the tub -- PUSHED almost.

The porcelain edge is on her shoulder -- bicep -- elbow -- 
now forearm -- STRETCHING AWAY FROM HER.


                                      42.

The tub is FIVE FEET ACROSS -- the edges continue to SLIDE 
AWAY into NOTHING.

Her hand SLIPS away from the receding edge, into the water -- 
the movement STARTLES her.  Her face STIRS.

The edges move out of sight now -- nothing but WATER around 
her body.

She SLIPS as the BOTTOM of the tub DROPS AWAY -- her eyes 
SHOOT open.

Treading water -- panic on her face.  She can’t touch bottom.

             KEATS
      Help.

Struggles to stay afloat.

From the black water behind her a DARK FORM RISES.

Water pools from its open arms -- LEANING towards her.

She senses it, as the arms SWEEP TOWARDS HER --

-- Keats WAKES UP 

-- SHOOTS out of the claw tub --

The bathroom is as it was.  The candle gutters harmlessly on 
the sink.

Keats sits naked on the floor, clutching her bomber jacket 
over her chest -- black POCKET KNIFE in her hand.

Drops it to the floor -- breathes.

             KEATS
      Fuck.

INT. STONE HOUSE - GUEST ROOM

Keats wrings water from her hair, dressed in simple pajamas -- 
folds a towel she brought back into her duffel bag.

Sits on the bed -- frowns.

Hesitates, just for a moment -- pulls the covers back.

Bare sheets underneath.

She sits -- looks down at herself.


                                      43.

BURN SCARS cover her right forearm -- she pulls up her shirt 
sleeve and absently traces the ridges -- all the way up to 
her shoulder.

Eyes refocus -- YANKS the sleeve back down.

Puts her cell phone on the bedside table -- pulls out the 
BATTERY -- inserts a FRESH ONE.

The door to her room CREAKS open.

Her head snaps up -- stares.

It STOPS -- teeters.

The SKITTER of claws on wood.

She stands.

Peeks around --

-- to see the BLACK HOUND sitting at the foot of the bed.

Its tail wags.

She smiles -- pushes the door shut with a CLICK.

             KEATS
      Keep watch.

Turns back to the bed -- a gentle KNOCK on the door stops 
her.

She looks at the dog -- head on the floor.

Reaches for the handle.

             STONE
	(O.S.)
        (through door)
      Mrs. Lowell?

Breaths out -- swings the door open.

Stone leans against the wall -- eyes bleary, disheveled.

             KEATS
      Miss.  It’s Miss.

             STONE
      Sorry.  I was just -- I wanted to 
      make sure you were -- if you need 
      anything.


                                      44.

             KEATS
      Still here.  Thank you.

He stands there, awkward.

             KEATS
      I promise you, I’m going to figure 
      this thing out.  I don’t give up.

Stone looks up -- his smile is genuine, though placating and 
full of disbelief.

             STONE
      You should leave.  Please.  While 
      you can.

             KEATS
      I don’t give up.  As I said.

He nods, expecting as much.

             KEATS
      Besides, I’ve made a friend.

His head SNAPS up.

She gestures back to the foot of the bed --

-- which is now EMPTY.

             KEATS
      I-- your dog was right --

             STONE
      I don’t have a dog.

She looks at him, smiles -- expecting a joke.

There is none.

             STONE
      If it comes back... I suggest you 
      don’t let it in.

He walks down the hall to his room.

A last forlorn look behind -- he SHUTS the door.

Keats ROUNDS on the room -- looks in the bathroom--

Ducks to peer under the bed.

NOTHING.


						45.

Stands, confused.

             KEATS
        (to herself)
      You probably should have seen that 
      one coming.

She moves to the hall.  Looks at the light under Stone’s 
door.

CROSSES quickly -- hand raised to knock --

-- hears voices within.

She stops.

Moves her ear closer -- listens.

Too low to make out -- WHISPERS, back and forth.

Her hand drops.

Keats smirks.

             KEATS
        (under her breath)
      I’m not playing this game.

She turns and goes back to her room -- door SLAMS.

From within Stone’s room the WHISPERS continue -- one of them 
sounds FEMALE.



INT. STONE HOUSE - GUEST ROOM

The candle on Keats table has long since gone dark.

Keats sleeps, blankets pulled tight around her body.

-- or rather TRIES to sleep -- she turns onto her back, eyes 
open.

Sighs.

It’s not happening.

Rolls onto her side -- reaches for her PHONE on the desk --  
presses a button to check the time -- 4:36 AM --

-- behind her the light from the phone ILLUMINATES THE NAKED 
BACK OF A MAN SITTING ON THE FOOT OF HER BED.


He doesn’t face her -- RIDGES OF HIS SPINE RISING WITH EACH 
FRENZIED BREATH.

With another sigh, she SWIPES the display -- starts to scroll 
info --

                                      46.

-- hears something.

The man’s BREATHING ratchets louder, SCRATCHY.

Keats FREEZES -- turns, slow --

The breathing STOPS -- 

-- without facing her, the man SCREAMS.

Feet kicking, Keats PROPELS out of bed -- SLAMS into the 
bathroom door -- pushes THROUGH.

Back pressed to the tub -- phone THRUST in front of her for 
light, protection.

The room lays silent beyond -- she can’t see the foot of the 
bed from here.

Breath ragged -- she makes her way to her feet.

Steels herself -- STEPS forward -- glances in --

The room is empty again.

Her eyes catch SOMETHING in the mirror --

-- behind her the tub is full of GLISTENING BLACK TRASH BAGS.

She turns.

Steps closer -- the phone’s dim light reflecting off the 
opaque black sacks.

Crimson BLOOD smears the tub, the walls -- every surface.

Closer -- each bag is LIMB SHAPED -- clearly a HAND -- a FOOT 
-- the large one a TORSO resting in a red puddle.

Near the top -- a center trash bag -- black plastic pulled 
tight over a DECAPITATED HEAD.  The shape can’t be anything 
else.

Keats reaches a hand out, slow -- touches the STICKY fluid 
coating the plastic -- fingers come back RED --

-- the head BREATHES IN, IMPOSSIBLY -- 


                                      47.

-- the severed fingers CLUTCH -- 

-- torn legs TWITCH --

Keats backs into the bedroom -- face STRICKEN.

Grabs her jacket off the floor -- slips it on -- pulls the 
PENLIGHT out of the pocket.

Clicks the beam on -- swings it back to --

-- the EMPTY BATHROOM.  No sign of the bags, the blood.

It’s impossible.

She uses the light to glance back around the front of the 
room, the bed, the front door -- glances back --

-- the bathroom is GONE.

The wall SMOOTH where the door was -- like it never existed.

Keats SITS on the bed -- mind close to snapping.

Frozen.

Grabs her boots -- SHOVES her feet in -- eyes never leaving 
the space the bathroom was.

Stands.  Moves to the wall -- to touch it --

-- thinks against it.

Moves to the bedroom door instead.

Pulls it open, steps into the 

HALL

Moves towards Stone’s room --

-- FREEZES.

Her light catches on PLASTIC -- a WHITE PLASTIC BAG gripping 
tight to a LARGE MAN’S FACE.

He stands NAKED ten feet away -- massive, hulking, somewhere 
between muscular and fat.

His breathing STRAINS the WHITE PLASTIC -- sucking IN and OUT 
of his mouth, FURIOUS.

Keats back pedals -- eyes locked on the threat.


                                      48.

He begins to RUN TOWARDS HER.

She TURNS --

-- FALLS THROUGH THE WINDOW IN THE FLOOR BEHIND HER.

Flails, glass SHATTERING around --

-- her arms CATCH on the floor --

-- hands struggle for purchase -- glass CUTTING into her 
chest, forearms -- CHIN resting on the wood floor.

Behind, she can only hear the POUNDING FOOTFALLS of the 
hulking man.  CLOSER.

With a SHOUT she

-- LETS GO

-- FALLS

-- CRACKING into the window on the FLOOR BELOW --

-- it HOLDS.

Wind knocked out of her lungs.

The glass CRACKS -- THIN WEBS CHIP away from her weight.

She quickly PUSHES off the window before it breaks.

Tries to catch her breath on the solid floor.

Looks above -- no sight of the man through the window in the 
ceiling.

Turns -- eye catches --

-- TEETH.  White teeth, seeming to FLOAT in the dark.

She scrambles -- SCOOPS up the penlight -- turns --

-- lighting up the PITCH TAR MAN -- CROUCHING on all fours -- 
skin FLAKING BLACK.

His mouth opens WIDER -- a SILENT SCREAM -- TONGUE FLAILING.

Keats turns -- feet SLIDE in broken glass -- pushes to a RUN.

Her light leaves the figure -- nothing but those TEETH.


                                      49.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Keats STUMBLES into the entryway -- eyes WILD.

She moves to the front door -- fingers snatching at the lock--

-- MISS -- the sound of POUNDING FEET -- BREATHING -- behind 
her -- ON HER NECK

The latch TURNS --

-- she YANKS the door open --

-- TRIPS out the front -- RAIN SOAKING INTO HER JACKET, 
DRENCHING HER.

She FALLS down the steps -- lands on her back near the 
street.

Turns, breath tight in her throat.

Inside -- STONE stands on the second floor balcony.

Watching her.

His face a mix of sorrow and defeat.

He turns -- disappears from view.

The front door SLAMS.

Keats SCREAMS.

INT. ADAM’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The SLAMMING of a fist on wood.

Adam stumbles into the living room.

Pulls his front door open.

Keats stands, DRIPPING in her boots.  Jacket pulled tight 
around her pajamas.

Her face says everything.

INT. ADAM’S APARTMENT - KITCHEN

BOILING WATER drops onto a tea bag -- two STEAMING MUGS 
clutched in Adam’s hand.

Keats PACES in the living room -- phone to her ear.


                                      50.

             KEATS
        (on phone)
      Mason.  You aren’t fucking 
      listening to me.  It’s not -- no, I 
      said it’s not --

She listens.

Adam sets the tea down next to her.

She grits her teeth.  HANGS UP.

             KEATS
        (to Adam)
      More of Stone’s bullshit.  His 
      ‘spookshow’.  That’s what they 
      think.  I saw it.  It’s not -- 
      there’s no way it’s --

             ADAM
      I believe you.

His voice calms her.  She smiles thinly at him.

             JORDAN
	(O.S.)
      Dad?

They turn -- the young boy sits by his open door, blinking at 
the early hour.

Keats immediately GOES ON EDGE -- BACKS AWAY to the far wall.  
Her face casual, her body language anything but.

Adam clocks it -- looks to his son.

             ADAM
      Hey, Jordan.  Did you meet Miss 
      Lowell?  

Turns to Keats -- she stares at the floor.

             ADAM
      Ah-- It’s a work thing, buddy, 
      don’t worry about it.  Go back to 
      sleep.

             JORDAN
      Is she ok?

Keats turns her face to the boy, smiling -- her eyes stay 
locked on the floor, however.

             KEATS
      Fine.


					51.

             ADAM
      She’s fine.  Go back to bed.

Jordan turns -- door softly closing.

Adam looks at Keats curiously.

Looks to his side, holds out a BUNDLE of clothes.

             ADAM
      You should change.  They, uh.  They 
      were my wife’s.  They should fit 
      you.

Keats nods -- takes the clothes -- begins to pull her jacket 
off.

Adam turns away.

             ADAM
      We have a bathroom.

Keats pulls her shirt over her head, turned away.  Not 
seductive, just in a hurry.




             KEATS
        (ignores him)
      We need to get him out of there.

             ADAM
      How are we supposed to do that?  
      I’m surprised you got out.

She pulls a tank top on, yanks her bottoms off.  

Adam picks up a device from the counter -- tries not to 
notice he can see her reflection in the photos of his wife.

             KEATS
      It wanted me out.  The only one it 
      wants is Stone.

She pulls jeans on.  Adam turns.

             ADAM
      It sounds like it was trying to 
      kill you --

             KEATS
      It’s an act.

             ADAM
      You can’t possibly still think 
      someone is faking this --




                                      52.

             KEATS
      No way.  Whatever is going on in 
      that house -- I’ve never seen 
      anything like it.  I doubt anyone 
      has.

             ADAM
      If it’s real, I don’t think going 
      back in is the best plan.

             KEATS
      Whatever -- thing -- is in those 
      walls, it wasn’t trying to kill me.  
      It’s still just an act.  It wanted 
      me scared.  It wanted me gone.  

             ADAM
      Not the worst plan.

             KEATS
      An act.  Nothing has changed.  Only 
      now we know Stone isn’t the one 
      putting it on.

             ADAM
      Then who is?

             KEATS
      I don’t know.  That’s what we need 
      to find out.  Get the others.

Adam nods -- pulls out his cell phone.  Dials.

             ADAM
        (on phone)
      Chloe, something’s hap--
        (listens)
      ...what?

INT. ADAM’S APARTMENT - LATER

Keats stands, looking down at DOZENS OF COMPUTER PRINT OUTS.

Adam leans against the counter -- PROFESSOR HAMILL stands 
with him, MITCHELL sits on the couch.

Chloe PACES in front of all of them -- points down.

             CHLOE
      I did what you said, we started 
      looking up names from the books, 
      perpetrators.  He sees the killers, 
      right?  The monsters?


                                      53.

             KEATS
      I’ve seen them too.

             CHLOE
      There’s nothing.  No record of any 
      killers, or even descriptions of 
      any of the ... things.  They aren’t 
      real people, weren’t real people.  
      They never existed.  They’re not 
      ghosts of anyone.

             KEATS
      They’re coming from somewhere.

             CHLOE
      Stone.  They’re coming from Stone.  
      He’s creating them.  That’s just 
      it.

She pushes a STACK of printouts forward.

Keats flips through -- dozens of PICTURES.  CRIME PHOTOS, 
REPORTS.

             CHLOE
      His second book.  Pitch.  Deep 
      South, man who was burned alive, 
      covered in tar.  Chews his victims.  
      Typical horror schlock --

             KEATS
      Right, ok, so?

             CHLOE
      When the book was published, 
      murders involving cannibalism rose 
      800%.  All over the country.  Too 
      widespread, unrelated, for local PD 
      to draw any connections.

             KEATS
      People were killed like they were 
      in the book?

             CHLOE
      128 cases, in the span of two 
      weeks.

She pushes another stack forward.


					54.

             CHLOE
      Third book.  A group of religious 
      fundamentalists, Puritan types, who 
      murder sinners with a axe.  387 
      cases.



She just points now.

             CHLOE
      Fourth book.  Town where all the 
      dogs turn rabid.  986 cases of dog 
      mauling.

A few stacks over.

             CHLOE
      Eighth book.  Best seller list.  
      Man hangs women with industrial 
      chains, meat hooks.  More than 1700 
      hundred cases, and that includes 
      328 women overseas.

             ADAM
      Jesus Christ.

             KEATS
      No one noticed the similarities?

             HAMILL
      Over a thousand murders, hundreds 
      of miles, some an ocean apart?  It 
      was chalked up to coincidence -- 
      nothing more.  After a few weeks, 
      they died off.  No reason to follow 
      up.

             KEATS
      When his books come out --

She spreads the papers out.  Images of BODIES -- BLOOD -- 
GORE.

             KEATS
      What about his first book?

             CHLOE
      The Beast.  Murders children.  Eats 
      them, really.

Chloe shrugs.

             CHLOE
      Nothing.  No cases.  Just re-
      released in hardcover.  


                                      55.

             CHLOE
	(CONT'D)
      An American classic or some shit.  
      Still, no deaths.

             ADAM
      The symbol, from the book -- it’s 
      in the house, right?

Mitchell nods, from the couch.

             MITCHELL
      Its the symbol for the Beast.

             ADAM
      He moved into the house after 
      writing the first book.  Maybe it -- 
      maybe it somehow, affected...

He doesn’t know.  No answers.

             CHLOE
      Symbol or no, we know that the 
      murders started happening after his 
      first book.  

             HAMILL
      Thank god.

They look down at the destruction, gore pictured beneath 
them.

             KEATS
      It’s a sequel.

She stares at all of them, grim.

             KEATS
      The book he’s writing now.  It’s a 
      sequel.  About the Beast.

Their faces drop.

             ADAM
      He... can’t.

             HAMILL
      If the victims continue to build 
      the same way, exponentially, it 
      could mean...

Silence.  They know what it means.

             HAMILL
      All those children.


Adam moves to JORDAN’S DOOR -- slips inside to check on him.

Keats watches him go.

                                      56.

             HAMILL
      I know someone who might be able to 
      help.
        (checks his watch)
      I can call her.  She’ll come.

             KEATS
      We need to get him out of that 
      house.  Before he finishes the 
      book.  Before it’s too late.

EXT. STONE HOUSE - MORNING

A leather gloved fist POUNDS on the front door.

The sun sits behind black clouds -- RAIN smashing against the 
building.

Two POLICEMEN stand on Stone’s front porch.

Keats and Adam stand on the sidewalk below, watching.

The cops KNOCK again.

             POLICEMAN
      Open up!

             STONE
	(O.S.)
      It’s open.


The cops look at each other -- open the door.

Stone stands on the second floor balcony -- his position.

             STONE
      How can I help you officers?

             POLICEMAN
      We have reports that you’re being 
      held here against your will.

             STONE
      Only the will of my next book, I’m 
      afraid.

The officers share another look -- glance back at Keats on 
the sidewalk.


                                      57.

             KEATS
      Please.  He’s not well.  We -- if 
      we could just get him outside, we 
      need him to see a doctor.

             POLICEMAN
      Is that true sir?

Stone smiles.

             STONE
      Do I look sick?

The officer peers at his face.

             POLICEMAN
      Sir.  If someone is holding you 
      against your will -- do we have 
      your permission to enter your home?

Stone looks past the uniforms -- Keats pleads with her eyes.

             STONE
      No.

The two officers exchange another glance -- smile up at Stone 
warily.

             POLICEMAN
      Sorry to waste your time, sir.

They SHUT the door.

Keats approaches.

             KEATS
      You don’t understand.  He NEEDS 
      help --

             POLICEMAN
      I’m sorry.  If he says he’s fine, 
      there’s nothing we can do.

             KEATS
      Please --

             POLICEMAN
      I’m sorry.

They return to their SQUAD CAR -- pull off.

Adam watches them drive away.


                                      58.

             ADAM
      Should have said he killed someone.  
      Body under the floor boards, 
      something.

             KEATS
      He doesn’t want people in the 
      house.  He doesn’t want anyone 
      getting hurt.

             ADAM
      What now?

Keats sets her jaw.

EXT. STONE HOUSE - DAY

A large BLACK VAN parked out front -- Hamill and Mitchell 
unload LARGE BOXES OF EQUIPMENT.

Chloe stands on the grass -- SMILING.

             CHLOE
      ‘Bout damn time.

Adam stands at the OPEN FRONT DOOR -- peers at the shadows 
inside.

Keats stands in the

FOYER

Looks around at the cold halls.  Quiet.

Large industrial CRATES sit around her -- covered in sturdy 
WORK LIGHTS.

She looks at Adam’s pale face.

             CHLOE
      Jordan?

             ADAM
      With a neighbor.  I need to get 
      back.  I can’t leave him.

             KEATS
      I need you.

             ADAM
      I haven’t left him.  Haven’t been 
      in the field.  Not since his 
      mother...


                                      59.

Keats smiles kindly.

             KEATS
      If we fail.  If we can’t get Stone 
      out.  If he’s trapped here, to 
      finish this book...

Adam sighs.

STEPS OVER THE THRESHOLD.

Shivers.

             ADAM
      It’s colder in here.

             KEATS
      Yeah.

Chloe and Mitchell carry a HEAVY PIECE OF MACHINERY through 
the door -- drop it with a CRASH on the symbol.

             ADAM
      Careful.

             CHLOE
      Wouldn’t want to break the spirit 
      house.

She looks at the walls around them.

             CHLOE
      It’s fuckin’ freezing in here.

             RUTH
	(O.S.)
      They always are.

The group turns.

RUTH (48) stands in the open door.  Brown hair back in a 
ponytail, over simple black clothes.

Adam nods.

             ADAM
      Keats, this is Ruth.  She’s our... 
      expert.

             RUTH
      I hope you’re not really calling me 
      that.

             ADAM
      For lack of a better term.


                                      60.

Keats extends her hand.

Ruth examines the halls -- carefully sets a foot inside.  
Takes Keats hand in both of hers with a thin smile.

Up close, Keats notices she wears a WHITE PRIEST COLLAR and a 
few ROSARY BEADS dangle from her wrist.

             KEATS
      I wasn’t aware the Catholic Church 
      ordained women.

Ruth chuckles, distracted by the house.

             RUTH
      We’re not as backwards as our 
      public image might appear.  
      Changing that takes more time.

             KEATS
      What’s the point of being ordained 
      if it’s in secret?

Ruth moves past -- eyes the symbol on the floor.

             RUTH
      The same as being called to service 
      in front of everyone else, I 
      imagine.  Just with a different 
      workload.

Keats looks at Adam -- who nods.

             KEATS
      Wait, you’re what?  An exorcist?

             RUTH
      I’m a cleric.  There’s more to the 
      priesthood than Mass and bake 
      sales.  Although I also bake.

             CHLOE
      Fantastic lemon bars.  Seriously, 
      fantastic.

             RUTH
      Thank you dear.

             STONE
	(O.S.)
      You came back.

Stone appears from the center hall -- eyes wide at the 
equipment filling the front room.

	
					61.

Keats moves to him.  Smiles.

             KEATS
      I told you.  I don’t give up.  
      We’re getting you out of here.

             STONE
      I can’t leave.

             CHLOE
      I mean, have you ever tried?  The 
      door is right there--

             STONE
        (fierce)
      Yes.

        (softens)
      I mean... yes.  I’ve tried.  Many, 
      many times.

             CHLOE
      What happens?

             STONE
      Some way or another -- it doesn’t 
      work out.

He turns back to Keats.

             STONE
      You’re going to get killed.  This 
      house won’t let me leave.

             KEATS
      That’s just it.  Derrick -- it’s 
      not the house.  There are no 
      ghosts.  It’s you.  You’re creating 
      all this.

             STONE
      I’m not.

             HAMILL
      It’s important we find out what 
      it’s like from your side.  When did 
      you first come to the house?  After 
      your novel?

             STONE
      I don’t deserve to be saved.

             KEATS
      You don’t deserve to be left, 
      either.









				62.

Stone’s face wavers --

             STONE
      You have five hours.  I would leave 
      before dark.  It’s worse at night.

-- he turns, marches back down the center hall.

Keats moves to follow -- Adam grabs her arm.

             ADAM
      We can’t separate.

She smiles back -- kind.

             KEATS
      I’ll be fine.  Get set up.

She walks away -- leaves Adam standing, alone, watching after 
her.

INT. STONE HOUSE - ATRIUM

Stone sits in the middle of the GARDEN -- back to the high 
white branches of the CHERRY BLOSSOM TREE.

Keats looks at him through the glass -- debates -- OPENS the 
glass door.

His eyes open -- smiles at her.

Looks up at the SKYLIGHT -- FOUR STORIES above.

Sunlight beams down on his upturned face.

             STONE
      This is the only place I have.  The 
      closest I’ve been to outside in --
      over a decade.  I don’t remember 
      how long exactly.

             KEATS
      Derrick...




He smiles warmly at her -- a touch of SADNESS at the edges.

             STONE
      Thank you.  For coming back for me.

She doesn’t know what to say.  Sits down next to him.

             KEATS
      ...your wife...


					63.

His fingers massage a flower beneath him -- lightly brush the  
petals.

The wind RUSTLES HIS HAIR -- his eyes close.



             STONE
      It was a fire.  I wrote the first 
      book.  In a frenzy.  The words 
      burned through my hands onto the 
      page.  When it sold, it was 
      similar.  Just -- caught.  Like dry 
      kindling.

Keats lets him speak, ramble.  Enjoys the sun, although the 
wind doesn’t seem to touch her.

             STONE
      I woke one night -- she was 
      burning.  The house was burning, 
      but she... she was all that I saw.

He pulls the flower from its stem -- 

             STONE
      I held her, while she died.  While 
      she burned.

-- lets it float down to the ground.

             STONE
      When I gained consciousness, I was 
      in this house.  I haven’t been 
      allowed to leave since.

Keats frowns.

             STONE
      Sometimes, I pretend the wind I 
      feel by this tree -- that it’s her 
      hands.  Playing with my hair.  That 
      if I just open my eyes, I’ll wake 
      up.

             KEATS
      Your wife died in an apartment 
      fire.  You bought the house three 
      months later.  Are you telling me 
      you don’t remember any of that?

             STONE
      It’s not blank.  Not a mystery.  
      I’m telling you there wasn’t 
      anything to remember.


					64.

Keats leans over -- picks up the petal with her RIGHT HAND.  
Lets her sleeve ride up over her BURN SCARS

             KEATS
      I stopped writing when my son died.

Stone looks at her, her scars, stunned.

             KEATS
      Down in Texas writing a book.  Car 
      crash.  Fast.  Faster than you’d 
      think.  I was thrown free, but 
      Danny -- the engine caught on fire.  
      Burned into the car, quick enough.



The petal twirls in her fingers.

             KEATS
      I held onto my son’s hand for as 
      long as I could.  Through the 
      window.  Eventually --

She tries to find the words.

             STONE
      You have to let go.

His hand finds hers, comforting.

             KEATS
      My husband left.  Emotional 
      distance.  He said.  Personally -- 
      I think he blamed me for not 
      holding on just a little longer.

Smiles -- a tear slides down her chin.

             KEATS
      I couldn’t write after that.

             STONE
      Sometimes -- sometimes the right 
      thing to do is to let go.

The petal floats down between them -- lands on the grass 
forgotten.

             KEATS
      It’s not just the monsters, is it?

Stone takes his hand back -- guarded.

             STONE
      What?


					65.

             KEATS
      You see your wife, don’t you?

Stone’s face drops.

             STONE
      ...only when I write.

Keats stands.

             STONE
      She comes to me at night.  Holds 
      me.  Tells me it’s ok.  Only when I 
      write.

             KEATS
      You don’t want to leave.

             STONE
      She’s my world.  Seeing her again, 
      night after night -- it’s all I 
      have left.

             KEATS
      Something else is causing this.  It 
      isn’t ghosts.

             STONE
      I didn’t create my wife.

Keats moves to the door -- opens it.

             STONE
      The book is almost finished.  I 
      can’t have the Beast in here with 
      me.  Please.

             KEATS
      Stall.

             STONE
      I can’t.  It comes when it comes.  
      Since you arrived -- I can’t stop 
      writing.

             KEATS
      Then write.

Walks into the hall.

             KEATS
      Buy us whatever time you can.



                                      66.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Keats rejoins the group -- Mitchell is currently using a 
NAILGUN to hang long power cables to the wall.

Work lights hang at regular intervals -- the cord traces back 
to a large INDUSTRIAL GENERATOR.

Ruth is crouching over the SYMBOL -- looking through a SMALL 
NOTEBOOK.

             KEATS
      We’re running out of time.

             CHLOE
      We just got here.

             KEATS
      Then time we never had.

Adam has a large WHITE PAD spread on the floor -- grease 
pencils in his palm.

             ADAM
      I need you to sketch the layout -- 
      close as possible.

Keats kneels -- starts to draw.

             KEATS
      The house is confusing.

Chloe leans over -- a small handheld CAMERA in her palm.

             CHLOE
      It’s built to be confusing.

             KEATS
      What are you doing?

             CHLOE
      Are you kidding?  This is going to 
      be gold.  I’m winning a YouTube 
      Pulitzer.  Also, they’re gonna 
      invent that.

Keats steps back -- her floor outline is sparse -- CHUNKS 
missing.

             ADAM
      That it?


					67.

             KEATS
      Far as I can remember.  It’s easy 
      to get turned around in here.  I 
      think it... the walls move.  
      Change.

Mitchell KA-CHUNKS another LIGHT into the wall.

             ADAM
      If anyone gets lost -- follow the 
      lights back.

She looks at her watch.

             KEATS
      Five hours until sunset.  Five 
      hours to figure out what’s doing 
      this.

             ADAM
      What happens then?

             RUTH
      If we know how Stone is summoning 
      these beings to life, we’ll know 
      how to banish them from these 
      halls.

             CHLOE
      Out of the halls and back to the 
      bargain bin.  This is why no one 
      reads anymore.

             ADAM
        (to Keats)
      I meant what happens at sunset?

Keats picks up her flashlight.

             KEATS
      I don’t want to find out.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

Mitchell walks forward -- NAILS another LIGHT to the wall.

Behind him, Chloe SPOOLS more cable -- films with her free 
hand.

Adam scans with a large EMF READER.

The needle floats at ZERO.








                                      68.

             ADAM
      No EMF.  Not even normal background 
      levels.  

             CHLOE
      It’s like the 1920s in this bitch.

Mitchell NAILS another light -- CHUNK --

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Hamill scratches a SAMPLE off one of the wood walls -- uses a 
small pick to chip at the SYMBOL on the floor.

Using a JEWELER’S LOUPE to peer closer.

Behind him Ruth CHANTS in a low LATIN, paces --

-- looks around.  Nothing.

Shrugs.  Flips to a chapter further on -- TRIES A NEW PRAYER.

INT. STONE HOUSE - SIDEROOM

A small study -- EMPTY of all books.  A single RED CHAIR in 
the center.

FLASH of a strobe -- rapid FLASH FLASH FLASH --

-- Adam checks a small digital display on a camera with a 
FISHBOWL lens.

Nothing.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Hamill examines the symbol from the second floor using a pair 
of HIGH TECH GOGGLES.

Through the lens, the symbol looks GREEN -- RED -- YELLOW --

Ruth stands next to him -- jotting more notes.

             HAMILL
      Nothing on infrared, ultraviolet --

             RUTH
      Because it’s wood.  It’s the symbol 
      that’s important.


					69.

Keats steps out from below -- shines her penlight down the 
hall the CABLE runs down.

The other team’s out of sight.

             KEATS
        (to Ruth)
      What does it mean?

Ruth shrugs.

             RUTH
      It could be Aramaic.  Early forms 
      of Hebrew.  Maybe even Sanskrit.  I 
      don’t recognize it.

             KEATS
      It’s from his book.  It started 
      this.  It means something.

             RUTH
      I’m sure it does.

She pulls out a FLASK from her robe -- takes a SWIG.

             RUTH
      Just nothing to me, or any religion 
      on this planet.




Hamill looks at her through the goggles.

             RUTH
        (re: the flask)
      If it helps, pretend it’s Communion 
      wine.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

CHUNK of another light nailed into the wall.

Adam lifts a radio.

             ADAM
        (into radio)
      Nothing yet.

             CHLOE
	(O.S.)
      Check it out!

She stands at the end of the hall up ahead, peering up with a 
grin.

Adam walks forward and enters the


                                      70.

STAIRWELL

The steps SPIRAL up above.  Since they get smaller as they go 
up, the room appears much taller than it actually is.

             CHLOE
      Trip, right?

Adam looks at the floor in the center -- where a COLLECTION 
OF RAGS SITS.

Approaches it nervously.

Chloe reaches into her back waistband and pulls out a 
HANDGUN.

Adam stares at her.

             ADAM
      Is that a fucking gun?

             CHLOE
        (yes)
      No.

             ADAM
      What the hell do you plan on doing 
      with it?

             CHLOE
      Hey, maybe it won’t do anything.  
      But you know what they say.  You 
      never know until you shoot a ghost 
      in the face.

He turns his attention back to the rags.

Large -- anything could be hidden underneath.

KICKS -- they rattle over, fall -- NOTHING.

Mitchell looks at the debris.

             MITCHELL
      Better shoot it.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Keats shifts through BUNDLES of paper -- research notes, 
pictures, victims --

-- throws them down.

                                    


					71.

Frowns.  All the fresh printouts are WILTED -- yellow with 
age.  She kicks a stack -- ALL THE PAPER SHOWS SIGNS OF AGE.

		KEATS
	The paper we brought is rotting.  
	Like the food in the fridge.

		HAMILL
	That must be what happened to the 
	photos in the frames.  Fascinating.

             KEATS
	It’s still nothing, there’s nothing 
      here.  Nothing that hints at a root 
      cause.

             RUTH
      You know what the cause is.

Keats peers up at the holy woman.

             RUTH
      It’s Stone himself.  Or something 
      within Stone.

             KEATS
      You think he’s possessed.

             RUTH
      The house or the man.  It doesn’t 
      look like the house.  So.

Keats glances around at their ‘base camp’.

Lifts her radio.

             KEATS
        (into radio)
      We’re coming to you.

INT. STONE HOUSE - STAIRWELL

The two groups have met HALFWAY up -- the railing GONE.

Keats moves high -- Ruth follows, with Hamill.

Adam grabs the Professor’s arm.

             ADAM
      I’ll go.  Groups of three.  Stay on 
      the third floor with the others.  
      We still have no idea what we’re 
      looking at.  No one goes off alone.


					72.

Hamill nods -- moves back down.

Keats moves to the HIDDEN FOURTH FLOOR DOOR -- pushes it 
open.

Ruth moves through -- Adam stops to look at the ATTIC above.

             ADAM
      It’s amazing.  The place feels so 
      much larger on the inside.

             CHLOE
      It is.

He looks back.

She smiles, holds up a GPS.



             CHLOE
      According to this -- we’re three 
      doors down.

Adam looks around, nervous.  Disappears onto the

FOURTH FLOOR

Keats shines her light in his eyes -- turns to the hall.

             KEATS
      This way.

INT. STONE HOUSE - THIRD FLOOR

Hamill leads the way -- the CHUNK of Mitchell placing lights 
following him.

Chloe ZOOMS her camera into a sideroom -- gun in the 
waistband of her pants.

Hamill looks down at the WINDOW in the floor in front of him.

Looks up at the window above -- just in time to see KEATS 
walk past.

Frowns.

             HAMILL
      Keats said she fell through the 
      window on the second floor, yes?

Chloe POPS her gum -- almost timed to the nailgun CHUNK.


					73.

             CHLOE
      Yup.

             HAMILL
      They’re all intact.  The floor 
      below us.  It’s fixed.

Chloe peers down -- tapes it.

             CHLOE
      Ghosts don’t like leaving a mess.

Hamill lifts his goggles -- stares at the floor below in 
BRIGHT WHITE INFRARED.

Nothing.

Lifts --

-- to find the LARGE BLACK HOUND STARING HIM DOWN.

It sits at the end of the hall.

             HAMILL
      Uh.  I’m picking something up on 
      the Infrared.

Chloe reaches -- LIFTS his goggles off.

The dog is STILL THERE.

             HAMILL
      Ah.

             MITCHELL
      It’s so real.  What kind of ghost 
      shows up in the normal spectrum and 
      doesn’t give off EMF readings?

Chloe crouches -- looks the dog in the eye.

             CHLOE
      Here boy.  Heeeeere boy.

Behind her back, her fingers GRIP the pistol.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOURTH FLOOR

Keats leads the group into the OPEN HALL leading up to 
Stone’s writing room.

Adam admires the pillars -- casts a flashlight beam up 
towards the rafters overhead.



                                      74.

             ADAM
        (to Ruth)
      Anything?

She shakes her head.

Keats takes a step up onto the stairs.  Looks at the others 
to follow.

The sound of TYPING comes from behind the RED DOOR.

INT. STONE HOUSE - THIRD FLOOR

The dog stands watch.

Chloe puts her hand out -- steps closer.

The dog emanates a LOW GROWL.

She stops.

             CHLOE
      Fuck it.

PULLS the pistol out.

The dog BACKS up, into shadows --

-- Chloe raises her flashlight --

-- the dog is GONE.

An empty hall, doors closed on all sides.

             CHLOE
      Did you see that?

             HAMILL
      It -- amazing.  Wow.  As soon as...

             MITCHELL
      Guys.

They turn.

He points down.

THE WINDOW IS NO LONGER IN THE FLOOR.

Smooth wood lines the whole hall.

Chloe smiles.


					75.

             CHLOE
      We took our eyes off it.

She takes her walkie -- keys the mic.



             CHLOE
        (into radio)
      Got something.  The house moves-- 
      it’s changing.  But I don’t think 
      it can while you’re looking at it.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOURTH FLOOR

Keats nods at the info --

-- TURNS HER RADIO DOWN.

Looks to Adam -- he does the same, nervously.

She glances at Ruth -- PUSHES the red door OPEN.

They step into the

WRITING ROOM

The space is PITCH BLACK.

The mechanical buzz of TYPING ahead.

Keats shines her penlight -- finds STONE.  His BACK TO THEM.

Banging on the typewriter -- in the dark.

Adam steps closer to the pillars -- the words CARVED into 
every surface.

             ADAM
      Holy shit.

Keats takes a step forward -- gestures to Ruth.

             KEATS
      ...Derrick?

             RUTH
      Mr. Stone?

Stone continues typing -- in a TRANCE.

Adam moves around -- light in his face.

Stone SEES NOTHING -- his eyes stare through the page in 
front of him.


Keats goes to take his shoulder -- Ruth stops her with a 
shake of her head.

Adam peers closer -- leans in to read the page he’s writing.

                                      76.

             ADAM
      “Blood -- spilling hot on the 
      creature’s breath.  The Beast 
      sucked the child’s marrow through 
      needle white teeth...”

Looks over his shoulder at the others.

             ADAM
      We might want to hurry this up.

Ruth steps closer -- leaning into Stone’s slack face.

             RUTH
      Mr. Stone.  My name is Ruth, can 
      you hear me?

Adam moves past her -- looks back the way they came.

Taps Keats on the shoulder.

             ADAM
      Look.

Lining the walls against the door rests THOUSANDS OF PAGES.  
Stacks of paper up to TEN FEET high.

Keats ran out earlier, didn’t see it.

Moves closer now.

Adam picks a clump of papers out of a stack.

             ADAM
      They’re his manuscripts.  All of 
      them, I think.  The originals.

Keats realizes.

             KEATS
      Find the first.

At the desk, Ruth gently takes Stone’s hands -- PULLS THEM 
OFF THE KEYS.

             RUTH
      Mr. Stone?

Adam races to the front -- YANKS a stack of paper down.


                                      77.

             ADAM
      Here.  It’s here.
        (reads)
      It’s different.

             KEATS
      His contract.  He sold the first 
      book as is -- the publisher edited 
      it.  Once he made it big, he held 
      final copy approval.

             ADAM
      It’s... flipped.  And it’s not 
      named Feast of Innocence.  It 
      says... I don’t know how to 
      pronounce this.

Ruth turns back to them, curious.

             RUTH
      Is the symbol the same?

Adam nods -- frowns at a passage.

             ADAM
      Yes -- Wait.  The Beast.  It’s not 
      called that.

             RUTH
        (wary)
      What is it called?

             ADAM
      I... I don’t think it’s in English.

Keats grabs a stack near the end, out of order.

Written with LONG LOOPING SCROLLS by pen.

             KEATS
      This is written by hand.

Adam glances over.

             ADAM
      What is that?

             KEATS
      A missing part of the book.

Flips through.


                                      78.

             KEATS
      “The Beast came forth, in fire, on 
      feet of gnarled bone and black 
      coarse hair...”
        (flips)
      “Voice calling to be fed, demanding 
      meat, demanding hot blood for its 
      throat--”
        (flips)
      “It called out to be heard, to be 
      given life, to silence the void 
      that had once silenced it.”
        (flips)
      “I...”

She stops.  Looks at the others.

             RUTH
      What does it say?

Keats stares at Stone, fear evident on her face.

             KEATS
      “I answered.”

Adam looks at the scrawls, black ink run dry and pooled.

             ADAM
      This isn’t a missing chapter.

They all turn to Stone.

             ADAM
      It’s a journal.

INT. STONE HOUSE - THIRD FLOOR

Chloe yells angrily into the radio.

             CHLOE
      Hello?  Copy?  Stat?  Fucking over!

Nothing.

Hamill stands over her shoulder.

             HAMILL
      Where the hell did they go?

Mitchell nervously raises another light -- HOLDS IT UP over 
the door to a side room --

-- the door SWINGS open.


					79.

Mitchell freezes.

Hamill is preoccupied with Chloe, arguing in whispered 
voices.

Mitchell peers into the room -- raises the LIGHT.

A young PURITAN GIRL kneels in the center of a BARE ROOM -- 
praying to a CROSS ON THE WALL.

Mitchell stares -- jaw slack.

The girl TURNS -- aware of her audience.

Smiles, seductively -- reaches to unclasp her DRESS down the 
front --

Mitchell grabs an EMF RECORDER off his belt -- aims it.

The Puritan Girl has unbuttoned her dress down to her waist -- 
teasingly lets the fabric drift apart.

Mitchell takes a STEP INTO THE ROOM.

The EMF reads ZERO.

The young girl begins to shrug the dress off her shoulders.

Mitchell keeps his eyes on the girl -- ANOTHER STEP, leans 
the EMF closer --

             MITCHELL
      Uh, guys?

INT. STONE HOUSE - WRITING ROOM

Ruth pulls Stone out of the chair -- he shakes his head, 
groggy.

             ADAM
        (pages in hand)
      It’s the missing three months.  
      Jesus Christ.  “I dreamt the 
      symbol, and the Beast dreamt me.”

             KEATS
      It’s not ghosts.  And it’s not 
      Stone either.

             RUTH
      No.  It’s something else entirely.

                            


					80.

		ADAM
	The Beast is a single thing, just 
	pretending to be all the others.

		RUTH
	Something that sought Stone out, 
	across the darkness.  Using his 
	writing to get access to our world.

             ADAM
      How is that possible?

Ruth smiles at him -- shrugs.

             RUTH
      I have no idea.

		KEATS
	What do you mean you have no idea?

		RUTH
	Whatever this thing is, appearing 
	to us as all these ghosts, these 
	things, pretending to be this house 
	-- it’s older than anything we have 
	a word for.  It scratches its way 
	into our plane however it can, in 
	whatever form it can take.  However 
	horrible Mr. Stone’s creations may 
	be -- I think if we ever caught a 
	glimpse of the real Beast, we would 
	chew our own tongues out before we 
	could name it.

Stone leans against a pillar, finally realizing they’re all 
there.

             STONE
      Keats?

INT. STONE HOUSE - THIRD FLOOR

Mitchell watches as the Puritan Girl removes her bonnet -- 
flipping her hair free.

She wets her lips with her tongue -- motions COME HERE.

Mitchell laughs.

             MITCHELL
      Yeah fucking right.

He TURNS HIS HEAD --


					81.

             MITCHELL
      Hey!  Guys!

-- turns back to see the girl has been replaced by a BEARDED 
PURITAN MAN.

The man holds an AXE in both hands.

INT. STONE HOUSE - WRITING ROOM

Keats drops the pages -- moves to Stone’s side.

             KEATS
      It’s ok.  We’re going to get you 
      out of here.

Ruth turns -- walks towards the stairs, looking over her 
shoulder at them.

             RUTH
      Whatever it is, it is caught in 
      this house, and it seems to need 
      Mr. Stone.  We need to get him 
      outside --

             STONE
      Don’t say that--

             RUTH
      -- even if we need to drag him 
      ourselv--



Ruth STEPS INTO NOTHING.

She drops WITHOUT A SOUND.

             ADAM
      RUTH!

Their flashlight beams scan the floor -- where there used to 
be stairs leading out there is now an OPEN VOID.

Keats runs to the edge -- the hole goes straight down FIVE 
STORIES TO THE BASEMENT.

             KEATS
      Jesus.  Jesus.

INT. STONE HOUSE - BASEMENT

Ruth lays facedown on the concrete floor of the basement -- 
legs BENT awkwardly, SHATTERED.


                                      82.

A large metal FURNACE casts a red glow over the hot empty 
space.

With a HACK of BLOOD on the concrete -- Ruth STIRS.

             RUTH
      Oh.  Oh.

Tries to stand -- push herself up with a wrist BENT IN HALF.

             RUTH
      Oh.

The SKITTER of NAILS on stone.

Ruth tries to turn her BROKEN NECK.

Out of the darkness comes the BLACK HOUND.

Its eyes catch the furnace light, dull RED.

Pads over --

-- begins to DIG ITS JAWS INTO RUTH’S BACK.

Meat TEARS free from the bone.

The holy woman SCREAMS.

INT. STONE HOUSE - WRITING ROOM

Keats and Adam sit near the hole, wide eyed -- Ruth’s SCREAMS 
echo throughout the wood house -- fade into a GURGLE.

Stone rests against the pillar, eyes shut.

             STONE
      It won’t let me leave.  And it 
      won’t let you take me.

Keats turns to Adam -- his face wide, pale.

             KEATS
      We’re getting you out of here.

Adam reaches to his belt, snatches his radio -- turns the 
dial --

-- the volume raises up and reveals the other team is 
SCREAMING.


                                      83.

INT. STONE HOUSE - THIRD FLOOR

Mitchell SLAMS into a wall -- blood flowing from a LARGE 
CHEST WOUND.

Hamill is SCREAMING.

The sideroom door SWINGS shut -- blocking the PURITAN from 
view --

-- Chloe leads with the gun --

-- KICKS the door in, racing forward --

-- except the room is now GONE -- the floor OPEN to the 
basement below --

Chloe tries to STOP -- fails -- GOES OVER THE EDGE.

Reaches back -- free hand CATCHES THE DOOR HANDLE --

-- she SWINGS on the open door -- HANGING out over nothing.

The pistol drops away into the BLACK --

-- GOES OFF as it hits the basement --

-- the MUZZLE FLASH lights up THOUSANDS OF WRITHING BODIES -- 
fingers REACHING to claim Chloe when she falls.

The door SWINGS -- BOUNCES off the far wall.

She tries to reach with a free hand -- grab the FLOOR of the 
open door frame.

In the hall Hamill STARES -- SCREAMING.

             CHLOE
      Professor...!

Frozen.

Chloe’s fingers SLIP -- the door bounces away.

             CHLOE
      Professor Hamill!

Hamill looks at the dangling girl -- Mitchell bleeding on the 
floor --

-- turns and RUNS into the darkness.

Chloe grasps the door knob in both hands --


-- bunches both feet up, flat against the wall --

-- pushes OUT -- tries to SWING the door back towards the 
opening -- safety --

                                      84.

Fingers reach, CATCH --

-- the door knob BREAKS --

-- Chloe FALLS --

-- catches the open doorway ONE HANDED.

Tries in vain to pull herself up.

Knees kick at the door to the room below her --

-- which OPENS.

Chloe FREEZES -- breath steaming the wood in front of her 
face.

BLACK TAR HANDS come out of the dark doorway below -- begin 
to CARESS HER LEGS -- STEAL UP HER SHIRT -- OVER HER STOMACH.

             CHLOE
      Fuck!  Help!  Someone!  Please 
      fucking help!

The Tar Man COMES INTO VIEW -- hands GRASP her shirt, her 
back --

-- he’s HANGING UPSIDE DOWN FROM THE SECOND FLOOR CEILING.

His WHITE TEETH NIP at her flesh -- draw BLOOD.

             CHLOE
      Jesus!  HELP ME!

Those black lips open -- tongue SLIDING OUT to lick the 
DRIPPING BLOOD --

Chloe SCREAMS --

-- A hand SHOVES DOWN from above -- GRABS her --

Mitchell hauls his sister to safety -- spilling them both 
gasping on the wood floor.

Below -- the second story door gently CLICKS closed.


                                      85.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

Hamill runs in the DARK -- flashlight BOUNCING as he tries to 
find his way.

Away from the worklights the halls are twisted, confusing.

He’s lost.

The professor licks his lips, looks around behind him --

-- turns just in time to see the LARGE NAKED MAN disappear 
around the corner.

             HAMILL
      Holy fuck.

He backs into a

SIDEROOM

Closes the door behind him.

             HAMILL
      Holy fuck holy fuck.

Turns with the light, sees the back wall of the room -- 
normal sized, empty.

Frames line the walls.

Turns again -- THE DOOR TO THE ROOM IS MISSING.

             HAMILL
      No.

Spins around -- the BACK WALL IS CLOSER.

Shoves left -- his side meets the WALL where there was only 
air before.

             HAMILL
      Please.

Tries to go back -- CAN’T.  The wall on his right is only a 
foot away now as well.

Looks in front -- the far wall is ten feet away.

Behind -- five feet.

Shines his light to the front -- now only an INCH AWAY.


                                      86.

Looks back -- he can’t even turn now, the back wall PRESSED 
into him.

Walled in on all sides.  Two feet square, maybe.

No sound reaches his ears but his own torn breath.

He screams in his coffin.

INT. STONE HOUSE - ATTIC

The criss-cross rafters underneath the tiles of the roof -- 
lights BOUNCE off at odd angles from ADAM’S FLASHLIGHT.

Keats leads the way, Stone in the middle -- they keep their 
eyes on the floor, wary of any traps.

             KEATS
      Watch where you’re going.  It can’t 
      change while you’re looking.

Around the edges of the attic sit DOZENS OF WHITE SHEETS -- 
furniture, maybe, beneath them.

Keats eyes them warily.

Adam GRABS her arm --

-- stops her from GOING OVER THE EDGE OF THE STAIRWELL.

They’ve found the center of the house.

Adam peers down at the curling steps.  Too far below to 
reach.

             ADAM
      I think we--

Keats turns -- the white sheets are CLOSER.

             ADAM
      We need to go.

She grabs Stone’s face, turns it towards hers.

             KEATS
      The atrium.  It goes to the 
      skylight, right?

             STONE
      ...yes.


                                      87.

             KEATS
      We can bust through the outer wall 
      in the attic, climb our way out.

             ADAM
      I’m not leaving the others.

Her eyes turn to him.

             KEATS
      Think of Jordan.

             ADAM
      I am.  

Adam’s face is STRONG -- DIFFERENT from the broken man 
huddled in his apartment.

             ADAM
      I’m not leaving them behind.  
      You’re safer with him.  The house 
      won’t risk hurting him.  You can 
      get out.

He smiles at her, softly.

             ADAM
      If --

             KEATS
      No ifs.

She grabs his hand -- squeezes it.

             ADAM
      If.  Please.

No way out of it.

She nods.

             ADAM
      Thank you.

He turns -- runs -- LEAPS ACROSS THE STAIRWELL OPENING --

-- CRASHES onto the top stair landing -- only a foot or two 
across --

-- fingers SNATCH at the wall to keep from going over.

Steadies.

Looks up above at them.


Keats smiles -- moves further into the dark with Stone.

                                      88.

Adam turns to face the stairway.

             ADAM
      This was stupid.

Begins to descend.

Shines the light around, trying to keep his eyes everywhere 
at once.

Comes to a DARK SHAPE -- HANGING UNDERNEATH THE STAIRS.

The light shows only rags -- a glimpse of torn LIMBS.

Adam turns, tries to stay quiet.

-- sees the stairs behind him have DISAPPEARED.  Nothing but 
empty air.

             ADAM
      Right.

The rags MOVE -- SHIFT.

He looks at them -- turns to look at the stairs on the 
landing BELOW.

             ADAM
      Don’t blink.

The rags LURCH TOWARDS HIM, CLUTCHING --

-- he JUMPS to the lower landing -- EYES WIDE as he falls to 
make sure nothing changes.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

Chloe walks with her brother, supporting his weight.

A trail of bright red blood follows them.

They trace the POWER LINE back to the front door.

             MITCHELL
      Chloe...

             CHLOE
      Shut the fuck up.  We’re going to 
      the front door, and I’m going to 
      tear my way through if I have to 
      use my teeth.  Stay awake.


                                      89.

She looks behind them -- the hall well lit from the work 
lights.

             CHLOE
      Just don’t take your eyes off--

The work light near her face EXPLODES -- they both BLINK at 
the flash --

-- open their eyes to see the path behind them is now a WALL.

             CHLOE
      Cheap.  Real fucking cheap.

             MITCHELL
      Chloe.

His eyes sag closed -- dead weight in her hands.

             CHLOE
      What did I --

She SLAPS his wound.  He SCREAMS awake.

             CHLOE
      -- JUST fuckin’ say.  Stay awake!

The door to the stairwell is up ahead --

-- the lights suddenly DIM -- GO OUT.

It takes a half second for Chloe to RAISE her flashlight --

-- when it comes up it reveals a SMOOTH WALL where the door 
used to be.

She trails the beam over the power cable on the wall -- 

-- sees a FRAYED SECTION hanging down near the wall junction.  
Cut it half.

             CHLOE
      I better get so many views.  Like, 
      we’re talking Gangnam Style views.  
      Chocolate Rain level views.

Opens the door alongside -- it leads to an EMPTY ROOM.

             CHLOE
      Charlie bit my finger level.

The door on the opposite side -- it leads to another PITFALL 
ROOM.


                                      90.

Closes it.

             CHLOE
      Keyboard cat --

Turns -- the door on the other side is GONE.

Looks back -- the door she closed is also gone.

To her left -- the back wall is closer.

             CHLOE
      Leave Britney alo--

A SLEDGEHAMMER CRASHES THROUGH THE WALL BY HER HEAD.

She moves back --

-- it PUNCHES through again -- AGAIN.

Hands CLAW at the wood -- pull it away.

Silence from the other side.

Chloe tries to peer through the hole --

-- Adam’s face POPS up.

Smiles.

             CHLOE
      Sneezing panda.

Adam frowns.

Chloe begins to tear parts of the wall away -- making the 
hole bigger.

INT. STONE HOUSE - ATTIC

Keats reaches the large CENTRAL SHAFT that supports the inner 
atrium.

The glass is cool on her hands -- she’s able to see the 
SKYLIGHT just past -- the night sky beyond --

-- she pulls her knife out, careful not to take her eyes off 
the glass wall in front of her.

Etches the blade into the glass -- winces her eyes ALMOST 
shut.


                                      91.

             KEATS
      Don’t take your eyes off the 
      skylight.

Reaches back -- PUNCHES THE KNIFE with the palm of her hand.

The glass SHATTERS -- FLYING EVERYWHERE.

She involuntarily SHUTS her eyes, only for a moment --

-- turns her head back -- the broken glass now BRICK.

             KEATS
      NO!

Her hands SLAP feebly against the stone, PUNCH -- despair 
beginning to creep in.

Stone grabs her hand -- blood marks the bricks where her 
knuckles connected.

             STONE
      The service stairs are to the side.  
      We can reach the front.

Keats begins to walk.  He stops her.

             STONE
      I can’t go with you.  You have to 
      give up.  Let go.  That’s the only 
      chance it will let you and your 
      friends leave.

She stays silent -- his hands finds hers -- they move towards 
the service stairs.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Silence.  Only the rain pounding on the roof of the house.  
Supply crates lay littered around, forgotten equipment.

Adam BURSTS out of the hall -- Chloe supporting Mitchell 
behind him.

Reaches a trembling hand into his pocket -- pulls out the KEY 
FOR THE FRONT DOOR.

Walks to the door --

-- there’s no HANDLE.

             ADAM
      God dammit.


                                      92.

His hand POUNDS against the smoked glass window in the center 
of the door -- throws an ELBOW -- it HOLDS.

             CHLOE
      We can’t get out that way, the 
      window’s too small.  The side.

Setting Mitchell down, she KICKS the top off a CRATE --  
yanks out a CROWBAR.

Tosses it to Adam -- he CATCHES it.

SLAMS it into the crack in the door frame.

Keats comes around the far corner -- Stone behind.

             KEATS
      Adam.

He turns -- smiles softly.  Not surprised to see her.

             KEATS
      Atrium is sealed.  Sorry.

             ADAM
      Doesn’t matter anymore.

He LEANS into the crowbar -- wood SPLINTERS.

             STONE
        (to Keats)
      You have to leave me.

             KEATS
      I can’t do that.  It’s not just 
      you.  Not just us.  If you finish 
      that book -- thousands will die.  
      Thousands of innocent children.

Shock passes over his face -- confusion.

             STONE
      I don’t -- I don’t understand.

             KEATS
      It isn’t ghosts.  It isn’t your 
      characters come to life.  It’s just 
      some fucking thing.  The thing that 
      killed your wife.  It’s walking 
      around, pretending to be what’s in 
      your head, pretending to be this 
      house.  It’s using you.  To get 
      out.


                                      93.

Stone stares at her -- uncomprehending.

He takes a step away -- eyes on the floor.

             STONE
      You -- just leave me.

Looks up at her.  Maybe for the last time.

             STONE
      Please.

He WALKS AWAY.

             KEATS
      Stone!  Derrick!

Turns the corner -- gone.

Adam is LEANING into the crowbar -- the door starts to give --

-- Chloe JUMPS into him -- adding her weight -- the door 
SPLINTERS -- BREAKS --

-- BURSTS OPEN.

The group all stare.  

FREEDOM.

Keats frowns.

Walks closer.

             CHLOE
      No way.

Through the doorway sits ANOTHER HALLWAY -- a BALCONY.

Keats walks through -- looks at the BROKEN WOOD -- the door 
laying on its hinges.

Looks back at the others behind her.

Steps up to the balcony on the other side.

Looks over the edge--

-- SEES ADAM, CHLOE, MITCHELL IN THE FOYER BELOW.

They all turn -- LOOK UP.

She glances behind -- sees them STILL BEHIND HER -- all 
LOOKING UP AT THE SECOND FLOOR BALCONY.


Adam does a double take through the door -- back up.

                                      94.

Keats rests her arms on the railing.

Chloe starts to LAUGH.

             KEATS
      We might have a problem.

INT. STONE HOUSE - BEDROOM

Stone pushes into his bedroom -- SLAMS the door shut.

Glares at the bed -- fist CLENCHED.

With a scream he GRABS the comforter -- TEARS IT IN HALF.

-- SMASHES the canopy -- SNAPS THE SUPPORTS and sends it 
CRASHING to the ground.

Grips the base of the mattress -- FLIPS IT -- sends it END 
OVER END into the wall.

Collapses in the wreckage -- breath coming fast, hard.

CRIES into his hands -- tired, hot tears flow down his arms.

His hair brushes aside --

-- A WOMAN’S HAND CUPS HIS FACE FROM BEHIND.

He tries to turn -- look.  She remains out of view.

             STONE
      I know the truth.

The fingers brush his lips --

             WOMAN’S WHISPER
      what                  do you know

             STONE
      You aren’t my fucking wife.

The voice laughs -- a soft, delicate whisper of paper on 
skin.

Stone looks close to breaking -- eyes shut TIGHT.

             WOMAN’S WHISPER
      does         it           matter


					95.

The hand moves to his hair -- Stone HUGS his knees -- looks 
up --

THE TYPEWRITER SITS ON THE FLOOR IN FRONT OF HIM.

The walls blocked by MASSIVE STACKS OF PAPER -- his 
MANUSCRIPTS.

             WOMAN’S WHISPER
      write


Stone’s body SHAKES -- WRACKED WITH SOBS amidst the wreckage.

INT. STONE HOUSE - FOYER

Chloe sits next to her brother on a crate -- hands rubbing 
his shoulders to try and keep him warm -- CONSCIOUS.

Her CELL PHONE is in her hands -- suddenly NO BARS.

She CHUCKS it into the wall, PLASTIC and GLASS showers.

             CHLOE
      How fuckin’ original.

Adam looks out the open front door -- back into the house.

             ADAM
      It’s not going to let us go.  Now 
      that we know what it is.



Keats glances around.

             KEATS
      We need to...

Chloe picks her head up -- listens.

Keats falls silent.

             CHLOE
      Yeah.  That’s about right.

Keats stares at the symbol on the floor -- debris covering 
its edges.

             ADAM
      I’m sorry.  Jordan.  I’m sorry.

Chloe fidgets with a long CAPPED TUBE --

-- Keats eyes it.


					96.

             KEATS
      There are no pictures in the house.

             CHLOE
      Keen eye.

Keats stands.  Thinks.

             KEATS
      The food goes rotten when you bring 
      it.  That’s why he had to restock 
      every day.  The food we brought 
      with us is already decomposed.

             CHLOE
      That’s a depressing ass update.

             KEATS
      How are all his manuscripts 
      upstairs?

Adam looks at her -- frowns.

             KEATS
      I mean.  Why?  Why would those stay 
      fresh, and nothing else?

             CHLOE
      Maybe it’s like keeping a copy of 
      your own greatest hits album in the 
      house.  All the favorites--

             KEATS
      The -- whatever this thing is.  It 
      uses Stone to write it into 
      existence.  It needs him.

Adam sits forward -- eyes alive.

             ADAM
      Holy shit.

             KEATS
      The pages aren’t about this thing.  
      The pages are this--

A BLADE HOOKS THROUGH KEATS SHOULDER FROM ABOVE --

-- she SCREAMS 

-- blood PEPPERS ADAM’S FACE

-- Keats is YANKED TO THE SECOND STORY on a CHAINED HOOK





                                      97.

Adam moves for her -- MISSES -- Chloe grabs a hand -- SLIPS 
AWAY.

Keats SCREAMS again -- above, the PLASTIC BAG MAN hauls her 
closer a handful of chain at a time.

His naked girth SHAKES in anticipation.

Adam JUMPS at her flailing legs -- misses --

-- turns and RUNS AWAY.

             CHLOE
      Adam!

Chloe CLIMBS the wall -- GRABS one of Keats’ flailing boots -- 
PULLS --

-- the hook sinks DEEPER -- blood FOUNTAINS DOWN --

Adam runs THROUGH THE FRONT DOOR --

-- comes out on the second story and TACKLES the Bag Man.

The chain runs out of the shape’s grasp --

-- Keats CRASHES to the floor.

Chloe slides over to her -- looks at the HOOK EMBEDDED 
THROUGH HER SHOULDER.

             KEATS
      Pull it out!

Chloe doesn’t hesitate -- YANKS the hook free.

Keats CRIES OUT.

             CHLOE
      Can you stand?

             KEATS
      I’m fine, help--

Adam CRASHES down on them from above -- bleeding from a WOUND 
IN HIS HEAD.

They all push up to their feet --

-- look up at the EMPTY balcony

-- back at the front door

-- where the PLASTIC BAG MAN stands -- CHAIN in hand.


					98.

             CHLOE
      Mitchell.

Chloe moves for her brother -- the MASSIVE SHAPE is faster.

Plants the HOOK STRAIGHT UNDER HIS JAW --

             CHLOE
      NO!

-- TEARS IT FREE.

Mitchell falls back -- blood SPLASHING FREE from where his 
neck used to be.



Adam grabs a small BACKPACK -- backs away from the killer.

Keats grabs Chloe by the shoulder.

             KEATS
      Run.

They turn to the empty halls --

-- the naked man begins to RUN AFTER THEM.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

Adam LEADS -- flashlight glancing in OPEN DOORS along the 
path --

-- inside each room sit FACELESS SHAPES.  Watching them.

His beam goes up -- the WINDOW in the ceiling.

Hefts the sledgehammer -- KNOCKS the glass down.

Looks back -- the hall is clear -- the heavy footfalls coming 
CLOSER.

             ADAM
      Help me!

Chloe grabs Keats foot and they both PUSH her to the second 
story --

-- she GRABS hold -- pulls herself up.

Turns to help them.

Adam tosses up the BACKPACK.

Chloe reaches --


                                      99.

-- Adam SHOVES her down --

-- the hook sailing for her head SPLITTING into the wall 
instead.

The Bag Man YANKS the chain free -- mouth WORKING behind the 
mask.

Chloe looks up.

             CHLOE
      GO!

Keats hesitates -- TURNS and RUNS out of sight.

Adam lifts the sledgehammer and SWINGS --

-- missing

-- the hulk SLAMS HIM with a massive palm to the neck 

-- TOSSES him into a sideroom.

The door SLAMS shut.

Chloe RUNS.

The Bag Man turns to follow.

INT. STONE HOUSE - SECOND FLOOR

Keats stumbles down the hall -- blood flowing down her 
shoulder -- reaches a door, stumbles into

STONE’S BEDROOM

He sits -- CRYING -- fingers TYPE a blood streaked page.

The white paper stacks of the MANUSCRIPTS make claustrophobic 
PILLARS around him.

She approaches --

-- sees a WOMAN’S SHAPE pass behind -- out of view.

INT. STONE HOUSE - STAIRWELL

Chloe kicks open a door -- emerges into the spiral staircase.

Takes out the cylinder from her pocket -- pops the top --

-- a BRIGHT GREEN FLARE SPRINGS TO LIFE.


                                     100.

She moves further in --

-- Her foot kicks her GUN, resting on the floor.

             CHLOE
        (manic)
      My lucky fucking day.

Scoops the piece up -- turns to the door.

The Bag Man STANDS in the hall.  STARING through that white 
mask.

She SLAMS the door --

-- runs to the opposite side, FLINGS the door open --

-- to the SAME HALL.

The Bag Man STANDS -- WATCHING.  CLOSER THIS TIME.

Slams this door.

Moves to the next.

Hesitates.

Aims.

FIRES THREE ROUNDS THROUGH THE WOOD.

In the door BEHIND HER -- THREE BULLET HOLES CHEW THROUGH.

She doesn’t notice, somehow.

Moves to the door -- slides it open --

-- sees the SAME STAIRCASE ON THE OTHER SIDE.

Looks in at HERSELF at the far door.

Spins -- sees herself looking in from the door opposite.

Looks down at the gun.

             CHLOE
      Not... not fuckin’ fair.

Turns -- THREE BULLET HOLES TORN RED INTO HER BACK.

She stumbles -- falls.

The pistol spins out of her grasp.


                                     101.

Blood pools in her mouth.

On the bottom of the stairs above -- a SHAPE OF DARK, LONG 
LIMBS DETACHES ITSELF.

Slowly CRAWLS DOWN ONTO HER -- RODENT LIKE EYES GLOW ORANGE 
IN THE FADING LIGHT OF THE FLARE.

Her legs JERK as it tears into her.

INT. STONE HOUSE - STONE’S BEDROOM

Keats moves closer -- sees the crusty tears running down 
Stone’s cheeks.

             STONE
      It’s almost finished.  Please.

He looks up at her.

             STONE
      Kill me.

She looks down -- the black pocket knife is OPEN in her hand.

INT. STONE HOUSE - SIDEROOM

Adam KICKS at the door -- it finally SPLINTERS open.

             ADAM
        (whispers)
      Chloe!

Picks a fallen TUBE off the floor -- another FLARE.

POPS IT.

The green light shines down the halls --

-- reflecting off a set of WHITE TEETH.

Adam eyes the dark shape -- looks up at the broken window 
above him.

TOSSES the flare --

-- the Pitch Tar Man SCREAMS in the light --

-- Adam catches the lip of the ceiling -- PULLS himself up --

-- a THUNK from below.


                                     102.

He stumbles.

Fingers grasp at the smooth wood floor --

-- a meaty SCHLICK --

Fingernails pull at the floor seams -- no leverage --

             ADAM
      Jordan.

He FALLS back onto the floor --

-- stomach RIPPED OPEN.

The Tar Man comes from the shadows.

Crouches to SMELL HIS NECK.

Reaches down--

--forces crusty black hands inside Adam’s stomach.

Adam SCREAMS.

The hands pull out ROPES of intestines -- to those TEETH.

INT. STONE HOUSE - STONE’S BEDROOM

Keats looks down at the knife in her hand.

Back up at Stone.

His hands waver over the keys.

Almost finished.

             KEATS
      I can’t.

Stone CRIES -- starts to press down.

Keats POPS THE FLARE IN HER OTHER HAND --

-- TOSSES IT INTO THE MANUSCRIPT STACKS --

The paper goes up like it was SOAKED IN GASOLINE.

In the corner something pretending to be female SCREECHES --

-- Keats tosses the WHOLE BAG of FLARES ONTO THE FLAMES -- 
the room SPARKS with GREEN LIGHT --


-- GRABS Stone by the hand and YANKS HIM OUT THE DOOR.

                                     103.

The fire ROARS BEHIND THEM.

The thing SCREAMS.

INT. STONE HOUSE - HALLS

Keats DROPS through the second story floor window -- landing 
a moment before Stone.

He stares at her, hopeful.

             STONE
        (relieved)
      It’s over.

             KEATS
      No.

She pulls him along -- turns a corner -- RACES down the hall.

In each room they pass a CREATURE sits on the bed, SCREAMING.

The Puritans.

The Plastic Bag.

The Pitch Tar Man.

Their eyes stare at nothing -- their screams merge into ONE.

Keats pulls Stone around the corner to the

ATRIUM

The plants green inside -- cherry blossom tree still.

Keats’ hands slap at the glass -- YANK open the door --

-- they both COLLAPSE in the cool grass.

Through the glass they can see the WOOD of the house begin to 
BLACKEN as the fire spreads.

The skylight rests four stories above -- the night sky black 
and out of reach.

Stone looks up -- wind RUSTLES his hair.

He smiles.


			104.

             STONE
      It’s not over.  While I’m alive, 
      the pages are in my head.

             KEATS
      We can’t -- there’s nowhere to go.  
      I’m sorry.

             STONE
      No.  I’m sorry.  I stayed.  Long 
      after I should have gone.  Because 
      I couldn’t -- I didn’t want to 
      forget my wife.

             KEATS
      Derrick, it --

             STONE
      No.  That wasn’t her.  But here.  
      She was always with me here.  I 
      just -- I never realized it.



The wind plays on his face.  His eyes close.

Opens.

He looks at the ORANGE FIRE burning behind the glass.

Dark shapes WRITHE in the blaze.

             STONE
      She was always with me.  Trying to 
      give me the strength to do what I 
      needed to do.

He SMILES at her -- without a hint of the weariness that 
plagues him.

             STONE
      What we need to do.  It’s never... 
      it’s never what we want to do. Is 
      it?

Keats looks up at him.  Confused.

He takes her hand and KISSES it.

             STONE
      Let go, Keats.

He opens the glass door -- 

-- DISAPPEARS INTO THE FLAMES.


Keats huddles under the CHERRY BLOSSOM TREE.  SMOKE SWIRLING 
AROUND HER.

                                     105.

The fire BURNS BRIGHT on the glass.

Keats CLOSES HER EYES.

The world goes BLACK.

The sounds of destruction and death her whole world.

EXT. STONE HOUSE - DAY

FIRE TRUCKS line the street -- hoses pump STREAMS of water 
into the smoldering wreckage of the HOUSE.

Nothing is left.

A mass of black wood resting on charred support beams.

Firemen tear through the haze, coming to the

ATRIUM

The CHERRY BLOSSOM TREE STILL STANDS.

The glass walls soot covered, cracked -- miraculously intact.

The firemen look at each other -- unsure what to make of it.

One reaches for the handle -- pulls it open.

Sees KEATS -- ALIVE -- CURLED under the white branches -- the 
garden alive around her.

             FIREMAN
      We need an EMT over here, right 
      now!

Looks back at a COUGHING Keats -- impossible.

She stands, cradling her bleeding shoulder.  

Steady.

A survivor.

INT. ADAM’S APARTMENT - DAY

The same apartment from a life time ago.  Quiet.  Pictures of 
a SMILING ADAM on the shelf with a PRETTY SOLDIER -- Jordan’s 
mom.


                                     106.

Jordan sits on the couch -- coloring.

A young NEIGHBOR sits on the phone.  The TV is on with news 
of the FIRE.

The front door OPENS -- Keats steps inside.

Jordan looks at her.

Tears line his small face.

She comes over to him -- takes his hand.  No longer skittish.

             KEATS
      Hey Jordan.

He doesn’t say anything.  Stares at his book.

             KEATS
      I promised your dad.  I promised 
      him I would tell you something.  
      Something I never -- I didn’t get 
      to tell my son.

Jordan looks up.

             KEATS
      Your dad.  He was -- he was very, 
      very brave.  And he saved a lot of 
      people.  He loved you...

Tears begin to come.  She doesn’t fight them.

             KEATS
      He loved you so, so much.

             JORDAN
      Do you miss your son?

She laughs, cries.

             KEATS
      Yes.  Yes.  Finally, yes.

             JORDAN
        (tearing up)
      I miss my dad.

             KEATS
      I know buddy.

She rubs his back -- and he HUGS HER.

She doesn’t know how to take it.  


                                     107.

HUGS HIM BACK.

The neighbor looks at her -- smiles sadly -- slips out the 
front door.

Keats smiles down at the small boy -- his face looks up at 
her.

             KEATS
      It’s ok.  I’ll stay, as long as you 
      want me too.

He wipes his tears -- sits back on the couch.

Keats stands -- grabs a tissue off the desk --

-- sees her BOMBER JACKET hanging on the hook.

Smiles.

Slips it BACK ON.

             KEATS
      This was a gift.  From my--

Hand stuck in her pocket -- finds SOMETHING -- reaches, pulls 
out --

-- THE BALLED UP PAGE OF MANUSCRIPT SHE TOOK FROM STONE’S 
TYPEWRITER.

Her face FREEZES.

             KEATS
      Jordan--

Every light in the house EXPLODES -- the room cast into 
SPARKING DARKNESS.

Jordan SCREAMS.

The closet door SPLINTERS OPEN --

-- THE BEAST EMERGES.

MASSIVE -- JAW FULL OF NEEDLE TEETH -- ON FOUR LEGS, BENT 
BACKWARDS -- A TAIL SWIPING BACK AND FORTH.

Keats mind tries to comprehend.

She moves for Jordan --

-- the Beast gets there FIRST.


                                     108.

It’s mouth SINKS DOWN.

Jordan SCREAMS.

Keats sees it all.

INT. ADAM’S APARTMENT - LATER

Keats sits in the middle of the floor.

The lights flicker around her -- the furniture KINDLING.

Blood SLICKS every surface.

She stands.

Moves to the FRONT DOOR -- in shock.

Opens it --

-- walks through 

-- BACK INTO THE APARTMENT.

With one difference.

In the center of the floor sits Stone’s RED TYPEWRITER.

On the wood in front a single word is CARVED.

WRITE.

Keats opens her mouth to SCREAM.

                             SMASH TO BLACK


