                INQUEST

                 by

               Josh Simon

Mike Esola
WME Entertainment
310.285.9000

George Heller
Apostle
310.945.2991 

3/11/13




 

           Based on true events. 


EXT. LES LOUETTES FRANCE - ROADWAY - DUSK

A small Peugot races its way through a dense forest of 
soaring pines.

INT. PEUGOT - CONTINUOUS

MICHAEL DAVIES (33), wearing a battered suit, is on his 
cell...

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Got some info back from the phone 
      records. 

             DAVIES
      Find anything?

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Usual listings for police stations,  
      officers. Two names with the 
      abbreviation DST next to them --

             DAVIES
      La Direction de la Surveillance du 
      Territoire. Handles espionage and 
      terrorism. 

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Checked with a source at the phone 
      company. No records of any of those 
      numbers dialed from Henris phones 
      the 30th. 
        (beat)
      No large cash withdrawals from his 
      bank account either.

Untangling a paper map, DAVIES spots his turnoff...

             DAVIES
      Ive gotta run. Tracked down 
      someone else who could be a break.

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Something about Henri?

             DAVIES
      Tell you when Im back tomorrow. 

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Okay, safe travels Michael. 


                                      2.

EXT. LES LOUETTES - WOODED AREA

DAVIES scans a secluded area -- eventually spotting a car 
parked in the distance. 

             DAVIES
        (shouting)
      James?

His voice echoes. Then silence. Slowly approaching the car... 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      James? Id like to speak with you. 
      Your wife said I could find you 
      here. 

A MASSIVE FIREBALL as the car ERUPTS. DAVIES dives for cover. 
A hail of shrapnel and foliage. Off his confused look we... 

CUT TO: 

INT. LONDON FLAT - BEDROOM - MORNING

SUPERIMPOSE:

Three months earlier. 

September 2007

DAVIES frantically dresses. Attractive and well-groomed, he 
nails the perfect necktie length in one go, all the while 
practicing a speech-- 

             DAVIES
      And so Lord Justice, it is 
      imperative that what has amounted 
      to a clear conflict of interest 
      violates...
        (beat)
      ...an overt conflict of interest 
      that offends any sense of 
      decency...
        (beat)
      ...a flagrant...

Scours for something in the cramped bedroom -- tossing sheets 
on the unmade bed, moving around stacks of books...

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
        (shouting)
      Honey?

No response. Racing downstairs. 


                                      3.

INT. DAVIES FLAT - KITCHEN

             DAVIES
      Catherine, have you seen my --

Bingo. Calmly eating cereal, his daughter HANNAH (7) sports 
the traditional white powdered wig worn by British lawyers. 
Kisses her on the cheek and grabs it. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Not a toy.

Wife CATHERINE scans the newspaper. 

             CATHERINE
      What time should we be there today?

             DAVIES
      Closing arguments are at noon. But 
      with the amount of media expected, 
      security could take an hour. 

             CATHERINE
      Speaking of media, is that the tie 
      youre wearing?

             DAVIES
      If my ability to persuade the jury 
      rests on fashion, then we have 
      larger problems.

Flipping the pages, CATHERINE suddenly visibly about 
something...  

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      What is it?

DAVIES looks at the paper. SLAMS his fist in disappointment.  

CUT TO:

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - MORNING

DAVIES storms through the corridors of Englands headquarters 
for criminal prosecutors. A maze of cramped offices and 
overflowing file boxes. 

He carries a briefcase in one hand and a stack of folders in 
the other, atop which a cup of coffee is balanced.

DAVIES struggles to open his office door. The coffee cup 
tumbles and the split coffee clings to his white dress shirt 
in a flailing attempt to avoid free fall. 


                                      4.

             DAVIES
      Bullocks!

Just missing his cue, CHRISTOPHER CLARKE (55) finds use for 
his considerable heft -- throwing it into the jammed door.  

             CLARKE
      Help you with that?

CLARKE grabs some of the folders and helps DAVIES into the 
office.

             DAVIES
      Just in time.

             CLARKE
      Whats gotten into you?

Throws him the newspaper... 

             DAVIES
      Alistair let the Smithe case settle 
      out. Two years of my work and I 
      find out in the bloody Times.  

             CLARKE
      A year in jail isnt an awful 
      result. 

             DAVIES
      Despite taking 5 million pounds 
      worth of bribes from BAE, on 
      release hell still be called The 
      Right Honourable. 

             CLARKE
      Eighth generation House of Lords. 
      Did you expect hed get sacked away 
      in Tower of London for the rest of 
      his life? 

             DAVIES
      Case could have made my career. 
      Ends up I get more respect from the 
      criminals I prosecute than my own 
      boss. 

             CLARKE
      Not much of a distinction there.

MRS. TRACY (65), more boarding school headmaster than 
secretary, stands at the door and delicately clears her 
throat. 


                                      5.

             MRS. TRACY
      Mr. Davies, telephone for you. 

             CLARKE
      Who is it?

             MRS. TRACY
      Didnt say. 

             DAVIES
        (to CLARKE)
      Right then, off you go.
        (picking up phone)
      This is Michael Davies.

Indistinct chatter on the other side of the line. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      This is quite a surprise. 

Skeptical, DAVIES peeks outside his office, looking up and 
down the halls to make sure this isnt a joke. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Yes, Im still here ... I know 
      where it is ... See you then, 
      cheers. 

DAVIES gathers his briefcase. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Mrs. Tracy, Ill be back this 
      afternoon. Have to go take care of 
      a few things. 

CUT TO:

EXT. HARRODS DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

DAVIES navigates a side street alongside the million-square 
foot shopping palace. Adjusting his suit to hide his coffee-
stained shirt, he enters through the door labelled EXECUTIVE 
OFFICES.  

INT. HARRODS DEPARTMENT STORE - OFFICE LOBBY

Tentatively approaching the secretary -- 

             DAVIES
        (whispering)
      Hello, Im Michael Davies. Here for 
      an appointment with Mr. Al Fayed. 


                                      6.

             SECRETARY
      Yes, Mr. Davies. Hell be with you 
      shortly. Can we get you anything 
      while you wait?

             DAVIES
      No thank you, Im fine.

DAVIES takes a seat, trying to conceal his nervousness, which 
is made all the more difficult upon noticing the store motto 
emblazoned above two large oak doors: 

Omnia Omnibus Ubique - All Things for All People, Everywhere. 

DISSOLVE TO:

One hour later. DAVIES has skimmed most of the available 
reading material. His impatience grows...

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Excuse--

             SECRETARY
        (without looking up)
      Almost ready Mr. Davies. 

The large doors thrust open and MOHAMMED AL FAYED emerges. 
DAVIES frustration is no match for the natural charm of the 
well-tanned, grandfatherly billionaire. 

AL FAYED uses both hands to grasp for one of DAVIES.  

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      My deepest apologies for keeping 
      you waiting. 

             DAVIES
      Yes sir, not a problem. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Right this way.

INT. HARRODS DEPARTMENT STORE - AL FAYEDS OFFICE

Panoramic views of London. Walls lined with pictures of AL 
FAYED and practically every world leader. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Please, have a seat. 

The SECRETARY delivers two cups of tea. 


                                      7.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
	(CONTD)
      These tea leaves are flown in 
      weekly from my farm in Assam. The 
      best youve tasted, yes? 

             DAVIES
      Rather pleasant, thank you.  
        (beat)
      I must admit, I was a bit perplexed 
      when you telephoned earlier.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      And Im guessing you probably still 
      are. 

             DAVIES
      Quite accurate, yes.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Do you remember a case you 
      prosecuted about two years ago? 
      This whole Arlington nonsense. 

             DAVIES
      Our nations largest defence 
      contractor knowingly selling 
      weapons to arm rebels in the Congo. 
      Violating a dozen national and 
      international laws. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I followed the case closely. And 
      was always impressed with the 
      bravery you showed going after 
      someone like that. 

             DAVIES
      Thank you, sir. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Ive seen your name surface here 
      and there since then. Which is why 
      I wanted to reach out to you for 
      some help. 

             DAVIES
      Along what lines?  

DAVIES, an OBSESSIVE NOTE-TAKER, manifests a distinctive 
brown, playing-card sized pocket notepad. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Ten years ago, my sons life was 
      taken in Paris.


                                      8.

             DAVIES
      Of course. My condolences. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Allah has his reasons. 

             DAVIES
      I have a daughter. I cant even 
      imagine how difficult it is to lose 
      a child in an accident like that. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I know people think Im crazy when 
      I say this. But it wasnt an 
      accident. 

             DAVIES
      With all due respect sir, I know 
      many theories exist as to the 
      cause. But there was a very 
      thorough investigation by the 
      French police.

AL FAYED throws up his hands -- swatting away the air 
containing DAVIES response. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Theres an old Egyptian saying -- 
      because we focused on the snake we 
      missed the scorpion. These 
      investigators assumed it was an 
      accident from the start. And they 
      failed to look into darker forces.

             DAVIES
      And just who are you alleging these 
      darker forces are? 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      The night they died, my son and 
      Diana told me that they were 
      engaged. I spoke to Diana myself. 
      She was completely full of 
      happiness. They told me they would 
      announce their engagement on Monday 
      morning, once she had spoken to her 
      sons when she had returned from 
      Paris.

             DAVIES
      And how does that lead to something 
      more than an accident? 

AL FAYED takes a deep breath -- 


                                      9.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Diana told me that she was 
      pregnant. The people who do not 
      want to see Dodi be step-father to 
      the future king wanted them dead. 

             DAVIES
      Youre suggesting that the Crown 
      had your son and Diana killed 
      because they were worried about her 
      marrying an Egyptian? 

AL FAYEDS temper gets the best of him...

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I lived here for 40 years, I give 
      my life to the country, I pay 
      billions in taxes, I employ 
      hundreds of thousands of people, I 
      pay hundreds of millions in 
      charity. And yet I never receive 
      any recognition from the Crown. Why 
      do you think that is?

Calming down...

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
	(CONTD)
      Maybe someone like you, lucky to be 
      born into a wealthy family, cannot 
      understand. 

             DAVIES
      Regrettably that wasnt the case. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Then you are just like me. I 
      started out the son of a school 
      teacher in Egypt. And on my own, I 
      rise to become one of the 
      wealthiest men in this world. And 
      yet you think I sound like a 
      lunatic. 

             DAVIES
      I hope you can appreciate that its 
      difficult for me to digest the 
      gravity of what youre saying. But 
      help me understand, why come 
      forward with this now? 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      The French investigation is done. 
      It is dead end. 


                                      10.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
	(CONT'D)
      I need someone in this country to 
      help. Someone on the inside. 

             DAVIES
      You could pick up the phone and 
      have my boss -- or the head of 
      Scotland Yard for that matter -- on 
      the phone immediately. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I have plenty of powerful friends 
      who owe me favours, yes. But 
      theyre all too scared for their 
      reputation. Even if they werent, 
      we both know the special breaks 
      given to royal associates, dont we 
      Mr. Davies? 

             DAVIES
      I dont have the power to initiate 
      something like this on my own. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      For now, Im just asking you to 
      think about it. 

Handing DAVIES a DVD... 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
	(CONTD)
      Please, my dear friend. Look at 
      this. Then tell me what you think. 
      I have no more options. 

             DAVIES
      It was nice meeting you Mr. Al 
      Fayed. I should go. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Please, call me Mohammed. 

CUT TO:

INT. DAVIES FLAT - OFFICE - NIGHT

DAVIES heaves a massive file box of documents onto his desk. 
The top page reads Official Notice of Dismissal: French 
Investigation. 

He settles in and starts reading... 


INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - NIGHT - (FLASHBACK)

Grainy, black-and-white security camera footage cuts between 
areas of a hotel: An empty hotel hallway. Loading docks. A 
service corridor. 

                                      11.

CUT TO:

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - CONTINUOUS

TITLE:

August 31, 1997. 12:04 AM.

Lobby of the oldest and most glamorous Ritz Hotel in the 
world. As F. Scott Fitzgerald once said, When youre in 
Paris, the only reason for not staying at the Ritz is lack of 
money.

THIERRY ROCHER, in a perfectly tailored dark suit and 
matching communications earpiece, moves through the hotel. 
Focused. Determined. On a mission. Over this we hear...

             BUSINESSMAN
	(V.O.)
      Give us one secret. 

             HENRI PAUL
	(V.O.)
      Impossible. 

             BUSINESSMAN
	(V.O.)
      Impossible, cant? Or impossible 
      wont?

             HENRI PAUL
	(V.O.)
      Well the moment I tell you, it no 
      longer exists as a secret.

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - BAR VENDOME

Flickering candlelight. Dark leather banquettes. Old school 
is too modern a description. HENRI PAUL, a balding, middle-
aged man, holds a table of three BUSINESSMEN rapt in 
conversation. 

A waiter delivers a round of drinks. 

             BUSINESSMAN
      Better yet, maybe I should ask how 
      you keep things that happen here 
      from getting out. 


                                      12.

             HENRI PAUL
      Concealing the truth is actually 
      quite simple. But deception is like 
      magic. Once you know how it works, 
      its always much less exciting than 
      you expected.
        (beat)
      Your cocktail, for example. 

             BUSINESSMAN
      Blood Mary?

             HENRI PAUL
      Invented here in this bar. Ernest 
      Hemingways fourth wife ... Mary 
      ... hated his drinking. So a 
      bartender came up with the idea of 
      using tomato juice as a mixer.

             BUSINESSMAN
      And whats the genius in that?

             HENRI PAUL
      Tomato juice masks the smell of 
      alcohol on the breath.
        (beat)
      Hemingway would say Bloody Mary 
      never smelt a thing.

ROCHER approaches the table, leans toward HENRIS ear and 
whispers. 

             ROCHER
        (en francais)
      Its time. 

             HENRI PAUL
      Gentlemen, if youll excuse me. 
      Time to go make some magic happen. 

ROCHER gives a command into his cufflink walkie. PAUL throws 
back the last sip of Ricard and gets up. As theyre walking 
away...

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - LOBBY

PAUL walks through lobby straightening his suit. Enters an 
elevator. Doors slide closed. Quiet. 

CUT TO:


                                      13.

EXT. PLACE VENDOME - NIGHT

Total bedlam. Hoards of paparazzi. 

A small motorcade of armor-reinforced black Mercedes and 
Range Rovers are ready to roll. Security guards and hotel 
employees swirl. 

Paparazzi kick-start motorcycles. Rev engines. Tighten 
gloves.  

CUT TO:

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - GUEST FLOOR

HENRI PAUL emerges from the elevator. At the end of a long, 
corridor, the doors to the Imperial Suite swing open. Two 
bodyguards, TREVOR REES-JONES and KIEREN WINGFIELD, flank a 
man and woman. 

             HENRI PAUL
      Your highness. Mr. Al Fayed. Good 
      evening. 

DIANA, PRINCESS OF WALES. Even at midnight, sunglasses 
perfectly perched atop her trademark blond bob to protect 
from the deluge of blinding paparazzi flashes. DODI AL FAYED 
wears designer jeans, a black shirt, and beige suede blazer. 

NOTE: Substantial footage of DIANA and DODI exist from 
security cameras located throughout the hotel. For the 
remainder of these scenes, the actors playing them are 
obscured. But we rely heavily on actual Close Circuit 
Television (CCTV) footage when possible.

             WINGFIELD
      Henri, youve been briefed on Mr. 
      Al Fayeds plan?

             HENRI PAUL
      Yes, the car is arriving at Rue 
      Cambon out back.

             WINGFIELD
      Ill head to the front and meet up 
      with the others. Well make it look 
      real -- the paparazzi will follow 
      us.

             HENRI PAUL
        (to Dodi and Diana)
      This way please. 


INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - SERVICE AREA

Beneath the hum of fluorescent lights, HENRI leads DIANA, 
DODI, and REES-JONES through the bowels of the hotels 
service corridors. 

                                      14.

             REES-JONES
      You know the route to Mr. Al 
      Fayeds apartment?

             HENRI PAUL
      I do. Shouldnt take more than ten 
      minutes this time of night.

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - REAR SERVICE ENTRANCE

The group arrives near the exit. A hotel phone mounted on the 
wall rings. HENRI answers and hands it to REES-JONES. 

             HENRI PAUL
      Its Wingfield for you.
        (beat)
      Excuse me for a moment. 

HENRI disappears into a side office alone. CCTV footage shows 
DODI and DIANA playful and affectionate with each other and 
in good spirits. 

             REES-JONES
      Hello.

             WINGFIELD
      Its Thierry. 

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - LOBBY - SIMULTANEOUS

             WINGFIELD
      We cant let Dodi go through with 
      this plan.

WINGFIELD holds his hand giving the team out front the 
standby signal.

             REES-JONES
        (hushed into the phone)
      I tried to stop him. But he just 
      wants to get away from these 
      Paparazzi.


                                      15.

             WINGFIELD
      Henri isnt a licensed chauffeur. 
      And were not even using a chase 
      car.

             REES-JONES
      Short of calling his father, 
      theres nothing else I can do. 

Henri Paul emerges from the office. A black Mercedes S280 
arrives at the back exit. 

             REES-JONES
	(CONTD)
      Transports here now. Have to go.

             WINGFIELD
        (into his cufflink)
      Departure imminent, copy.

EXT. PLACE VENDOME - NIGHT

ROCHER exits the front of the Ritz with two other men and 
jumps into the awaiting motorcade. The cars speed off and the 
paparazzi fall for the decoy bait and follow.

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - SERVICE AREA

             HENRI PAUL
      Your highness, follow me to the 
      passenger side. Mr. Al Fayed will 
      follow Trevor. And well be off. 

CUT TO:

CCTV footage shows DIANA playfully saluting HENRI PAUL. 

EXT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - RUE CAMBON

The rear entrance, along a narrow side-street, is nearly 
empty. TWO MEN on motorcycles linger in the distance. 

HENRI leads DIANA to the car, shuts the door, then slides in 
the drivers seat. Glancing at the distant motorcycles in 
rear-view mirror, he speeds off. 

CUT TO:


                                      16.

EXT. PARIS - VARIOUS STREETS - NIGHT

The Mercedes winds its way through Paris at night. Starting 
off on narrow streets at first, it darts past some of the 
citys most notable landmarks. The Eiffel Tower glowing in 
background. 

Finally emerging onto the open Cours Albert, a wide 
straightaway embankment road along the River Seine. 

The Mercedes picks up speed as TWO MOTORCYCLES give chase. A 
DARK SEDAN appears in front of the Mercedes while a WHITE 
FIAT UNO keeps pace just behind.

The pack blazes towards an underpass, PAUL signals to try and 
take an exit slip road on his right to avoid the tunnel and 
remain above-ground -- a route favoured by professional 
drivers. But the Mercedes is boxed in by a motorcycle and 
cant make the exit, forcing it underground. 

INT. ALMA UNDERPASS - NIGHT

As the camera makes the transition from the illuminated Paris 
skyline to the underpass, blackness. Tires screech. Piercing 
sounds of crunching metal. 

CUT TO:

INT. DAVIES FLAT - OFFICE - (PRESENT DAY)

DAVIES overhears KNOCKING at the front door. CATHERINE 
answers it and arrives with a package.

             CATHERINE
      From Harrods? Should I be worried 
      about a secret mistress?

             DAVIES
      Thanks love. Something for work. 

             CATHERINE
      Finish up and come to bed?

             DAVIES
      Few minutes. I promise. 

DAVIES peels back the packages delicately wrapped layers 
revealing an expensive white dress shirt, 250 price tag 
still attached. The enclosed note on Harrods stationary:

For our next meeting. MAF 


                                      17.

After thinking for a moment, he quietly closes his office 
door and puts the DVD AL FAYED handed him into the player. 

A blank screen appears with the title: Repossi Jewerly. 
Paris. August 30, 1997. Black-and-white security camera 
footage shows two men shopping for rings. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Dodi Al Fayed buying jewellery for 
      a beautiful woman. 
        (sarcastically)
      Im sure that doesnt happen 
      everyday. 

Jumping ahead three hours later, security footage shows the 
same man DODI was shopping with return to the store alone.

DAVIES takes a screen grab of the man and pastes it into an 
online image search index. Results return his identity: 
CLAUDE ROULET, assistant to the President of the Ritz Hotel.  

ROULET pulls out a brochure, pointing to a specific picture 
and is handed a package.

PAUSE. With a few clicks, DAVIES zooms in. The ring comes 
from a line called Dis Moi Oui. DAVIES types those words 
into his web browser and reads the results: Tell Me Yes

CUT TO:

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - MORNING

A knock on his office door... 

             MRS. TRACY
      Michael, Alistairs office just 
      called. He wants to see you 
      immediately. 

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - SENIOR OFFICES

If the lack of bustle and clutter on this floor doesnt 
indicate the seniority of its occupants, then the life-size 
paintings of aged jurists in white wigs certainly do. 

             SECRETARY
      Head right in.


                                      18.

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - ALISTAIR SILSBURYS 
OFFICE

ALISTAIR SILSBURY (60) is on the phone. A full head of white 
hair, SILSBURY has the square, sturdy frame of a Brit whose 
heritage can be traced back to Arthurian times. 

             SILSBURY
        (into the phone)
      Yes, sir. No, I completely 
      understand how sensitive this is. 
        (beat)
      You too. Good day Mr. Prime 
      Minister. 

SILSBURY slams down the phone and DAVIES goes pale.

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      Why in bloody hell would you take 
      it upon yourself to pay a visit to 
      Mohammed Al Fayed? 

             DAVIES
      Sir, he called me and asked for a 
      meeting. 

             SILSBURY
      Well, according to him, that wasnt 
      the case.

             DAVIES
      I was half expecting it to be a 
      practical joke in the first place. 

             SILSBURY
      Why dont you phone up the PM and 
      tell him your side of the story? 
      Im sure that explanation will 
      smooth things over. 

             DAVIES
      Im extremely sorry. If its any 
      consolation, I agree the man is 
      crazy.

             SILSBURY
      Hes spent years hawking his 
      conspiracy theories. 

             DAVIES
      He mentioned something about an 
      engagement ring, and --  


                                      19.

             SILSBURY
      -- the Repossi security footage?

             DAVIES
      Youve seen it?

             SILSBURY
      Let me guess, he also brought up 
      some old case you worked on. 
      Complimented your earnest work. 

DAVIES is deflated. 

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      Did you really believe youre the 
      first one in this office to whom he 
      reached out with his inane 
      conspiracy theories? 
        (beat)
      And by the way, he gets his fucking 
      tea from Tesco.

Picking up a hefty report. 

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      This has been well investigated by 
      the French authorities. 

             DAVIES
      Point taken. My apologies. Ill 
      happily stay clear of this one.

             SILSBURY
      Quite the contrary. 

             DAVIES
      Pardon?

             SILSBURY
      Youre not doing anything except 
      this case for the immediate future. 

SILSBURY tosses a stack of photos showing DAVIES coming and 
going from AL FAYEDS office. 

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      PM received a copy of these too. 
        (beat)



                                      20.

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      If the press finds out that someone 
      from our office was looking into 
      these accusations -- which Al Fayed 
      is able to prove thanks to your 
      meeting -- and it looks like the PM 
      has put a stop to it, the tabloids 
      will have a field day. 

             DAVIES
      Ill do whatever it takes to make 
      this right, Alistair.

             SILSBURY
      Quickly prove these damn theories 
      are nothing more than a grieving 
      fathers madness. 
        (beat)
      You are not to speak with Al Fayed 
      or his associates.

             DAVIES
      So who can I talk to?

             SILSBURY
      Clarke. Otherwise, corroborate the 
      French report. I just want to make 
      sure our assess are covered. 
        (beat)
      And Michael, be careful to not get 
      outplayed again. A man like that 
      didnt get to where he is by always 
      being honest.

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICES HQ - KITCHEN

DAVIES and CLARKE crowd a table in the office break room, 
doubling as their conference room. Stacks of documents litter 
the space.

             DAVIES
      Cant believe Ive gotten dragged 
      into this. 

             CLARKE
      Lets just run down some of these 
      leads so we can put this to an end. 


                                      21.

             DAVIES
      Most of the witnesses from that 
      night only saw Henri Paul having 
      one or two drinks, blood alcohol 
      tests showed him barely over the 
      limit. Maybe if we can shoot down 
      the engagement, the case collapses.

             CLARKE
      People say Diana publicly hinted at 
      it, but most hardly give it an 
      ounce of credibility. 

EXT. SAINT-TROPEZ MARINA - DAY - (FLASHBACK)

A group of reporters gather along a dock where The Jonikal, a 
60 meter mega-yacht, is moored. As DIANA climbs aboard the 
yacht, she fields some questions from the press. 

             CLARKE
	(V.O.)
      Reporters are assembled waiting for 
      Dianas arrival. She answers 
      questions about her land mine 
      campaign in Bosnia. And then as 
      shes boarding the yacht, she turns 
      and says Youre going to get a big 
      surprise, youll see, youre going 
      to get a big surprise with the next 
      thing I do.

EXT. CONFERENCE ROOM - (PRESENT DAY)

DAVIES erases grocery items from a white board and sketches 
down dates. 

             CLARKE
      What is it?

             DAVIES
      Dianas invited on holiday to St. 
      Tropez by Mohammed Al Fayed -- she 
      arrives on July 11 with her sons. 
      The accident happens on August 31. 
      I pulled their schedules. There 
      were only a total of 29 days where 
      they could have seen each other. 

             CLARKE
      She only dated Charles for 6 months 
      before they were engaged. 


                                      22.

             DAVIES
      He was future king of England. Id 
      get hitched to that old banger in 6 
      days. 

             CLARKE
      Dodi was the son of a billionaire. 
      She could have lived the royal life 
      without the baggage of being a 
      royal. 

             DAVIES
      But weve phoned about half a dozen 
      of  Dianas close friends to find 
      out what they knew of her 
      relationship with Dodi. 

CLARKE flips through some pages. 

             CLARKE
      Her best friend Lucia Flecha de 
      Lima: I am sure she wouldnt have 
      married Dodi. I dont think she was 
      ever that much in love with him.
        (beat)
      Richard Kaye, a journalist and 
      confidante: We spoke about whether 
      she was going to get married. She 
      said Absolutely not. Ive just got 
      out of one marriage and Im not 
      going to get involved in another 
      one.
        (beat)
      And my personal favourite, Lady 
      Annabel Goldsmith who point blank 
      asked Youre not doing anything 
      silly are you, like getting 
      married? And Diana replied I need 
      marriage like a rash on my face.

DAVIES silently thinks for a moment...

             DAVIES
      Someone could argue that we spoke 
      to the wrong people.

             CLARKE
      I phoned twenty of her closest 
      friends. What more do you need?


                                      23.

             DAVIES
      They were her friends. Since when 
      does a woman know when a chaps 
      popping the question -- especially 
      coming from someone as dramatic as 
      an Al Fayed? 

             CLARKE
      And Silsbury was clear not to get 
      back in touch with him his father. 
      Or any of his associates.  

             DAVIES
      Associated with Mohammed, yes. But 
      he didnt say we couldnt speak to 
      someone associated with his son. 

INT. WHITES CLUB - NIGHT

CLARKE and DAVIES inside the lavish St. James street mansion 
housing Londons only surviving 17th century all mens club 
(the Queen was invited only once). 

             CLARKE
      Hate these places. 

CLARKE under his breath, completely ignoring an arrogant 
host.

             HOST
      Excuse me, but this club is for 
      members only.   

CLARKE rolls his eyes and keeps walking. 

             HOST
	(CONTD)
      Im going to call security. 

             DAVIES
      Well spare you the step. 

DAVIES flashes his Queens Council identification.

             HOST
      My apologies.

             DAVIES
      Is there a way we can call for Mr. 
      Rene Delform? 


             HOST/DELFORM
      Looks like I can save you the step.

                                      24.

CUT TO:

INT. BAR AREA

A secluded corner of the bar. DAVIES and CLARKE talk to the 
DELFORM. 

             DELFORM
        (nervously)
      As I've told you and every 
      investigator, I don't know 
      anything.

             DAVIES
      You were Dodi's personal butler and 
      saw nothing? 

             DELFORM
      One doesnt spend seven years 
      travelling the world with one of 
      the richest men if he cant be 
      discreet. 

             DAVIES
      That's amusing. Because your book 
      agent is an old friend of mine from 
      law school. And he tells me you're 
      writing quite a tell all. Which is 
      unfortunate, because given how 
      strict libel laws are in the UK, if 
      the manuscript were to leak to 
      authorities, like my colleague Mr. 
      Clarke here, its chance of getting 
      published would be rather bleak. 

A beat. DELFORM considers his options...

             DELFORM
      That night, Dodi told me he was 
      going to propose to the Princess 
      and asked for champagne on ice when 
      they came back. 

             DAVIES
      And did it happen?

             DELFORM
      Later that evening I went to enter 
      the living room; I saw the Princess 
      sitting on the coffee table. 


                                      25.

             DELFORM
	(CONT'D)
      Dodi was on one knee in front of 
      her, caressing her belly and she 
      was looking at her hand. The only 
      thing I heard, was her say the word 
      'Yes.' I never thought much about 
      it until after their deaths when 
      the press claimed she was pregnant. 
      And I swear, thats all I know. 

EXT. WHITES CLUB

             CLARKE
      Impressive that you went to law 
      school with his agent. 

             DAVIES
      Dont know who his bloody agent is. 
      But figured since everyone else 
      wrote one, why not him. 

             CLARKE
      Ill meet you back at the office 
      tomorrow morning then? Alistair 
      wants an update at ten. 

             DAVIES
      Hopefully that will be the end of 
      it. 

INT. WESTMINSTER METROPOLITAN POLICE SERVICE - NIGHT

A frantic, noisy police precinct. A cadre of hooligans wait 
for processing. DAVIES whispers something to the DUTY 
OFFICER, who then points him through a doorway.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

DAVIES sits alone in a decaying interrogation room. An 
OVERWEIGHT OFFICER enters, staring at a clipboard... 

             OFFICER
      Lets have it -- says you want to 
      confess to a murder? 

             DAVIES
      Two of them actually.

The OFFICER, CHIEF INSPECTOR CLAYWORTH (55), looks up an 
smiles. Instant recognition. 


                                      26.

             CLAYWORTH
      Hell, I thought just one night Id 
      get lucky here. 

             DAVIES
      Who says youre not?

CLAYWORTH and DAVIES hug. 

             CLAYWORTH
      The guys were expecting to see you 
      at Lion tonight. Havent seen you 
      around here in years. 

             DAVIES
      Cant blame me for missing being 
      around guys like you.

             CLAYWORTH
      Uh oh, here come the compliments. 
      Cut the horse shit and tell me what 
      you need. 

             DAVIES
      You catch any bodies tonight.

             CLAYWORTH
      Two so far. 

             DAVIES
      What jurisdiction?

             CLAYWORTH
      One from Leeds and another from 
      Hammersmith. Why?

             DAVIES
      Lets go check out the situation at 
      Hammersmith. 

             CLAYWORTH
      Do I even want to know what this is 
      about? 

             DAVIES
      Ill tell you on the way.

CUT TO:

INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE - WHITE DRAWING ROOM

Black tie aristocrats mill about one of the palaces most 
ornate rooms. Guilt-bronze treasures. Massive chandeliers. 


SILSBURY speaks to a group of distinguished looking older 
guests. 

                                      27.

             ATTENDEE ONE
      Eton, you dont say. What house?

             SILSBURY
      College. 

             ATTENDEE ONE
      A Kings Scholar is among us. 

             ATTENDEE TWO
      I contribute to that endowment 
      myself.  

             ATTENDEE ONE
      Wonderful to allow boys to attend 
      on scholarship. 

SIR DAVID VENESS (60), striped insignia on his tuxedo, pulls 
SILSBURY aside. 

             SILSBURY
      Gentleman, if youll excuse me. 

             VENESS
      Silsbury, Ive been meaning to talk 
      to you.

             SILSBURY
      Yes, same. But figured Id wait 
      until this was over. 

             VENESS
      It is. 

INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE - GRAND HALL - CONTINUOUS

VENESS and SILSBURY walk through the hall past a massive 
curving marble grand staircase to a small side room. An 
elevator is protected by a member of the Queens Guard. 

VENESS swipes his ID badge and punches in a code, opening an 
elevator door.  

INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE TUNNELS - CONTINUOUS

The two emerge from the elevators into a sprawling tunnel 
system beneath the palace. 


                                      28.

             SILSBURY
      Where does this lead?

             VENESS
      Picadilly Tube line to the right, 
      in case they need a quick escape to 
      Heathrow. To the left it stretches 
      on to 10 Downing and Ministry of 
      Defence. And this way to my home 
      away from home, Scotland Yard.
        (beat)
      Considering the number of those 
      dreadful events I must attend, it 
      proves invaluable. 

Walking through the dim tunnels... 

             SILSBURY
      The sad life of being Commissioner. 

             VENESS
      I hear one of your tarts is asking 
      questions about Dianas passing. 

             SILSBURY
      To my dismay, yes. 

             VENESS
      Im sure you can imagine the 
      pressure Im getting on this.  

             SILSBURY
      Al Fayed finally got someone to 
      fall for his bait. And I promised 
      wed do some looking so hed hold 
      off the media. 

             VENESS
      If the tabloids find out about 
      this, theyll have a field day. And 
      even though neither of us were 
      quite lucky enough to be born into 
      the bloodline, were still 
      nourished off the royal teat. 

             SILSBURY
      Im on the same page David. This 
      will go away. 

CUT TO:


EXT. HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM MORTUARY - NIGHT

Located along a traffic restricted street, the block long 
brick building serves as the headquarters for Her Majesty's 
Coroner. 

                                      29.

             CLAYWORTH
      Really want to put yourself in the 
      middle of this? 

             DAVIES
      Like you taught me chief, just 
      following the facts. 

             CLAYWORTH
      Whats the plan here?

             DAVIES
      This is where Dianas body was 
      taken after it was repatriated. Id 
      get sacked if my boss found out I 
      was here. But if I just happen to 
      be paying an unofficial visit with 
      an old buddy--

             CLAYWORTH
      This is your ass Davies. Nothing 
      comes back to me on this one. 

INT. HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM MORTUARY - EXAMINATION ROOM - 
CONTINUOUS

DAVIES and CLAYWORTH push through the double swing doors. 
Bodies rest on stainless steel gurneys. DAVIES approaches a 
junior lab tech.

             DAVIES
      Do you know where I can find Dr. 
      Chapman? 

The tech points to a surly looking coroner in the distance, 
deep in concentration, slicing into a body. CLAYWORTH remains 
a few steps behind, within ear shot but keeps out of the 
fray. 

             DR. CHAPMAN
      Can I help you?

             DAVIES
      Here with the second unit from 
      Westminster. Waiting on some info 
      from a body that came in tonight. 


                                      30.

             DR. CHAPMAN
      You need room 224. Theres some 
      fresh coffee down the hall. 

DAVIES starts to wander, then turns back... 

             DAVIES
      Dr. Chapman, would you mind if I 
      asked you a quick question? 

Watching CHAPMAN dissect a body, DAVIES takes the lack of 
response as affirmation.  

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Is it possible to know if someone 
      is newly pregnant post mortem?

             DR. CHAPMAN
        (not looking up)
      We have many ways of telling. 
      Visible signs, obviously. If its 
      an early stage pregnancy, you need 
      blood or urine. 

             DAVIES
      What if the body is embalmed?

             DR. CHAPMAN
      Makes the examination more 
      difficult because it fixes or 
      hardens the tissues and involves 
      the use of a rather unpleasant 
      irritant.

             DAVIES
      And its pretty typical?

CHAPMAN shrugs...

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      What about for bodies being 
      repatriated?

CHAPMAN drops his tools, and looks up.

             DR. CHAPMAN
      I get the feeling this isnt just a 
      general inquiry. 

             DAVIES
      To be honest, Im curious about 
      Princess Diana. 


CHAPMAN shakes his head. But CLAYWORTH rolls his eyes and 
nods, signalling its okay for CHAPMAN to keep talking. 

                                      31.

             CHAPMAN
      I was quite surprised that there 
      had been time for embalming to take 
      place. And given the rapid return 
      the body here, it wasnt necessary 
      for my purposes. 

             DAVIES
      Do you know who approved it? 

             CHAPMAN
      We dont. 

CUT TO:

INT. PITI-SALPTRIRE HOSPITAL - SURGICAL ROOM - (FLASHBACK)

TITLE:

SUNDAY 31 AUGUST 1997 1:30 PM

Dianas body lays covered on a gurney. 

             CHAPMAN
	(V.O.)
      Theres protocol in place for 
      funerals of any of the Royals. The 
      Princess of Wales no longer had 
      Her Royal Highness status but she 
      was effectively still regarded as a 
      member Family.

A team of nurses move fans into the room. 

             CHAPMAN
	(V.O.)
      I didnt communicate with the 
      French authorities, nor did anyone 
      about the decision to embalm 
      Dianas body. Colin Tebbutt, a 
      security consultant and driver for 
      the Princess, travelled to Paris to  
      assist with repatriation of her 
      body. He was directly in contact 
      with Levertons, the family of royal 
      undertakers. 

TEBBUTT (55), stature of a former soldier, directs staff in 
the room as he talks on his cell phone. 


                                      32.

             TEBBUTT
      This room is getting hotter. 
      Everyone says the body will start 
      to deteriorate quite rapidly so Im 
      not sure if we can wait for 
      Levertons to arrive. Not to mention 
      Prince Charles is supposed to be 
      here by five.
        (beat)
      Let me ask.

Pulling aside a doctor assisting with the portable air 
condition units... 

             TEBBUTT
	(CONTD)
      Can we move her to the mortuary? 

             DOCTOR
      Its on the opposite end of the 
      grounds. Given the media interest, 
      No way to move her body right now. 

             TEBBUTT
        (into the phone)
      You hear that? 
        (beat)
      Okay, well put ice around her and 
      hopefully we can cool things down 
      enough. 

INT. HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM MORTUARY - EXAMINATION ROOM - 
(PRESENT DAY)

             CHAPMAN
      The embalming took place later that 
      afternoon by a French company. 
      After the body was viewed and 
      respects paid by her family and 
      other dignitaries, her body was 
      returned here that evening. And as 
      for who gave formal approval, I 
      have no idea. No one does. 

             DAVIES
      Did you test for pregnancy once the 
      body was back here?

             CHAPMAN
      Impossible. A urine sample would 
      have been obtained if available for 
      toxicology studies. But the bladder 
      was empty.  


                                      33.

             DAVIES
      What if we had access to blood now? 
      Could we test it?

             CHAPMAN
      Unreliable because of the amount of 
      transfusion the Princess had as 
      part of her medical treatment. Plus 
      impact of embalming fluid. 

             DAVIES
      Dr. Chapman, very appreciative of 
      your time. 

INT. THE RED LION PUB - NIGHT

A cramped, centuries old pub. DAVIES and CLAYWORTH finish 
their fourth pints. Surrounded by a rowdy group of cops, 
CLAYWORTH holds court. 

             CLAYWORTH
      ...Wed been on this damn stakeout 
      for seven hours already. Davies 
      goes out for a piss. Comes back 
      into the van with something brown 
      stuck to his shoe. Saying it smells 
      real bad. Then sticks his finger in 
      it. Licks it. And declares its dog 
      shit. Man, the sergeant almost 
      threw up right then and there.

Roars of laughter...  

             DAVIES
      The old peanut butter trick works 
      every time. 

             CLAYWORTH
      And look at him now. Nice suit. 
      Fancy job. 

             DAVIES
      Still stepping in dog shit. 

             CLAYWORTH
      Three years of law school at night, 
      with us covering for your ass. 
      Dont tell me it wasnt worth it.

             DAVIES
      Just saying. Its not necessarily 
      any better. 


                                      34.

             DAVIES
	(CONT'D)
      Here at least you can make a little 
      street justice on your own.

Simulates an elbow to the gut.

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Doesnt quite fly in court. 

             CLAYWORTH
      It could if you wanted it to. Just 
      like captain always said, we might 
      do things were not proud of...

Raising their drinks in unison...

             COPS
      ...but never anything were ashamed 
      of.

             DAVIES
      Sorry chaps. Ive got an early 
      morning appointment ... at 
      Kensington Palace.

Sarcastic ooohs from the group. 

             CHAPMAN
      Same time next week, punk.

EXT. KENSINGTON PALACE - DRIVEWAY - MORNING

The familiar palace where hundreds of thousands of flowers 
were placed when Diana passed away. 

Clad in perfectly tailored pinstripes, the always felicitous 
PAUL BURRELL (50) greets DAVIES & CLARKE.

             BURRELL
      Good day sirs.

             DAVIES
      Thanks for meeting us Mr. Burrell. 

BURRELL offers a polite bow.

             BURRELL
      My pleasure. Havent been back in 
      years and quite miss it. 

             DAVIES
      Figured given how much time has 
      passed, it might jog your memory to 
      meet here. 


                                      35.

EXT. KENSINGTON PALACE - PATHWAY

Walking through the manicured grounds... 

             BURRELL
      Most people dont realize this but 
      Kensington is divvied into multiple 
      homesteads. The Duke and Duchess of 
      Gloucester, the Duke and Duchess of 
      Kent, Prince and Princess Michael 
      of Kent, and the Duke and Duchess 
      of Cambridge all live here.  

Arriving at a large door... 

             BURRELL
	(CONTD)
      And, here we are. Number 8. Diana 
      lived here from her wedding in 
      1981.

INT. KENSINGTON PALACE - NUMBER 8

BURRELL leads through the stately apartment, with trappings 
similar to a modern resort suite.

             CLARKE
      You worked for the royals for quite 
      a while?

             BURRELL
      I went to visit Buckingham as a 
      teenager. I was captivated by the 
      history. Started working there when 
      I turned eighteen and became a 
      footman for the Queen. And came 
      here to work for Diana as her 
      personal butler in 1987. 

             CLARKE
      Few people closer to her than you.

             BURRELL
      Given her lifestyle, likely true. 

INT. KENSINGTON PALACE - NUMBER 8 - SITTING ROOM

They walk through a bedroom and into a bright, yellow-walled 
sitting area. BURRELL gestures toward chairs and they both 
sit.


                                      36.

             DAVIES
      Diana was always worried someone 
      was listening in on her phone 
      calls. Do you find that credible? 

             BURRELL
      Yes, I do. I believe that.

             DAVIES
      The flats at Kensington Palace were 
      swept from time to time, were they?

             BURRELL
      We had a former MI-6 officer sweep 
      her apartment on a few occasions. 
      One time, the equipment detected an 
      electronic signal, which indicated 
      a possible bugging device may have 
      been present behind that wall. 

Pointing behind the bed...

             BURRELL
	(CONTD)
      A day or two later, the gentleman 
      came back for a more detailed sweep 
      and the signal was gone. On one 
      occasion the Princess -- we went 
      looking ourselves.

             DAVIES
      You and she?

             BURRELL
      She was convinced there was a bug. 
      The security specialist persuaded 
      the Princess to take down the 
      mirror above her mantelpiece 
      because with modern technology you 
      can actually send a beam into a 
      room and reflect it from a mirror 
      and listen to the conversation. So 
      the Princess took down the mirrors.

             CLARKE
      They never went back up?

             BURRELL
      No.

             CLARKE
      Did she think that she was being 
      bugged anywhere else?


                                      37.

             BURRELL
      She did think that there could be a 
      tracking device on her car. And 
      that her mobile phones and the 
      landline were all being recorded. 
      The Duchess of York was a good, 
      close friend to the Princess and 
      told her to be careful because the 
      services monitored everything they 
      did.

             DAVIES
      Any idea how this paranoia started 
      in the first place?

             BURRELL
      If I had to guess, Id say with the 
      death of Barry Mannakee. A Personal 
      Protection Officer who had on 
      occasions been assigned to her. 
      Diana thought he had been 
      deliberately killed in a motorcycle 
      crash. In reality, he was sadly 
      struck by a seventeen year old girl 
      who had just passed her driving 
      test. But Diana never wavered. 

BURRELL steps up to a television.

             BURRELL
	(CONTD)
      May I?

He inserts a VHS tape. A grainy picture shows Diana in the 
same sitting room talking to someone off camera. 

             BURRELL
	(CONTD)
      Diana worked with a speech coach 
      who video taped many of their 
      sessions.

INT. KENSINGTON PALACE - SITTING ROOM - (FLASHBACK)

We now see the actual scene from the video tape unfold...

             SETTELEN
      What about your relationship with 
      Barry?

             DIANA
      When I was 24, 25, I fell deeply in 
      love with somebody who worked in 
      this environment, one of my 
      protection officers ... 


                                      38.

             DIANA
	(CONT'D)
      I was quite happy to give all this 
      up ... just to go off and live with 
      him. Well not all this, at this 
      moment, at the time, it was quite 
      something to have all this. Just to 
      go off and live with him. Can you 
      believe it? And he kept saying he 
      thought it was a good idea.

             SETTELEN
      Were you intimate with him? 

             DIANA
      I suppose you could say yes. I was 
      like a little girl in front of him 
      the whole time. Desperate for 
      praise. Desperate. I was always 
      wandering around trying to see him. 
      I just wore my heart on my sleeve 
      and was only happy when he was 
      around.

             SETTELEN
      Which eventually people caught on 
      to?

             DIANA
      It got so difficult, and people got 
      so jealous, bitchy, in this house. 
      And eventually he had to go.

Diana takes a breath, looks down at her hands -- 

             DIANA
	(CONTD)
      Charles told me about Barrys death 
      while we were in a limousine 
      heading to a glitzy function in 
      Cannes. That was the biggest blow 
      of my life ... Charles thought he 
      knew, but he never had any proof. 
      And he just jumped it on me like 
      that. I sat there all day going 
      through this huge high-profile 
      visit to Cannes -- thousands of 
      press. Just devastated.
        (beat)
      I should never have played with 
      fire and I did and I got very 
      burnt.

             SETTELEN
      You think the death was deliberate?


                                      39.

             DIANA
      It was all found out and he was 
      chucked out. And then he was 
      killed. And I think he was bumped 
      off. But, urm, there we are. I 
      don't, we'll never know... he was 
      the greatest friend I've ever had.

INT. SITTING ROOM - (PRESENT DAY)

DAVIES sits captivated by what he just saw.

             DAVIES
      You have more of these tapes?

             BURRELL
      The rest are completely innocuous. 
      You have to understand, Diana was 
      like a little girl at times. Im 
      not sure she truly believed this. 

EXT. KENSINGTON PALACE - DRIVEWAY

             CLARKE
      Ill head back to the office and 
      write this up.

             DAVIES
      Thanks. Got dinner with the in-laws 
      tonight. 

             CLARKE
      Ill send over the write up.

As CLARKE leaves, Davies takes out his cell phone. 

             DAVIES
      Clayworth, its me.
        (beat)
      Yeah, I know. Can you look up an NI 
      number. Paul Burrell. 

Jotting down the info in his notebook.

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Got it. I owe you one.

CUT TO:


EXT. SELF STORAGE FACILITY - NORTHWEST LONDON

DAVIES arrives at a multi-unit warehouse facility in an 
industrial part of town. 

                                      40.

             DAVIES
	(V.O.)
      I misplaced my credit card and want 
      to make sure there werent any 
      fraudulent charges.

             OPERATOR
	(V.O.)
      For security purposes can I get 
      your name and account or National 
      Insurance number?

He jumps a wrought iron fence, slightly tearing his suit. 

             DAVIES
	(V.O.)
      Yes, its Paul Burrell. JS 33 37 16 
      A. 

             OPERATOR
	(V.O.)
      I have your account here sir. 

             DAVIES
	(V.O.)
      I got a call from my bank about a 
      potential fraudulent safe deposit 
      box scam of some sort. 

             OPERATOR
	(V.O.)
      Not seeing any charges related to 
      that. 

             DAVIES
	(V.O.)
      And anything related to storage? 

             OPERATOR
	(V.O.)
      I am seeing charges for fifty-seven 
      pounds at Nationwide Self Storage 
      number 56 in Park Royal. 

INT. NATIONAL SELF STORAGE - CONTINUOUS

Davies quietly walks along a warren of seemingly unending 
storage units. 

             DAVIES
	(V.O.)
      You know what, my mistake. Ive 
      actually located my card. Thanks 
      for your help. 


Davies reaches Unit 56. He rustles the bolt and the aluminium 
door thunders against its frame. A flashlight clicks on in 
the distance.  

                                      41.

             SECURITY GUARD
      Everything alright down there?

             DAVIES
      Yes, sorry. Just fumbling for my 
      keys. 

DAVIES uses a simple device to discretely jimmy the lock. 

Rooting around musty furniture, he notices a stack of video 
tapes, similar to what BURRELL presented earlier, atop a file 
cabinet.

The echo of FOOTSTEPS down the hallway move closer. 

DAVIES opens and closes drawers, finding a file that catches 
his interest. Skimming through paperwork, he reveals a look 
of total shock. 

Grabbing a single piece of paper, DAVIES frantically puts 
things back in order and locks up. 

Seconds from getting caught, he peaks back from around the 
corner to see BURRELL unlocking the unit. 

CUT TO:

INT. CAVENDISH MANOR - NIGHT

DAVIES is led through a massive great room, lined with 
portraits of austere British aristocrats. 

INT. DINING ROOM

In the distance, dinner service is being cleared by a cadre 
of white gloved servants. And older man and woman are getting 
up from the table.  

But these arent strangers ... HANNAH bolts from her seat. 

             HANNAH
      Daddy!

Picking her up...

             DAVIES
      Sorry Im late. 


                                      42.

             CATHERINE
      Come, sit down. Mum and dad asked 
      to save you a plate.

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Certainly dont want you to go 
      hungry.

             LADY CAVENDISH
      We were just about to take Hannah 
      to the Friesen stables.

             DAVIES
      Again, terribly sorry for being 
      late. 

             CATHERINE
      I told them how busy youve been. 
      How was Kensington?

CATHERINE is clearly proud of her husband, though he bristles 
a bit at the question. 

             LADY CAVENDISH
      I was there for a luncheon last 
      week hosted by the Duchess of Kent.  

             DAVIES
      Well my presence was probably not 
      quite as welcome.  

             LORD CAVENDISH
      How so?

             DAVIES
      Nothing to bore you with. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Nonsense. Were very interested in 
      your work. 

             DAVIES
      Well if you must know, Ive been 
      asked to look into the death of 
      Princess Diana. 

CAVENDISH cant stifle an incredulous laugh. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Apologies, Michael. Dont blame 
      you. I know youve always been a go 
      getter, but I find it amusing 
      Alistairs judgement hasnt changed 
      much since our days at Eton.


                                      43.

             LADY CAVENDISH
      Lets go Hannah before it gets too 
      late. Well let you two eat in 
      peace.

CATHERINE and DAVIES remain alone.

             CATHERINE
      I know youll hate me for saying 
      this but my father is right. 

             DAVIES
        (sarcastically)
      I do appreciate him not wanting me 
      to starve. 

             CATHERINE
      About Diana. I dont think you 
      should be doing this. 

             DAVIES
      Your father is the last person Id 
      listen to on this. If I had taken 
      his advice, you wouldnt have me as 
      the perfect husband. 

             CATHERINE
      Im being serious Michael. 

             DAVIES
      I uncovered a letter tonight. From 
      Diana. That she wrote to her butler 
      warning that she thought someone 
      was out to murder her. 

DAVIES shows her the letter. 

             CATHERINE
      You believe its real? 

             DAVIES
      This obviously isnt the original. 
      But Ill find -- 

             CATHERINE
      -- Im sorry but I just dont 
      believe it. I know youre 
      frustrated with the Smithe case 
      settling and you want to prove 
      yourself, but over this?


INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - DAVIES OFFICE - MORNING

DAVIES has been reading through documents all night -- and 
looks of it. A mail cart comes by and drops THE DAILY MIRROR 
on his desk. 

                                      44.

DAVIES is jolted by the lead story.  

             DAVIES
      How in bloody hell...

We see the headline: 

DIANA LETTER SENSATION: 'THEY WILL TRY TO KILL ME

EXT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE - MORNING

A dozen satellite news trucks are stationed along the 
security barrier. DAVIES pushes his way through a crowd of 
photographers. 

INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE - OFFICE OF THE QUEENS CORONER

DAVIES, SILSBURY, and ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER VENESS cram into 
the office, otherwise filled with decaying textbooks and a 
collection of ancient medical instruments. 

The white-haired MICHAEL BURGESS, the Queens coroner, and 
SIR PAUL CONDON, New Scotland Yard Commissioner burst in... 

             COMMISSIONER CONDON
      Bloody unbelievable.
        (reading from the paper)
      Princess Diana claimed there was a 
      plot to kill her in a car crash in 
      a handwritten letter only 10 months 
      before she died. She gave it to her 
      butler Paul Burrell with orders 
      that he should keep it as 
      "insurance" for the future.

             DAVIES
      We think Burrell released it to the 
      media? Why now?  

             SILSBURY
      Publicity is my guess. Rumour has 
      it hes writing a book. No word of 
      this from him yesterday I presume?


                                      45.

             DAVIES
      No, none. 
        (beat)
      You have the original?

CONDON slides the letter, in a plastic sleave, across the 
table to DAVIES.

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
        (reading out loud)
      This particular phase in my life 
      is the most dangerous. My husband 
      is planning an accident in my 
      car, brake failure and serious head 
      injury in order to make the path 
      clear for Charles to marry.
        (skimming)
      The letter was written in October 
      of 1996. Only ten months before the 
      accident.

             VENESS
      Burrell claims Diana thought that 
      the Queen was trying to undermine 
      her. Her public support was growing 
      while the royal subjects were 
      losing respect for her own precious 
      son.

             DAVIES
      Is Burrell for real on this? 

             COMMISSIONER CONDON
      Unfortunately, we think hes very 
      trustworthy on this topic. 

             DAVIES
      How so?

COMMISSIONER CONDON looks around the room and takes a deep 
breath. 

             VENESS
      We have actually been aware of 
      Dianas claims for some time now. 

             CORONER BURGESS
      You knew of the letter?

             COMMISSIONER CONDON
      Its a bit more complicated than 
      that.


             VENESS
      We were previously made aware of 
      similar concerns. 

BURGESS discomfort is palpable. 

                                      46.

             VENESS
	(CONTD)
      I know you have plenty of reason to 
      be pissed. But let me explain. 

             CORONER BURGESS
      Please try. 

             VENESS
      Is the name Lord Mishcon familiar 
      to you? 

             DAVIES
      Dianas former legal 
      representative. 

             VENESS
      In 1995, the Princess of Wales 
      apparently believed that both she 
      and Camilla Parker Bowles were to 
      be put aside. She shared her 
      concerns with Mishcon. Told him 
      that reliable sources whom she 
      didnt wish to name had informed 
      her that whether by car accident or 
      other means, efforts would be made 
      to get rid of her. Or at least to 
      see that she was so injured as to 
      be declared unbalanced. Mishcon 
      didnt really believe it was 
      credible. But for good measure, he 
      took notes and dated it. 

             COMMISSIONER CONDON
      Couple weeks after Dianas death, 
      he met with David and me to bring 
      the note to our attention. He read 
      out the note and emphasised that he 
      was acting in a private capacity 
      rather than on behalf of his firm 
      or the Royal Family.

             DAVIES
      And you did nothing?


                                      47.

             VENESS
      We decided it best kept private 
      unless there was some relevant 
      suspicion concerning the death or 
      Lord Mishcon gave us permission. 
      Everyone agreed that the Princess 
      died in a tragic accident. If the 
      circumstances of her death were to 
      be regarded as suspicious, the note 
      and the Princess of Wales concerns 
      would be revisited. In our view 
      these conditions never arose. 

             DAVIES
      Until today, when the Mirror 
      printed an article.

             SILSBURY
      We should talk to Mischon and clear 
      all of this up.

             VENESS
      He passed away a year ago. 

BURGESS rises from his chair and looks out the window at the 
phalanx of cameras. 

             BURGESS
      Gentlemen, you dont need me to 
      tell you its only a matter of time 
      before the press finds out about 
      this as well. We dont have any 
      other options but to open a formal 
      and public inquiry. 

             VENESS
      Were really elevating this to a 
      full blown trial inquest?

             BURGESS
      Jury hearing and all. In open 
      court. My duty is to investigate 
      the death of anyone whose body is 
      lying within the limits of any of 
      the Queen's palaces or any member 
      of the family. A formal inquest is 
      the only way to do it at this 
      point. 

             SILSBURY
      So, what do we tell the press about 
      timing. Why now? 


                                      48.

             BURGESS
      We say the delay in holding the 
      inquests arose from legal 
      proceedings in France. Despite the 
      fact that a two-year French 
      investigation concluded that the 
      driver Henri Paul, who was also 
      killed, was drunk and driving too 
      fast, our laws require an inquest 
      when an unnatural or violent death 
      occurs abroad and the body is 
      brought into England or Wales. 

             SILSBURY
      So how should we proceed? 

             BURGESS
      I need you to make inquiries and 
      prepare a report that will 
      determine the basis for the 
      courtroom process.  

             COMMISSIONER CONDON
      Silsbury and his team will lead the 
      investigation.

             BURGESS
      After you report back to me with 
      the official investigation, well 
      empanel a jury, hear witnesses and 
      conduct a formal inquest to put 
      this to rest once and for all. 

As the meeting breaks up, SILSBURY pulls DAVIES aside.

             SILSBURY
      Bloody awful your first time at 
      Buckingham is spent in the 
      Coroner's office. 
        (beat)
      Let me help keep your career out of 
      the quicksand Michael. My advice: 
      tie this up as fast as possible. 
      Your next step should be Paris.

             DAVIES
      Retrace the original investigation, 
      right. 

SILSBURY passes him a name and phone number.

             SILSBURY
      Take this with you.


                                      49.

INT. GARE DU NORD STATION - MORNING

Throngs of travellers weave around DAVIES as he stands out 
front of the station, jotting in his notepad. 

             SILSBURY
	(V.O.)
      An old Eton pal who worked for the 
      French embassy here. He can be 
      trusted and is connected enough to 
      get you whatever you need. 

Deep in thought, DAVIES is startled -- 

             LECONTE
      Monsieur Davies?

             DAVIES
      Yes.

             LECONTE
      Michel Leconte. Pleased to meet 
      you.

             DAVIES
      Appreciate your being available on 
      such short notice. 

             LECONTE
      Anything for Alistair. 

             DAVIES
      My apologies for the inconvenience. 

             LECONTE
      Not at all. He didnt tell me you 
      used to be a detective. 

LECONTE pulls a similar brown, fraying notepad from his 
pocket. 

             LECONTE
	(CONTD)
      Tools of the trade. I did 20 years 
      as an inspector for the national 
      police here. Retired now, but 
      always happy to get back in the 
      game for a bit.

             DAVIES
      Well in that case, lets get 
      started. 

             LECONTE
      Where to first?


                                      50.

             DAVIES
      Meeting scheduled at the Ritz. 

CUT TO:

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - ALISTAIR SILSBURYS 
OFFICE

             CLARKE
      You wanted to see me sir?

SILSBURY quietly gets up from his desk and closes the door. 

             CLARKE
	(CONTD)
      Nothing like a closed door to pique 
      my interest. 

He sits down uncomfortably close to CLARKE and almost 
whispers...

             SILSBURY
      You were at the Burrell meeting?

             CLARKE
      Yes, did you read my write up?

             SILSBURY
      During the interview he showed you 
      a tape of Diana? 

             CLARKE
      He did. 

             SILSBURY
      Those have been missing since the 
      initial police investigation at 
      Kensington after her death. 

             CLARKE
      What are you suggesting?

             SILSBURY
      Burrell stole the tapes. And who 
      knows what else. Im getting a 
      warrant issued immediately. 

             CLARKE
      Burrell was awarded the Royal 
      Victorian Medal by the Queen. He 
      practically worshipped that family. 
      Theres no way hed do anything 
      that outrageous. 


                                      51.

             SILSBURY
      In a best case scenario, this turns 
      up nothing and he was merely 
      protecting Dianas legacy --

             CLARKE
      -- but if we arrest him, his 
      credibility will be shot. The 
      letter from Diana and everything 
      hes given us will be undermined -- 

             SILSBURY
      -- and this ends quickly. 

             CLARKE
      Dont do this to Davies. 

             SILSBURY
      Do not to breathe a word to Davies 
      about this until after Burrell is 
      in custody. Is that clear? 

CLARKE, a bit torn, is silent.

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      Michael cant see it, but we both 
      know what this will do to his 
      future. Im not getting dragged 
      down with him. 

INT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - DAY

DAVIES and LECONTE enter the same lobby we saw in flashback 
the night of the crash.  

             LECONTE
      I have some background information 
      for you on Mr. Paul.

             DAVIES
      I didnt even ask --

             LECONTE
      Figured I should at least know what 
      I was getting myself into. 

Pulls out the familiar notepad. 

             LECONTE
	(CONTD)
      Born in July 1956, son of a school 
      teacher. 



                                      52.

             LECONTE
	(CONTD)
      Between December 1978 and November 
      1979 he did his stint in the 
      National Service and went to the 
      Rochefort airbase, where he became 
      Chef de Section Protection, a 
      security team leader. 

             DAVIES
      When did he start here?

             LECONTE
      In 1983. After trying to open a 
      private detective agency. Worked 
      here ever since. Most people 
      describe him a discreet and few 
      knew anything about his private 
      life. 

ROULET approaches, immediately displaying the exceedingly 
friendly demeanour of someone who has spent a lifetime in the 
hospitality business. 

             ROULET
      Messieurs, welcome to the Ritz. Im 
      Claude Roulet.

             DAVIES
      Thank you for seeing me on such 
      short notice. 

INT. BAR VENDOME - CONTINUOUS

             ROULET
      So, what can I answer for you?

             DAVIES
      You were here the night of the 
      accident?

             ROULET
      I was the assistant to the 
      President, who was away on holiday. 
      So I was filling in. 

             DAVIES
      What do you remember about Henri 
      that night?

             ROULET
      At around 7 PM he told me he was 
      leaving here. The Princess and Dodi 
      had left for Dodis apartment, 
      where they were planning to stay. 


                                      53.

             DAVIES
      So Henri didnt expect them to come 
      back to the Ritz?

             ROULET
      They were planning to have dinner 
      at Benoits Restaurant, but at the 
      last minute they decided to eat 
      here.

             DAVIES
      And did you inform Henri at that 
      point?

             ROULET
      With the arrival of Dodi and Lady 
      Di and the paparazzi following 
      them, it was chaos in the entrance 
      to the hotel. I called Henri and 
      got the answering machine. Then I 
      called him on his mobile and it was 
      on voice mail. I didnt leave a 
      message.

             DAVIES
      But somehow he ended up back at the 
      hotel on his own accord? 

             ROULET
      I called Monsieur Tendil, the guard 
      in the lobby, again at around 23:25 
      hours but it was Henri who 
      answered. I was very surprised and 
      asked him what he was doing there. 
      Henri Paul decided to return to the 
      hotel off his own bat and without 
      being asked by Tendil or myself, 
      that anyway is what he said to me 
      himself over the phone.

             DAVIES
      Is Mr. Tendil available? 

             ROULET
      I believe he should be here by now. 

INT. SERVICE COORIDORS

The same hallways navigated by Dodi and Diana preceding the 
accident. DAVIES spotting security cameras...


                                      54.

             DAVIES
      Ive seen security footage from 
      August 30, but not any tapes from 
      this area.  

             ROULET
      We had a very rudimentary system 
      until recently. These are all new. 
      In 1997, these cameras didnt cover 
      the bar or the area near the 
      Imperial Suite.

ROULET swipes an access card, ushering them into the security 
office. 

             ROULET
	(CONTD)
      Right this way. 

INT. SECURITY OFFICE

A bank of television monitors show various security cameras 
from throughout the hotel.

             ROULET
      Francois, this is Messieurs Davies 
      and Leconte. I briefed you about 
      their presence today. Would you 
      mind if they asked you a few 
      questions?

             TENDIL
      Of course not.

             DAVIES
      What Im wondering is if you 
      remember Henri Pauls mental state 
      the night of the accident?

             TENDIL
      Same as normal. Despite whats been 
      written, he wasnt intoxicated.

             DAVIES
      The plan was to simply drive Diana 
      and Dodi back to Dodis apartment. 
      Did you speak to anyone about the 
      new itinerary? 


                                      55.

             TENDIL
      I spoke about it with Henri. At one 
      point, Mr. Paul went off upstairs 
      to the suite where Dodi and the 
      Princess were, and a few minutes 
      later he returned and told us that 
      there had been a change of plan. 

             DAVIES
      When Henri told you that, did he 
      tell you he was going to drive the 
      vehicle?

             TENDIL
      Yes. I told him it was not for him 
      to do so in view of his position at 
      the heart of the hotel. He was the 
      head of security, and it was rather 
      the job of Dodi Al Fayeds usual 
      driver. But Henri insisted. 

             DAVIES
      Did the other bodyguards voice 
      concern with the plan?

             TENDIL
      Trevor Rees-Jones was very 
      frustrated. Eventually he seemed to 
      calm down. Remained totally 
      professional. He was just 
      frustrated at the lack of 
      information and the disregard of 
      his advice. 

DAVIES flips through his notepad...

             DAVIES
      One final thing. Henri Paul had 
      roughly 1,200 on his person the 
      night of the accident. About 13,000 
      Francs. Is it typical for him to 
      carry that amount of cash?

             ROULET
      Sometimes our guests provide 
      generous tips. But that amount is 
      rather large. And I usually hear 
      word of it, which I did not in this 
      case. 


                                      56.

EXT. RITZ HOTEL PARIS - EVENING

             DAVIES
      What time is the roadway shut down 
      tomorrow?

             LECONTE
      At nine after morning traffic. And 
      we only have a three hour window to 
      reconstruct the accident scene. 

The valet arrives with LECONTEs Mercedes. 

             LECONTE
	(CONTD)
      Shall I drop you at your hotel? 

             DAVIES
      Im going to visit Henri Pauls 
      neighbourhood. See if anyone can 
      remember seeing him the night of 
      the accident. 

             LECONTE
      I think your time might be better 
      spent resting up for tomorrow. The 
      police canvassed that route 
      immediately after the accident and 
      no one remembers seeing him. 

DAVIES waving his notebook...

             DAVIES
      You should know, this thing doesnt 
      fill up by itself.  

             LECONTE
      Very well. I will pick you up at 8.

CUT TO:

EXT. PARIS - RUE DES PETITS CHAMPS - NIGHT

HENRIS apartment entrance is jammed between romantic cafes 
and tiny boutiques. DAVIES canvasses a tangle of narrow, 
classically French streets. 

Tslking on his mobile...

             DAVIES
      Im sorry for being so frustrated 
      my love. 



                                      57.

             DAVIES
	(CONT'D)
      After visiting about two dozen 
      establishments, at least I know 
      where Henri Paul wasnt on August 
      30. He just seems to have vanished 
      that night. Anyway, enough about 
      work. Does Hannah miss me? 

DAVIES stops and notices a suspicious reflection from behind 
in a shop display window. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      I need to call you back.

Hanging up, he quickens pace and turns a corner. Still 
sensing a presence, he deliberately darts across an 
intersection. Horns blare as hes nearly run over. DAVIES 
peels off into a pub...

INT. PUB - BATHROOM

...pushing through the crowd into the loo. 

A gangly, tall man with dark features slowly enters. 

Before the man can react, DAVIES flips him around and pins 
him against the wall -- 

             MAN
      -- Please ... Im sorry I had to 
      follow you. I needed to make sure 
      youre alone -- 

             DAVIES
      -- Who are you?

             MAN
      Im an American journalist working 
      on a story about Henri Paul.

DAVIES cautiously release the man allowing him to turn...

             DAVIES
      Im listening. 

             MAN
      Youre not the only one with good 
      sources. I know what youre doing 
      here. And I think I have some 
      information about Henri Paul 
      secretly working for French 
      intelligence. 


                                      58.

             DAVIES
      What do you mean?

             MAN
      Tomorrow night, meet me here.

He hands DAVIES a slip of paper with an address. 

             DAVIES
      But how did you --

             MAN
      Thats all I can say. 

The man exits. DAVIES composes himself, and by the time he 
follows, the man is absorbed by the crowd. 

EXT. PUB - CONTINUOUS

On the street, DAVIES runs directly into LECONTE. A bit 
suprised... 

             DAVIES
      Leconte?

             LECONTE
      I was just having dinner there 
      across the street. Now would like 
      that lift to your hotel? 

             DAVIES
      Thats okay, but thank you.

             LECONTE
      Is everything okay?

             DAVIES
      Yes, fine. Just need a little fresh 
      air. 

             LECONTE
      Okay, see you tomorrow. 

DAVIES walks off and pulls out his phone.  

             DAVIES
      Clarke. I need you to look into 
      something for me. 

             CLARKE
      What is it?


                                      59.

             DAVIES
      Can you take a look through Pauls 
      phone diary. We have a copy in 
      evidence. Cross reference the 
      numbers with any known French 
      government related listings. Also, 
      check his bank records and see if 
      he made any large withdrawals 
      within a couple weeks of the 
      accident. 

             CLARKE
      Easy enough. 

             DAVIES
      Anything else going no?

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Clarke? 

             CLARKE
      Michael, you should get back here 
      soon.

Silence.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Darkness. DAVIES, sound asleep, is BOLTED awake by the 
ringing telephone. Needs a moment to get his bearings. 

             DAVIES
      Hello? Okay, give me five minutes. 
      Ill meet you downstairs. 

Gets up. Wipes his face. Looks at the alarm clock: 4:19 AM

EXT. SIPA PRESS AGENCY - NIGHT

Glowing police sirens illuminate a commercial business 
district. LECONTE and DAVIES push their way underneath the 
crime scene tape. 

             LECONTE
      Sipa is one of the leading photo 
      agencies in France. They cover news 
      events, celebrities --

             DAVIES
      And royal visits -- 


                                      60.

             LECONTE
      One of the biggest repositories of 
      paparazzi photographs of Diana.

INT. SIPA PRESS AGENCY - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

A team of paramedics hoist up a stretcher with a security 
guard groaning in agony. Theyre approached by a female 
OFFICER. 

             OFFICER
      Hell survive. Shot in the foot. 

             LECONTE
      Im Michel Leconte. This is Michael 
      Davies. Sergeant Fouquet called me.

             OFFICER
      Yes, Im Captain Annie Sibra. I was 
      one of the first investigators to 
      arrive on the scene. 

             LECONTE
      So what happened?

SIBRA walks them through the office lobby pointing out key 
locations. 

             SIBRA
      At approximately zero thirty 
      suspect enters the building saying 
      hes here to drop off photos. 
      Security guard opened the door and 
      the suspect pulled a gun and 
      demanded to be taken to the second 
      floor.

             DAVIES
      So he knew what he wanted. 

             OFFICER
      Struggle ensued as the security 
      guard tried to overpower the 
      suspect, and that is how our howler 
      was shot in the foot. 

INT. SIPA PRESS AGENCY - SECOND FLOOR

Emerging from an elevator.


                                      61.

             OFFICER
      The guard and a computer programmer 
      in the building were secured face 
      down on the floor here. Then the 
      suspect called someone and two more 
      hooded suspects came up about five 
      minutes later. Suspects demanded 
      alarm and door codes. They hit a 
      few locations on this and the third 
      floor. 

             LECONTE
      Whatd they get?

             OFFICER
      Right now, still taking inventory. 
      But looks like they left with a few 
      laptops and some CD photo archives. 

             LECONTE
      Heres my number. Call me when you 
      have a final inventory of what 
      specific photos are missing. 

             OFFICER
      Yes, sir. Will do. 

EXT. SIPA PRESS AGENCY - DAYBREAK

LECONTE and DAVIES talk quietly on a street corner, out of 
earshot of early morning commuters. 

             DAVIES
      What are you thinking here?

             LECONTE
      You know, there was another photo 
      burglary the night after the car 
      accident.

             DAVIES
      What do you mean?

             LECONTE
      September 1, 1997. A man by the 
      name of Lionel Cherruault, a press 
      photographer specialising in the 
      Royal Family and Diana in 
      particular, was asleep with his 
      wife. Someone broke in and stole 
      his computer hard drive containing 
      his photo archive. Still unsolved. 


                                      62.

             DAVIES
      Somebody is trying to cover up any 
      photographic evidence from around 
      the time of the crash. Do we know 
      what press agency represented 
      Cherruault?

             LECONTE
      Youre standing right in front of 
      it. 

CUT TO:

EXT. COURS ALBERT - ALMA UNDERPASS - MORNING

The normally bustling urban highway is cordoned off by 
police. A forklift delicately lowers the smashed Mercedes 
from the wreck into the exact place in the tunnel where the 
accident occurred. 

His paunch making bending over a chore, DAVID PRICE (57) 
spray paints numerical markings on the roadway.

             PRICE
      First time these roads have been 
      blocked since the morning after the 
      accident. 

             DAVIES
      You must be David Price?

             PRICE
      I am. 

             DAVIES
        (to LECONTE)
      Mr. Price is a forensic accident 
      investigator at the Transportation 
      Research Laboratory. Figured hed 
      be worth having here today. 

             PRICE
      Before we get to the car, lets 
      walk the scene. 

             DAVIES
      Leconte, what do you know from that 
      night?

They start a hundred meters from the tunnel entrance. The 
road starts above ground and slopes down into an underpass. 


                                      63.

             LECONTE
      The Mercedes was travelling along 
      the Cours Albert in this direction. 
      At that time of night, there arent 
      many cars on the road here. 
      Witnesses claimed to have seen the 
      Mercedes being followed towards the
      underpass by motorcycles. At least 
      six witnesses described a dark car 
      ahead or level with the Mercedes as 
      it entered the underpass.

             DAVIES
      What about blocking its path?

             LECONTE
      Professional drivers would have 
      taken the exit slip road off to the 
      right here and not gone 
      underground. Witnesses say a 
      motorcycle to the right impeded its 
      exit. 

Walking towards the entrance to the tunnel...

             DAVIES
      What about the car itself?

             PRICE
      No evidence was found of anything 
      attached to the car that could have 
      affected its control. Nothing 
      considered likely to have affected 
      control of the car during the 
      approach to the crash was found.

             DAVIES
      So what happened in your opinion? 

             PRICE
      I think youre dealing with a 
      driver who lost control when the he 
      started to perceive the extent of 
      the hazard presented by a nearby 
      car, and thus the need to take 
      avoiding action.

             DAVIES
      Witnesses described seeing a white 
      flash before the crash. Make 
      anything of that?


                                      64.

             PRICE
      When a car is travelling in a 
      straight line on a level surface, 
      the pattern of the headlights
      on the road and walls ahead will be 
      steady. However when a car turns 
      suddenly, for whatever reason, the 
      beam of the headlights will alter 
      direction accordingly. To an 
      observer who is momentarily aligned 
      with the beam or with its 
      reflection off a wall as the car 
      turns, the brief increase in light 
      intensity will effectively be a 
      flash. 

Approaching the car...

             LECONTE
      No one was wearing seat belts. 

             DAVIES
      And Diana was sitting here in this 
      side, right?

             LECONTE
      Yes.

Noticing a small drop of blood on the carpet... 

             DAVIES
      Leconte, can we have someone take 
      this sample?

             LECONTE
      We have plenty of samples from 
      everyone in the car. But as you 
      wish.

Signals to a tech to take care of the swab.

             DAVIES
      A motorcycle was described by 
      witnesses leaving the underpass 
      immediately before the collision 
      travelling fairly quickly, at 
      high speed or as taking off like 
      a shot. 

Inspecting at scratch along the door...

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      What about these white marks?


                                      65.

             LECONTE
      Based on paint samples taken from 
      the side mirror and the door, we 
      think a white Fiat Uno was involved 
      in the crash. 

             DAVIES
      And whose Fiat did that turn out to 
      be?

             LECONTE
      Frankly, we dont know. The paint 
      was from a model year 1983-1987. 
      For over a year the police looked 
      at almost 5,000 White Fiat Unos 
      that matched this scenario. 
      Ultimately, they were unable to 
      identify a driver or the vehicle. 

             DAVIES
      Do you have a list of the owners 
      the searched?

             LECONTE
      We can get one at the station, yes. 

INT. POLICE STATION - AFTERNOON

DAVIES sorts through one filebox after another while LECONTE 
sits calmly at a desk fiddling with a computer. 

             LECONTE
      You seem like a natural police. 
      Howd you end up as a suit?

             DAVIES
      About six months after making 
      detective, I was working on a sex 
      crimes task force and arrested a 
      member of the House of Lords who 
      was caught paying an underage call 
      girl.  

             LECONTE
      And? Im guessing that sort of 
      thing happens rather frequently. 

             DAVIES
      Specifically so here. Had actually 
      arrested the same guy about a year 
      prior for a similar offence. Was 
      supposed to be put away for it. 


                                      66.

             DAVIES
	(CONT'D)
      But of course, given who he was he 
      beat the charges. It happens all 
      the time and Im not naive to the 
      power of privilege. Figured as a 
      prosecutor Id actually make 
      criminals pay a price. With my 
      background, Im not really beholden 
      to anyone.  

             LECONTE
      Anything surprise you?

             DAVIES
      Yeah, the first time I arrested 
      him, quite literally with his pants 
      down, turned out he was wearing 
      womens underwear. 

             LECONTE
      I meant about those files. 

             DAVIES
      Ah, not really. Seems like most of 
      these leads were covered off. No 
      names that mean anything. 

DAVIES leans back and a news report on a TV screen catches 
his attention.  

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Turn that up --

             NEWS
	V.O.
      Today, Scotland Yard authorities 
      arrested Princess Dianas former 
      butler Paul Burrell at his home in 
      Chester on suspicion of theft of 
      Dianas belongings. 

ONSCREEN police cart boxes of evidence out of BURRELLS 
modest countryside home.

             NEWS 
	V.O.
	(CONTD)
      According the sources, the police 
      conducted a 12-hour search of 
      Burells house, tearing up carpets 
      and floorboards, and finding 342 
      items reportedly worth five million 
      pounds, which are said to have been 
      stolen from Dianas former London 
      home at Kensington Palace. 

DAVIES grabs for his cell phone. 


                                      67.

             DAVIES
      Its Michael, is Alistair there? 
        (beat)
      Can you get him out of the meeting?
        (beat)
      Transfer me to Clarke.

             CLARKE
      This is --

             DAVIES
      -- What the hell is going on?

             CLARKE
      Michael, calm down. 

             DAVIES
      Did you know about this?

             CLARKE
      This was all Alistair.  

             DAVIES
      Hes sabotaging me.   

             CLARKE
      Thats what he says youre doing to 
      your career. Thinks you must be 
      bloody mad or drunk. He wants you 
      home tomorrow.

DAVIES slams down the phone. After a beat, something is 
triggered.

             DAVIES
      Pull up the list of photographers 
      working with Sipa Press.

A few keystrokes...

             LECONTE
      Got it.

Studying the screen.

             DAVIES
      Ive been like a drunk looking for 
      his car keys where the street lamp 
      is instead of where he dropped 
      them. 

             LECONTE
      How so?


                                      68.

             DAVIES
      Cross reference this with the motor 
      registry database.
        (best)
      Ive been trying to find a culprit. 
      The obvious answer. Maybe I should 
      be looking for a witness. Someone 
      who saw what happened and is afraid 
      to come forward.   

             LECONTE
      James Andanson. He has a White Fiat 
      Uno. But it was from the model year 
      1998. Outside the year the paint at 
      the scene was from so it didnt 
      come up in the initial search.  

             DAVIES
      Whats his address? Im going to 
      talk to him.

             LECONTE
      Ill come.

             DAVIES
      No, you stay here. Find me 
      everything you can on his 
      whereabouts that night. 

I/E. PEUGOT - DUSK

Davies driving. We hear Lecontes voice over the phone. 

             LECONTE
	(O.S.)
      Andanson was in the South of France 
      covering the Jonikal yacht with 
      other photographers. He returned 
      home two days before Diana and Dodi 
      flew to Paris. None of the security 
      footage from the Ritz shows him 
      there on August 30.
        (beat)
      His wife said James is likely at 
      some property they have in Les 
      Louettes. 

DAVIES notices his call waiting. 

             DAVIES
      Have another call coming in I need 
      to take. But thanks for the info. 

Switching over...


                                      69.

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Got some info back from Henris 
      phone records. 

             DAVIES
      Find anything?

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      There were two people with the 
      abbreviation DST next to their 
      names --

             DAVIES
      La Direction de la Surveillance du 
      Territoire. Means he was in contact 
      with the organisation that deals 
      with espionage and terrorism. 

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      And by the way, someone handed him 
      the money that night. There werent 
      any large cash withdrawals from his 
      bank account. 

Untangling a paper map, DAVIES spots his turnoff...

             DAVIES
      Ive gotta run. Tracked down 
      someone else who could be a break.

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Something about Henri?

             DAVIES
      Not really. Tell you when Im back 
      tomorrow. 

             CLARKE
	(O.S.)
      Okay, safe travels Michael. 

EXT. LES LOUETTES - WOODED AREA

Parking in a secluded clearing, DAVIES gets out of the car 
and scans the area -- eventually spotting a WHITE FIAT UNO in 
the distance. 

             DAVIES
        (shouting)
      James?

His voice echoes. Then silence. He slowly approaches... 


                                      70.

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      James? Id like to speak with you. 
      Your wife told me I could find you 
      here. 

And before he can take a step further, the Uno ERUPTS into a 
MASSIVE FIREBALL. 

CUT TO: 

EXT. LES LOUETTES - WOODED AREA - LATER

Davies dismisses a medic attempting to treat his cuts and 
bruises. Approaching a group of investigators looking at the 
car... 

             DAVIES
      Find anything so far?

             CORONER
      Everythings almost disintegrated 
      due to the intense heat. 

Peaking into the car...

             DAVIES
      Is that the head in between the two 
      front seats? 

             CORONER
      Couldve resulted from the fire. 

             DAVIES
      And what about the hole Im seeing 
      here in the left temple?

             CORONER
      Ill need to look into that back at 
      my lab. We did pick up traces of 
      accelerant -- some sort of petrol -- 
      around the drivers seat and 
      footwell. 

             DAVIES
      How long will the autopsy take?

             CORONER
      Ill have more definitive analysis 
      in the next 24 hours. 


                                      71.

             DAVIES
      Im heading back to London in the 
      morning. But please call me when 
      you have an update. 

EXT. PARIS STREET - NIGHT

CLOSE ON DAVIES face looking at the scrap of paper passed 
from the journalist. We pull back and see hes standing at 
the base of the Eiffel Tower.

EXT. EIFFEL TOWER - OBSERVATION DECK

Paris flickers in the background. An occasional gust blows 
DAVIES off balance. He spots the JOURNALIST in an empty 
corner.

             JOURNALIST
      Thanks for meeting me up here. Its 
      a little outlandish, but as Im 
      sure you know protecting 
      confidentiality is important. 

             DAVIES
      What do you have for me?

POSNER casts his line...

             POSNER
      My names Gerald Posner. Im an 
      American investigative journalist 
      writing an article about Henri 
      Pauls whereabouts the night of the 
      accident. 

             DAVIES
      Forgive me if Im less than 
      inclined to believe anything you 
      have to say. 

             POSNER
      Have you wondered why Mr. Paul had 
      thirteen thousand Francs on him the 
      night of the accident?

With that heretofore confidential piece of bait, DAVIES is 
hooked....

             POSNER
	(CONTD)
      Ive been an investigative reporter 
      for 25 years. New York Times. 
      Vanity Fair. You name it. 


                                      72.

             POSNER
	(CONTD)
      Law enforcement and intelligence 
      sources have built up a faith in 
      me. Figured knowing each other 
      could be mutually beneficial. 

             DAVIES
      I guess that depends what you know. 

             POSNER
      On August 30, when Henri Paul left 
      the Ritz, he had a meeting with a 
      member of the French intelligence 
      service, DGSE. 

             DAVIES
      He was head of security at a major 
      international hotel where diplomats 
      and businessmen came regularly. Not 
      highly unusual. 

             POSNER
      He was a paid informant. That 
      evening they discussed various 
      things, including something about 
      Diana, and money was transferred to 
      Henri Paul. The bulk of which, I 
      gather, was the money that was 
      found on him the night of the 
      accident.

             DAVIES
      And you trust this source?

             POSNER
      Sources. Two of them. I dont 
      publish something because somebody 
      sits across a table from me and 
      says: I happen to work for MI6 or 
      NSA. My word is my bond and thats 
      the reason why Im able to get 
      access to sources like this. 

             DAVIES
      I suppose you wont tell me who 
      this source is?

             POSNER
      Wish I could. But to do so would be 
      to narrow the window down so that 
      the individuals who would like to 
      identify this source could do so. 


                                      73.

             DAVIES
      As Im sure youre smart enough to 
      know, theres nothing I can do with 
      third-hand anonymous sources. Id 
      be better off quoting a tabloid. 

             POSNER
      In my dealings with intelligence 
      agencies, they will often 
      obfuscate, lie, and refuse to 
      release information until they are 
      absolutely forced to. They create 
      the fodder for conspiracy theories. 
      I called on the DGSE to release the 
      files they have on Henri Paul. They 
      wont listen to me, but maybe they 
      will you.

             DAVIES
      And let me guess, in return you 
      want me to leak you the 
      information.

             POSNER
      We can help each other.

             DAVIES
      I could lose my job over leaks like 
      this. 

DAVIES turns to leave. 

             POSNER
      Mr. Davies. When you do finally get 
      them to fold. You might want to 
      also ask about the white flash in 
      the tunnel. An MI6 technique to 
      disorient drivers. An agent under 
      the cover NDO might have some info. 

CUT TO:

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - ALISTAIR SILSBURYS 
OFFICE

Relationships frayed all around, DAVIES, SILSBURY, and CLARKE 
can hardly stand to look at one another. 

             SILSBURY
      Burgess is commencing the official 
      jury inquest process in one week. 
      He plans to read your full report 
      to the public then.


Total silence. DAVIES shakes his head. 

                                      74.

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      What is it?

             DAVIES
      You know that isnt enough time. 

             SILSBURY
      Dont be so feckless, Michael.

             DAVIES
      Unsolved burglaries targeted photos 
      from the days surrounding the 
      crash. Not to mention one of those 
      photographers -- a potential key 
      witness -- blown to bits in a car 
      that could be linked to the 
      accident scene.

             CLARKE
      Andanson left his wallet, Cartier 
      watch, mobile telephone and his 
      attach case -- objects that he 
      would normally keep with him -- at 
      home. He posted a letter to Sipa 
      Press agency asking for all of his 
      photographic royalties to be put 
      into his wifes name. He took his 
      own life. And there is no forensic 
      evidence linking his Fiat to 
      Dianas accident scene --  

             DAVIES
      -- the evidence doesnt rule it in 
      or out -- 

             SILSBURY
      -- listen to yourself. I never 
      thought youd throw away your 
      career over this.

CLARKE tries to be a voice of reason...

             CLARKE
      Michael, we got the lab work back 
      from Dianas blood sample you found 
      in the Mercedes. From before she 
      had any transfusion. She wasnt 
      pregnant. 


                                      75.

             DAVIES
      That doesnt mean people didnt 
      think she was. Or that she wasnt 
      planning to get engaged. 

             CLARKE
      Even if every shred of evidence was 
      accurate, you still need to prove 
      someone ordered these 
      assassinations. And that someone 
      being the Queen. That will never 
      happen. Your case is nonexistent. 

             DAVIES
      Witnesses clearly saw a white flash 
      in the tunnel. If I can track down 
      this agent NDO, we might be able to 
      link MI6. If I can prove that, I 
      can come pretty damn close to 
      proving what this was.

             SILSBURY
      Youve got nothing, as I expected.

             DAVIES
      Wanted.

             SILSBURY
      Excuse me?

              DAVIES
      Its what you wanted. Its not one 
      or two minor coincidences here. 
      Were talking about dozens of open 
      ends -- 

             SILSBURY
      Enough.

Dead silence.

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      Christopher, will you excuse us for 
      a moment. 

             CLARKE
        (mouthing to DAVIES)
      Good luck. 

CLARKE exits. 

             SILSBURY
      I got a call from the PM today. 


                                      76.

             DAVIES
        (somewhat resigned)
      Alistair, Im just doing --

             SILSBURY
      -- he was looking for a 
      recommendation for a new deputy 
      Solicitor General. 

             CLARKE
      Cohens post?

             SILSBURY
      Retiring at the end of this year.

Leaning in close...

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      Finish your written report and get 
      it to Burgess. No more of this 
      conspiracy nonsense.  

             DAVIES
      Youre trying to bribe me?

             SILSBURY
      Bribery is beneath me. I think this 
      is actually called blackmail. 
      Michael, I know you met with the 
      reporter Posner in France. 

             DAVIES
      Leconte.

             SILSBURY
      He kept tabs on you at my behest.
        (beat)
      Leaking information to a journalist 
      is enough for me to have you 
      expelled from the Bar Council. Your 
      career as a solicitor will be ended 
      forever. 

The gravity of his threat sinks in.

             SILSBURY
	(CONTD)
      Stick to the facts. No hinting at 
      cover ups. Nothing about the white 
      flash. And well see what we can do 
      about that recommendation.


                                      77.

INT. DAVIES FLAT - KITCHEN

An exhausted DAVIES ambles into the house and drops his 
briefcase. 

CATHERINE trudges in. 

             CATHERINE
      Finally put Hannah to sleep. 

             DAVIES
      Ill go say goodnight in a bit. 

He opens a bottle of scotch and pours two drinks.

             CATHERINE
      Meeting with Alistair that bad? 

             DAVIES
      Were celebrating.  
        (beat)
      Alistair offered to put me up for a 
      new post. Deputy Solicitor General. 

             CATHERINE
      Thats amazing! Are you going to 
      take it?

             DAVIES
      Its not that simple. The only way 
      hell recommend me is if I bury 
      half of what Ive learned in this 
      investigation.

             CATHERINE
      What are you going to do?

             DAVIES
      Even if I present what I want to at 
      the Inquest, my reputation will be 
      pulverized. Likely forever. This 
      conversation is as close as Ill 
      ever come to deputy anything. 

CATHERINE turns serious.

             CATHERINE
      Theres something I need to tell 
      you. 

             DAVIES
      Go on. 


                                      78.

             CATHERINE
        (nervously)
      The night you came by dinner at my 
      parents house. When you told me 
      about the letter you found -- its 
      just, I was so worried -- 

             DAVIES
      -- what is it?

             CATHERINE
      I told my father about it. He was 
      so against what you were doing. And 
      I wanted to stick up for you. I 
      wanted him to know you werent 
      crazy. I was trying to convince 
      myself you werent crazy.   

DAVIES smiles. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONTD)
      What?

             DAVIES
      Thats what you wanted to tell me? 

             CATHERINE
      I thought it was private. Evidence. 
      And Ive been paranoid all this 
      time. With the job offer, who knows 
      what they look into. Wanted you to 
      know.

He grabs her hand.

             CATHERINE
	(CONTD)
      Youre not mad?

             DAVIES
      Quite the contrary. 

             CATHERINE
      I love you. And I hope you know, no 
      matter what you choose, you always 
      make me proud.   

CUT TO:

MONTAGE - DAVIES PREPARING INQUEST REPORT

...over which, we hear Royal Coroner Michael Burgess opening 
remarks to the jury. 


-- Davies organizes stacks of thousands of documents across a 
large conference room table. 

                                      79.

             BURGESS
	(V.O.)
      A criminal trial is an adversarial 
      process. The prosecution makes an 
      allegation that the defendant has 
      committed a particular offence and 
      sets out to prove it; the defendant 
      says he has not committed the crime 
      and sets out to show why not. An 
      inquest is an inquiry or 
      inquisition where the court is 
      trying to find out what happened. 
      There is no prosecution, no 
      defence, just a search for the 
      truth. 

-- On a dry erase board, a number of categories (Itinerary, 
Henri Paul, Accident Scene, Autopsy) are crossed off. In red 
marker he circles MI6 Connection and Burrell and stares 
at the board. 

             BURGESS
	(V.O.)
      Members of the jury, in the early 
      hours of Sunday 31st August, 1997, 
      a Mercedes motor car, in which 
      Diana, Princess of Wales was a 
      passenger, crashed into a pillar in 
      the central reservation of the Alma 
      Underpass in Paris. Most, if not 
      all of you, will remember where you 
      were when you heard about the 
      subsequent death of the Princess of 
      Wales. 

-- Davies hovers over his assistants computer giving edits 
as she types away.

             BURGESS
	(V.O.)
      Your duty is to inquire into the 
      deaths of two of the people who 
      died. Why, you may ask, are we 
      doing this over ten years after the 
      event, a delay which will 
      inevitably make the investigation 
      more difficult. 

-- Coming off a printing press, the 600-page opus entitled 
The Inquiry Report Into the Allegation of Conspiracy to 
Murder Diana, Princess of Wales and Emad El-Din Mohamed Abdel 
Moneim Fayed


                                      80.

             BURGESS
	(V.O.)
      Mohamed Al Fayed has maintained 
      throughout, that the crash was not 
      an accident but murder in 
      furtherance of a conspiracy by "the 
      Establishment", in particular His 
      Royal Highness Prince Philip the 
      Duke of Edinburgh, who used "the 
      Security Services" to carry it out. 
      The French authorities' views were 
      sought and they declined to re-open 
      their investigation into the 
      circumstances of the crash in the 
      light of those allegations. 

-- The massive Royal Courts of Justice building. The gothic 
architecture of a church. Over three miles of twisting 
hallways. DAVIES enters holding the report. 

INT. ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE - COURTROOM 73

Oak panelled and stately. BURGESS is backed by intricately 
carved wooden Royal Coat of Arms. 

We finally see the faces of eleven jurors of mixed age and 
ethnicity. 

             BURGESS
      Members of the jury, the 
      background: it may help you to have 
      a chronology which has been 
      prepared. This simply sets out the 
      bare details in chronological order 
      and you may find it is helpful to 
      use it as a peg to hang your 
      information on as you get it. 

CLOSE ON Burgess slamming his gavel. 

CUT TO:

INT. COURTROOM 73 - DAYS LATER

All eyes on DAVIES addressing the court. CLARKE sitting 
nearby.

             DAVIES
      At this point youve heard the 
      history and chronology of the 
      investigation from a variety of 
      sources. 



                                      81.

             DAVIES
	(CONT'D)
      Id now like to add a few human 
      elements to help bring out some of 
      the more, shall we say, puzzling 
      points to this case, by calling Mr. 
      Paul Burrell to the stand. 

Eager chatter sweeps the courtroom. 

BURRELL is sworn in and takes his seat in the witness box. 
They begin on friendly terms...

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Mr. Burell, when did you start 
      working for the Royal family?

             BURRELL
      December 1976. I was originally one 
      of 12 Household footmen and 
      eventually very fortunate to be 
      appointed to become Her Majesty's 
      personal footman within. 

Smiling as he relives these memories...

             DAVIES
      Did you first get to know the late 
      Princess at about the time of her 
      engagement?

             BURRELL
      Even before. She came to stay as a 
      house guest at Balmoral Castle long 
      before she was ever known by the 
      public.

             DAVIES
      In 1987, did you leave the personal 
      service of Her Majesty and go to 
      work as butler for the Prince and 
      Princess of Wales at Highgrove?

             BURRELL
      Yes, I did.

             DAVIES
      Was the relationship that developed 
      between the Princess and you and 
      your wife and your respective 
      children merely one of employer and 
      employee?


                                      82.

             BURRELL
      I was a very fortunate man to be 
      embraced by the Princess in such a 
      personal way and my family were 
      too. My two children grew up in the 
      royal nursery with William and 
      Harry.

Treading lightly...

             DAVIES
      Given how close you were, did she 
      speak about the nature of her 
      relationship with Dodi?

             BURRELL
      Not in specifics I can recall. 

             DAVIES
      Is it a fair assessment that you 
      were one of her most intimate 
      confidantes.

             BURRELL
      I think that's fair.

             DAVIES
      We have heard that she 
      compartmentalised her friends.

             BURRELL
      Not everyone knew everything. 
      People knew certain amounts.

             DAVIES
      Insofar as anyone knew everything, 
      and that's, as I say, insofar as --

BURRELLs arrogance on display, he pushes back evasively. 

             BURRELL
      -- I can't say I knew everything.

             DAVIES
      No, but do you think you were in 
      the best position to know most?

             BURRELL
      I was pretty well informed.

DAVIES frustration mounts...


                                      83.

             DAVIES
      So would it not surprise you if the 
      Princess was planning to get 
      married or potentially pregnant 
      that she would not tell any of her 
      friends? 

             BURGESS
      Mr. Davies, please stick to the 
      facts. 

             BURRELL
      I would appreciate that as well. 

DAVIES fumes at being rebuked. Looking to put BURRELL back in 
his place... 

             DAVIES
      You were arrested for allegedly 
      stealing over 300 items from Diana 
      after she passed. 

             BURRELL
      Every last charge was dropped. 

             DAVIES
      After your arrest a member of the 
      royal family surprisingly came 
      forward and said you were actually 
      allowed to keep the items you had 
      taken?

             BURRELL
      The Queen. 

             DAVIES
      So it was Her Majesty who helped 
      clear your name?

             BURRELL
        (smug)
      The Queen has come through for me, 
      yes. 

DAVIES pauses for a moment and scans the courtroom. Making 
eye contact with SILSBURY, he takes a deep breath...


                                      84.

             DAVIES
      You are aware, aren't you, that it 
      is suggested that there were 
      letters from Prince Philip to Diana 
      of such a vituperative and 
      unpleasant nature that they would 
      provide some support for the 
      suggestion that he loathed his 
      daughter-in-law, and thus some 
      support, as I understand it, for 
      the suggestion that he murdered 
      her. 

             BURRELL
      I understand the inference, yes.

CLARKE leaps from his chair.

             CLARKE
      Lord Justice, if I may confer with 
      Mr. Davies for a moment. 

             BURGESS
      Quickly, yes. 

CLARKE pulls DAVIES aside and whispers...

             CLARKE
      What in bloody hell are you doing?

             DAVIES
      A butler spared prosecution by the 
      Queen herself. Preventing that 
      subversion of justice is why I got 
      into this job. Im certainly not 
      going to turn a blind eye just to 
      keep it.  

DAVIES turns his back and returns to questioning. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Did the Princess show to you any 
      correspondence from Prince Philip?

             BURRELL
      I saw a bundle of letters. They 
      were all distinctive because they 
      were all written on His Royal 
      Highness's personal stationery and 
      typed on what would seem to be an 
      old-fashioned typewriter.


                                      85.

             DAVIES
      Could you give a general 
      description of the tone of the 
      letters. 

BURRELL feeling uneasy...

             BURRELL
      The letters could be described as 
      startling with a tone that was 
      quite cutting and cruel, but at 
      other times very supportive and 
      kind.

             DAVIES
      These letters, do you know where 
      they were?

             BURRELL
      I do. I know where all the 
      Princess's belongings were.

             DAVIES
      Letters from Prince Philip, no 
      doubt important?

             BURRELL
      Yes.

             DAVIES
      Letters from the Queen, no doubt 
      very important. Were they kept 
      somewhere special?

             BURRELL
      They were kept in a box in the 
      Princess's room, in a locked box. 
      The Princess had a secret box in 
      which she kept personal 
      correspondence of a sensitive 
      nature.

             DAVIES
      What sort of box?

             BURRELL
      It was a mahogany box about 2 foot 
      long by about 8 inches deep.

             DAVIES
      She kept the key?

             BURRELL
      She kept the key.


                                      86.

             DAVIES
      Did you have a separate key?

             BURRELL
      No.

             BURGESS
      Mr. Davies, may I ask where youre 
      heading with this? 

             DAVIES
      Lord Justice, its clear that there 
      is a pattern of cover up going on 
      here. Potential photographic 
      evidence from the night of Dianas 
      crash has been stolen. And now 
      were learning of missing letters 
      from Prince Philip. 

             BURGESS
      Make this expedient Mr. Davies. 

             DAVIES
      Mr. Burrell, did you deal with the 
      mountains of correspondence in the 
      apartment when Diana passed?

BURRELL remains silent...

             BURGESS
      Please answer Mr. Burrell.

Reluctantly...

             BURRELL
      Well it was a very difficult time 
      when the Princess died and having 
      to wrap up her world, and Mrs. 
      Shand Kydd, Dianas mother, came to 
      my assistance and installed herself 
      in the Princess's apartment from 9 
      to 5 every day, sorting out her 
      daughter's belongings. During that 
      time she shredded a great deal of 
      correspondence and personal papers. 

             DAVIES
      How long, roughly, was Mrs. Kydd in 
      the apartment sorting and 
      shredding?

             BURRELL
      Every day for a week. 


                                      87.

             DAVIES
      Did she discuss with you what she 
      was shredding or why?

             BURRELL
      She thought it was appropriate to 
      protect her daughter's legacy and 
      to protect her name. She didn't 
      tell me what she was shredding and 
      I never saw what she was doing. I 
      was only responsible for removing 
      the bags of shredded paper.

             DAVIES
      What sort of volume -- are these in 
      black plastic sacks?

             BURRELL
      There would have been half a dozen 
      black bin bags of correspondence.

             DAVIES
      And you were concerned by what you 
      saw?

             BURRELL
      So much so that I asked to see Her 
      Majesty the Queen at Buckingham 
      Palace.

             DAVIES
      Is it right that in due course Her 
      Majesty agreed to see you?

INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE - SITTING ROOM - (FLASHBACK)

The Queens private meeting room. Mint green walls. Gold 
carpet. Matching gold chairs. 

BURRELL greets HER MAJESTY formally: One step, neck bow. Next 
step, second neck bow. 

             BURRELL
	(V.O.)
      Yes, she did. The Queen knows me 
      well.

             DAVIES
	(V.O.)
      Can you remember when the audience 
      with Her Majesty took place?


                                      88.

             BURRELL
	(V.O.)
      I received a note that said: The 
      Queen would be delighted to see you 
      at 2 o'clock on Thursday 19th 
      December. I think you know your way 
      here.

BURRELL sits and they begin to chat. 

             BURGESS
	(V.O.)
      Was anybody else present or just 
      the two of you?

             BURRELL
	(V.O.)
      Just the two of us, sir.

             BURRELL
      Your majesty, I wanted to bring to 
      your attention a matter that 
      transgressed when Lady Dianas 
      personal items were being packed 
      after her passing. 

             QUEEN ELIZABETH II
      Go on.

             BURRELL
      Dianas mother was shredding a 
      large variety of letters. The 
      Princess fought long and hard to 
      establish herself on the world 
      stage. I felt it inappropriate for 
      members of her family to come into 
      her world when she was no longer 
      there to protect it and rearrange 
      it or rewrite history. 

The Queen takes a sip of tea and delicately places her cup on 
the saucer. Looking directly at Burrell... 

             QUEEN ELIZABETH II
      Be careful, Paul, no-one has been 
      as close to a member of my family 
      as you have. There are powers at 
      work in this country about which we 
      have no knowledge. Do you 
      understand?


INT. COURTROOM 73 - (PRESENT DAY)

                                      89.

             DAVIES
      There was, in fact, some 
      controversy about the length of the 
      meeting because a number of 
      newspapers suggested that your 
      recollection of a long meeting was 
      absurd because you were a footman, 
      Her Majesty was the Head of State, 
      and to suggest that there was a 
      meeting that was hours long, you 
      must be wrong.

             BURRELL
      But then they would, wouldn't they?

             DAVIES
      What happened when that suggestion 
      was made in the newspapers?

             BURRELL
      Buckingham Palace issued a 
      statement that to their best 
      recollection -- of course it wasn't 
      a timed meeting, it wasn't a 
      scheduled meeting; it was a private 
      meeting -- to their best knowledge 
      the meeting lasted for at least 90 
      minutes.

             DAVIES
      Did you ask what Her Majesty meant 
      by that powers at work. 

             BURRELL
      One doesn't ask the Queen what she 
      means by something.

             DAVIES
      You say that you had a written 
      farewell from Diana sometime in 
      August. 

             BURRELL
      Yes.

             DAVIES
      This letter you have amongst your 
      letters?

             BURRELL
      Yes.


                                      90.

DAVIES projects the letter on an overhead screen.

             DAVIES
      Dear Paul, clearly from your third 
      eye, this coming weekend is an 
      important one! When you read this, 
      did it have a meaning for you?

             BURRELL
      I am sure it did.

             DAVIES
      What was the meaning?

             BURRELL
      It was obviously something very 
      private.

             DAVIES
      It's the next paragraph, so the 
      jury can follow: I wanted to write 
      on paper how enormously touched I 
      am that you share this excitement 
      with me as well. What a secret!

             BURRELL
      Some secrets will go with me to my 
      grave.

             DAVIES
      I appreciate that, but if that's 
      right, you presumably know what 
      this secret is then, do you?

             BURRELL
      I know many secrets, sir.

             DAVIES
      What was it?

             BURRELL
      It was nothing to do with Dodi Al 
      Fayed and I am not prepared to tell 
      you what that secret is.

             DAVIES
      So you know what the secret was? 
      Yes or no?

BURRELL remains silent.  

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Yes or no"?


                                      91.

             BURRELL
      Yes, I know what the secret was.

             DAVIES
      You do know what the secret was. 

Getting defensive...

             BURRELL
      I am beginning to feel I am on 
      trial.

             DAVIES
      The secret that you have in 
      relation to this letter -- you can 
      remember it as you sit there, can 
      you, what it was?

             BURRELL
      It could be one of many.

DAVIES impatience shows...

             DAVIES
      I really don't want you to guess. I 
      do not want you to say I have a 
      lot of secrets and it could be any 
      of them --

             BURRELL
      Okay, I cannot remember what that 
      particular secret was.

             DAVIES
      You said yes before; now you are 
      saying it's one of a number -- do 
      you remember what this secret was 
      about, a farewell letter as you 
      interpreted it?

             BURRELL
      No.

             DAVIES
      One of the reasons that it is 
      suggested that Prince Philip should 
      seek to murder his erstwhile 
      daughter-in-law is that he would be 
      unable to countenance, as would the 
      establishment, a liaison between 
      the Princess and a Muslim. You 
      appreciate that's one of the 
      reasons that's put forward?


                                      92.

             BURRELL
      Nonsense. She dated a Muslim -- Dr. 
      Hasnt Kahn -- before Dodi for two 
      years. 

             DAVIES
      What was the quality of that 
      relationship?

             BURRELL
      Well, the Princess said that this 
      was her soulmate. But I remember it 
      coming to an abrupt halt. She had 
      had it, she had tried everything 
      she could to bring this man out 
      into the public spotlight and he 
      was having none of it. 

DAVIES builds to his point...

             DAVIES
      So Mr. Khan couldn't cope with the 
      public life. And everyone knew 
      that. Thus, there was no fear of a 
      marriage. But for Dodi, the 
      situation was different. Isnt that 
      spotlight something Mr. Al Fayed 
      would be better equipped to deal 
      with?

             BURRELL
      Well, I supposed so, yes.

             DAVIES
      Her Majesty was concerned that the 
      Princess was rather over-excited at 
      the moment. She was at the start of 
      a long-term union with Dodi Al 
      Fayed; is that right?

             BURRELL
      Her Majesty was concerned about the 
      future.

             DAVIES
      A long-term union, was that the 
      expression that she used?

             BURRELL
      I didn't keep notes at that 
      meeting. 


                                      93.

             DAVIES
      You had a lifelong and very 
      personal relationship with many 
      prominent members of the royal 
      family. You were Dianas 
      confidante. And we are not to 
      expect that somehow you are not 
      protecting her majesty in some way 
      by revealing what secrets you know?

BURRELL remains silent.

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Its quite confounding that you are 
      so private now about this 
      farewell letter, when you had no 
      reservations about leaking to the 
      Daily Mirror the other letter Diana 
      wrote you about concerns for her 
      life. 

             BURRELL
        (very serious)
      My desire is to protect Dianas 
      legacy. I had absolutely nothing to 
      do with releasing that letter. 

DAVIES pauses, sensing he might actually be telling the truth 
on the matter.

INT. CAVENDISH MANOR - LIBRARY - NIGHT

Buried in the study of a moldering antique map, CAVENDISH is 
startled by DAVIES sudden appearance.  

             DAVIES
      Figured Id let myself in. What 
      with us being family and all. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Is everything okay with Catherine? 

             DAVIES
      I know you never much cared for me. 
      But betraying ones own. Thats 
      something I wouldnt have expected. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      What on earth are you talking about 
      Michael?

             DAVIES
      I know you leaked the letter. 


                                      94.

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Excuse me?

             DAVIES
      The Burrell letter. Catherine told 
      you about it, and you tried to bury 
      me with it in the press. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      However ill you think of me, you 
      really think Id stoop so low as to 
      speak with a reporter.

             DAVIES
      If it meant hurting me, yes. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Quite the contrary. I was trying to 
      protect you. 

             DAVIES
      I find that hard to believe. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      The only person to whom I spoke 
      about it was Alistair. Figured he 
      might be able to talk some sense 
      into you. 

DAVIES feels the wind knocked out of him, but regroups.  

             LORD CAVENDISH
	(CONTD)
      Obviously, there wasnt much I 
      could do to stop you.  

             DAVIES
      But there is something you are 
      going to do for me.

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Pardon?

             DAVIES
      I need a name. Someone who works 
      for MI6. But I only have a cover 
      name of NDO. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      Dont be silly. How can I help with 
      that?


                                      95.

             DAVIES
      I know Silsbury isnt the only 
      government friend who owes you 
      favours. MI6 is practically run by 
      your set. I dont care who you 
      call. But youre getting me that 
      name. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      And if I dont?

             DAVIES
      Ill tell Catherine about the 
      letter. And what you did. 

             LORD CAVENDISH
      She wouldnt believe you.

             DAVIES
      She already chose me over you once. 
      And if you want any semblance of a 
      relationship with her, I dont 
      think you want to take that chance 
      again. 

CUT TO:

INT. ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE - COURTROOM 73 - MORNING

             BURGESS
      Mr. Davies, considering the amount 
      of material weve covered thus far, 
      and the direction your examination 
      took yesterday, Ive decided that 
      today should be the last day of 
      open questioning. The jurors have 
      heard more than enough information 
      at this point. 

             DAVIES
      I only have two witnesses 
      remaining. 

             BURGESS
      You may proceed, but these are your 
      last two.

             DAVIES
      Thank you. Id like to call Richard 
      Tomlinson. 

TOMLINSON (45), swarthy and rugged, is sworn in and takes the 
stand. Curious murmurs from the courtroom. 


                                      96.

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      Mr. Tomlinson, from 1991 to 1995 
      were you employed by the British 
      Secret Intelligence Service, or 
      SIS, under the cover name NDO?

             TOMLINSON
      Yes, thats correct. 

             DAVIES
      And can you tell us what the SIS 
      is?

             TOMLINSON
      The SIS, which most know as MI6, 
      essentially provides foreign 
      intelligence to the government. 

             DAVIES
      Now, as I understand it, in 1992 
      you saw a detailed report outlining 
      some options for a possible plan to 
      assassinate then Serbian President 
      Slobodan Milosevic. 

             TOMLINSON
      As the civil war in the former 
      Yugoslavia became increasingly 
      topical, I started to work 
      primarily on operations in Serbia. 
      During this time I became 
      acquainted with the MI6 officer who 
      was in charge of planning Balkan 
      operations. During one meeting he 
      casually showed to me a document 
      that turned out to be an outline 
      plan to assassinate Milosevic.

             DAVIES
      And what was the plan specifically? 

             TOMLINSON
      There were three scenarios for his 
      assassination. One consisted of 
      causing a road traffic accident 
      during a trip by Mr. Milosevic to 
      Switzerland for the peace talks on 
      the former Yugoslavia. The scenario 
      was very brief, but it involved 
      causing an accident with a serious 
      risk of the Serb President being 
      killed with as few witnesses as 
      possible, in a tunnel for example. 


The jurors are rapt with silence. Though SILSBURY, sitting 
near the back of the courtroom, looks none to pleased. 

                                      97.

             TOMLINSON
	(CONTD)
      The possibility of using a very 
      powerful flash, capable of blinding 
      the driver of the vehicle, was 
      mentioned.

             DAVIES
      A white flash?

             TOMLINSON
      Yes, using a strobe flash gun,
      a device which is occasionally 
      deployed by special forces to, for 
      example, disorientate helicopter 
      pilots or terrorists and about 
      which MI6 officers are briefed 
      during their training. But in this 
      case to disorient a chauffeur. 

BURGESS cutting in...

             BURGESS
      Mr. Davies, if I may.

             DAVIES
      Of course.

He flips through a small report and removes his glasses...

             BURGESS
      Mr. Tomlinson, I dont want to 
      delve too far but were you released 
      from your position in 1995 under 
      acrimonious circumstances? 

             TOMLINSON
      I did have some differences with my 
      superiors yes. 

             BURGESS
      Were you not arrested in relation 
      to Official Secrets Act offences? 

             TOMLINSON
      On the advice of my counsel, Id 
      prefer not to answer that. The 
      matter is still pending. 

             BURGESS
      Understood. That is your right. 
      Anything else Mr. Davies? 


                                      98.

             DAVIES
      No thank you Lord Justice.  

TOMLINSON leaves the stand. 

             BURGESS
      Mr. Davies, looking at the time we 
      can take a short break -- 

DAVIES notices SILSBURY glaring at him...

             DAVIES
      Id like to continue if it suits 
      your honour. 

             BURGESS
      Please proceed.

             DAVIES
      For my last witness, Id like to 
      call Mohammed Al Fayed. 

AL FAYED is sworn in and takes the stand. 

             DAVIES
	(CONTD)
      You are a very well-known man, a 
      great and buccaneering businessman, 
      but you are here today as the 
      father of a son who died in a 
      crash, for whom you still grieve 
      deeply. What I should like to do is 
      elicit from you your account of the 
      events of the summer and then ask 
      you a few questions about the main 
      allegations that you have been 
      making. Are content with that sort 
      of course?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I make no allegations.

             DAVIES
      All right.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      My belief that my son and Princess 
      Diana were murdered was confirmed 
      when I learned that two leading 
      commissioners did not show the 
      Coroner the notes made by Lord 
      Mishcon detailing the Princess's 
      fears for her life. Princess Diana 
      also told me personally of her 
      fears. 



                                      99.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
	(CONT'D)
      She told me that she knew Prince 
      Philip and Charles want to get rid 
      of her. I believe that they acted 
      unprofessionally and they must have 
      no conscience. They have no courage 
      and have given into the dark forces 
      that want the note to stay secret.

             DAVIES
      So your first concern that you want 
      the jury to understand centres on 
      the Mishcon note and the decision 
      to disclose it?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I am talking to the jury, a jury of 
      ordinary people, if they accept it. 
      You don't want this as a major 
      cover-up from two leading police 
      officers in charge of the security 
      in this content. She said that she 
      is going to die or be killed in a 
      car crash in the note and this is 
      what happened, with my son.

             DAVIES
      You will have to allow me to 
      interrupt for just a moment, Mr. Al 
      Fayed. You know you are here to 
      give evidence, rather than to argue 
      a case or even to make speeches --

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I am just talking black and white 
      points why I am convinced --

             DAVIES
      I know, because you have identified 
      a handful of points that 
      particularly concern you. 

             BURGESS
      You have more points?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Princess Diana told me that she had 
      proof that her life was in danger 
      and that she kept in a wooden box, 
      that Paul Burrell knew about -- she 
      told me that if she was ever killed 
      or anything happened to her, I must 
      make sure that the contents of this 
      box were made public. 


                                     100.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
	(CONT'D)
      I told Paul Burrell the day after 
      what happened. He promised me that 
      he would keep the contents of the 
      box safe and tell me that if anyone 
      tried to tamper with them -- he did 
      not kept his promise. The next I 
      heard was that he had been arrested 
      and that he had stolen Diana's 
      possessions and he was then set 
      free by the Queen.

             DAVIES
      So the Queen is also part of the 
      cover-up?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Where is this box? Where is the 
      letters? You asked me -- to say I 
      have no proof. How can you want me 
      to get the proof? I am facing a 
      steel wall of the security service. 
      I have been fighting for ten years 
      to reach where we are, to have a 
      formal and to have a jury of 
      ordinary people. 

             DAVIES
      The last point that you 
      particularly wanted to emphasise 
      concerns dark forces.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      I believe Richard Tomlinson and I 
      believe the evidence that he gave 
      to the inquest, very convincing, 
      that MI6 assassinates people of 
      great importance and relevance. He 
      believes that there is a file on 
      the paparazzi member in the pay of 
      security services. This is likely 
      to be James Andanson, who has 
      executed the murder in his own 
      Fiat, pushed the car, and the 
      strobe lights have been used to 
      blind Henri Paul.

             DAVIES
      Can I just interrupt you there to 
      check that I understand what you 
      are saying? It is your belief then 
      that James Andanson was driving the 
      Fiat Uno at the time?


                                     101.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Definitely.

             DAVIES
      And that he was later murdered?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Yes.

             DAVIES
      I see.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      He has been later murdered because-- 
      for the security service, avoiding 
      that he will again turn against 
      them and say exactly what happened.

             DAVIES
      I see.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      They had to get rid of him. 

             BURGESS
      You said you would expose the 
      gangsters who killed Diana and your 
      son. Would you like to explain who 
      you believe that those gangsters 
      were?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      The gangsters are the members of 
      MI6 which Richard Tomlinson has 
      told me and he mentioned in his 
      witnesses. I think Prince Philip is 
      the actual head of the Royal 
      Family.  This is the guy who is now 
      in charge and manipulating 
      everything and can do anything. 
      They are still living in the 18th 
      century.

JUSTICE BURGESS interjects...

             BURGESS
      One final matter I want your help 
      about: do you think that there is 
      any possibility, however remote, 
      that your beliefs about a 
      conspiracy might be wrong and that 
      the deaths of Diana and Dodi were 
      in truth no more than a tragic 
      accident. Any possibility?


                                     102.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      No way. One hundred per cent. I am 
      the father who lost his son and I 
      know exactly the situations, I know 
      exactly the facts. 

             BURGESS
      Mr. Al Fayed, I do not think 
      anybody doubts the anguish that you 
      have been through. But at the end 
      of the day, we have to work on 
      evidence rather than assertions.

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      How can I get the evidence? I am 
      faced with the power of the state. 

             DAVIES
      It is right, isn't it, that during 
      the last ten years you have spared 
      no expense to try to seek evidence 
      that supports the conclusion that 
      you reached in those first moments?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Definitely. I will continue. I am 
      not resting until I die. If I lose 
      everything to find the truth, who 
      slaughtered Princess Diana and my 
      son. 

             BURGESS
      A whole team. Their job was to 
      unearth every shred of evidence 
      that could be found that Dodi and 
      Diana were murdered?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      That is right.

             BURGESS
      No expense was to be spared?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      That is right.

             BURGESS
      No stone was to be left unturned?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      That is right.


                                     103.

             BURGESS
      And all the resources of the Al 
      Fayed empire were to be made 
      available?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Yes.

             BURGESS
      And you are confident, are you, 
      that every shred of evidence that 
      they found has been given to me, 
      the Coroner?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Definitely.

             BURGESS
      I think we understand your case.
        (beat)
      Lets take a short recess and Ill 
      give closing instructions to the 
      jury. 

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. COURTROOM 73 - LATER

             BURGESS
      Members of the jury, for the last 
      ten and a half years, there have 
      been those who claimed that what 
      happened in the Alma Tunnel was no 
      tragic accident but a staged 
      collision. The fact that one of the 
      dead was Diana, Princess of Wales, 
      created the most enormous media 
      interest, and even leaving aside 
      Mohamed Al Fayed, there were 
      mutterings from the start, Was 
      this really an accident? As for 
      your verdicts, it is open to you to 
      find gross negligence of Henri Paul 
      because of the speed and manner of 
      his driving and any alcohol he may 
      have consumed. Further, it is open 
      to you to find negligence by both 
      the surrounding vehicles and Henri 
      Paul together. Finally, it is 
      possible for you to return an open 
      verdict if you conclude that the 
      evidence suggests some other factor 
      was involved. 


                                     104.

             BURGESS
	(CONT'D)
      It is for you to decide which, if 
      any, of the causes I have provided 
      you wish to add to your narrative 
      conclusion. Will you please now 
      retire to consider your verdicts? 
      Take as long as is necessary. 

INT. CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE HQ - DAVIES OFFICE - DAY

DAVIES finishes boxing up Inquest-related documents. SILSBURY 
knocks and enters.   

             SILSBURY
      A shame things have ended up like 
      this. I never thought youd be 
      willing to take it this far.

             DAVIES
      I know you leaked Dianas letter to 
      the Daily Mirror. 

             SILSBURY
      Dont be ridiculous. 

             DAVIES
      Catherines father tipped you off 
      about what I had found. At least he 
      had good intentions. Trying to have 
      you stop me from doing something 
      stupid. 

             SILSBURY
      Your conspiracy theories continue.  

             DAVIES
      You tried to cover things up at the 
      start. But must have known about 
      the Mischon letter. And once 
      Alistair told you I knew about 
      Dianas claims too, you worried if 
      you killed the investigation at 
      that point, there was a chance Id 
      speak out and your cover-up would 
      come to light. So you had to 
      protect yourself and instead blew 
      it wide open. Betting that as long 
      as a junior underling like me was 
      on the case, it would end quickly. 

SILSBURY glowers at Davies, attempting to conceal his guilt.  

             SILSBURY
      So this is it then?  


                                     105.

             DAVIES
      No matter what the verdict, we both 
      know theres no future for me here.

             SILSBURY
      At least while Im around, probably 
      correct. You should have listened 
      to me, Michael.

             DAVIES
      I did. What was it you said about 
      Al Fayed? A man like that didnt 
      get to where he is by always being 
      honest. 
        (beat)
      Be careful Alistair. Al Fayed 
      actually thought he and I were 
      quite similar. 

DAVIES secretary interrupts...

             MRS. TRACY
      Just received word from the clerk. 
      The jury has reached a verdict. 

CUT TO:

INT. ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE - COURTROOM 73

Spectators and journalists pack the courtroom. 

             BURGESS
      Madam Foreman have you reached a 
      verdict on which a majority agreed?

             JURY FOREMAN
      We have.

             BURGESS
      Could you give us the verdict and 
      indicate the number of jurors 
      assenting to the verdict?

             JURY FOREMAN
      The verdict is grossly negligent 
      driving of the surrounding vehicles 
      and of the Mercedes by Henri Paul. 
      We found no other conspiratorial 
      factors at play. There are nine of 
      us who agree on those conclusions.

A burst of emotions from the gallery. SILSBURY and BURGESS 
share a passing glance and smirk.


                                     106.

             BURGESS
      Thank you. Could you now read the 
      rest of the narrative on the 
      inquisition.

             JURY FOREMAN
      The deceased are Emad El-Din 
      Mohamed Abdel Moneim and Diana, 
      Princess of Wales. The crash was 
      caused or contributed to by the 
      speed and manner of driving of the 
      Mercedes, the speed and manner of 
      driving of the surrounding 
      vehicles, the impairment of the 
      judgment of the driver of the 
      Mercedes through alcohol. In 
      addition, the death of the deceased 
      was caused or contributed to by the 
      fact that the deceased was not 
      wearing a seat-belt, the fact that 
      the Mercedes struck the pillar in 
      the Alma Tunnel rather than 
      colliding with something else, and 
      we are unanimous on those, sir.

             BURGESS
      Is that the conclusion of your 
      narrative verdict?

             JURY FOREMAN
      It is.

             BURGESS
      Thank you very much, members of the 
      jury. It simply remains for me, on 
      behalf of everyone, to give thanks 
      to you for the obviously very, very 
      great care that you have given to 
      this case.
        (beat)
      This inquest is adjourned. 

INT. ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE - GREAT HALL

Soaring arches. 82-foot tall ceilings. Marble floors 
stretching the length of a soccer pitch. 

DAVIES is stopped and congratulated by passers by. To the 
outside world, he did an outstanding job presenting evidence 
and getting a verdict and laying the issues to rest.

He notices AL FAYED, by himself, quietly studying a statue.


                                     107.

             DAVIES
      Charles the first. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      A subject and a sovereign are 
      clean different things he said. 
      Absolute power turned a country 
      against him and led to his 
      beheading.   

             DAVIES
      Didnt realize you were quite the 
      expert on British history. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      Three applications for citizenship 
      here have been refused. Ive made 
      billions for this country. My four 
      children carry British passports. 
      The monarchy has never refused a 
      charity event Ive thrown in their 
      honour. 

             DAVIES
      And you think thats some sort of 
      conspiracy. 

AL FAYED shrugs his shoulders. We finally seem the calm, 
calculated rationality of a man who built an empire...

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      To carry the Egyptian passport of a 
      civilisation of 7,000 years is a 
      pleasure. I guess what do I care 
      about fitting in here for. 

             DAVIES
      Im glad I was able to help you 
      finally have your voice heard. 
      Though you realize if the jury had 
      seen this side of you, things might 
      have turned out differently. 

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      When Charles was brought to the 
      scaffold for his execution, he wore 
      two shirts to keep from shivering. 
      Didnt want the crowd to mistake 
      the cold for fear of weakness.
        (beat)
      They say the monarchy never 
      regained the power it had 
      previously.  


                                     108.

             DAVIES
      You dont really think the Queen 
      had anything to do with your sons 
      death, do you?

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      We will never know for sure. But 
      everything the jury saw. What you 
      helped discover. The people of this 
      country heard about their actions. 
      About how they treat me. How the 
      Crown treated their own daughter-- 

             DAVIES
      And you just wanted to make them 
      shiver.

AL FAYED offers his hand to DAVIES...

             MOHAMMED AL FAYED
      We both did. 

CUT TO BLACK.

SUPERIMPOSE:

After conclusion of the Inquest, Paul Burrell admitted that 
hadnt told the whole truth while on the witness stand. Do 
you honestly think I've told everything I know? Of course I 
havent.

Eyewitnesses spoke of observing a vehicle or a motorcycle 
leaving the scene of the crash at high speed. The driver or 
drivers of any such vehicle or vehicles have never been 
traced.

Forensic evidence ties a white Fiat Uno to the scene of the 
crash. Despite the forensic evidence and an exhaustive 
search, that exact car has never been found. The physical 
evidence did not show whether James Andansons Fiat was or 
was not involved in the collision. 


Select Inquest Evidence


Diana Car Accident Letter to Paul Burrell

I am sitting here at my desk today in October. Longing 
for someone to hug me and encourage me to keep strong 
and hold my head high  This particular phase in my 
life is the most dangerous  my husband is planning 
an accident in my car. Brake failure and serious head 
injury in order to make the path clear for him to 
marry...


Diana Letter to Paul Burrell Referencing a Secret

Dear Paul,
Clearly from your third eye this coming weekend  is an important 
one!
I know that too and I wanted to write on paper how extremely touched 
I am that you share this excitement with me as well. What a secret!


