             I'M PROUD OF YOU

               Written by

      Micah Fitzerman-Blue & Noah Harpster

      (Based on the memoir by Tim Madigan)

UTA
Jon Huddle
310.273.6700

Kaplan/Perrone
Alex Lerner
310.285.0116


EXT. A RESIDENTIAL STREET, IN MINIATURE - DAY

Colorful BALSAWOOD HOUSES and PLASTIC TREES pepper the 
streets. MODEL CARS wait for the passing toy TROLLEY.

A familiar vibraphone chimes in.

Up ahead, a quaint YELLOW HOUSE comes into focus.

We are in the opening credits of MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD.

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD HOME - CONTINUOUS

FRED ROGERS (71) swings open the door, smiling.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      It's a beautiful day in this 
      neighborhood. A beautiful day for a 
      neighbor. Would you be mine? Could 
      you be mine?

At the closet, Fred takes off his sport coat and hangs it up. 
His movements are slow - he’s not as young as he once was.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      It's a neighborly day in this 
      beauty wood. A neighborly day for a 
      beauty. Would you be mine? Could 
      you be mine?

He plucks a RED CARDIGAN off the hanger.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      I've always wanted to have a 
      neighbor just like you. 

Fred points right into the camera. You.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      I've always wanted to live in a 
      neighborhood with you. So, let's 
      make the most of this beeeeutiful 
      day. 

He playfully zips up the sweater before sitting on the bench.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Since we're together we might as 
      well say.

Fred slips off his dress shoe and tosses it to his other 
hand. He replaces it with the BLUE BOAT SHOE and ties it 
tight before moving on to the next foot.


                                      2.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Would you be mine, could you be 
      mine? Won't you be my neighbor? 
      Won't you please, won't you please? 
      Please won't you be my neighbor?

He smiles and settles in - then, that soft warm voice. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Hello, television neighbor.

Fred pulls out a large WOODEN BOARD checkered with several 
little patterned DOORS. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Do you see this big board that I 
      brought to show you? It has lots of 
      little doors on it. Different 
      material for each door. Behind 
      these doors are pictures of people. 
      Look who this one is.

Fred opens a door to reveal a soft-focus headshot of LADY 
ABERLIN (40s), brunette.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s Lady Aberlin. Look here. 

He opens another - this time, MISTER McFEELY (50s) in a white 
wig, goatee, and hat.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Who is that? It’s Mister McFeely. 
      He says “speedy delivery,” doesn’t 
      he?

He closes it, then opens a couple more. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      All these are friends. You know 
      what it means? A friend? It means I 
      know that person. I know how that 
      person looks. And what kind of 
      things they do. And I like to be 
      with them. Most of these friends 
      are people that I’ve helped you to 
      know on television. Today I'd like 
      to introduce you to a new friend. 

He opens the last door. TIM MADIGAN (37), with a fat bloody 
lip and the look of a spooked deer. Something awful happened 
to this guy.


                                      3.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Tim Madigan. He lives in the state 
      of Texas. We haven’t known each 
      other very long, but we have grown 
      to be very close. Like many men his 
      age, Tim doesn’t have many friends, 
      he’s not particularly interested in 
      his chosen profession, and he lives 
      his life avoiding the things that 
      are hardest for him. Of course, the 
      things that are the hardest are 
      also the most important.  

Fred smiles, but his eyes wrinkle with a touch of sadness.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s go say hello to my friend 
      Tim, shall we?

We travel out the window and into...

THE MINIATURE NEIGHBORHOOD

The same houses, cars, trees and trolley - in reverse. 

We expand out to reveal much more than just Mister Rogers’ 
Neighborhood. Now we see all of...

MINIATURE PITTSBURGH

And then further out, to the entire...

MINIATURE UNITED STATES

We stop over TEXAS, then DIP DOWN to a cul-de-sac of tract 
homes, passing a sign that reads “Welcome to Fort Worth.”

Behind the sign, a comfortable three bedroom with the name 
MADIGAN carefully etched onto the tiny mailbox.

Through the BEDROOM WINDOW, we’re suddenly in...

INT. MADIGAN HOME - BEDROOM - MORNING

Tim lies in bed awake, unblinking, staring at a hairline 
crack in wall. His paunch peeks out from under the sheets.

Light pours in the window. The sound of TV News burbles in 
from downstairs.


                                      4.

Very faintly, almost inaudibly, Tim MOANS.

Tim’s wife CATHERINE (35) appears in the door. She’s pretty, 
all-American, in an old bathrobe.

             CATHERINE
      Honey, I need get to ready. Can you 
      keep an eye on Patrick?

Nothing.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
        (louder)
      Tim.

Tim stirs.


             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      I need to get ready.

KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Cluttered. CNN drones from the small TV on the counter.

Tim pours milk onto some Crispix. His son Patrick (3) looks 
on - he’s got a mop of brown hair, bright blue eyes and a 
perpetually runny nose. 

             TIM
      Here you go bud. Grab yourself a 
      spoon.

Patrick gets one from the drawer, takes the bowl and plops 
down in front of the TV in the LIVING ROOM. 

             PATRICK
      Dad.

Tim hits the remote, turning the TV on, stopping on POKEMON. 

The sound of cartoon violence intermingles with the news - 
it’s a peaceful American morning.

Tim dumps Nescafe into a coffee mug, sits down at the kitchen 
table,  unfurls the paper and settles in with the box scores.

             ANCHOR
	(ON TV)
      Now, just two weeks after the 
      horrific disaster at Columbine High 
      School, our thoughts and prayers 
      have turned to introspection and 
      reflection. 


                                      5.

             ANCHOR
	(ON TV) (CONT'D)
      How did we let this happen to our 
      children? I’ll turn it over our 
      panel...

Catherine hurries in.

             CATHERINE
      Can we talk about this wedding?

Tim doesn’t look up. Catherine glances into the living room 
and frowns. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Patrick, sweetie.

Catherine opens a drawer and takes out a CHILD SPOON, then 
heads over to Patrick and replaces the LARGE WOODEN SPOON he 
was using. 

             PATRICK
      Mom!

             CATHERINE
      Sensible spoons, P.

She kisses his forehead.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Three minutes.

She crosses back to the Kitchen, where Tim hasn’t looked up.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      He was eating with this.

             TIM
        (to Patrick)
      You’re supposed to use regular 
      spoons, buddy.

             CATHERINE
      I looked at the invitation, and the 
      rehearsal dinner starts at five, so 
      we’re not gonna make it on time to 
      sit down, but we can probably get 
      there for toasts if we wear what 
      we’re gonna wear on the plane. 

             TIM
      I’m thinking we skip the rehearsal 
      dinner. 

             CATHERINE
      Aren’t you giving a toast?


                                      6.

             TIM
      Wasn’t asked.

             CATHERINE
      Is Steve giving one?

             TIM
      He did at her first wedding.

Catherine smiles, remembering the awkwardness.

             CATHERINE
      All those awful plumbing 
      metaphors...

Tim shakes his head.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      He was trying so hard. It was sorta 
      sweet. 

Patrick karate chops his hand in sync with a monster on the 
screen. 

             PATRICK
      Slam! 

             CATHERINE
        (to Patrick)
      Come on honey, we gotta go. 

             PATRICK
      Slam - slam!

Catherine turns the TV off. It’s noticeably quieter - but the 
news continues to drone on the kitchen TV.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
      Mom - I was slamming.

             CATHERINE 
      We’re late sweetie. 

             PATRICK
      Nooo. 

             CATHERINE
        (to Tim)
      What was that?

Tim shrugs. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      What was he watching?


                                      7.

             TIM
        (shrugs)
      I was in here.

             CATHERINE
      Hug daddy.

Patrick gives Tim a loose hug.

             TIM
      See ya later, kiddo. 

             CATHERINE
      What time are you home tonight? 

             TIM
      Depends. Late probably.

She kisses him.

             CATHERINE
      Okay.

Catherine grabs her purse, work bag, Patrick’s lunch box, her 
keys, and her travel mug of coffee, and fumbles with the 
doorknob. She finally gets it open, but -

She gets caught between the door and the screen-door. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Honey - 

Tim finally looks up.

             TIM
      Oh. Sorry.

He heads over and opens the screen door for her.

             CATHERINE
      Thanks.

The screen door whips back, clapping shut just in front of 
his nose. He stares through the metal mesh at his family. 

TITLE: BASED ON A TRUE STORY

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD HOME - DAY 

Fred stands by the door.


                                      8.

             FRED
      Welcome back, television friend.

There’s a knock at the door.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Is that knock in your pretend or is 
      it right here in my place?

Another knock. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s here. Let’s see who’s at the 
      door.

Fred looks out the window.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, it’s Mr. McFeely.

He opens the door.

             MR. MCFEELY
      Speedy Delivery. Speedy newspaper 
      delivery.

Mr. McFeely hands Fred a newspaper. 

             FRED 
      Oh, newspapers are filled with all 
      sorts of interesting information. 
      Let’s take a look.

Fred reads the paper. The headlines are all about Tim.

“TIM’S SISTER PICKS OUT WEDDING DRESS.”

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Looks like Tim’s sister has finally 
      picked out a special dress for her 
      wedding day.  

“POKEMON SELLS OUT MADIGAN LIVING ROOM AGAIN”

"TIM PLANS WORK TRIP TO SAN DIEGO”

“CATHERINE’S FRIENDS SAY: LEAVE HIM!”

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Everyday, my friend Tim and a whole 
      group of people work very hard to 
      make a newspaper. 


                                      9.

             MR. MCFEELY 
      That reminds me. I have a video I 
      found, and I thought you and your 
      neighbor may like to see it. 

             FRED
      What is it?

             MR. MCFEELY
      It’s called “How People Make a  
      Newspaper.” I know a lot of people 
      like newspapers so I thought you 
      might find this interesting. 

             FRED
      I certainly would – do you have 
      time to show it to us?

             MR. MCFEELY
      I’d be glad to see it again. 

             FRED
      Let’s put it on Picture Picture.

Mr. McFeely takes the video out of the sleeve. 

             MR. MCFEELY
      Here’s the tape. 

Fred takes the tape and slides it in the wall by the 
painting. 

             FRED
      We’ll take a look at Picture 
      Picture and see how people make a 
      newspaper.

In the painting: video of an historic four-story building. A 
green awning reads Fort Worth Star-Telegram. 

We push INTO the painting...

INT. FORT-WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - NEWSROOM - DAY 

Busy and drab. Industrial carpeting underfoot, fluorescent 
lights overhead.

INSIDE TIM’S OFFICE

A PEABODY AWARD sits on a rickety stand covered in a dusty 
lucite box. 


                                      10.

Behind the award, the front page of the Telegram, with Tim, 
ten years younger, smiling wide, and the headline: 

MADIGAN WINS PEABODY FOR JUAREZ DRUG CARTEL REPORTING

Tim studies the brochure for SAN DIEGO OFFSHORE FISHING 
EXCURSIONS.

In the brochure: an ANGLER reels in a huge MARLIN.

On his desk: a picture of Tim and Catherine, giddily happy in 
ski gear on a snowy mountaintop.

The sweet pushover of a sports editor, GREG DRURY (40), 
appears.

             GREG
      Hey Tim.

             TIM
      Morning Greg. 

Tim looks at this watch.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Editorial?

             GREG
      Yep. 

Tim grabs his notebook and coffee. They head down the 
hallway.

             GREG
	(CONT’D)
      So hey. Iván Rodríguez is throwing 
      a benefit for his foundation next 
      week, I was thinking you - the 
      sports desk gets four tickets, and 
      it’s at the Four Seasons - maybe 
      you and Catherine wanna come with 
      Vicky and me. Free champagne and 
      stuff.

             TIM
      I got my sister’s wedding this 
      weekend. 

             GREG
      The event’s next week, but...

Tim gives him a look - not gonna happen. 

             GREG
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, okay.


                                      11.

They walk into the...

CONFERENCE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The meeting’s already in progress.

ELLEN THE EDITOR (40s, rapid fire) presides over her staff, a 
dozen REPORTERS, mostly middle-aged men. 

             ELLEN 
      We’re pulling Kosovo coverage from 
      Reuters for the lead, unless anyone 
      wants to strap on a bullet proof 
      vest and get me a human interest 
      angle?

CHARLIE, the oafish prick city writer, slaps his gut. 

             CHARLIE
      I would, but I’m too big a target, 
      boss.

Laughter.

             ELLEN
      And Dwayne’s gonna get us copy for 
      the appeal of the Clinton 
      acquittal, right Dwayne?

A chirp from the phone on the table.

             DWAYNE
	(O.S.)
      You got it. 

             ELLEN
      Okay, that’s national. Tim - are we 
      going to find you up front this 
      week, or in features?

There’s undeniable respect for Tim in the room, but no one 
likes him except Greg.

             TIM
      Features - but I think this one 
      might strike a chord.

             ELLEN
      Let’s hear it.

Charlie mutters to the prim NICOLE (20s) from the Business 
desk.


                                      12.

             CHARLIE
        (sotto)
      A baby sloth is born...

             NICOLE
        (sotto)
      A blind girl sees...hope.

Tim takes his time, milking a dramatic silence.

             TIM
      Obviously, the Daphne Reynolds 
      nursing home strangling was big 
      news. 

             ELLEN
      Two years ago.

             TIM
      Well, does anyone remember her son 
      Bob? 

             CHARLIE
      Ooh - I knew he did it.

Everyone leans in, excited.

             TIM
      Not exactly, but he and his wife 
      Lydia Reynolds have relocated to 
      San Diego, where they run a 
      botanical supply shop. 

             CHARLIE
      Are you saying he hid the body in 
      his flower shop?!

             ELLEN
      No one hid the body. It was in the 
      living room

             TIM
      So his shop is called Daphne’s.

             CHARLIE
      So?

             TIM
      Named after his mother.

A beat.

Silence.


                                      13.

             GREG
      Jeez, Tim, that’s great.

             ELLEN
      You wanna go to San Diego for a 
      follow up with her kid?

             TIM
      Fort Worth still cares about the 
      Reynoldses. 

             ELLEN
      I like the sentiment, but there’s 
      no story.

             TIM
      Really?

             ELLEN
      I think I wanna stick with 
      Columbine.

Tim is incredulous.

             TIM
      Ellen - It’s over. Frankly I think 
      it’s time to leave the families 
      alone.

             ELLEN
      You might be right.

             NICOLE
      It is all they talk about on TV.

Ellen taps her pen on the table.

             ELLEN
      How about that?

             TIM
      What?

             ELLEN
      TV. What if the angle is about all 
      the TV coverage? 
        (quickly)
      No that’s horrible. 

             DWAYNE
	(O.C.)
      How about violence on TV again?

             TIM
      Wasn’t it violence in videogames?


                                      14.

             CHARLIE
      It was Marilyn Manson. Case closed.

             GREG
      He’s no Alice Cooper, I can tell ya 
      that. 

             ELLEN
      Okay, yes. We go way back, back to 
      what the shooters were watching 
      when they were young. Barney and 
      Sesame Street. Ask them about 
      violence on TV. Haven’t seen that.

             TIM
      Just, okay here me out? The 
      Reynolds case –

             ELLEN
      I like this Tim.

             TIM
      Sesame Street?

             ELLEN
      People want to be comforted. 

             TIM
      Come on, really?

             ELLEN
      No one does comfort like you.

Ellen’s moved on. Tim has his assignment. 

             ELLEN
	(CONT’D)
      Okay. Sports.

Greg perks up.

TIM’S DESK - LATER

The fishing brochure is in the trash. 

Tim’s leaving a phone message.

             TIM
      ...with the Fort Worth Star 
      Telegram, and I’d love to do an 
      interview with the Captain. I mean, 
      Mr. Keeshan. Kangaroo. Captain 
      Kangaroo. Take care. 


                                      15.

Tim hangs up, then dials another number.

Across the hall, Charlie bear-hugs Greg. 

             CHARLIE
      Free champagne!

The phone rings in Tim’s ear. A overly earnest SECRETARY 
answers.

             SECRETARY
	(O.S.)
      Thank you so much for calling 
      Family Communications. 

             TIM
      I’d like to schedule an interview 
      with Fred Rogers...

EXT. FORT-WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - PARKING LOT - LATER

Ellen catches up to Tim, who’s walking to his car. She’s 
determined, fired up.

             ELLEN
      Hey Tim - 

             TIM
      What’s up?

             ELLEN
      I just wanted to remind you that 
      when you came to the Telegram, your 
      first dozen pieces were so awful I 
      had to rewrite every word.  

             TIM
        (smiles)
      I’m pretty sure I thanked you then.

             ELLEN
      My point is that it’s not just 
      business. I consider you a friend. 

             TIM
      I consider you a friend too-

             ELLEN
      If you’re hoarding good stories 
      because you’re moving to a bigger 
      paper, you need to tell me, Tim. I 
      have a right to know.

Tim cocks his head.


                                      16.

             TIM
      I’m not going anywhere.

Ellen’s a little surprised. 

             ELLEN
      Oh.

She giggles to herself.

             ELLEN
	(CONT’D)
      That’s embarrassing!

Another thought hits her. She locks eyes with Tim, concerned.

             ELLEN
	(CONT’D)
      So then, is everything okay?

INT. TIM’S EXPLORER ON THE ROAD - EVENING

The Rangers’ game is on the radio.

Tim turns into his cul-de-sac. He’s approaching his house. 
Catherine’s MINIVAN is parked in the driveway. 

Tim slows down to park, but... he can’t stop. 

He passes his house, turns out of the neighborhood, and back 
onto the MAIN ROAD.

His cellphone rings. Catherine.

Tim turns the radio.

             TIM
      Hello?

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Hey, where are you?

             TIM
      Uh - I’m stuck at the office. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Oh, okay.

             TIM
      They’re making me do some awful 
      assignment.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      What is it - 


                                      17.

             TIM
      Anyways, I don’t want to bore you. 
      You gonna be okay with dinner and 
      everything?

The car behind Tim HONKS. He covers the receiver. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Hello? 

             TIM
      I need to jump in. 

Tim pulls off, into the parking lot of a CRACKER BARREL 
restaurant.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Love you.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Love you too.

INT. CRACKER BARREL - MOMENTS LATER

Chock full of knickknacks and flare. 

Tim waits in line to be seated, behind two ELDERLY COUPLES 
catching the early-bird special. They all wear cardigans.

Tim’s cell phone rings. 

             TIM
      Tim Madigan.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Hello, Tim. This is Fred Rogers. 

That familiar voice. Very sweet, very slow.

             TIM
      Oh, Hi...that was fast.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Well, I figured if you wanted to 
      talk to me, I should want to talk 
      to you.

Tim snorts. Yeah right.

             TIM
      Can I set a time for an interview 
      with you, or should I go through 
      your office?


                                      18.

The PRETTY HOSTESS smiles at Tim. 

             PRETTY HOSTESS
      How many?

Tim holds up a finger: just one.

             PRETTY HOSTESS
	(CONT’D)
      This way.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      I’m happy to schedule something, 
      except for one thing.

             TIM
      What’s that?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      You have me here right now. 

A beat.

             TIM
      Yeah, okay. One sec. 

Tim grabs a crayon and kids menu from the stand. The activity 
on the back has a TROLLEY on it.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - KITCHEN - SAME

Catherine makes scrambled eggs and toast. Patrick whines at 
her feet.

             PATRICK
      I need to poop. 

             CATHERINE
      Okay, then go in and sit down and-

             PATRICK
      I want help. 

             CATHERINE
      I’ll come in and help you after you 
      go. 

             PATRICK
      I want help now.

             CATHERINE
      I can’t help you up right now. I’m 
      sorry, you’re a big boy now and I 
      need to make dinner. 


                                      19.

             PATRICK
      That’s eggs.

             CATHERINE
      I know. Sorry, I just...
        (selling it)
      We’re having breakfast for dinner.

Patrick grabs his behind. 

             PATRICK
      Ahhh. Mommy, it’s coming. The poop 
      is coming!

Catherine quickly turns of the gas, pushes the pan off the 
heat, picks up Patrick and bolts to the bathroom.

We stay on the soupy, half-cooked eggs.

INT. CRACKER BARREL - SAME

A RETIREMENT PARTY carries on at the next table over. Patrons 
gather around an AGED MAN.

A perfect bacon cheese burger and fries have just arrived at 
Tim’s table. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      I try to look through the camera, 
      into the eyes of each child 
      watching, and speak to them, as if 
      individually, trying to be fully 
      present to their feelings and 
      needs. 

Tim rolls his eyes and scribbles notes on the kids menu in 
crayon. 

             TIM
      Okay. 

The retirement party CHEERS.

Tim scowls.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      This is important when people of 
      any age come together, under any 
      circumstances. 

             TIM
      Right.


             PARTYERS
      Bryan! Bryan! Bryan!

The Retirement Partyers distribute commemorative hats with 
the face of the Aged Man screen-printed on it.

                                      20.

             TIM
      Can you hang on for a second? 
      There’s some idiotic thing 
      happening here. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      It sounds like a great deal of fun.

             TIM
      I’m sorry?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Do you know what the most important 
      thing in the world is to me, right 
      now? 

             TIM
      Uh, no.

Tim takes a big bite. The Party has quieted down.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Talking to Tim Madigan on the 
      telephone.  

Tim stops chewing.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - PATRICK’S BEDROOM - LATER

Catherine tucks Patrick into bed.

             CATHERINE
      What song do you want to hear?

Catherine wipes Patrick’s runny nose - it’s automatic. 

             PATRICK
      Rudolph.

             CATHERINE
      Christmas isn’t for months, honey. 

             PATRICK
      I like Rudolph.


                                      21.

             CATHERINE
      Okay. 
        (then, sings softly)
      Rudolph the red nosed reindeer... 

Patrick settles in. 

BEDROOM - LATER

Catherine’s asleep. Tim climbs into bed and stares at the 
hairline crack in the wall.

Patrick CRIES in the other room. 

Tim doesn’t move. Catherine gets up and heads out to comfort 
Patrick.  

Off the chime of a VIBRAPHONE...

DALLAS FORT WORTH AIRPORT, IN MINIATURE

A tiny plane rumbles down the runway.

THE AMERICAN MIDWEST, IN MINIATURE

We lift off from Texas, soar over the flat green plains, 
until the sparkling lakes of Minnesota come into view - we 
dip down toward a tiny rental car on I-35, headed north.

INT. RENTAL CAR - FREEWAY - NIGHT 

Rain pours down. Catherine and Patrick are asleep. Tim’s eyes 
are locked on the road. 

He takes the exit for DULUTH.

His jaw is clenched tight and his mind is elsewhere. 
Suddenly, he sucks in a blast of air, then exhales quickly. 
He’s been holding his breath for miles.

Catherine stirs, eyes still closed, she reaches over and rubs 
the back of Tim’s neck. 

INT. SHERATON - FRONT DESK - LATER

Tim checks in. Catherine holds a sleeping Patrick. 

Tim hands his license to the front desk ATTENDANT.   


                                      22.

             ATTENDANT
        (looking at the card)
      Thanks, Mr. Madigan. 

The Attendant punches at the keyboard. 

             TIM
        (to Catherine)
      Did my sister say if anyone else is 
      staying here?

             CATHERINE
      It was the hotel on the invitation.

             ATTENDANT
      Looks like we have you in a king 
      bed for two nights.

             TIM
      Don’t you have two queens? 
        (turning to Catherine)
      I’m sure we requested that. 

Catherine nods.

             ATTENDANT
      Unfortunately, we are sold out 
      tonight - I can put a request in 
      for tomorrow -

             TIM
      No that’s fine, it’s fine. I don’t 
      wanna have to move rooms.

The sound of a group of DRUNK MIDDLE-AGERS cutting across the 
lobby pulls Tim’s attention. They’re all wearing boat shoes.

Tim quickly turns around – trying and failing to be subtle.

Catherine laughs.

             CATHERINE
      You know them?

             TIM 
      Who?

             CATHERINE
      Tim.

             ATTENDANT
      Okay here are your keys and room 
      number. Elevator is down the hall. 


                                      23.

Tim snatches them - 

             TIM
      Thanks.

- and moves quickly to the elevator.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Catherine and Tim get into their pajamas.

Patrick is stretched out in the middle of the bed, asleep. 

             CATHERINE
      How long has it been since you’ve 
      seen everybody?

             TIM
      I don’t know.

             CATHERINE
      Was it Mason’s christening?

             TIM
      Long time. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT. SHERATON - RECEPTION HALL - EVENING

The GROOMSMEN in rented tuxes and a handful of BLONDE KIDS 
make up the wedding party up front. The groom, TODD (35), is 
a bearded and heavy-set guy who’s nervous as hell.

The BRIDESMAIDS walk down the aisle.

Tim sits near the back in a suit but no tie. Catherine looks 
beautiful, but tense, by his side. Patrick rolls a toy car 
along the back of the seat in front of him.

The music STOPS.

             WOMAN
	(O.C.)       
	(SINGING)
      My darling I....

The doors at the back of the hall open. 

The small crowd stands and turns. 

LORRAINE MADIGAN (35), the bride, Tim’s kooky, addled sister, 
holds a microphone, as she walks down the aisle. 


The opening bars to “Can’t Get Enough Of Your Love,” kick 
in...

                                      24.

             LORRAINE       
	(SINGING)
      Ooh I don’t know don’t know don’t 
      know why / I can’t get enough of 
      your love babe... 

             CATHERINE
      Oh my god she’s singing.

Lorraine sees Tim and her smile brightens. Tim waves.

Escorting her is STEVE MADIGAN (40s), Tim’s brother, who 
looks skinny and haunted.

Steve shoots Tim a playful but menacing smile - the smile of 
an older brother.

Tim nods back, then and looks away quickly.

             LORRAINE       
	(SINGING)
      The more you give, the more I want, 
      and baby that's no lie...

OUTSIDE THE RECEPTION HALL - LATER

Lorraine and the Groom walk through the small greeting line, 
her TWO BLONDE KIDS by her side. 

She works her way toward Tim and family. 

             LORRAINE
      Tim! Ahh! I’m so glad you’re here. 

She leaps into his arms with a big hug.

             TIM
      Congrats, Lorraine.

             LORRAINE
        (to Catherine)
      And, hi honey!

             CATHERINE
      You look so beautiful.

             LORRAINE
      Second time’s a charm!


                                      25.

             TIM
      Yeah, congrats.

He notices Todd the groom. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      To you both. I’m Tim, Lorraine’s 
      brother. 

             TODD
      I know. I’m the husband!

Lorraine gasps when she sees Patrick.

             LORRAINE
      And look at you! Last time I saw 
      you, you were a peanut. 

             PATRICK
      I’m not a peanut. I’m Patrick. 

             LORRAINE
      Aww!

That’s the cutest thing Lorraine’s ever heard. The FLOWER 
GIRLS troop by.

             LORRAINE
	(CONT’D)
      Patrick, this is Mason and Maddy. 

They couldn’t care less. 

Tim notices Steve on the other side of the room. He’s 
lecturing his two BOYS about some rule they broke. Standing 
next to them is CALLY, his plump and pretty wife.

             LORRAINE
	(CONT’D)
      So, I have to work my way down the 
      line, but I’m gonna see you later, 
      right?
        (adding, singsong)
      We rented out the ba-ar.

             TIM
      I have a flight out super early.  

Catherine looks very confused.

             LORRAINE
        (stung)
      Really?


                                      26.

             CATHERINE
        (to Lorraine)
      Of course we’ll be there.

             LORRAINE
      Oh good.

Lorraine moves down the line.

             CATHERINE
      Did you change our flight?

             TIM
      Mister Rogers invited me to meet 
      him in person.

             CATHERINE
      Where?

             TIM
      Pittsburgh.

             CATHERINE
      So we’ll go back alone?

             TIM
      It’s work, you know?

INT. SHERATON BAR - LATER

Crowded and festive. Lorraine and Todd duet to “Brick House” 
on the karaoke machine. 

Catherine does the twist with Patrick.

Tim finishes his beer at the far corner of the bar. 

Steve approaches - he’s trying to come off relaxed but 
there’s tension in his voice.

Steve sits down and nods to the BARTENDER, signaling another 
drink for Tim. 

             STEVE
      He’ll have another.

Tim stiffens at the sound of Steve’s voice. He spins around. 

             BARTENDER
      You got it. And for you?

             STEVE
      Rootbeer. 


                                      27.

             TIM
      Rootbeer?

             STEVE
      Glad you’re here, Tim.

             TIM
        (nodding)
      Glad to be here. 

The Bartender sets down Tim’s beer.

             STEVE
      Work good?

             TIM
      It is. 

Tim sips his beer.

             STEVE
      Well, Madigan Plumbing is a mess. I 
      mean I’m busy, not busy enough, but 
      it’s just me and Cally. 

             TIM
      I know.

             STEVE
      She’s answering phones all day and 
      people are always pissed at us, so 
      we’re pissed at each other. 

The Bartender brings Steve’s rootbeer.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      They don’t understand that I’m not 
      the problem.  I’m there to unclog 
      the pipes. The roots busting 
      through the pipes are the problem. 
      People don’t want to chop down the 
      tree cause it’s been there forever, 
      and they don’t want to pay to move 
      the pipes, so food and crap keeps 
      coming up their pipes over and 
      over. It’s good for me I guess 
      cause it’s work, but people think I 
      didn’t do the job like I’m supposed 
      to, like I’m ripping ‘em off but, 
      it’s the roots, or their wife’s 
      hair that keeps falling out. I’m 
      not the problem. But you know all 
      this already.


                                      28.

             TIM
      Yup.

Tim takes another pull off his beer.

             STEVE
      You see Cally and the boys?

             TIM
      Not yet.

             STEVE
      They’re over there.

Across the room Steve points out Cally - talking with 
Catherine. 

ACROSS THE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Cally and Catherine sip white wine. Cally’s genuinely 
relieved.

             CALLY
      I’m so glad they’re talking.

             CATHERINE
      Me too. 

             CALLY
      Steve’s been avoiding this.

Catherine raises her eyes, avoiding what?

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I wish they’d talk all the time. I 
      mean, they deserve each other,  
      those two jerks.

Cally laughs. So does Catherine - unsure if it’s a joke. 

BACK AT THE BAR

Steve chuckles to himself.

             STEVE
      You coulda borrowed a tie, you 
      know.

Tim shrugs.


                                      29.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Surprised you’re not wearing one of 
      those cowboy string things, 
      whatever they’re called.

             TIM
      Huh?

             STEVE
      Man - I haven’t seen you in so 
      long. Feel good to be back in 
      Duluth?  

Tim nods.

UNCLE JERRY (60s, big hair) leans over.

             UNCLE JERRY
      Hey Stevie, you got a cig for me?

             STEVE
      Sorry Jer. There’s a machine in 
      there I think. 

             UNCLE JERRY
      But that ain’t free.

Steve shrugs.

             TIM
        (to Steve)
      You quit?

             STEVE
      Uncle Jer, this is Tim. 

             UNCLE JERRY
      Well, I’m sorry about that - didn’t 
      recognize you. Blame it on the lack 
      of free nicotine. How are ya, son?

             TIM
      I’m fine. 

             UNCLE JERRY 
      Auntie Carol is over there. 
      Mickey’s right there. 

             TIM
      Yeah, I know that. 

             UNCLE JERRY
        (calling out)
      This is Timmy!


                                      30.

             TIM
      Know what, Steve, I’m gonna turn 
      in. 

             STEVE
      Oh come, on. Don’t get upset. They 
      don’t ever see you and they’re old. 

             TIM
      It’s okay, I’m beat.

             STEVE
      They just wish they saw more of 
      you. We all do.

Tim is starting to boil.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Look, I’m not trying to rile you 
      up. 

Tim reaches for his wallet.

             TIM
      I’m fine. I just want to go.

             STEVE
      Sit down, please. I need to tell 
      you something.

             TIM
      No really, it’s okay. You know, I 
      should just get back to the room. I 
      have a flight-

             STEVE
      Can you just shut up for a second? 

             TIM
        (to the Bartender)
      Can I have the bill please!

Tim gets up and rifles for some cash in his wallet. 

             UNCLE JERRY
      It’s open bar, son.

Uncle Jerry’s been watching the whole thing. 

             STEVE
      Can we just sit down?

Tim starts to go.


                                      31.

Steve grabs him by the arm and holds him there.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Sit down, Tim.

             TIM
      Don’t touch me.

Tim tries to pull away. Steve won’t let go.

             STEVE
      Why? So you can sneak back to 
      Texas? Leave us when we need you, 
      but always pop in for a wedding? 
      For the fun stuff?

             TIM
      Oh, I’m having a great time.

Steve pulls Tim in, right to his face.

             STEVE
      If mom and dad were around they’d 
      be ashamed of you. The way you turn 
      your back –

Tim explodes. 

He punches Steve under the chin. Steve grabs Tim’s shirt as 
he falls back, bring them both down. 

             LORRAINE
      Stop! Stop it!

Steve BANGS against Lorraine, who dumps her drink on her 
dress.

             TODD
      Whoa, whoa! Knock it off!

Tim takes an awkward swing at Steve, who swats Tim’s fist 
away and shoves him back.

Catherine grabs Patrick and moves towards the door, shielding 
his eyes.

Tim falls back against the bar. Steve swings a wild fist at 
Tim and connects with his mouth.

Blood dumps out onto Tim’s chin. Tim LUNGES for Steve - but 
Todd and Uncle Jerry pull them apart.

             STEVE
      What’s wrong with you? 


                                      32.

Tim looks around the room. Faint vibraphone music chimes in.

             TIM
        (panting)
      I know! I know. My fault. It’s my 
      fault everyone.

Silence. 

Tim’s eyes land on Catherine, who is consoling Patrick, who 
is hyperventilating.

             PATRICK
      Mom-my. Mom-my. Mom-my. Mom-my. 

HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Catherine walks several feet in front of Tim. She holds 
Patrick, trying her best to comfort him. He’s stopped crying 
but he’s still gasping heavily as his little body calms down.

Tim staggers, holding a bloody bar towel to his mouth.

A CRACK in the wall follows Tim, spreading toward his hotel 
room. 

INT. TIM’S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Catherine positions Patrick on the bed.

She hears Tim wince as he cleans his wound in the bathroom.

Catherine takes off her earrings and steps out of her dress, 
then puts on a T-shirt. 

She lays down next to Patrick, facing the wall.

Tim comes in. The cut on his lip is no joke. His eye is 
swelling.   

             TIM
      Wish we had two queens. I’m getting 
      up at four. Do you want to return 
      the car? 

Silence.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, I can do it. Three-thirty, 
      then.

Catherine eyes Tim as he sets the alarm clock. 


                                      33.

Tim turns on ESPN. He leans back and tries to get 
comfortable.

Tears are welling in Catherine’s eyes. 

             CATHERINE
      Tim.

Catherine tries to gather the courage.

             TIM
      What?

Unable to say what she wants to say, she shakes her head and 
rolls over.

We PUSH IN on Tim’s face - his broken nose, swollen eye and 
split lip. 

INT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD - LIVING ROOM - DAY

We pull out on the photo of that same face.

Fred sits beside the big Wooden Board with little patterned 
doors.

He stares at Tim’s photo as a jazzy vibraphone riff floats 
in.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      What do you do with the mad that 
      you feel When you feel so mad you 
      could bite? When the whole wide 
      world seems oh, so wrong. And 
      nothing you do seems very right? 

As the song continues...

INT/EXT. RENTAL CAR - JUST OUTSIDE PITTSBURGH - MORNING 

Tim speeds toward the Fort Pitt tunnel, the engine whirring.

In the rearview mirror, he notices his lip has started to 
bleed.

As the car enters the tunnel, Tim grabs a jacket and holds it 
up to his face. 

He wipes the blood from his face and chin - then notices it’s 
all down the front of his shirt.


                                      34.

             TIM
      Oh, man. 

Driving out of the tunnel, the skyline of downtown Pittsburgh 
comes into view - the sun gleams off the towers of glass, the 
shimmering Monongahela River. 

It’s unexpected, almost magical - for a moment, it grabs Tim, 
taking his attention off himself.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
	(SINGING)
      What do you do? Do you punch a bag? 
      Do you pound some clay or some 
      dough? Do you round up friends for 
      a game of tag? Or see how fast you 
      go?

Tim accelerates.

EXT. WQED STUDIOS - PITTSBURGH

Tim pulls up in front of the cement building. 

He pulls clothes from his suitcase and changes in the street, 
trying his best to stay hidden behind the open car door.  

Across the street, a HOMELESS WOMAN hollers at him.

             HOMELESS WOMAN
      That ain’t right!

INT. WQED STUDIOS - HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Tim spots a stocky, tattooed guy helping himself to a candy 
bar at craft service. This is NICK (45).

             TIM
      Excuse me, I’m looking for Fred 
      Rogers?

             NICK
      Who?

             TIM
      I’m here for an interview with, um, 
      Mister Rogers?

Nick shrugs. Never heard of him. He heads toward the Stage 
Door.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I’m from the Fort Worth -


                                      35.

             NICK
      I’m messing with you, guy.

Nick kicks open the stage door. 

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      This way.

INT. STAGE B - CONTINUOUS

The sweet sound of JOHNNY COSTA noodling on the grand piano.

             NICK
        (re: Tim’s face)
      You’re not gonna fight him are ya?

             TIM
      Oh, no. Softball league. Play at 
      the plate. 

             NICK
      Cause Mister Rogers would mess ya 
      up. 

Nick and Tim round the corner, and suddenly they’re in the  
iconic set: The fish tank, the stop light, the closet full of 
cardigans, the boat shoes, and the magical Trolley that 
bridges Mister Rogers house with the “Neighborhood of Make 
Believe.”

Johnny Costa’s BAND-MATES chat while sipping coffee.

The CAMERA OPERATORS sit behind the cameras, ready.  

On the famous brown couch, at the center of all the 
commotion, sits a very focused Fred Rogers. 

He’s deep in conversation with a severely disabled BOY and 
his MOM and DAD.

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
        (to Tim)
      Sorry guy. Could be a minute. 

             TIM
      Is this a Make-a-Wish thing?

Producer MARGY WHITMER (40s) stern, walks by. The FIRST AD 
trails her.

             NICK
      How we doing Margy?


                                      36.

She points to her watch.

             MARGY
      He’s ruining my life.  

             NICK
      How long?

             MARGY
      Half-hour already, which puts us 
      seventy... three minutes behind. 

             FIRST AD
      Yikes.

             MARGY
      I gotta go in. Cover me.

Margy’s face and body language transforms from stern to warm 
as she enters. 

Tim observes as she points to her watch most apologetically. 

The Dad lifts his Boy from the sofa as Mom stands and hugs 
Fred, tearful. 

Fred pats her shoulder, comforting.

Fred watches the family walk off the set. Tim’s not buying 
the sincerity of the moment.

             TIM
      Is this for the cameras?

             NICK
      What?

             TIM
      How often does this happen?

             NICK
      Everyday.

As soon as the family is gone, Fred moves to his mark in 
front of the couch. 

A PRODUCTION ASSISTANT hands Fred a helium balloon.

             FRED
      Thank you.

Margy nods to the First AD.


                                      37.

             FIRST AD
        (calling out)
      Okay here we go! Quiet please. 
      Everyone settle.

             NICK
        (whispering to Tim)
      Just step back here.

Tim follows Nick, well behind the cameras.

             FIRST AD
      Roll sound. 

             SOUND GUY
	(O.C.)
      Speed.

             FIRST AD
      Mark it. 

The LOADER steps in front of the camera and snaps the slate.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      And...

Fred spots Tim. 

             FRED
      I’m sorry, one sec. 

He leaves his mark and marches quickly across the set, 
balloon in hand. He grins with delight.

             FIRST AD
      Hold please!

             MARGY 
      We can’t fire him can we?

             FRED
      You must be Tim! Welcome to our 
      neighborhood.

Fred extends his hand. Tim shakes it. Behind Fred, a sea of 
glares.

             TIM
      Why don’t we chat afterwards?

Fred notices his face.

             FRED
      Oh, dear. Are you alright?


                                      38.

             TIM
      Softball. Play at the plate.

             FRED
      It looks like it hurts. 

             MARGY
      We have to keep moving Fred. 

             FRED
      Can we have Evan look at him?

             TIM
      No, no - I’m fine. We can talk 
      later.

             MARGY
      I’m sorry, Fred. 

             FRED
      Yes, I know. Thank you for being 
      here. I do look forward to talking 
      with you. I truly do, Tim.

He looks to Margy. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      After this. Everyone, that’s Tim 
      Madigan!

Silence.

             MARGY
      Thank you, Fred. 

             FIRST AD
      Okay, resetting. 

Fred stands at his mark.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      Roll sound. 

             SOUND GUY
	(O.C.)
      Speed.

             FIRST AD
      Mark it. 

The Loader snaps the slate.

             FIRST AD
	(CONT’D)
      And action.


                                      39.

             FRED
      Do you know what this is? I’ll bet 
      you do. It’s a balloon. And not 
      just any kind of balloon. It’s a 
      hee-lee-um balloon...

INT. WQED STUDIOS - LUNCH - LATER

Tim lines up behind Fred, waiting behind the rest of the crew 
at the buffet.

Fred loads up on veggies and rice.

             TIM
      Are you a vegetarian?

             FRED
      I can’t imagine eating anything 
      with a mother. 

Tim helps himself to half a chicken.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s take our lunch over to my 
      office so we can talk.

INT. FRED’S OFFICE - LATER

Small and cluttered. Rust carpet and old, cheap furniture.

The walls are filled with children’s drawings sent from all 
over the nation.

Tim’s tape recorder is running. Their plates are empty.

             FRED
      Oh yes, I’ve had to defend this 
      television program before. In 1969, 
      the US Senate held hearings about 
      the Corporation for Public 
      Broadcasting, which funds PBS. I 
      testified because there was a 
      proposal from Richard Nixon to cut 
      the budget in half.

             TIM
      What did you think of him? 

             FRED
      I’m afraid I never had a chance to 
      meet him.


Above Fred’s desk : L'essentiel est invisible pour les yeux.

                                      40.

             TIM
      What’s that?

             FRED
      A good daily reminder. 

On a filing cabinet, Tim notices a collection of gold 
statues, like neglected bookends.

             TIM
      Are those Emmys?

             FRED
      I don’t know how to speak of it. 

             TIM
      They’re covered in dust. 

             FRED
      If it’s the outside stuff that’s 
      going to nourish you...

             TIM
      Well, a few Emmys couldn’t hurt.

On the shelf behind Fred sit a handful of puppets from “The 
World of Make Believe.” Fred notices. 

             FRED
      Oh, let me introduce you.

Fred takes them down, one by one. First is the puppet of a 
QUEEN.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      This one’s Queen Sarah. 
        (in a falsetto)
      How do you do? My name is Queen 
      Sarah. 

Next he reaches for a BLUE OWL.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
        (in a southern drawl)
      And I’m X the Owl. I surely love 
      flyin’ around. 

Next is a KING.


                                      41.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
        (deep and majestic)
      And of course I am King Friday the 
      13th. Tim Madigan, I presume?

Tim smiles politely.

Finally, he takes down DANIEL STRIPED TIGER, a beat-up tiger 
puppet without any stripes to speak of.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
        (in his own voice)
      And here’s Daniel Striped Tiger. 
      He’s often too shy to talk. 
        (to Daniel)
      But that’s all right Daniel. 

             TIM
      Shall we move on?

Fred sets Daniel down.

             FRED
      All right.

             TIM
      So, obviously Columbine is still on 
      everyone’s mind. 

             FRED
      It hurts my heart.  

             TIM
      And everyone is looking for someone 
      else to blame. 

             FRED
      I tell the children there are many 
      things you can do with your 
      feelings that don’t hurt yourself 
      or anybody else, particularly the 
      so-called negative feelings.

             TIM
      Like what?

             FRED
      Why, you can pound a lump of clay. 
      Or kick a ball. Or play the lowest 
      keys on the piano all together. 
        (pretending to play)
      BOOM BOOM-BOOM.

Tim laughs - but he’s not buying it.


                                      42.

             TIM
      Pounding clay is one thing, but 
      sixteen-year-olds with assault 
      rifles-

             FRED
       	(SINGING)
      What do you do with the mad you 
      feel when you feel so mad you could 
      bite?

This startles Tim. Fred looks right into Tim’s face.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      We can’t give up on children.

King Friday stares at Tim too.

Fred gestures to Tim’s wedding ring. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      I see you’re married. 

             TIM
      I am.

             FRED
      Are you a father, Tim?

Nick knocks on the door frame. 

             NICK
      We’re back, Fred. 

             FRED
      Oh, thank you. 

Fred gets up. Tim shuts off the tape recorder.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      You know, Maggie Stewart taught me 
      the most beautiful piece of sign 
      language last week. 

Fred interlocks his index fingers.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It means “friend.”
        (then)
      You will stick around, wont you?


                                      43.

THE HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Tim’s phone rings. The Caller ID reads “STEVE.”

Tim snorts, ignoring it.

STUDIO A - NEIGHBORHOOD OF MAKE BELIEVE - LATER

The whimsical fantasy land, crafted in cardboard around a 
flimsy looking CASTLE. 

Daniel Tiger sits on the ledge of a large Grandfather CLOCK. 

The Crew settles in. 

Tim wanders to the side of the set. He runs his fingers along 
the Trolley. This place is ridiculous.

Nick slaps Tim on the back.

             NICK
      So how was the interview?

             TIM
      I’m more of a Captain Kangaroo guy.

Nick shakes his head.

             FIRST AD
      Daniel, you set?

Daniel Tiger turns and responds to the First AD.

             DANIEL
        (in a sweet falsetto)
      Set.

             FIRST AD
      Thank you, Daniel. Let me know when 
      you’re ready, Lady. 

LADY ABERLIN (50s), takes her mark. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      Okay.

             FIRST AD
      Trolley... Action.

The Trolley comes out of the TUNNEL and into the Neighborhood 
of Make Believe. 


                                      44.

             TROLLEY
      TOOT TOOT!

It glides by Lady Aberlin, who sprays a VINTAGE PERFUME 
ATOMIZER around the castle and the leafy tree.

She sniffs between sprays as she approached Daniel’s Clock.

             DANIEL
      Hi, Lady Aberlin. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      Oh - Hi Daniel. 

Nick brings Tim around the back of the camera.

             DANIEL
      Are you making that funny smell?

             LADY ABERLIN
      Uh, you mean that skunk kinda 
      smell?

             DANIEL
      Yes, I’ve been smelling it for a 
      little while now. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      No, I’m trying to help that smell 
      go away. 

             DANIEL
      By squirting another smell?

             LADY ABERLIN
      That’s right. A sweet smelling 
      smell. Wanna smell?

             DANIEL
      Okay. 

Daniel leans in - she pulls the sprayer away from him.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Don’t get too close. 

She sprays, and Daniel takes a few sniffs. 

Tim chuckles.

             TIM
        (to himself)
      This is ridiculous.


From where Tim is, he can see Fred crouched under the 
scenery, his hand reaching up into the Daniel Tiger Puppet. 

Fred strains to stay crouched. He’s getting too old for this.

                                      45.

             DANIEL
      Hmm - that does smell good. Where 
      did the bad smell come from?

             LADY ABERLIN
      That was mister skunk. He got 
      scared and he just sprayed this 
      smell - that’s what skunks do when 
      they get scared.

             DANIEL
      Did he spray it right on anybody?

             LADY ABERLIN
      Yes. He sprayed it right on 
      Handyman Negri and Audrey Duck. 

             DANIEL
      Oh no. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      And they were all feeling pretty 
      upset about it. 

             DANIEL
      Especially Mister Skunk, I guess. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      I’ll say. 

             DANIEL
      Did he say he was sorry?

             LADY ABERLIN
      Oh yes, and he knew it was a 
      mistake - and he was really feeling 
      ashamed about it. 

             DANIEL
      You know something Lady Aberlin?

Fred’s voice cracks. He teeters on his feet - but rights 
himself, powering through his obvious discomfort.

             LADY ABERLIN
      What, Daniel?


                                      46.

             DANIEL
      I’ve been wondering something 
      myself.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Something about Mr. Skunk?

             DANIEL
      Something about mistakes.

             LADY ABERLIN
      What is it?

             DANIEL
      I’ve been wondering if I was a 
      mistake.

Tim is TRANSFIXED - his breathing quick and shallow.

             LADY ABERLIN
      If you were a mistake? What do you 
      mean Daniel? 

             DANIEL
      Well, for one thing, I’ve never 
      seen a tiger that looks like me.

             LADY ABERLIN
      No. 

             DANIEL
      And I’ve never heard a tiger that 
      talks like me.

             LADY ABERLIN
      No.

             DANIEL
      And I don’t know any other Tiger 
      who lives in a clock. 

             LADY ABERLIN
      No, neither do I. 

             DANIEL
      Or loves people.

Tim gasps for air.

             TIM
        (to himself)
      Oh, man.


                                      47.

             LADY ABERLIN
      Oh, Daniel. 

Lady Aberlin takes Daniel’s little hand. 

             DANIEL
      Sometimes, I wonder if I’m too 
      tame.

Johnny Costa’s band starts in.

             DANIEL
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes I wonder if I'm a 
      mistake. I'm not like anyone else I 
      know. When I'm asleep or even 
      awake, sometimes I get to dreaming 
      that I'm just a fake....

Overcome, Tim slips out the stage door.

As the song continues... 

THE HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Tim brushes by Nick.

             NICK
      Take care, guy.

EXT. WQED STUDIOS - CONTINUOUS

Tim staggers to his car. 

The Homeless Woman across the street clucks at him 
disapproving. 

             HOMELESS WOMAN
      You keep that shirt on.

INT. RENTAL CAR - CONTINUOUS

Tim sits at the wheel, catching his breath.

THE MIDWEST, IN MINIATURE

From Pittsburgh back over to Texas, then down.


                                      48.

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - NEWSROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Tim pulls up to his office, carrying a box filled with VHS 
tapes and DVDs.

It’s the end of the work day.  The newsroom is emptying out. 

There are FIVE STICKY NOTES stuck to his computer. He grabs 
one.  

  1:45 - Your brother called. 

Greg comes up. 

             GREG
      Hey Tim, I got press passes to the 
      Yankees series, and thought- 

             TIM
      You know where the AV cart is?

             GREG
      Arts, usually.

Tim is gone, down the hall.

CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER 

He drops the box on the table. He rolls the cart in and plugs 
it in. He puts in a DVD. 

INT. MADIGAN HOME - PATRICK’S ROOM

Catherine searches through Patrick’s closet.

Patrick sits on the floor, barefoot.

             CATHERINE
      Come on Patrick, we’re in a hurry. 
      I need you to help find your shoes. 

             PATRICK 
      They’re in the car.

             CATHERINE
      Did you take them off?

Patrick nods. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      From after school? You walked 
      inside barefoot?


                                      49.

Patrick nods. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Honey. 

             PATRICK
      Where’s Dad?

             CATHERINE
      I don’t know, honey.  

From the kitchen, the phone rings. Catherine bolts 
downstairs. Patrick follows.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
        (calling)
      Maybe that’s him.

KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Before she can get there, the answering machine picks up. 

Beep.

Beep.

             TIM
	(ON THE MACHINE)
      Hi. This is the Madigans. Leave a 
      message. 

             PATRICK
      That’s dad. 

             CATHERINE
      Honey, that’s the machine. It’s a 
      recording. 

             FRED
	(ON THE MACHINE)
      Hello, this is Fred Rogers calling 
      from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 

This stops her. She picks up Patrick. 

             FRED
	(ON THE MACHINE)
	(CONT’D)
      I wanted to say how wonderful it 
      was having you for a visit and 
      sorry we didn’t get a chance to say 
      good-bye. I hope we can do it 
      again. And to Catherine and 
      Patrick, thanks so much for sharing 
      him with me.

She picks up. 


                                      50.

             CATHERINE
      Hello?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Catherine?

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Tim’s sipping coffee, staring at the TV screen on a roll-away 
media cart. A stack of VHS tapes sits at his elbow.

It’s old footage, black and white. 

ON THE SCREEN: A MUCH YOUNGER Fred Rogers sits behind a 
microphone at a congressional hearing.

SENATOR PASTORE, a gruff man in his 50s, gets things started.

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Alright Rogers, you've got the 
      floor.

Fred gestures to a document. 

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      Senator Pastore, this is a 
      philosophical statement and would 
      take about ten minutes to read, so 
      I'll not do that. 

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Will it make you happy if you read 
      it?

The audience laughs. Fred is unphased.

Charlie and Nicole barge in, Chik Fil-A in hand.

             CHARLIE
      You working?

             TIM
      Yes. 

             NICOLE
      We’re doing the city council 
      election preview. Need to spread 
      out. It’s a news thing.

             TIM
      Sorry. I have the room checked out.


                                      51.

             NICOLE
      That Mister Rogers?

             TIM
      Yes.

             NICOLE
      He was like my dad growing up.

             CHARLIE
      You think he’s a perv?

             TIM
      Guys.

Tim half-hears an exchange on screen.

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Do you narrate it?

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      I'm the host, yes. And I do all the 
      puppets and I write all the music, 
      and I write all the scripts-

             CHARLIE
      Any idea when - 

             TIM
      Can you guys - I mean, I’m in the 
      middle of something. 

Charlie mouth-farts. Nicole giggles.

Tim turns his attention back to the TV.

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      I end the program by saying, 
      "You've made this day a special 
      day, by just your being you. 
      There's no person in the whole 
      world like you, and I like you, 
      just the way you are."

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      Well, I'm supposed to be a pretty 
      tough guy, and this is the first 
      time I've had goose bumps for the 
      last two days.

The crowd laughs.


                                      52.

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN) 
      Well, I'm grateful, not only for 
      your goose bumps, but for your 
      interest in - in our kind of 
      communication. 

             SENATOR PASTORE
	(ON SCREEN)
      I think it's wonderful. It's 
      wonderful. Looks like you just 
      earned the 20 million dollars.

The crowd applauds.

Tim pauses the VCR, capturing Fred looking directly to 
camera, smiling.

Charlie and Nicole stand behind Tim. They never left, and 
they’re floored.

             CHARLIE
      Wow.

             NICOLE
      Wow.

Tim ejects the disc and puts in another...

SAME - THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT

The rest of the office is empty and dark. 

Tim’s eyes are fixed on the screen: Mister Rogers holds up a 
pair of galoshes. 

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
      And would you look at this pair. 
      This is a shoe that you might wear 
      when it’s raining outside and you 
      don’t want your feet to get wet.

Tim feels a low rumble. 

On Screen: the TROLLEY scoots along the track.

             TROLLEY
	(ON SCREEN)
      Toot toot.

             FRED
	(ON SCREEN)
        (to the Trolley)
      That’s right. They would be useful 
      in the neighborhood of make believe 
      today.



             FRED
	(ON SCREEN) (CONT'D)
        (to camera)
      Let’s have some pretend, shall we?

Behind him, the TROLLEY pulls up along the edge the table.

                                      53.

             TROLLEY
      TOOT TOOT!

             TIM
      Shhh.

Tim looks back. The Trolley’s gone. 

He pushes his chair back. He’s done for the night.

INT. MADIGAN HOME - MORNING 

Tim enters, holding the box of tapes and DVDs.

He sits down on the couch and puts on the TV. 

Catherine hurries around the corner from the hallway. 

             TIM
      Hey honey. 

             CATHERINE
      Tim! Are you okay?

             TIM
      Yeah, why?

             CATHERINE
      What do you mean why?

             TIM
      What’s wrong?

Patrick watches at the top of the stairs.

             CATHERINE
      What’s wrong? Your flight was 
      supposed to get in last night.

             TIM
      It did. 
        (then)
      I slept at the office. I mean, I 
      didn’t sleep there.

             CATHERINE
      I’ve been calling you. 


                                      54.

Tim looks at his phone. 

             TIM
      Oh, sorry.

             CATHERINE
      You slept at the office?

             TIM
      I got caught up watching these old 
      Mister Rogers’ videos. 

Catherine swallows her anger.

             CATHERINE
      I’m gonna start the bath.
        (then)
      I’m glad you’re okay.

She goes. 

Tim pulls out a DVD and slides it into the player.

The opening theme of Mr. Rogers’ Neighborhood comes on.

Patrick slowly walks down the stairs, curious and a little 
scared.

He reaches the bottom. Tim sits on the couch. Patrick settles 
on the floor, with his back against the couch.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
	(SINGING)
      Would you be mine, could you be 
      mine...

BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Catherine draws a bath. Her hands tremble.

LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Tim and Patrick watch the episode of Mister Rogers in which 
Fred learns break-dancing with a boy.

Patrick stares with rapt attention.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      That’s a really neat way to move.

On screen, Fred does the wave with his arms. It’s incredibly 
awkward. Even the boy on screen knows he’s not cool.


                                      55.

             TIM
        (to Patrick)
      It’s called break-dancing. Wanna 
      try it?

Patrick doesn’t move.

             PATRICK
      I can’t.

A pause.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
      He talks so slow.

             TIM
      He does.

             PATRICK
      Is Mister Rogers your friend?

             TIM
      I talk to him cause of work, bud.

Catherine appears.

             CATHERINE
      C’mon. Tub’s ready.

Catherine moves over, lifts Patrick up, and carries him 
upstairs. 

BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Catherine bathes Patrick. She takes a handful of suds and 
puts it on his head. She rubs in the shampoo, hands still 
trembling.

             CATHERINE
      Okay, sweetie. Lean back. Let’s 
      rinse you out. 

             PATRICK
      I don’t like the rinse. 

             CATHERINE
      I know, but we gotta do it. You 
      wanna go slow or fast. 

             PATRICK
      Fastest.


             CATHERINE
      Okay, I have your head. 

She cradles the back of his head, supporting him. She uses 
her shoulder to wipe tears from her eyes.

                                      56.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Ready, fast... go. 

She dips him back quickly... 

             PATRICK
      Ahhh. 

And back up. 

             CATHERINE
      See. That was nothing. 

Catherine’s barely able to talk - she’s losing it. Patrick 
doesn’t notice.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s get you out. You want Buzz or 
      Woody?

             PATRICK
      Buzz.

She wraps Patrick in the Buzz towel, hugs him tight. Tears 
stream down her face.

LIVING ROOM - LATER

Catherine comes down the stairs and sits next to Tim - he is 
still deep in an episode, and barely acknowledges her. 

             TIM
      He asleep?

She turns off the TV. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I need to watch that, hon. 

             CATHERINE
      I have to say something.

             TIM
      Can we do it after I finish this? 

She shakes her head, no.


                                      57.

             CATHERINE
      I think you should get a place. 

             TIM
      A place for what?

             CATHERINE
      For you.

             TIM
      What?

             CATHERINE
      I’m sorry but...

She’s careful in choosing her words. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      I think you need to be by yourself.

             TIM
      What are you talking about?

             CATHERINE
      Tim.

             TIM
      You can’t just come out of nowhere 
      and kick me out of my own house.

             CATHERINE
      You think this is out of nowhere?

             TIM
      Yeah. 

             CATHERINE
      You think I’ve been happy? 

             TIM
      I don’t know! You’ve never said 
      anything. I guess not.

Another pause as Catherine measures it out.

             CATHERINE
      You’re hurting us. 

             TIM
      Cath, what are you talking about?

             CATHERINE
      I’m exhausted.


                                      58.

             TIM
      Being a parent is hard. 

             CATHERINE
      That’s it. That’s exactly it. What 
      I want from you is to go through 
      this together. I don’t want you to 
      tell me it’s hard. I want you to 
      know it’s hard and to care that 
      it’s hard and to come out of it 
      together.

             TIM
      What? Do you want to go on 
      vacation? Do you want to go on a 
      weekend by yourself? Do you want to 
      be in counseling?

             CATHERINE
      Please listen to me.

             TIM
      I work late. I’m sorry, but that’s 
      the job. I mean, I can try - 

             CATHERINE
      Listen.
        (then)
      Patrick loves you so much. 

             TIM
      I know. 

             CATHERINE
      He wants to be important. 

Tim’s not getting it. 

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      To you.

             TIM
      He is...

             CATHERINE
      But?

             TIM
      If your problem is I’m not paying 
      enough attention to him-

             CATHERINE
      It’s not just that-


                                      59.

             TIM
      Then why would you want me to go 
      away?

             CATHERINE
      Because- 

             TIM
      That doesn’t make sense.

             CATHERINE
      It’s not fair for him to only have 
      this part of you. 

             TIM
      What part?

             CATHERINE
      The part that hides behind his 
      laptop. The part that lies just to 
      eat alone at some weird restaurant 
      instead of coming home, to us.  The 
      part that doesn’t think about 
      calling home - to check in, to say 
      hi, to say I love you. The part 
      that, I pray, cares about something 
      more than itself.   

             TIM
      Honey- 

             CATHERINE
      Tim. I need you to go. 

Tim is worked up. He’s sucking air.

             TIM
      Where am I supposed to go?

             CATHERINE
      I don’t know.

             TIM
      Cath...

             CATHERINE
      You’re choosing, for some reason, 
      not to participate in your own life 
      and-

Tim’s mouth is moving like a fish.


                                      60.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      I love you, Tim. 
        (then)
      But, please get out of this house.

EXT. EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - NIGHT

Generic, by the highway. Tim’s Explorer pulls up.

INT. EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - MOMENTS LATER

Again, at a hotel front desk. He snaps his credit card down.

             FRONT DESK CLERK
      One bed or two?

Tim holds up one finger.

INT. TIM’S ROOM - LATER

Tim sits in bed typing on his laptop. Through his headphones 
he listens to his voice recorder. He hears - 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
       	(SINGING)
      What do you do with the mad you 
      feel when you feel so mad you could 
      bite?

Tim types. 

             FRED 
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      We can’t give up on children.

A pause.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      I see you’re married. 

             TIM
	(O.S.)
      I am. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Are you a father, Tim?

The sound of a knock.

             NICK
	(O.S.)
        (barely audible)
      We’re back, Fred. 


                                      61.

             FRED
      Oh, thank you. 

The recording continues, but it’s just static. Dead air.

Tim’s heart is pounding. He presses his hands against his 
chest trying, somehow, to slow it down. He tries to calm 
himself with deep breaths. 

Suddenly: a wisp of GAS creeps into his nose. He grimaces at 
the foul smell. 

             TIM
      Hey -

A SKUNK is crouched in the corner of the room, tail raised 
high, menacing.

Tim pushes the computer off his lap.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Help!

He blinks. The skunk is gone. 

He’s having a panic attack.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Oh no.

He falls to the floor, gasping. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I need air. 

He pulls himself up and staggers to the window, pushing it 
open.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I - I think I’m dying. 

Suddenly - Fred is next to him, wearing pajamas.  

Fred lays a hand on Tim’s shoulder. 

             FRED
      Anything mentionable is manageable.

Johnny Costa’s vibraphone music floats in, but now it’s 
distorted and spooky.

Tim is now dressed as Daniel Tiger. Furry ears stick out of 
his head, and a tail drags on the floor.


                                      62.

             TIM
      No - 

He tugs at his ears - they’re attached.

A sharp, jagged CRACK creeps up the wall. Light pours in.

Tim looks out the window: it’s not the highway. It’s the 
Neighborhood of Make Believe. 

Now, he’s on the ledge of the Grandfather Clock.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Well hello. This is Fred Rogers, 
      please leave me a message and I’ll 
      try my best to return your call. 

EXT. PITTSBURGH AIRPORT - MORNING

Tim exits, still dressed as Daniel Tiger.

             TIM
	(O.S.)
        (choking down tears)
      Hello, uh, Fred. This is - I’d like 
      to come see you. 

INT/EXT. RENTAL CAR - JUST OUTSIDE PITTSBURGH - MORNING 

Tim drives.

             TIM
	(O.S.)
      I realize it’s very late, sorry, 
      but I’m writing the article or I’m 
      staring to... Anyway I was hoping I 
      could speak to you again. If you 
      might have some time to... sorry 
      for calling so late. Bye. Oh, this 
      is Tim Madigan. Wondering if I can 
      come back to Pittsburgh. 

Driving out of the tunnel, the skyline of Pittsburgh, the sun 
off the buildings, the river. It all seems smaller, further 
away than before. 

In the river, an ANGLER pulls a gigantic MARLIN into his 
boat.

The TROLLEY crosses on an overpass right in front of Tim.


                                      63.

EXT. WQED - STREET

Tim pulls the rental car up. 

The building is no longer concrete - it’s BALSAWOOD. The 
trees are PLASTIC. 

Across the street, the Homeless Woman BREAK-DANCES. 

INT. MISTER ROGERS NEIGHBORHOOD SET

Mister Rogers is sitting at the bench.

             FRED
      Welcome back, neighbor. 

A knock at the door. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Is that knock in your pretend or is 
      it right here in my place?

Fred moves to the window and looks out. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s our friend Tim.  

Fred opens the door and Tim walks in, still in costume.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Hi Tim. 

             TIM
      Fred. 

             FRED
      What can I do for you?

             TIM
        (struggling)
      I think I’m getting a divorce. 

             FRED
      Oh, my dear. That can be so 
      difficult for a family. 

             TIM
      I don’t want a divorce. I don’t 
      want to be alone.

Tim’s phone rings. Catherine. 


                                      64.

Tim does.

             FRED
      Answer it.

             TIM
      H-hey honey. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Hi, Tim. 

             TIM
      Miss you. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      I miss you too. 

             TIM
      I’m in Pittsburgh. I know you asked 
      me to tell you where I’d be... so.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Tim. 

             TIM
      Have you changed your mind?  

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      No. 

             TIM
      I’ve never been alone.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      I know.

             TIM
      I wanted to go to San Diego alone.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Tim.

             TIM
      I wanna come home.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      I need to tell you something. 

             TIM
      I just want my family back.

The distant sound of the Trolley distracts Tim momentarily.


                                      65.

             TROLLEY
	(O.S.)
      Toot toot!

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Steve’s been calling all week.

Jagged CRACKS shoot up the walls. 

             TIM
      I don’t want to hear him apologize, 
      and feel guilty and do it all 
      again. I have nothing to say to 
      him. 

Tim hops over a splintered section of flooring.

             FRED
      You should listen to Catherine, 
      Tim.

The entire set QUAKES.

             TIM
      I - I have to go.

Tim snaps his phone shut, hanging up on Catherine. The RUMBLE 
intensifies. The Trolley grows close.

             TROLLEY
	(O.S.)
      TOOT TOOT!

The Trolley zooms forward - now it’s LIFE-SIZE - and SMACKS 
into Tim.

Now he’s on the Trolley, trying his best to hang on as it 
barrels into... 

THE TUNNEL

Pitch black, then...

A faint light ahead of him grows brighter.

The Trolley rushes forward, and into...

THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF MAKE BELIEVE

Tim’s eyes adjust. Fred is there, smiling at him.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
      You are my friend. 


                                      66.

Fred signs the signal for “friend”, inter-locking his 
fingers, every time he sings the word. 

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      You are special. You are my friend. 
      You're special to me. You are the 
      only one like you. Like you, my 
      friend, I like you.

Tim looks over to Johnny Costa at the piano - except it’s not 
Johnny, it’s Gary Drury from the office playing the piano. 
His band is made up of other folks from the office.

             ALL
	(SINGING)
      In the daytime. In the nighttime. 
      Any time that you feel's the right 
      time. For a friendship with me, you 
      see. F-R-I-E-N-D special/ You are 
      my friend / You're special to me.

Cast and Crew gather in to sing along - but now they’ve all 
been transformed into people from Tim’s life...

Catherine is Lady Aberlin. Steve is Mr. McFeely. And Patrick 
is Nick the PA. 

Catherine/Aberlin steps forward.

             CATHERINE
      I was trying to tell you 
      something...

             FRED
      Listen, Tim.

Steve/McFeely steps forward and turns to Catherine.

             STEVE
      I’ve been trying to call him.

             CATHERINE
      I know. 

             STEVE
      It’s kinda serious. It’s in my 
      throat. It’s about the size of a 
      golf ball. 

             CATHERINE
        (to Steve)
      I’m so sorry, Steve.
        (to Tim)
      I’m so sorry, Tim.


                                      67.

             FRED
      I hate cancer. With everything I 
      have. 

Tim’s hyperventilating.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      It’s okay, dear. Take deep breaths. 

The room spins around Tim.

Fred kneels next to Tim and breathes. He strokes Tim’s hair, 
cradling his head.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      You are special.

Tim blinks and everyone is back to normal: Lady Aberlin, 
Mister McFeely, Johnny Costa, Fred, and the crew all staring 
down at Tim with looks of concern.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      In and out. Breathe.

Tim’s eyes roll back and he’s out.

                             FADE TO BLACK:

INT. ROGERS HOME - GUEST BEDROOM - EVENING

Tim lies on top of the bed. 

A wet washcloth rests on his forehead. A glass of cool water 
sits on the nightstand. 

A Chopin piano duet wafts in from another room. 

HALLWAY

Tim ambles through, in socks. He notices pictures hanging 
along walls. Fred with President Reagan. With Eddie Murphy 
backstage at SNL. With the entire cast of CATS. 

LIVING ROOM

Spacious and well appointed, but not showy in the least. The 
room is dominated by two GRAND PIANOS. 

JOANNE ROGERS (stout, late 60s) sits at the piano closest to 
the window playing effortlessly, her fingers light on the 
keys.


Fred sits at the other, not quite as good, but heartfelt, and 
keeping up.

                                      68.

Light pours in as the sun sets.

Tim watches and listens. 

The music stops.

             FRED
        (to Tim)
      Oh good, you’re up.

             JOANNE
      Goodness, I didn’t know you were 
      there, I would have stopped all the 
      racket.

             TIM
      You’re incredible. 

             FRED
      She certainly is. 

             JOANNE
      Hello, dear. Joanne Rogers. 

             TIM
      Tim.

Joanne laughs. 

             JOANNE
      I know who you are, darling, but 
      nice to officially meet all the 
      same.

Fred grabs a camera off the mantle and snaps a photo of Tim 
and Joanne.

             JOANNE
	(CONT’D)
      Him with his pictures.

             FRED
      I’ll bet you’re hungry. 

Tim shrugs. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      How about some Chinese food?  


                                      69.

             TIM
      Okay.
        (then)
      Don’t you have to film today?

             FRED
      I cancelled the day. 

             JOANNE
      Go, go. I need to practice.   

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - LATER

A hole in the wall. Two couples and a small family eat beside 
Fred and Tim, who sip tea, menus out before them.

Everyone steals sidelong glances at the famous Mister Rogers. 
Fred’s comfortable. Tim isn’t. 

             FRED
      Joanne really is a special person. 
      I’m not one to brag, but in this 
      case I think it’s okay... we are 
      about to celebrate our fiftieth 
      wedding anniversary. 

             TIM
      Fifty. 

             FRED
      That’s no small feat these days. 
        (then)
      She’s such a blessing to me and our 
      two boys. 

             TIM
      You have children?

             FRED
      James and John. 
        (then)
      Brothers. 

             TIM
      I never asked that. 

             FRED
        (smiling)
      Well. I have three-grandsons too.

             TIM
      Thank you...for... 


Tim is frozen with hurt. Fred reaches for his hand.

Tim pulls back, then gives in, allowing Fred to take his 
hand. 

                                      70.

             FRED
      We all have people who have helped 
      us along the way. Who have helped 
      us become who we are. Who cared 
      about us and who wanted what’s best 
      for us in life. I know you have 
      several of these people, Tim. 
        (then)
      Let’s try something, shall we?

Tim glances around - everyone’s staring. Fred notices, but 
rather than whisper, he speaks a little louder.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Together, let’s take one minute to 
      remember the people...

The patrons lean in. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      ...who loved us into being. I think 
      you know who they are. One minute 
      of silence. 

The WAITRESS approaches. 

             WAITRESS
      Have you decided - 

A WOMAN at a nearby table politely shushes her. 

The Waitress freezes. 

             FRED
      I’ll watch the time. 

             TIM
      I can’t do this. 

             FRED
      Please, Tim. 

Ten seconds in, Tim sniffs. 

He sniffs again. 

Now his eyes are welling. 

His face contorts as the emotions build.


                                      71.

For once, finally, Tim experiences a brief moment of clarity. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you for doing that with me. I 
      feel much better.
        (then)
      I think you have some work to do. 

Fred smiles at Tim, who is a mess. Tears falling. 

The Woman nearby dabs her eyes with a napkin. The Waitress 
clutches her hands to her chest.

             TIM
      Thank you.
        (then, joking)
      What you all looking at?

Laughter.

INT/EXT. FRED'S HONDA - PITTSBURGH HWY 79 - DAY

Fred's old, shabby car crossing the Sewickly Bridge in the 
slow lane.

He probably should be driving faster - cars fly by him.

Tim doesn't mind - he looks out the passenger window, at the 
river shining through the slats of the bridge.

EXT. PITTSBURGH AIRPORT - DROP OFF - LATER

Tim waits by the curb. 

Fred leans toward the open passenger window.

             FRED
      Please all and let me know you’ve 
      arrived safely.

             TIM
        (laughs)
      I will.

Fred snaps a PHOTO.

He pulls away - then hits the brakes too hard. Screech.

He turns back to Tim.  He links his hands together making the 
sign for "FRIEND."

HONK! - traffic piles up.


                                      72.

However embarrassing, Tim returns the sign.

HONK!

Fred rights the car and putters off.

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - DAY

Tim’s at his desk, typing away. He’s sitting up a little 
straighter. 

Greg and Charlie walk by. 

             GREG
      Hey, wanna eat?

             TIM
      Is it lunch?

Annoyed, Charlie nods and keeps walking.  

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      No thanks, guys. 

Greg turns to go. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Actually, yeah. I do. I want to eat 
      with you.

             GREG
        (surprised)
      All right. 

INT. MONGOLIAN BBQ - LATER

The COOKS stir-fry food, while Greg, Charlie and Tim sit side-
by-side, awkwardly.

             GREG
      So, um. How’s it going?

             TIM
      Not bad.

             GREG
      What seasoning did you get?

             TIM
      Chimichurri.


                                      73.

             GREG
      Same.

             CHARLIE
      Peanut Curry.

Another pause.

             GREG
      How’s Patrick?

             TIM
      He’s three.

             GREG
      Three! Oh man. 

             CHARLIE
      Being a parent is hard. 

             GREG
      They say terrible twos but really 
      three is the worst. 

             TIM
      You have kids?

             GREG AND CHARLIE
      Nah.

             TIM
      We should do this everyday. 

             GREG
      We do.

INT. TIM’S CAR - ON THE ROAD

Nervous, Tim talks into his phone.

             TIM
      I just don’t know if this is a good 
      idea. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      I know it’s hard, but it’s 
      important. And she’ll understand, I 
      assure you.
        (then)
      She will understand. 


                                      74.

INT. OUTSIDE THE MADIGAN HOME - NIGHT

Tim drives by slowly, staring in. The lights are on. 

He doesn’t stop.

A beat.

He reverses back to the driveway, and pulls in.

INT. TIM’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Tim stares at the front door.

With one final sigh, Tim leans to open the car door.

INT./EXT. MADIGAN HOME - MOMENTS LATER

Tim approaches the front door. He takes out his key - then 
decides to knock.

He hears laughing and music inside.

Catherine answers, surprised.

             TIM
      Hi.

             CATHERINE
      Hi.

Inside, a group of WOMEN drink wine, argue and laugh.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Book club.

Tim glances inside - the Women have quieted down. They’re 
trying to eavesdrop. It’s embarrassing.

             TIM
      Aw jeez. Hi Trisha. 

             TRISHA
	(O.C.)
      Hi Tim.

Laughter from inside.

             TIM
      Anything good?

             CATHERINE
      Probably, but no one read the book.


             TIM
      Patrick asleep?

She nods.

                                      75.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I know it's late, but I felt like I 
      needed to come here. I -

             CATHERINE
      This isn't the time.

             TIM
      Cath - it's sort of important? 
      Maybe we can sit in my car for a 
      second.

             CATHERINE
      I’m not going to do that. 
        (then)
      Did you call Steve?

             TIM
      Actually, I'm going to see him.

This grabs her attention.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
             CATHERINE
      Tomorrow. 

      I'm glad.
        (then)
      How is he?

             TIM
      Not really sure.
        (then)
      That’s actually why I’m here...

             CATHERINE
      Okay?

             TIM
      I'd like to bring Patrick with me.

             CATHERINE
      To Minnesota.

Catherine steps out and closes the door behind her.

             TIM
      I'm gonna drive. I thought he could 
      come with.


                                      76.

             CATHERINE
      No way. It’s two days in the car!

             TIM
      Day and a half?

             CATHERINE
      I appreciate the thought, Tim, but 
      this is...this is not the thing to 
      do.

             TIM
      I need to see Steve.

             CATHERINE
      I agree.

Catherine softens at this - a bit.

             TIM
      Catherine, I want to do a better 
      job with Patrick, but you need to 
      let me start.

They share silence. Tim kicks at the ground, sheepish.

             CATHERINE
      Okay. 

             TIM
      Okay?

             CATHERINE
      Yes.

             TIM
      Okay.

INT. TIM'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

He grips his cell phone. Gathering the courage, he dials.

             TIM
        (into the phone)
      Hey, Cally. It’s Tim. 
        (then)
      Yeah, Tim.

EXT. MADIGAN HOME - THE NEXT MORNING

Tim's car is in the driveway - the doors and trunk are open.


Patrick runs in circles on the front lawn.

Tim's legs hang out of the back door - he struggles to get 
the car seat latched in.

                                      77.

             TIM
      Come on.

He gives up.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
        (calling)
      Hey Cath?

Catherine comes out of the garage with several bags and a 
suitcase.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I can't get that thing to latch. 
      Where's it supposed to go - there's 
      a hole on this side, but -

             CATHERINE
      I'll do it.

There is still a coldness between them.

             TIM
      Where am I supposed to loop it 
      through on that side?

She sets down the bags and hops in the back seat of the car.

             CATHERINE
      He has snacks and his water bottle 
      in his rocket bag and he has plenty 
      of clothes if he has an accident. 
      But, remember, if he says he has to 
      go, he has to go. It's a matter of 
      seconds, till -

She puts a knee into the car seat, using all her weight to 
press it down.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Blast off.

             TIM
      I know.

             CATHERINE
      And keep the toys where you can 
      reach them, so when he wants one 
      you can just hand it back.


                                      78.

             TIM
      Cath, I know this stuff.

             CATHERINE
      I know you do. 
        (to herself)
      This is good. 

She reaches behind the seat and loops the latch through the 
base. Click. She pulls the strap tight and shakes the seat. 
It doesn't budge.

Tim shakes his head - how did she do that?

             TIM
        (to Patrick)
      Come on, bud.

Catherine kneels and grabs Patrick, wrapping him up in a hug.

Patrick’s mood suddenly changes.

             PATRICK
      I don’t want to go.

             CATHERINE
      Daddy’s gonna take good care of 
      you.

             PATRICK
      No!

Patrick begins to WAIL. 

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
      I want to stay here with you.

Catherine kneels down to Patrick and whispers in his ear. 

Patrick’s tears slow.

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
        (to Catherine)
      Yes.

Catherine whispers some more to him. Patrick calms down. It’s 
pure mom magic. 

             PATRICK
	(CONT’D)
      I will.

             CATHERINE
        (to Patrick)
      I love you, sweetie.


                                      79.

Patrick grips her tight. Catherine wipes his nose.

             CATHERINE
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, time to go.

Patrick goes to the car. He gives Tim a little look - almost 
suspicious.

             TIM
      Let's go bud, hop in.

Patrick climbs in the car and Tim straps him into the car 
seat.

             CATHERINE
      I'm gonna go inside, so he doesn't 
      freak.

Tim nods.

Catherine walks back inside. Tim begins to call out to her - 
but decides against it.

             PATRICK
      Mom said we are a road trip, dad.

             TIM
      We are a road trip.

EXT. TIM'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - MINUTES LATER

Tim's car pulls on to the freeway. 

We crane up on the long road ahead. Just as the car is about 
to disappear into the horizon, not more than a hundred yards 
from the on-ramp - Tim pulls over. 

He runs out, opens Patrick's door, unlatches him, picks him 
up and hurries to the side of the road.

Patrick pees.

They get back in the car and pull back onto the freeway.

INT. TIM'S CAR - ON THE ROAD - LATE NIGHT

Tim drives in the RAIN. His mind wanders. Patrick sleeps in 
the back.

Tim’s on his phone.


                                      80.

             TIM
      He really didn’t want to go with 
      me. 
        (then)
      I just don’t want mess him up. 

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      It’s okay to believe in your own 
      goodness. 

Tim hangs up, and takes a deep breath.

His phone rings.

             TIM
      Hello?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Do you believe in your own goodness 
      yet?

INT. TIM’S CAR - ON THE ROAD - LATER

Tim sees a Cracker Barrel up ahead. He looks to Patrick in 
the rearview mirror.

             TIM
      Hey bud, you hungry?

Patrick nods.

INT. CRACKER BARREL - MOMENTS LATER

Same as usual. Tim and Patrick wait behind an ELDERLY COUPLE.

             HOSTESS
      Hello there. How many?

Tim holds up two fingers.

             TIM
      Two please.

Patrick puts his two fingers up and points them at solitary 
MAN behind them in line.

             PATRICK
      That's two.


                                      81.

AT THE TABLE - LATER

Patrick draws on his paper place mat.

Tim fiddles with the table’s puzzle game. 

             TIM
      Do you know where we are going?

             PATRICK
      Nimmesota.

             TIM
      Right. You know why?

Patrick shakes his head.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      To see Uncle Steve.
        (then)
      He's my brother.

             PATRICK
      Is he Mom's brother too?

             TIM
      No.

             PATRICK
      Will Mom be there?

             TIM
      No. It’s just gonna be you and me. 

Patrick lowers his eyes.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You miss her?

Patrick nods his head.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Are you mad at me?

Patrick nods.

Tim reaches into his computer bag and pulls out a little tub 
of play-dough. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Here.

He takes out the dough and passes it to Patrick. 


                                      82.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You can mash it or punch it, or 
      whatever you want to do with it.

Patrick takes the dough. In seconds, he’s distracted, 
pounding on the dough and making sound effects.

Under the table, Tim’s mashing some playdough too.

EXT/INT. TIM'S CAR - NEIGHBORHOOD - DULUTH, MN - DAY

Tim drives through the quaint neighborhood of simple tract 
homes.

He's looking for addresses.

             PATRICK
      Is that one it?

             TIM
      Nope.

             PATRICK
      Is that one it?

A beat-up plumbing van marked MADIGAN PLUMBING is parked in 
the driveway. 

             TIM
      Actually...

He pulls in.

             PATRICK
      We’re here?

EXT/INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Tim and Patrick are at the door. Luggage at their feet. Cally 
answers.

             CALLY
      Tim and Patrick!

She hugs Tim - he's rigid, nervous.

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      Come on in. 

Cally gives Tim a real hug - a hug with meaning behind it.


                                      83.

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m so grateful you’re here. 
        (relaxes)
      You’re here.
        (then)
      Everyone’s out back. I’ll meet you 
      out there with some Arnold Palmers.

BACK PORCH - MOMENTS LATER

Steve is fragile, thin and bald. His voice is raw and dry.

             STEVE
      Scoot back. I'm gonna send it way 
      out there, so you gotta scoot.

TIMMY (9) and TYLER (7) jockey for the best position. Tyler 
has random hockey pads on - he shoves his older brother.

             TYLER
      This one's mine. It's mine.

Steve swings a whiffle bat sending the ball over the fence. 

             STEVE
      Sorry.

There’s a big basket of balls at Steve’s feet. He tosses up 
another and whacks it behind the boys.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Go!

Patrick yells in excitement and runs past Steve - chasing the 
ball.

Steve sees Tim - a big grin appears on his face.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      I thought you might've crapped out 
      on me.

             TIM
      I wouldn't do that.

             STEVE
        (smiling)
      Sure ya would.

Steve puts his hand out.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Great to see you.


                                      84.

Tim shakes his hand.

             TIM
      Oh, I got something for the boys.

Out of a bag, he pulls a Dallas Stars and Texas Rangers 
jersey.

             STEVE
      Nice.

Steve holds up the Stars jersey.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      They'll fight over this one. Stars 
      used to be a Minnesota team, ya 
      know. Before moving to Texas.

Tim takes the shot with a smile. 

             TIM
      I know.

Cally arrives with drinks, a bowl of pretzels and an Ensure 
weight-replacement drink for Steve.

             STEVE
      You spike it with Jack like I like?

             CALLY
      Oh shut up.

She heads back inside.

Tim and Steve watch their boys - full of energy and joy, 
running, falling and rolling in the grass.

             TIM
      I want to apologize for the 
      wedding.

             STEVE
      No need - there was a lot going on.

             TIM
      Of course there’s a need. I punched 
      you in the face. 

             STEVE
      Hey, I got a few in too.

             TIM
      Fine. So we’re good?


                                      85.

             STEVE
        (a wry smile)
      It’s done.
        (then)
      Should we just get the rest of this 
      out of the way?

Apprehensive, Tim nods.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      It's lung cancer. It's in my liver 
      too. Inoperable. I'm about to 
      finish my second round of chemo. 
      I’m tired and I upchuck a lot but 
      I'm okay.

             TIM
      Upchuck?

             STEVE
      Vomit? Puke? Barf? What do you like 
      better? Honk?

Tim struggles to crack a smile.

             TIM
      Okay.

             STEVE
      Sit down. Watch this. Tyler loves 
      him some Steve Miller Band.

Steve flips on old boom box - out blasts some tinny “Fly Like 
an Eagle.”

             TYLER
      Yes!

Like clockwork - the boys start a dance off. Tyler has moves. 

             TIMMY
      Mommy!

Cally comes flying out from the kitchen.

             CALLY
      Here comes Mama!

She joins in doing some hippy-mom-noodle dance.

Patrick tries his best to break-dance like Fred in the video.

Tim leans in to Steve, who is dancing in his own way.


                                      86.

             TIM
      I'm not really sure what to do, 
      Steve.

             STEVE
      About what?

             TIM
      You have a matter of weeks, months, 
      what?

             STEVE
      Years if I can help it.

             TIM
      "Inoperable" means years?

             STEVE
      Why not? I'm doing what I can. 
        (then)
      Beyond that, I’m trying hard not to 
      think about it.

             TIM
      That’s great, but... what do I do? 
      What does a brother do here?

             STEVE
        (incredulous)
      You wanna help?

             TIM
      Anything.

Tim nods, so Steve takes Tim's hand...

             STEVE
      Here.

He puts it on Tim's hip.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      And this one.

He takes Tim's other hand and puts it in the air, pointing 
his index finger to the sky.

Tim does. 

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Now shake it.

             TIM
      You’re a moron, you know.


                                      87.

Trying to forget the seriousness of the situation.

             STEVE
      Now turn.

Tim turns slowly.

INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN TABLE

Tim and Patrick join the family for dinner. At the end of the 
table sits an empty chair with a full plate of food. 

             TIM
      A real Duluth vacation. I haven’t 
      had tater-tot casserole in years. 

             CALLY
      I don’t know how you live. 

             TIM
      I barely survive. 

Everybody finishes their last bites.

             TYLER
      Can we have dessert?

             CALLY
      How does strawberry milk sound? 

             TIMMY
      Yes!

             CALLY
      But we have to clear the table.

Timmy and Tyler scoot out and grab plates.

Patrick follows their lead - already shadowing the boys’ 
every move like a poodle.

Steve comes out of the bathroom. He’s sweaty and flushed. 

             STEVE
      Do I get dessert?

             CALLY 
      You didn’t eat your dinner.

             TIM
      You all right? 


                                      88.

             STEVE
      Routine upchuck. 

The boys run by, Steve turns and chases them into the Living 
Room. 

The home phone rings.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Money phone!

Cally answers in the makeshift office in the corner of the 
kitchen. 

             CALLY
      Madigan Plumbing. 

She jots down info. 

             CALLY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay... It’s after hours, so it’s 
      time and a half... He’ll be there 
      in about fifteen minutes. 

Steve takes her note, grabs his work shirt.

             STEVE
      Time to pay the bills.

Steve exits.

             TIM
        (to Cally)
      Excuse me. 

Tim goes out the sliding door to the...

BACK PORCH 

Tim picks up the whiffle bat and ball. He tosses the ball and 
swings hard, missing. 

He tries again. Whiff. 

He picks up the entire tub of balls and HUCKS it into the 
yard. 

He KICKS a straggler. 

He’s panting, overcome with guilt and anger.

His breath slows.


                                      89.

He starts picking up the balls. 

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

TV blares from the living room.

Tim washes dishes at the sink. Cally dries them and puts them 
in the cupboard.

She opens a cupboard next to the sink. Inside, Tim catches a 
glance at the dozen or so bottles of medication.

             TIM
      I can’t believe he’s still going on 
      jobs. 

             CALLY
      Has to. 

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATE NIGHT

On the pullout couch, Tim types on his laptop, connected with 
an ethernet cable draped over a sleeping Patrick.

On TV: Fred and Mister McFeely talk to LOU FERRIGNO dressed 
in green make-up on the set of The Incredible Hulk. 

Tim gazes at the flashing cursor at the top of his 
article...then types the title, “Mister Nice Guy.”

He emails it off.

Patrick whimpers in his sleep.

Tim rubs his back, soothing him.

Suddenly Patrick jolts awake in terror, screaming.

Tim sits up. He grabs the boy, holding him tight, trying his 
best to comfort him.

             PATRICK
      Mommy. Mommy. Mommy.

Tim picks him up and stands.

             TIM
      It's okay, it's okay. It's me. Take 
      deep breaths, bud. In and out. 

Patrick starts to calm down - but he's still gasping for air.


                                      90.

             PATRICK
        (quietly)
      Dad.

             TIM
      You're okay.

Tim rocks him slowly. He reaches for a Kleenex and wipes 
Patrick’s nose.

Down the hall Tim hears Steve get home. 

Tim peaks out the door. 

Steve’s got bags under his eyes. He shoots Tim an exhausted 
smile, then lumbers into his room. 

INT. HOCKEY RINK - THE NEXT DAY

Timmy practices with his team on the rink. 

Steve hollers at the kids on the ice, still managing to 
coach.

             STEVE
      Keep your head up Cam! How are you 
      gonna stop him if you’re staring at 
      your skates?! Set it up again! 

Tim, Patrick and Tyler watch at the glass, sipping cokes. 
Tyler still has his leg pads on from an earlier practice.

Tim notices a HOCKEY DAD going for a donut. None left. He 
slams the box down in frustration. He looks to the other 
parents.

             HOCKEY DAD
      Somebody take two donuts?

             STEVE
        (to the team)
      That’s a two on one! Give and go, 
      Timmy! Give and GO!

Steve blows the whistle and gets up. It takes some effort.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Alright guys, bring it in. I wanna 
      try that again, but we’re gonna 
      change it up - 

Steve’s legs begin to wobble.


             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      I wanna... I...

His legs GIVE OUT. He goes to the ice hard, his body falls 
limp. 

                                      91.

             TIM
      Oh, no...

Cally screams and runs to Steve. 

             HOCKEY DAD
      Call 911! Somebody. 

Tim dials. 

INT. HOSPITAL - OUTSIDE STEVE’S ROOM - LATER

Tim paces, Patrick sits in a hallway chair.

             TIM 
        (into phone)
      Yeah, the tumor’s wrapped around 
      his spinal cord. He can use his 
      arms, but has no feeling below 
      that.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Oh, honey. 
        (then)
      Is that something he’ll get back?

             TIM
      Probably not.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Are you with him?

             TIM
      Cally’s in there right now.

             PATRICK
        (to Tim)
      Is that mommy?

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      That P?

             TIM
      Yeah, he misses you. 
        (to Patrick)
      You wanna say hi?


                                      92.

Patrick shakes his head no.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You sure?

Tim holds the phone out. Patrick won’t take it. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Well, he’s being shy. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      Kiss him for me.

             TIM
      I will.
        (then)
      So, Cath, I know I was supposed to 
      come back tomorrow, but Steve’s 
      gonna need my help. I’m gonna need 
      to stay here. For a while.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      How long is a while? 

             TIM
      I don’t know. He’s not gonna be 
      able to work, so...

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      How will Patrick get home? 

             TIM
      Maybe he could stay here too. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      He should come home.

             TIM
      He should, but...

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
        (sighs)
      No, you’re right. I’ll get a one 
      way for him and the cheapest round 
      trip I can find for me. 

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      He just needs to be -

Silence.

Catherine’s changing her mind, but it’s very hard for her.


                                      93.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t know. I just can’t see him, 
      so I don’t know how he is. 

             TIM
      It’s awful to say, all things 
      considered, but he’s having the 
      time of his life. He’s got two 
      older brothers who are off for 
      summer break.

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
        (reluctant)
      That’s a pretty good life.
        (then)
      He should stay - for a little 
      while.

             TIM
      Why don’t you come up here?

             CATHERINE
	(O.S.)
      I don’t think I’m ready for that.

             TIM
      Okay.

Cally comes out of Steve’s room. She’s trying to stop her 
crying - her face is red and her eyes are swollen.

Timmy and Tyler trail behind.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      I have to go. 

Tim hangs up and picks up Patrick. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
        (to Cally)
      You okay?

             CALLY
      We’re gonna get some sleep.
        (then)
      Come on boys.

Cally and her boys and Patrick head down the hall. 

Tim and Patrick poke their heads in the room.

Steve’s body is covered. He’s conscious, but weak.

             TIM
      You’re awake. 


                                      94.

             STEVE
      There he is.

             TIM
      How are you feeling?

             STEVE
      Sit, sit.

Tim takes a deep breath.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s the weirdest thing. 

Steve points to his chest.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s like I stop right here. Like 
      it’s just empty space, but I can 
      see it all down there.

             TIM
      You in pain?

             STEVE
      I’m not sure.

             TIM
      Cally gonna be okay?

             STEVE
      She’s just worried. I’m expensive. 

             TIM
      I know. Can I help you?

             STEVE
      Tim. 

             TIM
      You’re gonna need help. I’ll give 
      you whatever money I have, but it’s 
      not a lot. What about a fundraiser 
      or something? 

Steve starts to resist.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You can be pissed at me, you can 
      whine all you want, but I can 
      totally beat you in a fight now. 
      And I will. I will fight you. 
        (then)
      Let me do this. 


INT. DONUT SHOP - DAY

An EMPLOYEE packs up three large boxes for Tim, who’s got his 
phone up to his ear — it’s connecting.

                                      95.

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
      So, Tim. This article...

             TIM
      Ellen - I know it wasn’t what you 
      wanted. The Columbine angle just 
      didn’t jive. There was just more to 
      the story, something more personal, 
      so I’m sorry, but-

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
      Oh dear. So you haven’t been 
      following? We printed it, Tim.

Tim pays for donuts and carries them outside in one hand.

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      AP picked it up, Reuters too. 

             TIM
      Oh. Wow, I um - that’s great.

             ELLEN
	(O.S.)
      You’ve got mail, Tim. 

INT. FORT WORTH STAR TELEGRAM - TIM’S OFFICE

Ellen the Editor thumbs through a HUGE PILE of fan mail on 
Tim’s desk. 

             ELLEN
      Mister-Rogers-saved-my-life-too 
      mail.

             TIM
	(O.S.)
      Really?

             ELLEN
      It’s getting to be an issue. 

Charlie and Gary walk by. 

             CHARLIE
      Is it true that Mister Rogers was a 
      green beret?

             GREG
      God, I hope so. 


INT. HOCKEY RINK - LATER

Tim has a big box of coffee along with the donuts. He joins 
Cally and the other PARENTS in the stands. 

                                      96.

             TIM
        (to Cally)
      Hey there.

             CALLY
        (re: the donuts)
      Wow, Tim. 

He sets down the donuts. The Parents notice. 

             TIM
      Time to make some friends.

He opens the box of donuts. 

A Dad looks over. Tim reaches out and shakes his hand.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Tim Madigan - I’m Tyler and Timmy’s  
      uncle...

EXT. STEVE’S NEIGHBOR’S HOUSE - DAY 

Tim knocks on the door, with a flyer and a donut. The 
NEIGHBOR opens the door. 

             TIM
      Hi, I’m Steve’s brother, Tim. We’re 
      having a little party to help raise 
      some money.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER

There’s a huge potluck set up in the kitchen. Kids and 
parents everywhere. 

A hospital bed is set up in front of the TV, where Steve sips 
a beer from a straw. There’s a tight huddle round him. He’s 
animated, but gaunt and wasted, much worse than when we last 
saw him.

A stack of Minneapolis Tribunes rests at the foot of Steve’s 
bed. The top issue is turned to the Arts and Leisure section, 
where TIM’S ARTICLE appears on the front page.


Lorraine and Todd enter bearing two tubs of ice cream.

Lorraine gives Tim a big hug.

                                      97.

             LORRAINE
      Thanks for doing this.

             STEVE
      You see this?

Steve holds up the paper, proud as can be.

             LORRAINE
      I bought copies for everyone at the 
      office.

             TODD
      Pretty cool, man.

Lorraine turns to Cally, stricken.

             LORRAINE
      How is he?

             STEVE
      He’s right here with perfect 
      hearing.

             LORRAINE
      And he’s a liar who won’t give me a 
      straight answer.

Steve grumbles.

             STEVE
        (to Tyler)
      Go get us some spoons, bud.

Tim’s phone rings.

             TIM
      Hello?

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Tim I am so thrilled with the 
      article, as was everyone in 
      Pittsburgh.

             TIM
      Thanks, Fred.

Everyone stops cold. They’re mouthing to each other “that’s 
Mister Rogers!”


                                      98.

             FRED
	(O.S.)
      Tell me how you are.

             TIM
      Well - 

             PATRICK
      Mister Rogers!

             TIM
      I’ll be right back...

Tim walks out. 

             STEVE
        (to Patrick)
      Your dad is so cool.

EXT. STEVE’S HOUSE - DAY

Sunny and bright. 

Tim steps outside.

The street is jammed with cars. Friends and family pour 
inside, past a large bouquet of red helium balloons.

A taxi putters up to the driveway.

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Tim enters the front door, light pouring in. 

             TIM
      Look who I found.

FRED follows behind Tim. He’s got a backpack, and he’s 
wearing a heavy jacket despite the warm weather.

             CALLY
      Holy shit. 

Fred laughs. Then, so does everyone. 

             FRED
      Hello to you. I’m Fred Rogers.

             CALLY
      I’m sorry, I mean, I’m Cally. 

Fred turns to Lorraine and Todd.


                                      99.

             FRED
      Hello, and congratulations on your 
      wedding. 

             LORRAINE
      Thanks.

             FRED
      May I take your picture?

             CALLY
      Oh my god, yes.

Cally, Lorraine, Todd and Tim smush together awkwardly. 
Click.

             FRED
      Lovely. And where is Steve?

Steve waves.

             STEVE
      The invalid.
        (then)
      I thought Tim was making things up. 

             FRED
      Certainly not. Thank you so much 
      for inviting me. Look at all of 
      these people here to be with you 
      today.

The party quiets down as the news of the guest of honor 
spreads.

Fred notices, and seizes the moment. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Can everyone gather together? I’d 
      love to snap of a picture of 
      everyone.

The entire family obliges, gathering around Steve.

CLICK.

THE HALLWAY - LATER

A few Hockey Dads chat. A few people bid on items at the 
SILENT AUCTION in the Kitchen.

Fred and Tim have a lemonade. Tyler can’t stop staring at 
Fred. 


                                     100.

             TYLER
      Are you the real Mister Rogers?

             FRED
      I am. 

Tyler runs to Patrick and Timmy who are waiting nearby. 

             TYLER
        (calling)
      I told you!

Tim looks to Fred. 

             TIM
      I didn’t think you’d come. 

             FRED
      It was important for me to be here.
        (then)
      Is Catherine here?

Tim shakes his head, no. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Look at these...

Fred studies the family photos on the wall. A small one in 
the corner grabs his attention: Two young boys, on the lawn, 
arms around each other. 

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      That’s you, Tim?

Tim takes a close look. 

             TIM
      And Steve. 

             FRED
      You look inseparable. It’s 
      wonderful. 

Fred smiles and sighs.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      I’m getting old.

             TIM
      Is everything alright?

             FRED
      It is, but I’ve been thinking about 
      my last episode.


                                     101.

             TIM
      Something special?

             FRED
      I don’t want anyone to feel as 
      though I’ve abandoned them. It 
      should feel like any other episode.

A MOM exits the bathroom.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      If you’ll excuse me. 

Fred enters the bathroom.

             HOCKEY DAD
      That’s kinda weird.

             TIM
      I know what you mean.

KITCHEN - LATER

The massive clean-up effort is nearly complete, the party 
over. 

Cally transfers a tea-bag from one cup to the next, and sets 
the steeped tea on the table beside Tim, who’s adding up the 
checks. 

             CALLY
      Good news?

             TIM
      Eight thousand and change. 

Cally wraps her arms around Tim.

             CALLY
      This is unbelievable.

Over Cally’s shoulder, Tim notices Fred sitting with Steve in 
the Living Room. He’s leaning in close, intimate, speaking 
softly. 

Tim can’t make out what they’re saying. 

Steve looks confused. 

Finally, Fred stands up and walks to the kitchen.

Steve wrinkles his nose, moved. 


                                     102.

EXT. STEVE’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Tim walks Fred to the waiting cab. 

             TIM
      Thank you for being here. 

Fred gives him a big hug. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Can I ask you... What did you say 
      to Steve?

             FRED
      I asked him to pray for me.

             TIM
      For you?

             FRED
      I figure anyone who’s going through 
      what he’s going through must be 
      very close to god. 

Fred reaches into his pocket and hands Tim an envelope.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      My contribution.

             TIM
      You don’t have to do that.

Fred struggles to get into the cab. 

Tim takes his hand and helps him into the car.

             FRED
      Oh, brittle bones.
        (then)
      You’re a good man. I’m glad you’re 
      my friend. 

             TIM
      Can I ask you something? 

             FRED
      Of course. 

             TIM
      Why me?

             FRED
      Can I ask you something?


                                     103.

             TIM
      Okay.

             FRED
      Why me? I feel you’ve given me so 
      much more than I’ve given you, Tim. 
      Don’t you know that? 

             TIM
      That’s not true. 

             FRED
      We all deserve love. Why not you?

Fred shuts the door and waves as it drives away.

Tim glances in the envelope.

             TIM
      Wow.

INT. STEVE’S HOUSE - GUEST BEDROOM - 4AM

Tim and Patrick lie next to each other in bed. Tim’s wide 
awake.

INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - 4AM

It's dark and quiet except for the oxygen machine breathing 
in and out, next to Steve's bed.

Tim walks out of the bathroom.

             STEVE
      You didn’t wash your hands.

             TIM
      What are you doing up?

             STEVE
      Gross. 
        (then)
      Sit with me.

             TIM
      It’s four in the morning.

Tim comes over and sits on the edge of Steve’s bed.

             STEVE
      I can't believe Mister Rogers was 
      here.


                                     104.

Tim nods.

The birds begin to chirp. Morning.

Tim puts his hand on Steve's.

             TIM
      I should have said this along time 
      ago, but, I’m sorry for leaving you 
      here. I’m not a plumber. But I 
      should have been a better brother.

             STEVE
      You know it cost three hundred 
      bucks to have the “Brothers” in 
      Madigan Brothers taken off the 
      sign?

             TIM
      I’ll pay you back.

             STEVE
      We can split it.
        (then)
      This really can be a new beginning 
      for us all.

Tim leans over and kisses Steve on the forehead. 

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Were you gonna tell me you’re 
      living in a hotel?
        (then)
      Why wouldn't you tell me that?

             TIM
      Didn't think it mattered, with 
      everything going on.

             STEVE
      Okay.

             TIM
      Okay.

             STEVE
      Can I help?

Tim shrugs. 

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      Do whatever she says. There, I’m 
      helping. 


                                     105.

They chuckle.

             TIM
      I don’t know if she wants me back. 
      It’s hard.

             STEVE
      Lean into it.

Tears fall from Steve’s eyes.

             STEVE
	(CONT’D)
      I want you to know my kids. I want 
      you to be part of their lives. 

             TIM
      I want them to be part of my life.

             STEVE
      They used to think you were 
      pretend.  

             TIM
      I bet I was much more interesting.

             STEVE
        (laughs)
      You really were.

             TIM
        (whispers)
      You know I've loved you longer than 
      I’ve loved anyone else in the 
      world?

             STEVE
      I love you too.

Tim leans back. 

Steve closes his eyes.  

                             FADE TO BLACK:

EXT. MISTER ROGERS’ NEIGHBORHOOD - YARD

Fred sits on a grassy patch next to a house. He talks to 
camera, slow and introspective.

             FRED
      When I was very young I had a dog 
      that I loved very much. Her name 
      was Mitzi. 


                                     106.

             FRED
	(CONT'D)
      And she got to be old, and she 
      died. I was very sad when she died, 
      because she and I were good pals. 
      And when she died, I cried. And my 
      grandmother heard me crying, I 
      remember, and she came and just put 
      her arm around me, because she knew 
      I was sad. She knew how much I 
      loved that dog. And my dad said 
      we’d have to bury Mitzi, and I 
      didn't want to. I didn't want to 
      bury her because I thought I’d just 
      pretend that she was still alive. 
      But my dad said that her body was 
      dead and we'd have to bury her. So 
      we did.

Soft music starts. 

             FRED
	(SINGING) (PRE-LAP)
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes people get sad and they 
      really do feel bad, but the very 
      same people who are sad sometimes 
      are the very same people who are 
      glad sometimes. It’s funny but it’s 
      true. Its the same isn’t it, for 
      me, isn’t it the same for you. 

INT. MADIGAN HOME - NIGHT

Catherine folds laundry, the phone rings. 

She picks it up. 

             CATHERINE
      Hello.

INT. CEMETERY - DULUTH

Friends and family walk to the grave site, where Tim, 
Lorraine, and Cally greet people.

At the end of a line of cars, a taxi. Catherine gets out. 

Tim spots her.

             TIM
        (to the Hockey Dads)
      Excuse me one sec.


                                     107.

             PATRICK
        (spotting Catherine)
      Mommy!

Patrick runs over, Tim follows. 

Catherine showers Patrick with kisses. 

             CATHERINE
      I missed you so much!

             PATRICK
      My cousin Tyler plays hockey.

             CATHERINE
      He does?! That’s so cool.

             PATRICK
      Tyler!

             TIM
      He’s obsessed with Tyler.

Catherine hugs Tim. He hugs her back.

             CATHERINE
      Fred told me to give you an extra 
      hug.

             TIM
      Oh really?

             CATHERINE
        (bashful)
      He has good advice for everybody.

LATER

As the Pastor delivers the eulogy, Tim notices Patrick’s not 
there.

He gets up and finds him.

             TIM
      Hey bud.

             PATRICK
      Grandma and Grandpa are dead.

             TIM
      That’s right.


                                     108.

             PATRICK
      And Uncle Steve is dead.

             TIM
      He is.

             PATRICK
      Can I be dead someday?

A pause.

Tim smiles. 

             TIM
      Not for a long, long time.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Patrick sleeps between Tim and Catherine. 

             TIM
      I was thinking.

             CATHERINE
      Hmm?

             TIM
      I was thinking - that when we get 
      back, for the time being, I should 
      keep my hotel room. 

             CATHERINE
      Okay.

             TIM
      And we should get a sitter... and 
      go to dinner. On a date.

Catherine grins.

             CATHERINE
      Yes.

Tim looks away... and allows himself to smile.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. MISTER ROGERS' NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

Fred’s back with his wooden board with a patterned door for 
each of his friends. He looks at Tim’s photo - bruised and 
bloodied. 


                                     109.

             FRED
      Welcome back, television neighbor. 
      I hope you know that you've made 
      this day a special day, by just 
      your being you. There's no person 
      in the whole world like you, and I 
      like you, just the way you are.
        (the)
      This is my friend Tim.

He turns the board over, revealing one very large door.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      And these are my new friends. The 
      Madigans.

He opens the window to reveal the group photo from Steve’s 
party - everyone gathered around, smiling.

             TROLLEY
	(O.S.)
      Toot toot.

The Trolley passes by, then stops and comes back.

             FRED
      What’s that?

             TROLLEY
      Toot. Toot. Toot.

Fred chuckles - Trolley is such a kidder.

             FRED
      Oh, I will, thank you.

The Trolley speeds away as Johnny Costa noodles on the vibes.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      It's such a good feeling to know 
      you're alive. It's such a happy 
      feeling.

Fred takes off his blue boat shoes, one at a time.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      You're growing inside. And when you 
      wake up ready to say...

He stands and unzips his Red Cardigan, then moves to the 
closet and opens the door.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      "I think I'll make a snappy new 
      day."


                                     110.

Fred snaps twice, once with each hand.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      It's such a good feeling, a very 
      good feeling, the feeling you know 
      that I'll be back when the week is 
      new.

He carefully hangs up the sweater, then pulls his gray sport 
coat off a hanger.

             FRED
	(SINGING)
	(CONT’D)
      And I'll have more ideas for you. 
      And you'll have things you'll want 
      to talk about. I will too.

He grabs the board with windows on it from the bench.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Be back next time.

He waves moves toward the front door.

             FRED
	(CONT’D)
      Bye bye.

He goes, smiling.

                             FADE TO BLACK:

CLOSING CREDITS

The show logo over the Miniature Version of Fred's house.

Credits roll as we pan out over the small mini neighborhood.

Then, a snapshot of the real Tim Madigan and Fred Rogers.

SUPER: Tim and Catherine are still married. Today, they are 
the happiest couple they know.

SUPER: From 1968 to 2001, Fred Rogers wrote, produced, and 
performed in 995 episodes of Mister Rogers Neighborhood. 

Tim and Fred continued their friendship until Fred died in 
2003, at the age of 74.

His red cardigan hangs in the Smithsonian. It was knitted by 
his mother.

The END


