
               04.18.12

             Screenplay by
              Jeff Wadlow

           Based on the comic by
       Mark Millar and John Romita, Jr.

Kick Ass Productions, Ltd.
80a Portobello Road
London W11 3DL
+44 20 7976 2313


EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT

A cheesy music STING carries us to a LIVE SHOT of a REPORTER.

               REPORTER
      They may wear costumes but it’s not 
      Halloween -- they’re real life 
      superheroes -- and in the two years 
      since the first ordinary citizens 
      donned capes and masks, the movement 
      has started to spread...

We hold on her for an awkward beat, then CUT TO: PHOENIX JONES, 
an African American man in a gold mask walking the streets of 
New York. (NOTE: the following superheroes are not fictitious, 
they are real people from the doc “Superhero”).

               PHOENIX JONES
      I’ve got mace/tear gas here. A taser. 
      Haven’t caught anyone yet -- suit 
      makes it kind of hard to run. 

               REPORTER
	(V.O.)
      And he’s not alone...

CUT TO: A dweebie guy in a cape and helmet called MR. EXTREME.

               MR. EXTREME
      You just come home from work, kiss 
      your girlfriend, get your gear and go 
      on patrol.

               REPORTER
      So, you have a girlfriend?

               MR. EXTREME
      I meant it more... metaphorical.

               REPORTER
	(V.O.)
      Even a married couple...

CUT TO: a large MAN with a huge Z on his chest. His WIFE stands 
next to him, dressed like a red catwoman.

               WOMAN
      I told him he had to stop being 
      Zetaman, but he loved it so much, so I 
      said, “then I’m gonna do it with you.” 

               REPORTER
      And what’s your superhero name?

               WOMAN  
      Apocalypse Meow.

                                       2.

CUT BACK TO: the LIVE SHOT. Widen out to reveal our hero, DAVE 
LIZEWSKI, a.k.a. KICK-ASS. Dave’s more than a little self-
conscious about being on camera in his green wet-suit and mask.

               REPORTER
      With me now is one of the first real 
      life superheroes, Kick-Butt.

               DAVE
      Actually it’s --

               REPORTER
      Live TV. So how long have you been 
      doing this?

               DAVE
      Since I was like, sixteen.

               REPORTER
      Was it Red Mist who inspired you?

               DAVE
      What? No -- I started this, way before 
      Red Mist.

               REPORTER
      But why do it? Why risk your life 
      every night?

               DAVE
      I don’t know... a desire to help? To 
      get off my ass--ssets and, uh, try to 
      make the world a better place.

               REPORTER
          (back to the camera)
      There you have it: a young man with an 
      infectious need to lend a hand. How 
      big will the movement swell? Only time 
      will tell. Rick?

As the Reporter wraps up, we SNAP out of the news coverage and 
into a CLOSE UP of Dave --

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Of course that was all BS. The truth 
      is I had no clue why I did it... why I 
      still wore the mask.

We PUSH in on Kick-Ass’s eyes. When we pull out, Dave is in 
street clothes and sitting in --

                                       3.


INT. HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOM - DAY


His CLASSMATES gossip as the teacher calls roll. It’s all in 
slow-motion and without sound, like we’re underwater.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      It was senior Spring and everyone was 
      getting ready to go to college, start 
      a career, get married, and die. Me? I 
      still couldn’t answer the question, 
      “what’s your favorite movie?” 

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Dave stares slack-jawed at the menu. MARTY and TODD, Dave’s 
comic-book collecting best friends, stand behind him.

               MARTY
      It’s just coffee, Dave -- not peace in 
      the Middle East.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      When I wasn’t hanging with my 
      girlfriend, Katie, I was with my best 
      friends, Marty and Todd.

               TODD
      You guys see Spiderman on TV last 
      night? Is it weird that Aunt May gets 
      me kind of hard?

               MARTY
      Not if you’re a Granny slammer.

MOMENTS LATER, they gab in slow-mo, same underwater effect.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      As I stared at my skinny half-caff 
      coolatta with whip that I didn’t even 
      want, I couldn’t help but wonder how 
      they figured it out so easily. 

Marty mimes breast feeding from the domed lid of his Frap. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Sure, Marty was going to be pre-med at 
      Bucknell. But Todd? He was going to 
      some safety school in Florida to study 
      golf course management. 

Todd LAUGHS so hard coffee comes out his nose.

                                       4.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      How the hell can you not have doubts 
      about that as a life path? 

INT. LIZEWSKI LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dave eats dinner with his Dad, MR. LIZEWSKI in silence.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Dad was working doubles to save for 
      school. Said he wasn’t there yet, that 
      I could go to community college in the 
      fall or take a year off. Not much of a 
      choice really... 

INT. DAVE’S ROOM - NIGHT

Dave is changing into the wet-suit when his Dad suddenly opens 
the door -- Dave SCRAMBLES -- but from Mr. Lizewski’s 
perspective it looks like he walked in on his son jerking off.

   		 MR. LIZEWSKI
	Sorry -- sorry.

		DAVE
	Can’t you knock!

               MR. LIZEWSKI
          (beat)
      You know, buddy, it’s perfectly normal 
      for you to, uh, touch --

               DAVE
      GEE-SUS DAD -- will you get out?!?

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      When Dad wasn’t working... he was 
      working out.

INT. LIZEWSKI LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Mr. Lizewski is doing exercises in front of the TV.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      P90X or something like that. His 
      doctor told him if he didn’t take care 
      of himself he wouldn’t see sixty. 

Mr. Lizewski flexes. No six pack, but it’s still impressive. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      He went a little overboard... probably 
      still dealing with Mom’s death. In 
      three months he lost forty pounds and 
      was wearing the same size jeans as me.

                                       5.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Dave waits in line with his girlfriend, KATIE, super cute and 
super excited for her life to get started.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Katie didn’t want to talk about the 
      future either. Probably ‘cause she was 
      gonna dump me when she left for the 
      University of Maryland in the fall. 
      Not that I blamed her, we were both 
      sort of going through the motions... 

INT. KATIE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dave and Katie do the deed, cowgirl style. She stifles a YAWN. 
We cut to Dave’s POV: instead of Katie on top it’s a sexy MILF.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      When we were doing it sometimes I 
      found myself thinking about my English 
      teacher, Mrs. Vane.

We cut back to Katie on top of Dave... she closes her eyes.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      I felt like shit about it, till one 
      night Katie moaned --

               KATIE
      Old Spice...

               DAVE
      Did you just say “Old Spice?”

               KATIE
      What? No -- just keep going.

As Dave tries to get back into it, we cut to Katie’s POV, but 
instead of Dave on the bed, it’s the GUY FROM THE OLD SPICE TV 
COMMERCIALS. She grinds a little harder. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The one person who had zero doubts 
      about who she was? Mindy Macready.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING

STUDENTS flood past the graffiti covered walls as MINDY gets out 
of DETECTIVE MARCUS BRODIES’s car, smiles and waves. Mindy’s 
cute but a little shy in her designer-for-Target outfit... right 
on the verge of becoming a woman.

                                       6.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Being a superhero wasn’t some identity 
      crisis for Mindy, she really was one. 
      Her dad had trained her to be Hit Girl 
      since Pampers. After he died, his old 
      partner, Marcus, became her guardian. 

The bell RINGS and the students disappear -- but Mindy is still 
outside, alone. She hails a taxi.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      He dropped her off every day, but as 
      soon as he was gone... so was she.

INT. BIG DADDY’S SAFE HOUSE - DAY

Mindy does some sick ninja/acrobat routine with throwing knives.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      I think she was spending her days at 
      her Dad’s old safe house. No one at 
      school cared because she hacked into 
      the server and gave herself the award 
      for perfect attendance. 

Mindy takes a water break... looks at a picture of Hit Girl and 
Big Daddy on the wall. They smile while holding assault rifles.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      She got pissed at me last year, said I 
      wasn’t serious about being a 
      superhero... I think she just misses 
      her Dad.

EXT. THE BRONX - DAY

Dave walks down the block as Kick-Ass. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Guess the real reason I still wore the 
      mask was that I was just happy to have 
      an identity... even if it was a made-
      up one.

A few pedestrians wave and cheer. He’s a local celebrity.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      I mean, who cares if I didn’t have a 
      clue who “Dave Lizewski” was gonna be? 
      I had the rest of my life to figure 
      that out... right?

               FEMALE VOICE 
      HELP -- SOMEBODY HELP!

                                       7.

It’s coming from a dark alley. Kick-Ass SPRINTS towards the 
distress call, turns the corner and finds: FOUR THUGS. But no 
victim? A skinny thug SCREAMS in falsetto --

               SKINNY THUG
      HURRY!


Dave nervously backs away. The rest of the thugs CRACK UP... 

               HAIRY THUG
      Look, it’s Kick-Ass, all alone...

               DAVE
      Very funny.


               HAIRY THUG
      Actually, we’re big fans...

               SKINNY THUG
      Yeah, man, you’re famous... you called 
      the cops on my brother.

               HAIRY THUG
      My boy, Tito, too. 

Dave goes for his batons -- too late -- the thugs OVERPOWER him 
easily, pinning him to the ground. 

               HAIRY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      We figure six of our friends got 
      busted ‘cause of you. So maybe we bust 
      six of your fingers? 

They bend Dave’s fingers back -- CRACK -- BREAKING them one at a 
time. He FIGHTS back -- starts to pull free -- until one of the 
thugs sticks a gun in his face -- COCKS the hammer.

              DAVE
          (terrified)
     We’re even, okay? You broke my 
     fingers... that’s fair, right? 

              HAIRY THUG
     Didn’t your pops teach you nothing, 
     homie? Life ain’t fair.

Before Dave can respond -- GUNSHOT -- his face goes SPLAT.     
As the hoods flee, we tilt up from Dave’s dead body to some 
graffiti on the wall... which is also the title of our movie:  


                                  CUT TO:


BLACKNESS


And we just sit there... staring into the abyss.

                                       8.

               DAVE’S VOICE
      Am I... dead? 
          (panicked)
      Holy crap, I’m dead. This can’t be 
     happening... I’m never gonna go to 
     college, start a career, get married -- 
     I’m never gonna watch my favorite 
     movie -- whatever it is -- again. I’m 
     never gonna see my Dad or Mindy or 
     anyone. How could I be such an idiot? 

A bright light starts to come towards us...

              FEMALE VOICE
     Dave?


              DAVE’S VOICE
     Mom? Oh shit, I’m not ready. Mom, I 
     love you but I’M NOT READY.

              FEMALE VOICE
      DAVE.


INT. KATIE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dave SHOOTS up in bed, soaked in sweat. Katie’s next to him --

               KATIE
      Dave -- you’re gonna wake my parents.

               DAVE
      I -- I thought you were my Mom.

               KATIE
      That’s... weird.

               DAVE
      I don’t mean -- I had this dream --

               KATIE
      You dreamed I was your Mom?

Katie looks like she just threw-up a little in her mouth...

               DAVE
      I’m sorry, can we just... cuddle?

               KATIE
      Relax... it’s all gonna be okay... 

As she closes her eyes and snuggles up, we hold on Dave’s face.

                                       9.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      But it wasn’t, not unless I did 
      something to make sure. This superhero 
      thing wasn’t a game or a movie... it 
      was real life. And if I was gonna keep 
      doing it, I couldn’t do it alone.


EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING

Same drill as before: Marcus drops Mindy off. She forces a wave 
and smiles as he pulls out. The bell RINGS -- all the kids head 
inside, leaving Mindy alone... with Dave.

               DAVE
      Can we talk?

               MINDY
      Talk is for pussies.

Mindy hails a taxi... 

               DAVE
      Please, Mindy --

               MINDY
      I don’t have time for your Facebook 
      fudge-packers or your HPV petri-dish-
      girlfriend. While you’re walking 
      around in a wet-suit living out some 
      adolescent fantasy, I’m living in 
      reality, training so I can actually 
      make the world a better place and not 
      just stammer about it on the local 
      news like some mouth-breather.

A cab stops and Mindy gets in. Before she can SLAM the door --

               DAVE
      You’re right. Which is why I want to 
      start a team... a superhero team.

She looks at Dave... he holds her gaze. 

               MINDY
      I’m in the NFL, Dave -- you play    
      pee-wee.

               DAVE
      You can train me.

Mindy exhales. Fuck it, why not?

                              10.

               MINDY
      Then get in the cab, meter’s running.

               DAVE
      I’ve, uh, got this English final... 
      but I can meet you -- after school?

Mindy rolls her eyes... then scrawls an address on a receipt.

               MINDY
      Be here at 4:30. And don’t be late.

               DAVE
      It’s a date.


As she slams the cab door...

               MINDY
      God, you can be so queer sometimes.


EXT. LONG ISLAND MANSION - DAY

The place is a guido-tastic, Growing-Up-Gotti palace.

               VOICE
      What the hell, Mom!?!?


INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS


The voice belongs to CHRIS D’AMICO, the spoiled son of deceased 
crime boss Frank D’Amico. He’s wearing eye-liner and an 
Affliction tee-shirt. 

               CHRIS
      You deleted the news off the DVR?

Chris’s mom, MRS. D’AMICO, is a self-tanning pill-popper, doing 
everything she can to save her son from himself.

               MRS. D’AMICO
      Yes, I did Christopher.

               CHRIS
      That was the one with Kick-Ass.

               MRS. D’AMICO
      Christopher, you need to stop 
      obsessing over this superhero --

               CHRIS
      He’s not a superhero, Mom -- he’s a 
      murderer. He blew-up Dad with a 
      bazooka for fuck’s sake --

                              11.

               MRS. D’AMICO
      Your father died in a fire.

               CHRIS
      A fire? What is your problem?

              MRS. D’AMICO
     You are my problem, Christopher. I’m 
     trying to raise you to be a normal 
     boy. That’s why we moved to Long 
     Island after your father’s accident --

              CHRIS
     A bazooka is not an accident, you 
     delusional bitch.

              MRS. D’AMICO
     This conversation is over.

              CHRIS
     Then I’m leaving.

Chris storms toward the front door. Their bodyguard, JAVIER, 
30’s, blocks his path.

              CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
     C’mon Javier, be cool.

              JAVIER
     Sorry, Chris -- your Mom pays me not 
     to be cool.


INT. HOME GYM - MOMENTS LATER


Mrs. D’Amico gets in the tanning bed as Chris storms in --

               CHRIS
      I HATE YOU -- you home-school me like 
      a prisoner, you threw away my Red Mist 
      costume, and you won’t even 
      acknowledge that Dad was murdered. I’m 
     not the problem -- you are.

He kicks her tanning bed with each word --

              CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
     I. WISH. YOU. WERE. DEAD.

On the last kick, the tanning bed shorts out, frying his Mom.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Mommy...?


The only response is the sizzle of her charred corpse.


INT. BIG DADDY’S SAFE HOUSE - DAY


Dave enters the training room, Mindy’s waiting.

                              12.

               DAVE
      Ready for our “date?”

She ignores him. Boys.

               MINDY
      Do you even know how to fight?

               DAVE
      Did alright against Chris’s Dad.

               MINDY
      You had a jet pack. And a bazooka.

               DAVE
      So what do you want me to do?

               MINDY
      Hit me.

               DAVE
      You’re a fourteen year-old girl.

Dave blushes -- so Mindy SLAPS him.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      What the hell?

               MINDY
      Act like a bitch, get slapped like a 
      bitch.

She SLAPS him again -- harder. Pissed, Dave takes a SWING -- but 
Mindy side-steps it.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      Weak.


Dave throws another punch -- Mindy easily evades it.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t hurt your vagina.

Dave tries one more time. Like a cat toying with a mouse, Mindy 
finally goes in for the kill -- SWEEPS his legs and puts him on 
his ass -- her pink sneaker on his throat. 

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      This fourteen year-old girl just ate 
      your lunch.

                              13.

Dave pushes her foot away -- stands to leave.

               DAVE
      Didn’t sign up for this --

               MINDY
      What did you expect, moron? This isn’t 
      The Karate Kid, you don’t wax cars for 
      a month and end up with a black belt. 
      My dad would’ve had you doing a 
      hundred one-arm push-ups for all this 
      whining.

               DAVE
      Like you can do one-arm push-ups --

She drops and gives him five. It’s impressive.

               MINDY
      I’m not messing around, Dave. If you 
      want to start a team with me, you have 
      to eat when I tell you, sleep when I 
      tell you, and stop acting like such a 
      limp dick.

Dave takes a deep breath... and then holds up his fists.

               DAVE
      Bring it.


As she KICKS THE SHIT out of him again, CUT TO:


TRAINING MONTAGE

- Dave and Mindy skip school and hail a cab.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Mindy beat me like Rihanna every day 
      for three weeks.

- Mindy and Dave spar. She brutalizes him.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Even with my damaged nerve endings, it 
      hurt like hell, but in a weird way... 
      I kinda liked it.

- They throw back Advil and shotgun Red Bull. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Not like some pervert who got off on 
      the pain -- trust me, I hated the 
      pain. Really hated it.

                              14.

- Dave eats dinner with his Dad in front of the TV. Mr. Lizewski 
notices Dave’s bruises... doesn’t say anything.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      It gave me a sense of purpose, like we 
      were driving towards something. 

- Katie enters the cafeteria... looks around until she sees 
Marty and Todd, but no Dave.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      All the other people putting on masks 
      were just playing superhero. We were 
      training to really do it. Soon as she 
      gave me the thumbs up, we’d start 
      recruiting more members.

- Mindy shows Dave how to do a one-arm push up... he does three 
and then collapses. Definitely improving.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Our own super-hero team... it was 
      gonna be balls.


EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY


Mindy loads a Glock. Feels like we’ve seen this scene before... 

               DAVE
      Absolutely not.

               MINDY
      If you don’t want to do it, you don’t 
      have to do it.

               DAVE
      I do NOT want to do it.

Mindy’s disappointed, but she understands.

               MINDY
      Fine.


She goes to put the gun down -- then shoots him in the chest. 
Dave FLIES off his feet and hits the ground HARD. He opens his 
shirt, revealing a bullet-proof vest --

               DAVE
      GODDAMN --


Then takes a deep breath like it was his very first.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      -- I’m alive! That was amazing!

                              15.

               MINDY
      I know, right? Wanna go again?

               DAVE
      Absolutely not.

               MINDY
      Fine.


Mindy helps him up, starts to load a much bigger gun...

               DAVE
      Don’t just say “fine” and then shoot 
      me -- it’s not cool. At all.

               MINDY
      OH-KAY -- sheesh. 

As Dave turns away... Mindy shoots him in the back.


EXT. MARCUS’S HOUSE - AFTERNOON


Mindy walks down the street with her Pink and Pretty Kitty 
backpack. Marcus is in the driveway, bringing in the trash cans.

               MARCUS
      Hey, Min. Good day at school?

               MINDY
      Miss Goldman was out so we had Mr. 
      Vaughn teaching science class. Man, he 
      is such a grouch. Can you believe he 
      put Johnny Romita in detention for 
      talking to Mark Millar?

Marcus puts the trash cans in the hutch.

               MARCUS
      That’s weird, ‘cause Principal Pack 
      called yesterday and said you were 
      supposed to get the award for perfect 
      attendance... but you weren’t there.

Busted. 

               MARCUS
	(CONT’D)
      I followed you this morning, saw you 
      get into the cab with some boy but I 
      lost you on the bridge. So you wanna 
      tell me where you really were today?

Mindy starts to tear up, lip quivering -- a.k.a. the Oscar clip.

                              16.

               MINDY
      I’m so sorry, Marcus. He-he asked me 
      to skip school, go-go to the mall... 

Marcus considers her story. Is she telling the truth?

               MARCUS
      So this has nothing to do with      
      Hit-Girl? I’m not gonna find katana 
      blades under your bed?

               MINDY
      I-I just wanted him to like me...

It kind of breaks your heart. As Marcus wipes her tears away...

               MARCUS
      You know, skipping school’s not the 
      way to get boys to like you... 

               MINDY
      I know... I’m so stupid.

Marcus puts his arm around his adopted daughter. 

               MARCUS
      It’s okay... you want a snack?

Mindy forces a smile. Is she feeling bad about lying to Marcus?

               MINDY
      Only if it’s Pizza bites!


INT. LONG ISLAND MANSION - DAY


Chris is with Javier, the bodyguard, in the master bedroom. 
They’re packing up Chris’s mother’s things.

               JAVIER
      You sure you want to give all this 
      away?

               CHRIS
      What am I gonna do with her stuff?

IN THE CLOSET

Javier finds some boxes hidden by clothes. Inside one of them is 
a mahogany case with two platinum .45s

               JAVIER
      Damn, your Mom had some nice guns.

                              17.

               CHRIS
	(O.C.)
      Dude, she’s dead -- don’t talk about 
      her tits.

Chris enters, Javier shows him the weapons...

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, those. They were my Dad’s. I 
      thought she got rid of them...

Chris looks at the .45’s... like Arthur looking at Excalibur.

               JAVIER
      Keep ‘em. 

               CHRIS
      You sure?

               JAVIER
      Yeah, they belong to you. You’re your 
      own man now, Chris... just be careful.

Chris accidentally knocks over another box. A leather fetish 
outfit and a whip falls out. Awkward.

               JAVIER
	(CONT’D)
      Definitely do not want to keep those.

Chris gets an idea. Gathers up the S&M gear, heads out quickly.

              CHRIS
	(O.S.)
     I’ll take care of it.


INT. BIG DADDY’S SAFE HOUSE - DAY


Mindy gives Dave his own cape -- he’s not into it.

               DAVE
      I look like an idiot.

               MINDY
      You’ll look like Stephen Hawking if 
      you fall off a building without it -- 

She extends her arms with a SNAP -- turning her cape into      
an actual squirrel suit. 

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a glider not a fashion statement.

Dave’s eager to change subjects...

               DAVE
      Are you, you know, scared? To die?

                              18.

               MINDY
      I’m scared your balls are never gonna 
      drop.

               DAVE
      I’m serious... I mean, what if 
      Spiderman or Batman just got killed 
      one night? It could happen. This is 
      dangerous stuff we’re doing.

               MINDY
      Take your tampon out, Dave. If you’re 
      scared of dying one thing is certain, 
      you're gonna die. My Daddy wasn't 
      scared of dying.

               DAVE
      Yeah... look where it got him. 

Mindy pulls out her utility belt. She pops open a compartment, 
revealing: a pink and pretty kitty pen.

              MINDY
     Daddy knew there were worse things 
     than death... like being trapped in a 
     cage. The years he was in prison were 
     the worst of his life... that’s why he 
     gave me this. 

              DAVE
     A Pink and Pretty Kitty pen?

She pushes a button and a syringe POPS out. 

               MINDY
      With enough PCP to kill a rhino.

Off her face PAN TO the other side of the room, revealing:    
BIG DADDY in full costume, talking to a much YOUNGER HIT GIRL. 

               BIG DADDY 
      If you’re ever in trouble, child, and 
      you can’t escape, just give yourself a 
      little prick... 

Eight-year old Mindy examines the syringe.

               HIT GIRL
      How will I know, Daddy, if I should 
      use it?

               BIG DADDY
      I’ll tell you, child, and you’ll have 
      to obey. Swear to me.

                              19.

               HIT GIRL
      I swear, Daddy.

She looks up into her father’s loving eyes...

               BIG DADDY
      Cross your heart?

               HIT GIRL
      Hope to die.


We PAN back to the 14 year-old Mindy and Dave in the present. 
Dave looks at Mindy... her life has been so... strange.

               DAVE
      Your dad was insane, you know that, 
      right?

Mindy puts the syringe back in her utility belt.

               MINDY
      You’re wrong, Dave. He was the first 
      real superhero... not you, or Red 
      Mist. It was my Daddy -- and it was an 
      honor to serve by his side.

               JAVIER
	(PRE-LAP)
      Chris, your tutor’s here --


INT. LONG ISLAND MANSION - DAY

Javier opens Chris’s bedroom door to find Chris wearing his 
Mom’s leather fetish gear and a cape. 

               JAVIER
      What is that?

              CHRIS
     My destiny.


              JAVIER
     Just ‘cause your Mom liked to get a 
     little freaky --

              CHRIS
     I know what my role is in all this, 
     Jav. My Dad was a crime boss, so it 
     just makes sense -- I'm a 
     supervillain. It’s evolution.

He reaches for his Dad’s .45s.

                              20.

               JAVIER
      Put those away before you hurt 
      yourself, Chris --

               CHRIS
      That’s not my name.

               JAVIER
      “Red Mist,” whatever.

Chris strikes a pose in the mirror -- just like Dave did in the 
last movie when he first got the wet-suit.

               CHRIS
      Red Mist was my superhero name.   
      Hence forth, I’ll be known as...     
      The Motherfucker.

Javier shakes his head in disbelief as he exits --

               JAVIER
      Your tutor’s downstairs, Chris.

Chris strikes another pose, calls after Javier --

               CHRIS
      Fire that fat bitch.
          (singing)
      School’s... out... for... ever...


EXT. THE BRONX - DAY

Dave meets up with Mindy. 


               DAVE
      So what’s the drill?

               MINDY
      Your last test. Put this stuff on --

She hands him bags from Tiffany’s and Saks Fifth Avenue.

               DAVE
      And do what?

               MINDY
      Go fishing.


Off her sweet smile, CUT TO: 

Dave walking down the street looking like a blinged-out moron in 
a silk shirt and fur coat. He’s got the Tiffany’s bag in one 
hand, the Saks bags in the other. 

                              21.

               DAVE
	(INTO BLUETOOTH)
      I am the whitest pimp ever...

Some HOODS spot Dave, follow him down the street...

               MINDY’S VOICE
	(THROUGH BLUETOOTH)
      That’s the idea, ass-hat. Take your 
      next left -- comes out on Flatbush.


INT. ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER


Dave enters the alley, it’s identical to the one in his dream 
where he was murdered.

               DAVE
	(INTO BLUETOOTH)
      You sure I should be doing this 
      without my gear?

               MINDY’S VOICE
	(THROUGH BLUETOOTH)
      That’s the point. Kick-Ass isn’t a 
      costume, Kick-Ass is who you really 
      are. Dave Lizewski is the mask...

Four HOODS follow Dave into the alley.

              DAVE
	(INTO BLUETOOTH)
     Well, my “mask” is about to get its 
     teeth kicked in.

              HOOD
     Hey, faggot -- those bags look heavy, 
     why don’t you let us give you a hand?

              MINDY’S VOICE
	(THROUGH BLUETOOTH)
     Tell him to suck Santorum.

Dave walks faster, calls back --

              DAVE
     Oh, no thanks. I’m good.
          (into bluetooth, to Mindy)
     This isn’t really what I do -- I 
     usually just call the cops -- I don’t 
     get into gang fights.

              HOOD
     Who you talking to?

Dave hurries around the corner -- it’s a dead end. Mindy lied to 
him. Out of options, he turns to face the hoods.

              DAVE
     Just... making a call.

                              22.

               HOOD
      Really? Service down here sucks.

The hood GRABS the bluetooth off Dave’s ear and stomps on it. 
Dave’s on his own now... just like his dream. 

              HOOD
	(CONT’D)
     Now give us the bags, homo, or you’re 
     gonna suck my fat cock.

Dave is shaking like a leaf. He gives them the bags and then -- 

ATTACKS -- but instead of running on pure emotion, he’s actually 
got some moves. They don’t all work and he’s definitely getting 
punched in the face -- a lot -- but he’s holding his own against 
four guys. Mindy taught him well.

But not well enough -- a SHARP kick to Dave’s knee causes it to 
buckle -- he YELLS in pain -- the hoods descend on him -- 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      As they beat the snot out of me, all I 
      could think about was how pissed I was 
      at Mindy. I let her treat me like a 
      human punching bag and it didn’t mean 
      dick in the end: I was gonna die 
      alone. Guess the guy in my dream was 
      right... life really isn’t fair. 

               HOOD
      Now you die, fag --

Just as he RAISES the knife that will end Dave’s life -- the 
hood’s arm is suddenly SEVERED at the elbow. He turns to see: 

Hit Girl in full costume, katana blades in each hand.

               MINDY
      You know all that homophobic shit 
      makes you sound super gay.

Before the hoods can open their mouths to speak -- Mindy goes 
whirling dervish-of-death on them. It’s like being inside a 
blender with raw meat. 


OUT ON THE STREET

A PEDESTRIAN sees the bloody hoods FLEEING -- calls 911.

BACK IN THE ALLEY


Dave watches as Mindy walks up to the last hood, the one who had 
the knife...

                              23.

               HOOD 
      P-please, don’t kill me --

               MINDY
      Only if you promise you’ll give up 
      your life of crime. That you’ll go 
      back to school and study to be a 
      veterinarian and that on weekends 
      you’ll volunteer at a dog shelter.

               HOOD 
      I promise...

               MINDY
      Pants on fire.

She STABS him in the face -- killing him instantly. Dave is back 
on his feet and he’s not happy.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      Whadya think?

               DAVE
      I THINK YOU ALMOST GOT ME KILLED. 

               MINDY
      No, what did you think of my line, 
      “pants on fire?” I wrote a whole list. 
      My second choice was, “you are the 
      weakest link.”

Police LIGHTS flash as a COP CAR enters the alley and sees: 
Mindy, covered in blood and holding katana blades. Shit.

               DAVE
      Run -- I’ll tell them you saved me.

Mindy gives him a look -- thank you. Then LEAPS onto a dumpster, 
JUMPS for a fire escape and heads for the roof.

INT. POLICE PRECINCT - DAY

Dispatch takes the call as Marcus walks by...

               POLICE OFFICER
	(OVER THE RADIO)
      Female suspect fleeing. Under five 
      feet, masked, armed with swords.

Marcus’s face says it all: that sounds like Hit-Girl.

EXT. ROOFTOP - MOMENTS LATER

Mindy’s moving across the rooftop when her cell RINGS. 

                              24.

               MINDY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Hi, Marcus.


               MARCUS
	(THROUGH PHONE)
      Why aren’t you in school, sweetie?

               MINDY
      I was... but... my tummy hurt. They 
      said I could go home.


INT. MARCUS’S CAR - INTERCUT WITH ABOVE


Marcus is DRIVING through the city -- FAST.

               MARCUS
	(INTO PHONE)
      I’m on my way home now -- I’ll make 
      you Alphabet soup. 

               MINDY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Can’t wait... see you soon!


Mindy ditches her swords, does a PARKOUR move off the roof and 
RUNS down the block. It’s a race to see who can get home first. 

INT. SUBWAY STATION 


Mindy LEAPS over the turnstile -- barely makes the train --

INT. MARCUS’S CAR 

Marcus RUNS a red light -- SWERVES through traffic --

INT. SUBWAY TRAIN


Mindy sits quietly in costume, covered in blood. EVERYONE stares 
at her... including Mr. Extreme from the newscast. 

               MR. EXTREME
      Are you... hurt, little girl?

               MINDY
      It’s cool -- it’s not my blood.

               MR. EXTREME
      Oh, okay.
          (beat)
      Wait, then whose --

Before he can finish, the train stops and Mindy RACES out --


EXT. MARCUS’S HOUSE - DAY

Marcus SKIDS up -- JUMPS out of his car -- 

                              25.


INT. MARCUS’S HOUSE 

He RUNS upstairs -- WHIPS open the door to Mindy’s room to find:

               MINDY
      You have my yum-yum soup?

She’s in bed, all snuggled up. She made it. Marcus feels like 
shit for doubting her. He walks over to her bed, takes a seat...

               MARCUS
      Wanted to check on you first.

               MINDY
      I’ll feel better after a nap-nap.

               MARCUS
      Close your eyes... I’ll bring the soup 
      up in a bit.

As he stands to leave, he sees a speck of red on Mindy’s face. 
Marcus WHIPS back the pink princess duvet revealing:

Mindy in her Hit Girl costume, covered in blood.

               MARCUS
	(CONT’D)
      I can’t do this anymore, Mindy -- I 
      can’t. Your father was like a brother 
      to me -- he was a great cop, a hero. 
      But Big Daddy? That wasn’t your 
      father. That was someone else. He 
      robbed you of your childhood -- of a 
      normal life. This -- Hit Girl? It’s 
      not who you are either. You’re Mindy 
      Macready. You’re just starting high 
      school. And I understand that you 
      don’t know who that person is yet, but 
      you will soon, you’ve just got to try.

               MINDY
      I don’t want to try -- 

               MARCUS
      You don’t know that, you can’t. You’re 
      not an adult -- not yet. The note your 
      father gave you, the one you were 
      supposed to open if anything ever 
      happened to him -- what did it say?

Marcus already knows the answer...

               MINDY
      That you would take care of me...

                              26.

               MARCUS
      And that you would have to listen to 
      me...

Mindy doesn’t respond... she knows that Marcus is right.

               MARCUS
	(CONT’D)
      So hear me clearly: I want you in 
      school, I want you to stop talking to 
      that boy, and I want you to promise me 
      this will never happen again.

Off Mindy’s face, FLASH BACK TO: Big Daddy.

               BIG DADDY
      You’ll have to obey. Swear to me.

CUT BACK TO: Mindy. She looks up into Marcus’s loving eyes...

               MINDY
      Cross my heart... 

No more lying. No more bullshit. She means it: no more Hit Girl.

              MINDY
	(CONT’D)
     Hope to die.


EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING


The bell RINGS as the students file in... leaving just Dave.   
No sign of Mindy. 

INT. HIGH SCHOOL HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Mindy is walking to class when Dave finds her --

               DAVE
      What the hell, Mindy? First you almost 
      get me killed, then you stand me up --

               MINDY
      I’m sorry, Dave.

               DAVE
      You... are?


               MINDY
      I am -- for everything.

               DAVE
      Uh, okay. Great. I’m a little 
      surprised, I mean “apologetic” isn’t a 
      word I’d use to describe you --

                              27.

               MINDY
      How many times do I have to say it?

               DAVE
      Fine -- one’s fine. Let’s just get out 
      of here. But you gotta ease up, think 
      I might’ve broken a rib --

               MINDY
      I’m done.


               DAVE
      With training? 

               MINDY
      With everything.

That stops Dave cold.

               DAVE
      Wait -- you mean everything?

Mindy keeps walking, Dave runs to catch up.

              DAVE
	(CONT’D)
     You can’t -- 
          (whispers)
     You’re Hit Girl. We’re going to start 
     a team, you can’t just quit. This is 
     who you are. 

A couple of KIDS turn to watch as Mindy breaks it off with Dave.

              MINDY
     Not anymore. I’m sorry, Dave. It’s 
     over. Just... leave me alone.

She turns her back on him... fading into the crowd.

              DAVE
     Will you stop apologizing!

Suddenly -- Dave is SLAPPED by Katie. 

               KATIE
      I don’t know what’s worse: that you’ve 
      been fucking a ninth grader or that 
      you just got dumped by a ninth grader.

Other kids CRACK UP. Katie storms off with her BFF, ERIKA. 

               ERIKA
      Pedophile freak.

                              28.

Dave RUNS to catch up --

               DAVE
      It’s not like that --

               KATIE
      What’s it like, Dave? Tell me? 

Dave hesitates -- everyone’s watching them. Whispers to Katie:

               DAVE
      I can’t -- it has to do with Kick-Ass.

Katie gets in real close so that only Dave can hear her...

               KATIE
      I got a secret for you -- you know 
      Malik, volunteers at the needle 
      exchange with me?

               DAVE
      Dude who looks like the Old Spice guy?

               KATIE
      Kick-Ass’s baton is so much smaller 
     than his...

              DAVE
     No.


              KATIE
     Yes. And by baton I mean “penis.”

              DAVE
     Thanks -- I got it.

As Katie walks away with Erika...

              KATIE
     Dave Lizewski has a tiny penis!

Everyone LAUGHS as a humiliated Dave approaches Marty and Todd.

              MARTY
     A ninth grader, Dave? You dirty bird.

              TODD
     What’s the problem? Grass on the 
     field, play ball... right?

As Dave rolls his eyes and exits -- CUT TO:

                              29.

EXT. HARLEM - NIGHT

Aerial of a Town Car driving up Lennox Avenue.

               CHRIS
	(PRE-LAP)
      There’s one on the corner of 118th.

EXT. HARLEM - MOMENTS LATER

The Town Car pulls to a stop and the door opens -- Chris emerges 
in his full Motherfucker outfit. Javier rolls down the window.

               JAVIER
      Your Uncle Ralph’s not gonna be happy 
      about this, Chris.

               CHRIS
      Not my name.


               JAVIER
      I ain’t gonna call you that.

               CHRIS
      Javier -- you worked for my Dad. Then 
      you worked for my Mom. Now you work 
      for me. I’m probably the youngest 
      multi-millionaire in the state, but if 
      you don’t like it... get yourself 
      another motherfuckin’ job.


INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - MOMENTS LATER

A Korean CLERK, 20s, is behind the register when Chris -- I mean 
“The Motherfucker” -- enters.

               CLERK
          (Korean, subtitled)
      What in God’s name...

Chris pulls out his .45s. The Clerk raises his hands.

               CHRIS
      Hands in the air!

               CLERK
      They are. In the air.

               CHRIS
      Right -- well, empty the register. And 
      don’t do anything stupid. 

The Clerk does as he’s told -- gives Chris the cash.

                              30.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Where are your security cameras?

               CLERK
      We don’t have them -- too expensive.

               CHRIS
      Seriously? How is this gonna go viral?

               CLERK
      You want to be filmed...?

               CHRIS
      Just shut up and get on the ground. 

               VOICE
      What’s wrong with you, boy?

Chris spins to see an OLD MAN with a cane entering --

               CHRIS
      On the ground, too, Gandalf -- or I’ll 
      bust a cap in your ass.

Chris holds the gun sideways like he’s in a movie.

               OLD MAN 
      You’re gonna bust your own face when 
      that gun kicks if you don’t hold it 
      properly.

               CHRIS
      Just get on the ground.

The old man tries to get down, but it’s taking him forever -- 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Will you hurry up?

When the old man finally gets down, Chris FIRES on the cooler. 
The gun KICKS, SMACKING him in the face. It hurts -- a lot.

               OLD MAN       
      I told you --

               CHRIS
      SHUT IT.


Chris holds the gun properly and SHOOTS out the other cooler 
doors. Beer and soda explode in a slow-mo shower of glass and 
liquid. It’s orgasmic.

                              31.

INT. TOWN CAR - NIGHT

Javier is waiting when Chris comes running out and dives into 
the back seat, GIGGLING like he just got back from a panty raid. 

               CHRIS
      Oh, man -- that was AMAZING.

Javier GUNS it -- they peel out.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      I FEEL SO ALIVE! This is who I am -- 
      this is why I’m here! I’m gonna fuck 
      this whole world up! You gotta find 
      some bad ass MMA types to train me -- 
      Chuck Liddell -- whoever, I don’t care 
      how much it costs -- I wanna be able 
      to kill Kick-Ass with my bare hands!!!

Chris pulls out his phone while Javier rolls his eyes.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
       I gotta tweet about this shit...

EXT. STREETS OF NEW YORK - NIGHT

We’re on a close-up of Dave patrolling in his Kick-Ass costume.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      After Mindy quit I went on Facebook 
      and found a physics professor calling 
      himself “Doctor Gravity.”

Pull back to reveal: DOCTOR GRAVITY, African-American, 30’s.   
He wears modified motorcycle racing leathers. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Sure he wasn’t a ninja psycho killer 
      like Hit-Girl, but I had to start 
      somewhere.

Doc G carries a futuristic metallic bat with glowing red lights.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      This is the zero G device I invented, 
      can levitate any object up to a ton.

               DAVE
      For real?


               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      Nah, it’s just a baseball bat wrapped 
      in tin foil -- but it fooled you.

                              32.

Dave smiles as Doctor Gravity stops at a hot dog stand --

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
	(CONT’D)
      Diet Snapple, please.
          (back to Dave)
      I’m not even a physics professor, just 
      a copy writer for an ad agency. But 
      that’s why I love this stuff... you 
      can be anyone you want. 

LATER THAT NIGHT

Dave and Doctor Gravity are still on patrol. It’s pretty late, 
the neighborhood’s pretty sketchy. 

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      You done many team-ups before?

               DAVE
      Kind of -- not really. This is my 
      first patrol with someone else. I was 
      getting kind of nervous about being on 
      my own. 

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      Me, too -- never even been in a fight.

Dave just got a little more nervous. Is this guy luggage?

               DAVE
      Hopefully we won’t have to.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      I friended some guy talking about 
      forming a team if you’re interested. I 
      don’t know how serious he is, but his 
      picture was pretty hard core.

               DAVE
      Are you kidding me? That’s why I 
      contacted you, I just didn’t wanna 
      freak you out by bringing it up too 
      soon.

They pass an all-night COFFEE SHOP.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      I’ll show you his profile after I hit 
      the mens’ room. 

Doctor G slips in while Dave hangs out on the sidewalk... 

               VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Yo, Kick-Ass! 

                              33.

Three GUIDOS approach... one has a video camera.

               GUIDO 1
      Man, am I glad to see you...

Unbeknownst to Dave, the first two Guidos have metal pipes 
obscured by their jackets... clearly they’re about to make a 
play for their fifteen minutes of fame.

               DAVE
      Anything I can do to help, Sir?

               GUIDO 1
      Yeah, I was hoping you could help me 
      get a million hits --

Guido 1 takes a SWING -- Dave DUCKS the blow just like Mindy 
taught him -- before he can counter -- Guido 2 attacks. He’s 
about to brain Dave when Doctor Gravity stops him. 

Back from the bathroom, he uses his “Zero G” device to deflect 
the blow -- he can’t believe he’s actually in a fight.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      Kick-Ass -- RUN.

But Dave holds his ground -- CRACKS Guido 1 in the balls.     
The Guidos retreat -- Dave YELLS after them --

               DAVE
      You not interested in a fair fight?!?!

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      BEWARE DOCTOR GRAVITY!!!!

Across the street, the Guidos spot four of their FRIENDS -- they 
head back towards Dave and Doc G with re-enforcements.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
	(CONT’D)
      That is not gonna be a fair fight.

               DAVE
      We better jet --

Dave and Doc G SPRINT into traffic -- TIRES SCREECH -- a car 
SWERVES to avoid them -- rear-ends another, blocking the Guidos 
in... but not for long. Dave YELLS back to Doc G -- 

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      Meet me in McDonald’s on West 25th!

They split up as the DRIVERS get out and go nuts. Doc G RUNS -- 
his heart’s in his throat but he feels fan-fucking-tastic.

                              34.
               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      What a RUSH!


               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Sure, he wasn’t Mindy, but you had to 
      admire the Doctor’s enthusiasm. I 
      could hardly wait to meet his facebook 
      friend...


EXT. ALLEY - EVENING


Kick-Ass is sitting on a dumpster texting. As he types we see 
the words appear above his head.

DAVE: behind murphy’s bar in bowery -- nobody here yet --        
u should come

MINDY: i can’t join a superhero team -- not even supposed to 
talk to u

DAVE: we started this -- can’t walk away -- your dad would want 
you here

MINDY: i can’t -- BECAUSE of daddy -- u don’t understand -- BYE


INT. MINDY’S BEDROOM - EVENING


She puts her phone away as --

               MARCUS
      You ready?

               MINDY
      Do I really have to go?

               MARCUS
      C’mon, Min... Barbra’s daughter Brooke 
      is really nice. It’ll be fun.

               MINDY
      It’ll be lame.

               MARCUS
      How do you know that?

               MINDY
      Because it’s a slumber party for 
      fuck’s sake.

               MARCUS
      Dollar. Jar. 

Annoyed Mindy jumps off her bed, puts a dollar in a SWEAR jar.

                              35.

               MINDY
      Gonna need a bigger jar.


EXT. ALLEY - RESUME


Dave just sits there. Checks the time again. Just as he stands 
up to leave: the ground suddenly opens up.

              DAVE
     What the --


It’s an elevator used for bringing kegs into the basement. It 
lowers, revealing: Doctor Gravity, waiting below.

              DOCTOR GRAVITY
     Pretty cool, huh? This is how the beer 
     gets delivered.

              DAVE
     Dude -- you’ve got a secret entrance 
     to your underground headquarters!


INT. BAR BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS


Dave SCAMPERS inside.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      Guy I told you about owns the place...

               DAVE
      It’s like a real-world batcave...

They walk through the dark space towards a well-lit area 
obscured by a plastic room-divider. Doctor Gravity pulls it back 
revealing... six costumed SUPERHEROES having coffee. 

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      This is the single greatest thing I’ve 
      ever seen.

Did I mention they also have a German Shepherd in a mask? The 
man in the middle wears camo and a Lone Ranger mask. This is 
COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES, 40’s, a genuine American badass.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Welcome to Justice Forever.

Dave just creamed his wet-suit. DOORBELL carries us to: 


EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - NIGHT


Marcus waits with a nonplussed Mindy. The door opens, revealing:

                              36.

               BROOKE
      Hi, Detective Brodie! This must be 
      Mindy.

               MARCUS
      It is -- Hi, Brooke.

BROOKE, 14, sports a pink hoodie and a perfectly coiffed blond 
blow-out. Basically, Tracey Flick for the iCarly crowd.

               MARCUS
	(CONT’D)
      You girls have fun. I’ll pick you up 
      in the morning, Min. 

               MINDY
      I’ll be the one with the noose around 
      her neck. 

               BROOKE
      You’re funny!

Marcus gives Mindy a look... please try, for me. 


INT. BROOKE’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER


Brooke enters with Mindy --

               BROOKE
      Okay bitches, say “hey” to Mindy.

DOLCE and HARLOW, both 14, are painting their nails.

	      HARLOW
	Yo.

		DOLCE
	Wassup.


Mindy takes a seat on the bed.

               BROOKE
	(CONT’D)
      So is it true -- did you take a ride 
      on a senior's disco stick?

               DOLCE
      You know if you just blew him, you’re 
      still a virgin, right? 

               HARLOW
      She didn’t blow him -- look at her.

Mindy doesn’t have time to respond -- it’s verbal combat and 
they’re coming faster than Manny Pacquiao.

               BROOKE
      You at least kissed him, right?

                              37.

               MINDY
      Why would I want to do that?

              DOLCE
     Ohmygod -- you’ve never kissed a boy 
     before, have you?

              HARLOW
     Maybe she’s a dyke?

              MINDY
     Maybe I’ll jam my foot up your snatch.

              BROOKE
     Time-out, J-Wow.

Brooke puts in a DVD and turns on the TV. It’s The Twilight 
Saga: New Moon. She skips ahead with the remote --

              MINDY
     What the hell is this?

              BROOKE
     Just watch... this is why.

ON THE TV: Jacob helps Bella up... she’s bleeding, so he takes 
off his shirt (naturally).

Mindy watches Brooke and the girls go glass-eyed.

              MINDY
     You guys love this shit more than 
     fanboys love Stan Lee, huh?

ON THE TV: Lautner goes in for the kiss... you know what I’m 
talking about... the tween girl orgasm heard ‘round the world...

Mindy can’t help it... she leans in... her eyes go wide... her 
lips part... and she lets out the tiniest coo... then FREAKS.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      What the fuck was that?

Mindy felt something. And for the first time in her life, she’s 
actually scared.

               DOLCE
      I know, right? I’m soaked.

               BROOKE
      That? That was who you are, Mindy. You 
      might not dress like us or talk like 
      us, but when it comes to boys... 

                              38.

               BROOKE (CONT'D)
      we’re all the same. It’s biology, 
      bitch -- don’t fight it. 

               MINDY
      I’ve -- I’ve got to go.

Mindy heads for the door --

               HARLOW
      Ohmygod, she’s really leaving. Freak.

               DOLCE
      But we’re gonna do make-overs!

Brooke tries to stop Mindy --

               BROOKE
      Mindy, I only asked you over because I 
      felt sorry for you -- you’re our 
      charity case for the month, everyone 
      at school already knows. If you walk 
      out of here, we’re gonna have to cyber-
      bully you ‘till your black dad really 
      does find your neck in a noose.

As Mindy blows past her...

               MINDY
      I’ve survived worse twats than you.


INT. BAR BASEMENT - RESUME


Dave is still having coffee with Justice Forever. A MAN in a 
homemade suit of armor, 40’s, talks about his son, Tommy.

               TOMMY’S DAD
      We tried the cops, we tried the 
      newspapers. We even set up a thing on 
      the internet for people to help us 
      find Tommy...

Next to him is TOMMY’S MOM, 30’s. She’s done up like an Amazon.

               TOMMY’S MOM
      But we got nothing... never saw our 
      son again. I came up with the name 
      “Remembering Tommy,” and we’ve been 
      doing this three nights a week. 

               TOMMY’S DAD
      Colonel Stars and Stripes found us 
      online.

                              39.

               DAVE
      That’s terrible. I am so sorry...

The Colonel has a wicked smoker’s COUGH -- excuses himself.     
A red-head punk PIXIE, 20’s, in dominatrix gear chimes in --

               NIGHT-BITCH
      I became Night-Bitch after my sister 
      was murdered and found in a dumpster. 
      Doesn’t bring her back but at least 
      I’m doing something positive about it.
A SKINNY GUY in a modified Spiderman outfit is up next --

               INSECT-MAN
      I’m just a cop who got tired of the 
      system. Insect-Man let’s me do the 
      stuff I can’t do in my day job. 

A TEENAGER, about Dave’s age, offers his story... his mask is 
rolled up over his mouth so he can drink his coffee.

               BATTLE-GUY
      I became Battle-Guy after my parents 
      were mugged and killed coming home 
      from the opera. Did I tell you the 
      sick prick maxed out all their credit 
      cards on pay-per-view porn? 

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      You told us, man. I only hope we get a 
      chance to say hello to him some day.

               DAVE
      Oh my God...


Dave is in shock, and it’s not because of Battle-Guy’s story...

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      Are you Marty Eisenberg?

A terrified Battle-Guy quickly rolls down his mask -- 

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      I knew I recognized that voice!

               BATTLE-GUY
          (deepens his voice)
      I don’t know who you’re talking about.

               DAVE (WHISPERS)
      It’s me, you asshole -- Dave.

                              40.

               BATTLE-GUY/MARTY
      Why are you dressed like Kick-Ass?

               DAVE
      Because I am Kick-Ass! 

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     You two know each other?

              DAVE
     We’ve been friends since we were five! 
     What’s all this bullshit about your 
     parents getting killed? 

Busted. The other superheroes are in shock...

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     Is this true?

              MARTY
     How do I say this without looking like 
     a total idiot? 

              NIGHT-BITCH
     Too late for that, Batman.

              MARTY
     When I found you guys online you were 
     swapping all these awesome stories. I 
     mean, Colonel, you’re ex-mafia for 
     Christ’s sake.

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     Don’t take his name in vain.

              MARTY
     Sorry -- I just didn’t think you’d let 
     me join unless I had some cool story, 
     too.

Marty’s terrified he’s going to be expelled and Dave feels awful 
for exposing him....

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     You signed up for this team to look 
     after the neighborhood, Battle-Guy. 
     That’s the only thing that matters. 

Marty SIGHS with relief. The Colonel heads towards the back, 
motioning for Dave to follow... 

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
     We’re here to protect the people when 
     the system fails. 

                              41.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      Catch the guys the cops let get away. 
      Make a difference without asking, 
      “what’s in it for us?”  

Dave looks back to see that the rest of Justice Forever has 
followed them into the next room... 

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      I thought this could be our meeting 
      room...

There’s a table lit by a solitary overhead light, seven office 
chairs around it. If King Arthur and his knights lived today, 
this is exactly what their round table would look like. 

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      I know it’s not much, but this is just 
      the beginning. Together we could make 
      a real difference out there. If you’d 
      consider it, Kick-Ass, we’d be honored 
      to have you join us...

The Colonel offer his hand... and Dave takes it.

               DAVE
      Hell, yeah. Sign me up.

Back-slapping and smiles all around... ever imagine what it 
looked like when the Beatles first got together? It probably 
looked a lot like this (minus the capes).

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Let’s get another pot of coffee on and 
      get down to business.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      This is what the Justice League would 
      be like in real-life: 

A driving music cue KICKS IN, carrying us to:


HOMEMADE HEADQUARTERS MONTAGE


- Doctor Gravity feeds the Colonel’s German Shepherd.

- Tommy’s Dad boots up the computers.

- Night-Bitch paints their names on the back of their chairs.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      A bunch of people with made-up names 
      standing around in homemade costumes, 
      searching the web for unsolved crimes.

                              42.

- Insect-Man collects money for coffee and snacks.

- Dave and Marty sketch a design for a Justice Forever crest.

- The Colonel leads the team through some basic boxing moves.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The comic book heroes all have billon-
      dollar bases and headquarters on the 
      moon, but this is the real world.

- Tommy’s Mom sets up a camera then runs in for a group photo. 
They squeeze together... Night-Bitch snuggling up against Dave.

              DAVE
	(V.O.)
     I never made Varsity football or got 
     cast in the school play...


INT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY


Marty and Dave walk down the hall together in slow-mo. All the 
other kids look depressed, lost... but not our guys. They stand 
a little taller, their eyes a little brighter. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Hell, I never even made honor roll. 
      But if I had, I gotta believe it 
      would’ve felt a lot like this. 

A couple girls check them out... 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      We were in the ultimate clique. It 
      didn’t matter that no one else knew -- 
      we knew -- and we felt like certified 
      rock stars. 

The bell RINGS and time SNAPS back -- 

               MARTY 
      You wearing it -- under your clothes?

               DAVE
      Bet your ass I am.

               MARTY
      But it’s pretty hot today...

               DAVE
      Totally worth it. Just the idea that 
      nobody knows...

They pass a visibly envious Mindy -- who turns away so quickly 
she practically runs into Brooke, Harlow, and Dolce.

                              43.

               BROOKE
      Hey Mindy, have you seen Glee?

               MINDY
      Couldn’t pay me to watch that crap.

               BROOKE
      Then you probably won’t think this is 
      as funny as we do.

The girls throw slushies in Mindy’s face and LAUGH. As Mindy 
wipes the frozen mess away...

               MINDY
      You know I could blind all three of 
      you with a spork, right?

               BROOKE
      Try it, whore -- I’ll own your house.

They GIGGLE and prance past Marty, still whispering to Dave...

               MARTY
      Man, even I can’t believe it 
      sometimes. Kick-Ass. This is like 
      finding out your best friend’s always 
      been Will Smith.

Todd runs to catch up --

               TODD
      Hey guys -- what’re you talking about?

               DAVE
      Nothing.

               TODD
      Nothing?

               MARTY
      Yeah, Todd. Nothing.

Marty gives Dave a look -- Todd, such a loser. 

               TODD
      Alright... see you around, I guess.

               DAVE
          (feeling bad)
      Todd, wait --

But he’s already gone. Dave turns back and BUMPS into a massive 
GOTH KID, who gives him a SHOVE.

                              44.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      Watch it --


The Goth Kid doesn’t even flinch. He’s wearing a cape.

               GOTH KID
      Watch me end your life.

Marty pulls Dave away --

               MARTY
      Forget it -- he’s just one of those 
      pricks following The Motherfucker on 
      Twitter. 

               DAVE
      Who?


               MARTY
      The Motherfucker -- some guy claiming 
      he’s the first real world super 
      villain. Got like a thousand followers 
      already. 

Dave just shakes his head and laughs...

               DAVE
      What an asshole...


INT. BROOKLYN MMA GYM - DAY

This place is hard core. Nothing but badasses beating the crap 
out of each other. In the center of the octagon is: 

               CHRIS
      Let’s do this.

Javier is off to the side with Chuck Liddell. No shit -- the 
real Chuck Liddell.

               CHUCK LIDDELL
      You got this, Motherfucker!

               JAVIER
      You really think he has a shot?

               CHUCK LIDDELL
      I wouldn’t take his money if I didn’t. 
      MMA is like chess, it’s all about the 
      moves -- and your boy knows his stuff.

Chris sizes up his OPPONENT: an African-American kid about the 
same age and weight. Looks like a pretty fair fight... 

                              45.

               CHRIS
      Time to die, asshole.

Chris comes out to tap fists (fighter’s handshake), but does a 
FAKE and immediately starts SWINGING. He dominates the fight 
until his opponent suddenly punches him in the face -- 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
          (tearing up)
      It’s cool -- I’m okay. That was a nice 
      jab -- good jab, buddy. 

Chris gets his shit together, comes at his opponent again -- who 
KICKS him in the leg. Chris CRUMPLES

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      SHIT -- my leg, you broke my leg.

Chris’s opponent looks over at Liddell -- What should I do?

               CHUCK LIDDELL
      Let’s take a break...

Chris JUMPS up and SUCKER PUNCHES his opponent. He was faking. 

               CHRIS
      Street rules, bio-tch!

His opponent is pissed -- opens up a can of whupass --

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Chuck, get this fag off me!

Liddell and Javier RUN in -- PULL the fighters apart.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Get off me -- I was winning.

              JAVIER
     You were crying.

               CHRIS
      You know what? Screw this -- my super 
      power is that I’m rich as shit.

Chris goes into his gym bag -- pulls out a wad of hundreds. 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
          (to his opponent)
      You wanna work for me, huh? You wanna 
      beat people up for me?

               OPPONENT
      Uh, sure.


Chris sizes up the African American teen...

                              46.

               CHRIS
      Then get a mask. From now on you’re 
      called “Black Death.”

               JAVIER
      That’s kind of racist, Chris.

               CHRIS
      I don’t give a shit -- I want you to 
      put the word out that I’m willing to 
      pay top dollar for every hired hitter 
      in town. 

               JAVIER
      We should talk about this...

               CHRIS
      Money talks, Javier -- you wanna walk?

Chris shoves the money in his face. Cowed, Javier backs down.

               JAVIER
      I’ll make some calls...

               CHRIS
      Anybody else here want to become a 
      super villain? I promise I pay better 
      than Chuck-little-dick-Liddell!

               CHUCK LIDDELL
      What did you call me?

Chuck Liddell steps to Chris -- Javier intercedes --

               JAVIER
      We should go -- now.


EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAY


Kick-Ass and the Colonel patrol the streets with his dog.   
Night-Bitch and Insect-Man bring up the rear.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      I don’t care about enforcing the 
      law... that’s what cops are for. For 
      me, it’s about justice. Balance. Isn’t 
      that right Eisenhower?

The Colonel pets his masked German Shepherd. 

               DAVE
      I thought your dog’s name was Sophia?

                              47.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Shhh... Sophia is her secret identity.

Dave smiles, scratches the dog’s head.

               DAVE
      Your secret’s safe with me...

They stop at a hot dog stand... the Colonel buys a sausage.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      People should get what they deserve. A 
      family living on the streets deserves 
      a hot meal. An inebriated college girl 
      deserves to make it home safe at 
      night. And a pervert pedophile 
      deserves a visit from Eisenhower...

The Colonel feeds the wiener to his dog. Clearly she’s been 
trained to castrate on command... Dave casually covers his junk. 

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      Sure, I’d like to only take down bad 
      guys. But this is the real world --


INT. SOUP KITCHEN - DAY


The entire Justice Forever team works the line in full costume, 
handing out meals to the homeless

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      -- not some comic book. We can’t just 
      go out and find crimes in progress... 
      we have to find people in need.

A HOMELESS MAN takes a bowl --

               HOMELESS MAN
      God bless you.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Same to you, little brother. Don’t 
      forget to get some bread.

Night-Bitch hands the homeless man a dinner roll. The Colonel 
COUGHS violently while Dave fills up a little BOY’s bowl.

               DAVE
      Here you go.


Dave watches him shuffle off with his family.

                              48.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      I was so focused on stopping all those 
      assholes --

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Language.

               DAVE
      Jerks -- who mugged me for my cell 
      phone, that I never thought about the 
      people who didn’t have cell phones... 

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Before you can be a hero, you have to 
      be a human being. 

               FEMALE VOICE
	(PRE-LAP)
      Help -- PLEASE!


INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - NIGHT


A GRANNY, 80’s, is panicked -- turns to see:

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      What can we do for you, Ma’am?

The Colonel’s with Remembering Tommy, Battle-Guy, and Kick-Ass.

               GRANNY
      My car... it was stolen. 

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      You sure this is where you parked it, 
      little sister?

She’s clearly too embarrassed to admit the Colonel’s right.

               GRANNY
      I, uh, think it was stolen... it’s a 
      LeBaron, Maroon.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Alright, team -- before we call the 
      police, let’s fan out and see if we 
      can help this nice woman find her 
      vehicle.

The team searches until... Dave YELLS from across the structure. 

               DAVE
      Over here, Colonel!

The granny approaches her car... 

                              49.

               GRANNY
      Thank you, young man... you’re a real 
      hero.

She hugs Dave. He shoots the Colonel a look... he gets it now.


EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - DAWN

As the sun rises, the team splits up to head home...

               DAVE
      ‘Night, Colonel... and thanks. For 
      everything.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      No, son... thank you. If it weren’t 
      for you, none of us would be here.

As the Colonel heads off, Dave turns and sees --

               NIGHT-BITCH
      So... I’m not really tired.  


INT. COFFEE SHOP BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Dave and Night-Bitch hook up. It’s getting pretty hot and 
heavy... he starts to pull off his mask... and she stops him.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      Let’s leave them on...

Kinky... but Dave’s game. As they go at it....

               DAVE
	(PRE-LAP)
      Our first big mission’s tonight...

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - AFTERNOON

Dave and Mindy walk through the parking lot after school.

               DAVE
      And it’s not community service -- 
      we’re taking on real bad guys.

               MINDY
      Can’t your team handle it?

               DAVE
      They’re not you, Mindy. Remembering 
      Tommy owns a dry-fruit business, Night-
      Bitch teaches ballet --

                              50.

               MINDY
      “Night Bitch?” She a superhero or a 
      soft-core porno?

               DAVE
          (blushing)
      A little bit of both...

               MINDY
      You’re plugging her? I’m gonna spew.

Is Mindy actually jealous? Dave is eager to change subjects --

               DAVE
      C’mon, you’re like a ninja -- just 
      sneak out after Marcus goes to sleep.

               MINDY
      You don’t get it -- I made a promise 
      to Marcus. 

               DAVE
      So break it -- you’re a superhero, 
      remember? This is your disguise --     
      Hit Girl is your real identity.

               MINDY
      I don’t know what kind of superhero 
      “Night Whore” is, but if you think I’d 
      break my word, you really have no idea 
      who I am.

Yeah -- Mindy is DEFINITELY jealous. And Dave’s a little pissed.

               DAVE
      I know you hate high school. That you 
      don’t give a shit about gossip or 
      Gossip Girl and that you couldn’t get 
      a date if your life depended on it.

Ouch. That hurt...

               MINDY
      Go to hell, Dave.

               DAVE
      You know I’m right.

That’s when Mindy spots a goofy JOCK in a letterman jacket.

               MINDY
      Hey, Roid Rage, wanna take me to a 
      movie sometime?

                              51.

               JOCK
      Sure... my name’s, uh, Simon.

Mindy is talking to the jock but she’s looking right at Dave --

               MINDY
      Great, “Uh-Simon” -- it’s a date.

Mindy heads towards Marcus’s car...

               DAVE
      Mindy -- I’m sorry --

               MARCUS
          (calling out)
      Is there a problem, Min?

               MINDY
      Zero.

               MARCUS
      Good. I don’t like problems.

Marcus gives Dave a stern look: stay away from my daughter.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
	(PRE-LAP)
      Dave, are you sneaking out at night?


INT. DAVE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Dave’s on the couch, his Dad hovering behind him.

               MR. LIZEWSKI 
      Mrs. Neipert said she thought she saw 
      you leaving at 2 AM.

               DAVE
      Mrs. Neipert’s crazy, Dad. She tried 
      to teach her dog Spanish.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Are you doing drugs?

               DAVE
      Seriously?


               MR. LIZEWSKI
      I have to ask -- you’re my best bud 
      and you’re growing up so fast. You 
      promise me you aren’t doing anything 
      foolish?

               DAVE
      I promise.


                              52.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Good enough for me, pal. I know you’d 
      never break your word...

Dave can’t look at his Dad, Mindy’s words haunting him.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
	(CONT’D)
      You’re too smart to do anything 
      stupid.

Off Dave’s face, feeling like shit for lying to his Dad, CUT TO:


EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT


Dave is in his wet-suit, standing on the ledge -- HOWLING --

               DAVE
      JUSTICE FOREVER!

               MARTY
	(O.C.)
      Glad you got that out of your system. 

POP OUT to reveal: Marty in Battle-Guy garb, sitting next to 
him, nursing a Starbucks. His phone BEEPS. 

               MARCUS
      Todd just texted me. Again. What a 
      freak...

Says the kid in Spandex. As Marty hits ignore...

               MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      How bad-ass is Colonel Stars and 
      Stripes?

               DAVE
      I still can’t believe he’s an ex-Mob 
      enforcer. How do you go from that to 
      being a superhero?

               MARTY
      Dude, he’s a born-again Christian. 

              DAVE
     Shut-up.

              MARTY
     All that “little sister” shit, and 
     “don’t take his name in vain?”

              DAVE
     I assumed he had some terminal disease 
     or something. Thought he was going to 
     cough up a lung yesterday...

                              53.

               MARTY
      Hope he can handle tonight...

They look down as a white van pulls up. The door opens and 
Justice Forever emerges.

               DAVE
      Guess we’re about to find out.


INT. ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER

Kick-Ass and Battle-Guy meet up with the Colonel, Night-Bitch, 
Insect-Man and Eisenhower the dog.

               DAVE
      Where’s the rest of the team?

               NIGHT-BITCH
      Doctor Gravity’s got the flu and 
      Remembering Tommy couldn’t get away 
      from work.   

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Five of us should be fine. 

The team approaches the back door to a seedy looking hotel. 

               MARTY
      How did you say this guy made his 
      money, Sir? Prostitution?

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Not just girls -- kids. Ships them in 
      from villages back home, cops turn a 
      blind eye.

               DAVE
      How do you know he’s here tonight?

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Because Thursday night is poker night. 
      Same five low-lifes every week. 

               DAVE
      What’s the plan -- we sneaking in?

The Colonel just smiles... and then KNOCKS.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      Are you serious?!?

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Stay frosty, team. I used to eat punks 
      like this for breakfast.

                              54.

INT. SEEDY HOTEL - CONTINUOUS 

Five CHINESE BANGERS are smoking and playing cards in the dark 
room. The leader of the pack, MR. KIM, 40’s, hears the knock --

               MR. KIM
          (sub-titled)
      What is that?

A massive BOUNCER near the door just shrugs.

               MR. KIM
	(CONT’D)
          (sub-titled)
      Go find out. Not paying you to stand 
      there with your dick in your hand.

EXT. ALLEY - SAME

               MARTY
      I just zoned out for a second -- we’re 
      going up against five gangsters?

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     Six, including the bouncer --

The door WHIPS open and the bouncer steps out --

              BOUNCER
     What the fuck you want?

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     Good evening, young man. I’d like a 
     word with Jimmy Kim.

              BOUNCER
     Get the fuck out of here before I tear 
     your head off, you old fuck.

It’s the moment of truth, when we finally get to see if Colonel 
Stars and Stripes is as tough as he says, or if he’s just a 
delusional old man in a mask.

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     I’m sorry...

He puts up his hands.


              DAVE
          (sotto, to Marty)
     I think we’re in trouble...

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     I just don’t understand why people 
     feel the need to use that language.

                              55.

In a FLASH -- the Colonel CRUSHES the bouncer’s windpipe -- uses 
his other hand to turn the big man’s nose to pulp before he hits 
the ground unconscious. 

               MARTY
      Sweet Jesus.


               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Battle-Guy -- what did I tell you 
      about taking the Lord’s name in vain?

               MARTY
      Sorry, Sir.


Ride of the Valkyries kicks in as Insect-Man pulls out two 
baseball bats, hands one to the Colonel.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Insect-Man, I want you right behind 
      me. The rest of you, fan out and take 
      care of the strays. 


INT. SEEDY HOTEL - SAME


The Chinese Bangers are playing cards when Mr. Kim looks up and 
sees: Justice Forever striding towards him.

               MR. KIM
          (subtitled)
      What. The. Fuck.

Just as the other Hoods turn to look -- WHAM -- the Colonel 
brings his baseball bat down on the table. Chips go flying.

With the Wagner track blasting, all hell breaks loose as our 
guys work in concert -- finally being a TEAM OF SUPERHEROES.

The Colonel is a sight to see: a trained killer, he easily takes 
out two of the five bangers all by himself. 

Insect-Man (who’s a cop by day) takes down one of the others, 
tosses Night-Bitch a set of cuffs while she works with Dave to 
take out the fourth. Marty helps... sort of.

Mr. Kim is about to shoot Marty in the back -- when the Colonel 
body SLAMS him and JAMS his bat in Mr. Kim’s open mouth. 

               MR. KIM
	(CONT’D)
      Mrmph--mrph--argh--

It’s hard to talk while deep throating a baseball bat, so the 
Colonel removes it from his gullet.

                              56.

               MR. KIM
	(CONT’D)
      Who the hell are you?

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      We’re the good guys.

               MR. KIM
      You’re the fucking dead guys.

The Colonel whistles. His dog runs in and does what she’s 
trained to do... she CLAMPS down on Mr. Kim’s beans and franks.

              MR. KIM
	(CONT’D)
     PLEASE -- GOD -- you want money, 
     there’s fifty grand on that table,    
     J-JUST make him stop --

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     You think you can buy us, Kim? We 
     didn’t come here to steal from you. We 
     came here to send a message to all the 
     other parasites. Where are the girls?

              MR. KIM
     C’mon man -- I got a heart problem --

The Colonel pulls out a .45 -- JAMS the muzzle up Kim’s nose.

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     Want me to solve it?

Kim looks at the Colonel... he just might do it.

              MR. KIM
     The girls are upstairs in the 
     apartments -- M-My little brother’s on 
     the till -- he’s just a college kid.

              COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
     Kick-Ass?

              DAVE
     On it.


INT. UPSTAIRS APARTMENTS - MOMENTS LATER


Mr. Kim’s younger brother, TEDDY, is studying, when the door is 
KICKED open, revealing our costumed heroes.

               TEDDY
      Holy shit --


Dave SLAMS his baton into Teddy’s gut, Marty CRACKS him in the 
head with his shield -- putting Teddy down for the count.

                              57.

Night-Bitch heads into the bedroom, helps the girls cover-up.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      I know we look weird, but we’re here 
      to help.

INT. STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER

The girls head down the stairs with Night-Bitch.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      A woman’s outside from a shelter, 
      she’ll take you some place safe.

               GIRL
      We-we can’t leave -- we have no money.

Insect-Man emerges with a duffle full of cash.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      How much did they have on the table?

               INSECT-MAN
      Fifty grand.


Night-Bitch hands the girls the duffle of cash.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      You’ve got plenty now.

EXT. SEEDY HOTEL - NIGHT

The girls are quickly ushered into a van by a REP from a not-for-
profit that rescues women from human trafficking operations. 
Before they pull out -- one of the girls JUMPS out of the car 
and hugs Night-Bitch.

               GIRL
      Thank you.


The girl dashes back into the van, leaving Night-Bitch on the 
side-walk... smiling. She might look like a freak, but tonight 
she made the world a better place.

INT. SEEDY HOTEL - SAME

Sophia is still CLAMPED DOWN on Mr. Kim’s man-berries.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      So you bring girls from China, promise 
      them work in the restaurant, and then 
      force them to work as prostitutes? Bet 
      you make them give you freebies, too?

                              58.

               MR. KIM
      Fuck off --


               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Ike?


The dog DIGS in -- until there’s a POPPING SOUND.

               MR. KIM
      OH JESUS CHRIST MY FUCKING BALL!!! HE 
      POPPED MY BALL!!!!

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      No more freebies for you.


EXT. SEEDY HOTEL - MOMENTS LATER

Justice Forever is waiting when the Colonel emerges.

               DAVE
      That was amazing.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Nice work, team.

Insect-Man pulls up in the van -- 


INT. VAN - CONTINUOUS

And our heroes JUMP in.


               DAVE
      I couldn’t believe it when you pulled 
      a gun on that guy. Were you really 
      going to shoot him?

The Colonel removes the clip -- shows it to Dave.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Let you in on a secret, son: it’s 
      empty... just don’t tell the bad guys.

               MARTY
      Pardon my language, Colonel, but you 
      got some serious balls.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Certainly more than Mr. Kim.

Their LAUGHTER carries us to: a mug shot of Mr. Kim. 


INT. LONG ISLAND MANSION - NIGHT

PULL OUT to reveal the photo is on Chris’s iPad. 

                              59.

               CHRIS
      Goddmannit -- Javier?!?

He’s hanging by the indoor pool with two STRIPPERS/ESCORTS. 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Some asshole just posted a link to a 
      story about some whore house -- says 
      that Kick-Ass’s team took them out. 
      What the hell? Where’s my crew?

               JAVIER
      Hasn’t been easy, Chris... 

               CHRIS
      You didn’t find anyone?

               JAVIER
      Ladies, give us a minute?

               CHRIS
      They’re my side-kicks...

               JAVIER
      They’re prostitutes -- and witnesses.
          (to the girls)
      No offense.

The girls grab towels and exit.

               JAVIER
	(CONT’D)
      Everyone’s too scared of your Uncle 
      Ralph to take the job.

               CHRIS
      But he’s in prison --

               JAVIER
      Doesn’t matter -- he’s running the 
      family now and he wants everyone to 
      lay low... fortunately for you, Big 
      Tony doesn’t know how to lay low, so 
      he’s in.

               CHRIS
      I don’t remember a Big Tony. He huge?

               JAVIER
      He’s ironic...

COMIC BOOK STILLS OF: BIG TONY, 40’s, in a bar fight. He pulls a 
knife, STABS the guy -- basically Joe Pesci from Goodfellas.

                              60.

               JAVIER
	(V.O.)
      5’2, but mean as shit -- got a real 
      hard-on for killing people. 

               CHRIS
	(V.O.)
      He’s little... and he kills... 

BACK TO: Chris in the pool.

               CHRIS
      Call him “The Tumor.” Who’s next?

COMIC BOOK STILLS OF: two Chinese GANGSTERS, in a night club... 
wearing black suits and sunglasses. Very Hong-Kong cinema.

BACK TO:

               JAVIER
	(V.O.)
      Couple of ex-Triad looking for work --

               CHRIS
	(V.O.)
      That’s easy: “General Tzo” and “P.F. 
      Chang.”

               JAVIER
      You gotta quit with the racist 
      stereotypes --

               CHRIS
      Archetypes. Keep going --

               JAVIER
      Katarina Dombrovski --

               CHRIS
      Wait -- a chick? You hired a chick?

COMIC BOOK STILLS OF: a roided-out FEMALE BODYBUILDER. She beats 
a PRISON GUARD to a pulp... more blood than a Tarantino flick.

               JAVIER
	(V.O.)
      Former KGB -- was locked up in a Gulag 
      till she ate her cellmate. Makes the 
      Rock look like Chris Rock. 

BACK TO: A smiling Chris....

               CHRIS
      “Mother Russia”

               JAVIER
      You sure, man? Mother Russia and 
      Motherfucker on the same team?

                              61.

               CHRIS
      I’m not looking for development notes, 
      asshole -- just tell them to get 
      costumes and get ready.

Javier turns in a huff... Chris clearly feels bad for snapping.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks, Javier. I couldn’t do this 
      without you... you’re pretty much the 
      only real family I have left.

               JAVIER
      No problem, Chris -- happy to help.

               CHRIS
      It’s like you’re the Alfred to my evil 
      Bruce Wayne.

Javier seems genuinely touched until he realizes --

               JAVIER
      Did you just call me your butler?

A music cue KICKS in as we CUT TO a:

JUSTICE FOREVER ON PATROL MONTAGE


               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      There wasn’t much action most 
      nights... I mean, there was always a 
      little action with Night-Bitch...

- Dave and Night Bitch grab a quickie in a MacDonald’s bathroom.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      But there wasn’t much crime. The 
      reality of being a superhero is lots 
      of patrols. But that didn’t stop 
      people from begging to join up...

- We start to see some new FACES patrolling with our team...

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      There was the Bronx Rocket-Man... I 
      didn’t have the heart to tell him I’d 
      flown a real jet-pack. His was made of 
      balsa wood.

- We pan from ROCKET-MAN to a GUY with a massive head lamp and 
surgical scrubs, posing for the camera, called:

                              62.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The All-Seeing Eye -- that guy 
      couldn’t stay out of the papers.

- A WOMAN in a Phantom of the Opera mask hands out flyers...

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      A girl from Chelsea named Moon-Bird. 
      Even a social activist called The 
      Enforcer who worked the subways.

- A PERV on the Subway tries to grope a FEMALE COMMUTER. A GUY 
in a Lucha Libre mask gives him a look: I wouldn’t do that.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Other teams popped up, too. Crime was 
      down all over because of us... real 
      people, making a real difference. 

- It’s that famous RIGHT STUFF shot: the expanded team walking 
towards us in slow-mo, Kick-Ass and the Colonel in the middle.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      With all our new members, it seemed 
      kind of shitty not to ask Todd...


INT. DAVE’S ROOM - AFTERNOON


Marty is hanging out in his Battle-Guy suit. Todd’s in the 
Rubber Man outfit from American Horror Story.

               MARTY
      Dude, you can’t fight crime in that. 
      Your pants are so tight I can see your 
      pubes.

               TODD
      Then stop looking at my junk, Prop 8.

Dave (in his Kick-Ass gear) reads a list on Todd’s computer.

               DAVE
      Not really sure about these names 
      you’ve come up with either. Whup-Ass? 
      Kick-Ass-Man? Doctor Kick-Ass? They 
      all seem, I don’t know... derivative.

               MARTY
      Allow me to translate.
          (to Todd)
      You can’t just copy Dave’s name, knob-
      cobbler. 

                              63.

               TODD
      Wait -- I’ve got it. “Ass-Kicker.”

               MARTY
      Seriously?


Todd’s been feeling left out for a while now, so he snaps --

               TODD
      You’re such a dick, Marty. I know this 
      is why you and Dave haven’t been 
      returning my texts, I’m not an idiot.

               MARTY
      Could’ve fooled me, Ass-Licker.

               TODD
      Screw you, guys -- I’m signing up for 
      Motherfucker’s crew.

As Todd storms out, genuinely hurt --

               MARTY
      Have fun fucking each other’s mothers.

               DAVE
      Todd, wait --

But he’s already gone. Dave feels terrible. Marty, not so much. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Todd was right... we were being 
      assholes, but the truth is the only 
      person I really wanted on the team was 
      Mindy...

EXT./INT. MARCUS’S HOUSE - NIGHT

An SUV pulls up and Simon, the jock Mindy asked out, emerges.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      But she was too busy trying not to be 
      a superhero.

Mindy’s at the door with Marcus. She pulls on her jacket...

               MARCUS
      It’s your first date -- I’m allowed to 
      be a little nervous.

               MINDY
      I can kill a man with his own finger.

                              64.

Fair enough. Mindy exits while Marcus watches her approach the 
SUV. He can’t help but smile as Simon opens the door for her. 
It’s really kind of sweet...

               SIMON
      Can’t believe you finally let me take 
      you out...

               MINDY
      How else was I gonna get you to stop 
      calling?


EXT. BRONX - NIGHT

Simon’s SUV drives through a tough neighborhood... an Escalade 
follows them, keeping its distance.

               MINDY
	(O.S.)
      Where the hell are we?

INT. SUV - CONTINUOUS


Mindy spots the Escalade... her spidey sense tingling.

               SIMON
      This is the quickest way to the movie 
      theater -- 

               MINDY
      This is the quickest way to get 
      carjacked, you moron.

Simon puts the SUV in park.

               SIMON
      What’s your problem?

Mindy looks behind them... no sign of the Escalade now. Maybe 
she’s just being paranoid?

               MINDY
      I’m sorry... you’re right. I’ll stop 
      being such a bitch. You seem like a 
      nice guy...

She gives him a smile... he smiles back. He is kind of cute...

               SIMON
      Wanna hook up?

               MINDY
      And a total fucking idiot.


EXT. BRONX - NIGHT

Mindy gets out the car --

               SIMON
      Mindy, wait --

                              65.


Suddenly that Escalade pulls up -- boxing them in.

               MINDY
      Simon, get back in the car. Now.

The Escalade doors open and four JOCKS in letterman jackets 
drinking 40’s stumble out. That’s when Mindy realizes --

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      This wasn’t the quickest way to the 
      movie theater, was it?

               SIMON
      Through the Bronx? No. This was the 
      quickest way into your pants. 

The jocks all LAUGH -- it was a set-up.

              SIMON
	(CONT’D)
     We know the truth about you, Mindy.

              MINDY
     I’m pretty sure you don’t...

              SIMON
     Brooke told us about your gang bang 
     fantasy... and we’re here to deliver.

              MINDY
     Brooke.


Mindy’s more annoyed with herself than anyone else. How could 
she have been so stupid?

              MINDY
	(CONT’D)
     I could tell you that you’re about to 
     make a big mistake, that I’m gonna 
     break all your arms and end your 
     athletic careers -- even though they 
     were probably gonna end in high school 
     anyway -- but you’re all such a bunch 
     of knuckle-draggers it won’t make a 
     difference, will it?

They all LAUGH... Mindy doesn’t even blink. One jock can sense 
that she’s deadly serious...

                              66.

               JOCK 2
      I, uh, think I’m just gonna go. 

He puts his 40 down and exits -- quickly.

               SIMON
      Chicken shit.

Before Simon can turn his attention back to Mindy, she SHATTERS 
the 40 against his skull. The jocks RUSH her, but Mindy’s too 
fast. 

Soon they’re just trying to defend themselves -- it’s all so 
surreal. Remember the scene in Monty Python’s Hold Grail, when 
the bunny attacks the knights? It’s a little like that. 

Mindy doesn’t kill anyone -- she’s too disciplined. But she does 
FLIP one guy -- then BREAKS his arm -- SLAMS another guy’s head 
into the car -- BREAKS his arm, too -- and then STOMPS on the 
last guys nuts, before --

              MINDY
     As promised --

CRACK -- breaking his arm. Simon tries to crawl away but it 
ain’t easy with two compound fractures. Mindy picks up a 40...

              MINDY
	(CONT’D)
     Fun fact, Simon: the only people who 
     have gang bang fantasies are evil boys 
     who dream about being sodomized.

              SIMON
     Wh-What are you gonna do...?

              MINDY
     Make your dream come true.

Mindy JAMS the 40 up his butt so hard it RIPS his pants.


EXT. RIKERS ISLAND - DAY

New York’s most notorious prison. Chris’s Town Car pulls up.

               CHRIS
	(PRE-LAP)
      He say why he wanted to see me?


INT. TOWN CAR - SAME

Javier puts the car in park.

               JAVIER
      When your Uncle Ralph calls, I don’t 
      ask questions.

                              67.

The door opens, revealing LOU and TONY, two mob guys, 30’s. 
Javier starts to get out -- 

               LOU
      Just the kid.

INT. RIKERS ISLAND - DAY

Lou stands behind Chris, seated by the safety glass. The gate 
opens and Chris’s UNCLE RALPH, 40’s, enters. Ralph’s features 
are soft and open... like that uncle you always loved. He sits 
down on the other side of the glass, speaks into the handset.

               UNCLE RALPH
      Chrissy, how are you?

               CHRIS
      Good, Uncle Ralph. Great.

               UNCLE RALPH
      Listen, Chrissy -- things have been 
      tough all around since your Dad, you 
      know. I’ve been trying to get the 
      family back on track from in here --

               CHRIS
      Uncle Ralph -- they record these.

               UNCLE RALPH
      It’s fine, Warden’s a pal. Now listen 
      to me -- it’s okay to have a little 
      fun but you can’t go hiring a gang of 
      heavy hitters. We need to lay low. Re-
      build. Javier should’ve told you --

               CHRIS
      It doesn’t matter, Uncle Ralph -- I’m 
      gonna make Kick-Ass pay for what he 
      did to us.

               UNCLE RALPH
      Chrissy, you need to forget that punk. 
      It’s more important that you stay out 
      of this. You’re not like me, or your 
      Dad... you’re... special.

Cowed, Chris is about to acquiesce, until --

               CHRIS
      You can’t tell me what to do anymore, 
      Uncle Ralph. I know who I am now... 

               UNCLE RALPH
      Oh, yeah? And who’s that?

                              68.

               CHRIS
      The Motherfucker. 

Uncle Ralph just laughs... so does Lou, standing behind Chris.

               UNCLE RALPH
      So you think you’re a big bad guy, 
      huh? You think ‘cause you wear capes 
      and look like you’re in the movie, 
      what’s it called, Midnight --

               LOU
      Twilight.

               UNCLE RALPH
      How the fuck do you know that?

               LOU
      What? It’s a good movie.

               UNCLE RALPH
      I’m surrounded by teenage girls.
          (back to Chris)
      You think ‘cause you look like those 
      whiny little bitches, that makes you 
      evil? Let me show you what real evil 
      looks like. 

Uncle Ralph gives Lou a nod. He takes out his phone, dials a 
number -- hands it to Chris. 


INT. TOWN CAR - INTERCUT WITH ABOVE


Javier is waiting with Tony (the mob guy), when his cell RINGS.

               JAVIER
      Hello?

               CHRIS
	(INTO PHONE)
      Hey... Javier.

               JAVIER
	(INTO PHONE)
      Hey, Chris? Why you calling me on 
      Lou’s phone? Everything okay?

Before Chris responds, Tony JAMS a knife in Javier’s throat. 
Javier tries to fight back -- to SCREAM -- but he can’t, his 
mouth and lungs filling with blood.

Ralph gives Chris a look: dares him to hang up. Chris holds his 
stare as he listens to the last person he cared about drown in 
his own blood.

When Javier finally dies, something inside Chris dies, too.

                              69.

               CHRIS
      Thank you for that. I needed it... for 
      what comes next. 

               UNCLE RALPH
      Don’t be stupid, Chris. Get out of 
      town for awhile. Go to college or 
      something.

               CHRIS
      Why? You just taught me everything I 
      needed to know.


INT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Brooke and the mean girls are having lunch with their new 
charity case, a mousey little girl named LOIS, 14.

               BROOKE
      If you really want to be popular, 
      consider two little words: Sex. Tape.

Some BOYS whistle off camera. The mean girls turn to see: 

Mindy enter the cafeteria. She’s dressed in D&G, looking just 
like the mean girls. Scratch that -- better than the mean girls.

               MINDY
      Lois, you don’t need these axe wounds. 
      If I can look like them, so can you.

Mindy hands Lois a stack of cash --

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a gift -- from some drug dealer 
      my daddy decapitated.

Lois takes the money and runs. Mindy sits... 

               BROOKE
      Just ‘cause you dress like us, doesn’t  
      mean you can be like us.

               MINDY
      Doesn’t matter what costume I wear, 
      Brooke -- yours or mine -- I’m a 
      superhero -- that’s who I am.

               BROOKE
      Okay, Captain Muffin-Muncher. Have fun 
      playing make-believe. 

The girls LAUGH. Everyone’s watching, Mindy’s got center stage. 

                              70.

               MINDY
      All this? This is make-believe. The 
      reality is that you’re an evil cunt, 
      Brooke, who’s just as bad as the worst 
      criminal scum. 

               BROOKE
      You want to get real, Mindy? In the 
      real world, I win. I go to college, 
      marry a hot guy, and make lots of 
      babies for my nanny to take care of. 
      My life is gonna rock and your’s is 
      gonna suck. And no matter how slutty 
      you dress, no boy is ever gonna want 
      to kiss that hole you call a mouth. So 
      why don’t you spare us all the whining 
      and slit your wrists now, ‘cause 
      there’s nothing you can do to harsh my 
      buzz.

     		 HARLOW
	Told her.

		DOLCE
	Damn.


Mindy smiles. Places a small electronic device on the table.

               BROOKE
	(CONT’D)
      What is that? Your ghetto cell phone? 
      Gonna call for help with a come-back?

               MINDY
      Actually, my daddy bought this on eBay 
      from a disgruntled DARPA employee. It 
      was designed for crowd control but was 
      deemed too severe. 

Brooke and the girls GIGGLE nervously...

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      It admits a frequency that causes 
      spontaneous nausea and diarrhea. He 
      called it “the sick stick.” 

The girls look at each other... they feel fine.

               BROOKE
      Well either your Daddy got ripped off 
      or you’re back in make-believe land... 
      ‘cause we feel fabulous.

               MINDY
      Not for long. 

Mindy flicks the device with her wrist, extends the baton, and 
touches Harlow with it -- who projectile vomits all over Brooke. 

                              71.

               BROOKE
      OH MY GOD --


Mindy taps Dolce with the sick stick. The FORCE of her vomit 
THROWS her out of her own chair. Everyone GASPS as these 
perfectly put-together Princesses go Bridesmaids, SPRAYING 
bodily fluids out of both ends.

               BROOKE
	(CONT’D)
      GET AWAY FROM ME --

Brooke tries to RUN, SLIPS and FALLS. Mindy walks over to her... 

               BROOKE
	(CONT’D)
      Please... you win...

               MINDY
      I don’t want to win, Brooke. I just 
      want to make the world a better place.

With a flick of the wrist, Mindy turns Brooke into an human 
geyser. Satisfied, Mindy exits, walking right past --

               LOIS
      Two little words: Awe. Some.

INT. DAVE’S HOUSE - DAY

Dave gets home, finds Dad’s jacket and briefcase.

               DAVE
      Dad? You still here?

He heads downs the hall... notices the door to his room is open.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      Dad is that you?

Dave enters to find his Dad holding the Kick-Ass costume.

              MR. LIZEWSKI
     Is this what you’ve been up to while 
     I’m out, working nights, saving for 
     your college? You’ve been dressing-up 
     and fighting people? There’s blood on 
     these stick things!

              DAVE
     What are you doing in my room?

              MR. LIZEWSKI
     I was looking for drugs. I was worried 
     about you -- 

                              72.

               DAVE
      Well, now you can stop.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Now I’m more worried. Jesus, Dave -- 
      drugs would have been better. This 
      is... deranged. 

               DAVE
      Some people do worse --

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      The people you hang out with?

               DAVE
      The people I hang out with are 
      superheroes.

If Mr. Lizewski wasn’t so mad, he’d laugh.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      There is no such thing, Dave. This is 
      the real world with real consequences. 
      When are you going to grow-up?

               DAVE
      If it means turning into you -- never. 
      I’m proud of what I do out there -- 
      this is who I am. I don’t wear the 
      mask because I’m ashamed. You’re the 
      one who should be ashamed.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      What is that supposed to mean?

               DAVE
      If you’re not at work, you’re here -- 
      doing crunches. Why? So you can get a 
      few more years of doing nothing? Your 
      life is meaningless, Dad -- when 
      you’re gone, no one will even notice.

Dave grabs his stuff, throws it in a bag as he heads out.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Where the hell are you going?

               DAVE
      I’m leaving -- it’s what happens when 
      you grow-up.

                              73.

INT. JUSTICE FOREVER HQ - NIGHT

BLACKNESS. Then -- the lights come on, revealing Justice 
Forever’s homemade headquarters in all its fan-boy glory.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      C’mon, Sophia.

MOMENTS LATER

The Colonel rolls out a logo for the table from a Kinko’s bag.

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      See girl, the old table looked good, 
      but Night-Bitch thought if she had the 
      logo the boys designed printed 
      professionally, it’d look even better. 
      Have to remember to give her her copy 
      of the invoice...

The dog starts to BARK --

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      What is it girl?

EXT. ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER

The Colonel exits the side door with his dog...

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      I don’t see anyone out here...

The dog BARKS at the open front door of the restaurant... 

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
	(CONT’D)
      Bobby must’ve forgot to lock up.

The Colonel heads back inside through the front door of the 
restaurant, locks it with a CLICK.

INT. JUSTICE FOREVER HQ - MOMENTS LATER

The Colonel walks down the steps from the restaurant. Sophia is 
still BARKING like crazy in the alley...

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      I’ll be right there, Sophia...

               DEEP VOICE
	(O.S.)
      I do not think so.

The Colonel spins around to find Mother Russia, in full costume. 
She’s holding a trench knife... 

                              74.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      I think tonight you die.

The Colonel pulls out his .45 -- points it at her --

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      You better get out of here....

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      You will not shoot me.

Mother Russia does a roundhouse KICK -- CRACKS -- the Colonel in 
the face. He spits up some teeth, tries to fight back -- but 
it’s no use. This woman is a lethal force of nature.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
	(CONT’D)
      You are superhero. You help people. 
      You do not hurt them.

In a FLASH -- Mother Russia BURIES her knife in his gut. From 
the shadows emerges, Chris... in full Motherfucker gear.

               CHRIS
      That’s supervillain territory... or as 
      I like to call our little gang, the 
      Toxic Mega-Cunts.  

Mother Russia lets the Colonel fall off her blade. He slumps to 
his knees, trying to keep his entrails from falling out.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      I remember you, “Colonel.” You used to 
      be Sal Bertolini, didn’t you? I think 
      you did some jobs for my dad back 
      before you got born-again. 

Sophia is still BARKING like crazy outside. The Colonel tries to 
crawl to his phone... leaves a SMEAR of blood on the floor... 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Is this how you thought you’d die, 
      Sal? Dressed like an idiot?

               COLONEL STARS AND STRIPES
      Who... who are you?

               CHRIS
      I’m the Motherfucker. And I’m here to 
      end Kick-Ass. Not just kill him -- I’m 
      gonna shit on everything he loves.

The Colonel gets his phone... dials with his bloody hands... 
9... 1... 1...

                              75.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      You want me to gut him?

               CHRIS
      Nah, let’s trash this place first... 

They demolish the Justice Forever headquarters. The chairs with 
the hand-painted names... the new logo on the table... all that 
the Colonel and Kick-Ass built, destroyed in a few moments. 

Chris spots the Kinko’s bag the logo was in... and the invoice. 

              CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
     “Miranda Swedlow?” Who’s that Sal? She 
     one of the whores on your team?

Chris does a quick Google search on his phone... a facebook 
image of Miranda Swedlow comes up. She’s a red-head, just like 
the picture on the wall... 

              CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
          (reading)
     Night-Bitch... snuggled up to Kick-
     Ass. Our boy’s got a new hot pocket.

Mother Russia grabs the Colonel... the bloody phone slips 
through his fingers. Sophia is still barking outside.

              MOTHER RUSSIA
     Want me to kill his dog?

              CHRIS
     The dog? I’m not that evil...

As Chris turns to exit, he nonchalantly orders Mother Russia to:

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Cut the old man’s head off and stick 
      it up his own ass. You guys hungry? 
      I’m starving.


EXT. HOT DOG CART - NIGHT

A COP is getting two hotdogs when his PARTNER in the car flips 
on the flashers -- 

               PARTNER
      Forget it -- we got a 911 call three 
      blocks from here --


INT. JUSTICE FOREVER HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT


The COPS descend into the darkness... flashlights in hand and 
weapons ready. Outside, Sophia is still BARKING.

                              76.

Their lights move across the debris of what was once the Justice 
Forever headquarters... but right now it looks like a hurricane 
came through. One of their flashlights finds... 

The body of the Colonel. The cops GAG.

               PARTNER
      Is that his head... in his ass?

Off the cop’s look of disgust, CUT TO:


TV NEWS COVERAGE

Outside the Justice Forever headquarters.

               NEWS ANCHOR
	(O.S.)
      ...according to Twitter, a man known 
      as the -- um -- Mother F-er -- is 
      taking credit for the attack.

POP OUT TO REVEAL: Mindy watching. 

               MARCUS
	(O.S.)
      I told you no TV. You’re grounded. 

INT. MARCUS’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Mindy turns to her guardian... she can’t take it anymore.


               MINDY
      Marcus -- I know I made a promise but 
      I can’t keep being someone I’m not. 
      When I see evil, I have to stop it -- 

               MARCUS
      What you did to those girls at school 
      was terrible, Mindy. This obsession 
      with revenge is simply not healthy. We 
      can work through these feelings... 
      together...

Marcus takes a deep breath and draws a line in the sand.

               MARCUS
	(CONT’D)
      But if you don’t let me and the police 
      do our jobs, there’s nothing I can do. 
      You’ll never have a normal life... 
      you’ll end up just like your dad.

               MINDY
      They cut a guy’s head off. Who else is 
      going to stop them? Kick-Ass? Those 
      other pussies he hangs out with?

                              77.

Mindy JAMS a dollar in the second over-flowing jar.

               MARCUS
      The police are handling it -- it’s our 
      job -- not your’s. Now go to your room 
      and do your homework.

Mindy hesitates... Marcus doesn’t.

               MARCUS
	(CONT’D)
      Now.


INT. MINDY’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Mindy’s beyond conflicted. She picks up a picture of Big Daddy.

               MINDY
      Oh, Daddy... why did you teach me to 
      be so damn obedient?

She look up... catching her reflection in the mirror. But 
instead of seeing herself... she sees Hit-Girl.


INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY


Doc Gravity, Remembering Tommy, and the rest of the team are 
drowning their sorrows in coffee as Dave and Marty approach.

               TOMMY’S MOM
      Hey, guys. We’re signing a sympathy 
      card for the Colonel’s sister. You 
      want to go five bucks each so we can 
      send flowers from the team?

Dave and Marty pull out some cash...

               MARTY
      You see Motherfucker’s twitter page? 

               DAVE
      Who is this guy? What’s his problem 
      with us?

               MARTY
      Not sure, but he’s got some elephant 
      sized-balls... keeps bragging about 
      what they did to the Colonel.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      What do we do? Organize a fight or 
      something? A lot of guys online said 
      they’re in if we need them.

                              78.

               TOMMY’S MOM
      Are you kidding me? This isn’t West 
      Side Story. We didn’t join up to be in 
      a gang, we did it so we could help 
      people.

               TOMMY’S DAD
      Shannon’s right. We need to leave this 
      to the cops and just keep doing what 
      we always do.

Everyone hangs their heads... they want payback, but they know 
Tommy’s Dad is right. Marty looks up from his phone...

               MARTY
      Well, we better start walking in 
      pairs, ‘cause Motherfucker’s tweeting 
      that the Colonel was just the 
      beginning...

That’s when Dave realizes --

               DAVE
      Anybody seen Night-Bitch?


EXT. SUBURBIA - EVENING


Chris and his gang of costumed mercenaries walk down the street. 
It’s a surreal sight, back lit by the setting sun...

               PF CHANG 
      This where she lives?

               CHRIS
      According to that Kinko’s invoice...

               THE TUMOR
      You sure she’s on their team?

               CHRIS
      That stupid gash posted on her super 
      hero page that she was dating      
      Kick-Ass... so yeah, I’m damn sure.


INT. NIGHT-BITCH’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER


An unmasked Night Bitch TURNS as the door is KICKED in by      
PF Chang, The Tumor, and -- 

               CHRIS
      Hello, Night Bitch!

Chris pulls out his .45 -- Night-Bitch RUNS for the back -- PF 
Chang cuts her off -- no choice but to head --

                              79.


UPSTAIRS 


Night-Bitch RUNS to her room -- tries to barricade herself in -- 
suddenly -- GUNSHOTS -- Chris RIDDLES the door with bullets. 
Night-Bitch SCREAMS -- tries to finds some cover. 

Chris casually opens the door, smoking .45s in hand...

               CHRIS
      Don’t worry, I’m not gonna kill you. I 
      want you to give a message to your 
      boyfriend... 

Night-Bitch LUNGES at Chris -- CRACKS him in the face with a 
RIGHT hook -- PF Chang and The Tumor THROW her down.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      You’re done banging superheroes, baby, 
      time to see what evil dick feels 
      like...

Chris unzips his pants -- then goes white. 

              CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
     Um, uh, hold on... SHIT.

He turns away -- pumps his junk with his back to us.

              THE TUMOR
     What’s wrong?

              CHRIS
     I’m, uh, not in the mood

Night-Bitch LAUGHS defiantly...

              NIGHT-BITCH
     I guess evil dick feels limp.

Chris turns to PF Chang and the Tumor --

              CHRIS
     Hurt her. Bad.


EXT. NIGHT-BITCH’S HOUSE - SAME


Mother Russia, Black Death, and General Tzo stand guard. In the 
distance, FLASHING police lights approach...

               BLACK DEATH
      Cops are coming...

                              80.

               GENERAL TZO
      Leave it to Mother Russia. She makes 
      ten times what we do...

Mother Russia pulls out an MK-19 automatic grenade launcher -- 

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      Fifty thousand a week.

               BLACK DEATH
      For real?


She cocks the weapon.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      Plus expenses. 

FWOOSH -- she fires the MK-19 at the first cop car -- the 
grenade explodes -- the car FLIPS, engulfed in flames.


INSIDE THE SECOND POLICE CRUISER


Mother Russia strides through the smoke towards COPS 3 and 4.

               COP 4
      Reverse it -- NOW.

Too late -- she pulls an UZI -- riddles them with bullets.


INSIDE THE THIRD POLICE CRUISER


The COPS jump out -- weapons ready. They can’t see anything 
through the smoke -- it’s like a war zone.

               COP 5
      Frankie was in that car -- 

               COP 6
      Screw that -- SWAT is on the way.

               COP 5
      He’s my kid’s Godfather -- cover me.

Cop 5 makes his move -- Cop 6 begrudgingly covers him. They push 
through the smoke... nothing but silence and the CRACKLE of 
flames. In the distance they see two bodies...

               COP 5 
	(CONT’D)
      They’re dead -- shit.

Behind them the door of the bullet-riddled cop car slowly 
opens... Mother Russia emerges in silence behind them...  

                              81.

               COP 5
	(CONT’D)
          (clueless)
      Where the hell did she go?


DOWN THE STREET


Another patrol car waits -- two more COPS hold their positions 
behind their open doors. They hear GUNSHOTS. Then nothing.

Out of the smoke... a cop car rolls towards them.

               COP 7
      Hell yeah -- they made it.

That’s when they see that no one is behind the wheel. 

The cops RUN for cover as the unmanned cop car SLAMS into 
their’s. Mother Russia emerges from the smoke, easily picking 
off the exposed police officers. 


UP THE STREET

The fifth and final police cruiser is stationed -- two terrified 
Unis cower behind the trunk --

               COP 9
	(INTO RADIO)
      We need back-up -- eight men down --

CRUNCH -- they both look up to see Mother Russia stride onto the 
roof of their car.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      Think you mean, “ten.”

They SPIN to fire -- too late -- she puts them both down.

EXT. NIGHT-BITCH’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Chris exits with his men.

               CHRIS
      Let’s bounce.

As they walk through the carnage...

               THE TUMOR
      Where’d you say you got this woman?

               CHRIS
      A friend of mine found her... 

               THE TUMOR
      Imagine what she’s gonna do to      
      Hit Girl.

                              82.

               CHRIS
      And Kick-Ass. Don’t forget he started 
      this... and I’m gonna end it.


INT. NYPD CENTRAL COMMAND - NIGHT


Marcus and the brass watch the news coverage of the massacre.

               DETECTIVE
      They just disappeared?

               MARCUS
      All they have to do is take off their 
      masks. Who’s gonna recognize them once 
      they’re back in their street clothes?

The CHIEF OF POLICE enters -- hands out a list of names...

               CHIEF OF POLICE
      Feds traced the IP addresses and cell 
      phones for all those other costumed 
      freaks. We’ve got every law 
      enforcement agency in the state 
      working to hit ‘em at once.

               MARCUS
      Why’s Kick-Ass on this list? His crew 
      does community service. 

               CHIEF OF POLICE
      I don’t give a shit. Anyone wearing a 
      mask is getting detained. We’re 
      putting an end to this -- tonight.

Off Marcus’s worried look, CUT TO:

CRACKDOWN MONTAGE

- Superheroes having coffee watch as police officers motion for 
them to step outside.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      A lot of people said the cops were too 
      heavy-handed that night, but you’ve 
      got to put it into context...

- Masked heroes are lined up against the wall as if they were 
members of the Bloods and the Crips. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The TV had been flashing images of 
      police officers in body bags every two 
      minutes. They wanted payback.

                              83.

- Citizens wearing costumes are herded into paddy wagons.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      They didn’t mind our real-life 
      superhero stuff as long as we were 
      picking up litter or helping old 
      ladies cross the street. 

- One nerdy TEENAGER in a cape tries to make a run for it... the 
cops taze him into submission.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      But suddenly it was serious. Suddenly 
      we represented everything that was 
      wrong with society.

- The image of the teenager in the cape freezes -- pull back to 
reveal it’s on the newspaper Dave’s Dad is reading. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Dad had warned me that the real world 
      had real consequences.


EXT. DAVE’S HOUSE - NIGHT


Two COP CARS arrive. Mr. Lizewski watches through the window...

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      As they pulled up with the warrant for 
      my arrest, he must have been feeling 
      pretty damn vindicated. 


INT. DAVE’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS


Mr. Lizewski looks at the wet-suit, balled-up in the corner 
where he threw it.

               MR. LIZEWSKI 
      Shit, Dave... what have you done?

               VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Police -- Open the door.

INT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT

Dave enters to find Night-Bitch in bed... she’s beat up pretty 
badly but she’ll survive. Dave suddenly realizes she’s never 
seen him without his mask.

               DAVE
      It’s me... uh... Kick-Ass.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      Wow... you’re actually pretty cute.

Dave can’t help but smile...

                              84.

               DAVE
      I’m so sorry about what happened --

               NIGHT-BITCH
      Don’t be, it’s my own fault... 

               DAVE
      We’re gonna find these assholes -- 
      make this right.

               NIGHT-BITCH
      What’s the point? We’re really 
      superheroes about as much as we’re 
      really dating... and we don’t even 
      know each other’s names. It’s time to 
      get back to the real world...

               DAVE
      I thought we were trying to make it a 
      better place?

               NIGHT-BITCH
      Then why’s it worse?

EXT. DAVE’S NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

Dave is walking home in silence.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Maybe Night-Bitch was right? Which 
      means Dad was, too. I mean, things had 
      gotten out of hand... maybe it was 
      time for me to stop crashing at 
      Marty’s and start apologizing... 

Dave looks up and sees... police lights? By his house? He starts 
to RUN -- SPRINTS down his street -- just in time to see:

               DAVE
      Dad?!?


Mr. Lizewski is lead outside in handcuffs.

One of the arresting officers carries the green wet-suit in a 
clear evidence bag. A crowd of ONLOOKERS has gathered. Dave 
tries to push through -- but a UNIFORMED OFFICER stops him.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      That’s my dad.

               ONLOOKER
      Your dad is Kick-Ass?

                              85.

               DAVE
      What?

               ONLOOKER
      Yeah -- he just gave himself up.

Mr. Lizewski looks at Dave as the cop car door is slammed in his 
face. Dave tries to PUSH past the Uni again -- 

               DAVE
      You don’t understand -- he’s doing 
      this to protect me -- DAD!!!

As he SCREAMS echo into the night, DISSOLVE TO:


EXT. COUNTY JAIL - DAY

Dave gets out of a cab, walks in.

               DAVE
	(PRE-LAP)
      What the hell were you thinking?


INT. COUNTY JAIL - MOMENTS LATER

Dave and his Dad talk in the visiting area.


               MR. LIZEWSKI
      I could ask you the same thing...

               DAVE
      I can’t believe you lied to them --

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      I wasn’t going to do nothing while you 
      went to jail.

               DAVE
      I chose this -- you should let me deal 
      with consequences. I thought you 
      wanted me to grow up?

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      When you have a child of your own one 
      day, you’ll understand...

               DAVE
      I can’t let you do this, Dad... I’m 
      gonna tell them the truth.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      It’ll just make things worse. Look, I 
      spoke to my attorney who said they’ll 
      have to let me out by tomorrow. No 
      actual crime was committed. 

                              86.

               DAVE
      There are people who want to kill  
      Kick-Ass --

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      And the cops are out there looking for 
      them. The safest place for Kick-Ass is 
      here -- locked away.

Dave doesn’t look like he’s so sure...

               MR. LIZEWSKI
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t know why you got mixed up in 
      all this, but I need you to promise me 
      that you’re never going to dress up in 
      that outfit again. 

That’s the last thing Dave wants to do... but his father has 
sacrificed so much for him. What else can he say?

               DAVE
      I promise.


               MR. LIZEWSKI
      As long as you’re safe, I’m happy. I 
      know I’ve made some mistakes... didn’t 
      pay enough attention to you, your 
      schoolwork --

               DAVE
      No, Dad -- you kept our family 
      together after Mom died... you’re the 
      real superhero.

Mr. Lizewski smiles at his son. 

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Thanks, Dave. That means a lot to me.

A BUZZER sounds, visiting hours are over. Dave’s not ready to 
say goodbye...

               DAVE
      I’m so sorry, Dad... so sorry for 
      getting you locked up in this place...

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Hey, c’mon... I can handle myself...

Mr. Lizewski catches a look from a particular nasty CONVICT 
heading back to gen-pop.

               MR. LIZEWSKI
	(CONT’D)
      ...everything’s going to be fine.

                              87.

               CHRIS
	(PRE-LAP)
      This evil lair owns.


INT. EVIL LAIR - DAY


Chris and his hired mercenaries are turning a massive warehouse 
with sixty foot ceilings and a skylight into his new secret 
hideout -- complete with a shark tank.

               BLACK DEATH
      Do people still say that, “own?”

               CHRIS
      Yeah -- of course.

               PF CHANG
      Your shark -- something’s wrong.

He’s right, the shark isn’t really moving.

               THE TUMOR
      Think you used the wrong kind of 
      water.

EYAL, an Israeli contractor, is mounting a skull above a throne 
with the help of some new VILLAIN-WANNABES.  

               CHRIS
      What the hell, Eyal? If I wanted a 
      Damien Hirst, I would have bought one.

               EYAL
      It’s fine. They’re supposed to lie at 
      the bottom of the tank. It’s just 
      settling into a new environment. 

               CHRIS
      Don’t screw me over -- you said we’d 
      be ready days ago and we haven’t even 
      got a mens’ room yet.

Chris’s phone RINGS -- checks caller ID. It’s unlisted.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Yel-low?



INT. RYKER’S ISLAND - INTERCUT WITH ABOVE


Uncle Ralph hisses into a contraband cell phone --

               UNCLE RALPH
      What the hell are you doing, Chris?

                              88.

               CHRIS
      I’m doing what you should have done, 
      Uncle Ralph. I’m making Kick-Ass pay 
      for what he did to our family.

               UNCLE RALPH
      No, you’re acting like a fucking 
      retard. You’re giving the cops 
      permission to do whatever they want.

               CHRIS
      And they’re arresting superheroes -- 
      you should be happy!

Annoyed -- Chris hangs up. Uncle Ralph hands the contraband cell 
phone back to one of his GOONS... and smiles?

               UNCLE RALPH
      Playing that kid like a violin...

Leaving us to wonder... what’s Uncle Ralph’s plan?


INT. EVIL LAIR - RESUME


Chris pitches a fit while Mother Russia chills on the couch, 
enjoying a Frappuccino.

               CHRIS
      What the F?!?

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      Relax. Everything is going as planned.

               CHRIS
      Except it’s not. That sad sack who 
      gave himself up is NOT Kick-Ass. I’ve 
      seen Kick-Ass, he’s like my age. That 
      guy is old enough to be his father.

               VOICE
	(O.C.)
      No shit, right?

Chris turns to see one of the villain wannabes hovering... we 
recognize him as Todd.

               CHRIS
      I’m sorry, why are you here?

               TODD
      I, uh, joined your evil army...? 

               CHRIS
      Right, see, this is the VIP area, for 
      the core group...

Chris signals for someone to get Todd away from the couches...

                              89.

               TODD
      I just thought it was funny, that you 
      said that, ‘cause he is Kick-Ass’s 
      dad.

               CHRIS
      Who?

               TODD
      Mr. Lizewski... he’s Kick-Ass’s dad.

               CHRIS
      Shut. Up.

               TODD
      Uh, yeah... you’re not gonna tell 
      anyone are you?

Chris smiles ear-to-ear... puts his arm around Todd.

               CHRIS
      You, my friend, just earned life-time 
      access to the VIP area of my lair.

An uncomfortable Todd sits down next to Mother Russia. She licks 
her lips. He looks terrified. Chris whispers to PF Chang -- 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Let the kid have one Frappuccino, then 
      put him back to work.

Chris turns to the Tumor...

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      You got friends in County, right? I 
      wanna show my Uncle Ralph who’s really 
      running things...

INT. COUNTY JAIL - DAY


Dave’s Dad is watching TV in the common area... by himself.  
Totally unaware as two CONVICTS close in. He hears the 
footsteps... turns just in time to see the GUARDS disappear. 

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Can I help you?

               CONVICT
      The Motherfucker wants us to take a 
      picture with you...


INT. MARTY’S HOUSE - DAY

Dave is hanging with Marty.

                              90.


               DAVE
      Thanks again for everything, Marty -- 
      I’m not sure what I would have done 
      without you and your family.

               MARTY
      Helps that my Dad’s a badass lawyer... 
      don’t think my sweet-sweet heinie 
      would last long in prison.

Suddenly Dave’s phone BEEPS. He checks the text...

               DAVE
      That’s weird...

               MARTY
      What’s up?

               DAVE
      Chris D’Amico just sent me a text...

               MARTY
      Red Mist? Whatever happened to him?

Dave opens the text and collapses -- can’t speak -- can’t 
breathe -- the pain, overwhelming -- worse than any physical 
injury. He drops the phone... and SOBS. 

               MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      Dave... I’m sure it’s not that bad...

               DAVE
      It’s worse...

Off his face, SLAM TO a still image of:

Mr. Lizewksi’s corpse -- his hands bound, his neck in a noose.


EXT. CEMETARY - DAY


Over dream-like images of a Spring funeral... 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The next few days passed in a fog... 
      didn’t matter that I told the police 
      Chris was the Motherfucker... they 
      couldn’t find him. 

Dave is grave-side with Marty. The funeral is not well-attended.

                              91.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The cops did show up at Dad’s funeral. 
      Not out of respect, but because they 
      were scared something would happen. 
      Everyone still thought he was      
      Kick-Ass... his final gift to me. 

A handful of COPS are there...

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      When I closed my eyes, I made things 
      worse by trying to imagine his final 
      moments.

FLICKER CUT TO: Mr. Lizewski beaten -- he fights back, but it’s 
futile. A noose is tied -- the rope thrown over the rafter -- 
FLASH of a camera. Wicked laughter carries us BACK TO:

Dave... staring at the casket as it’s lowered into the ground. 
He doesn’t cry... there are no tears left.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      My dad was a decent man. All he ever 
      did was try to give me a good life... 
      and I told him no one would notice 
      when he was gone.

FLICKER CUT TO: Mr. Lizewski, helping a young Dave put up 
posters of Superheroes. Mr. Lizewski looks right into the lens -- 

               MR. LIZEWSKI
      Love you, kiddo.

BACK TO: Dave, looking down at the casket.

               DAVE
      Love you too, Dad.

That’s when Dave looks up and sees: 

Justice Forever... no masks or costumes, just mourning attire.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      You guys came?

               TOMMY’S MOM
      To pay our respects. Marty told us the 
      truth. Your Dad might not have been 
      Kick-ass... but he was still a hero.

               DAVE
      Thanks... that means a lot. Coming 
      from you guys.

                              92.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      We’d love to help you find this Chris 
      D’Amico d-bag, but we just got out on 
      parole --

               DAVE
      No, it’s fine. I’m not looking for 
      revenge. I’m actually going to head 
      upstate, stay with my aunt for a bit. 
      Last thing I promised my dad was that 
      I would give this up... and that’s 
      exactly what I’m going to do.

               INSECT-MAN
      Seriously? You started this...

               DAVE
      And now I’m ending it.

As Dave turns his back on his former teammates he sees: 

               MINDY
      Dave, I’m so sorry.

               DAVE
      I appreciate it, Mindy... thanks.

Marcus hangs back... gives the kids their privacy.

               MINDY
      Do you hate me? For not helping... 

She begins to cry... it’s heart-breaking. 

               DAVE
      Not even a little. You were right. You 
      gave it up... if I had, too... my dad 
      would still be alive. The only person 
      I blame is myself.

POP OUT WIDE TO REVEAL:

MOURNERS at another funeral one ridge over. They’re watching 
Dave. Which is kind of odd... 

As Mindy looks up from hugging Dave, the PRIEST at the other 
funeral turns around -- it’s PF CHANG. He pulls out a GAS MASK -- 

               MINDY
      What the --


The neighboring mourners grab gas masks and open their coffin -- 
which is filled with assault rifles.

                              93.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      GET DOWN --


Too late -- PF Chang hits a detonator and grave stones start 
EXPLODING. They were booby-trapped. Mindy pushes Dave down -- 
but gets thrown by the BLAST -- SLAMS into a tree -- CRUNCH.

               MARCUS
      Mindy --

Hard to say if she’s still alive. Dave looks up as the mask 
wearing mourners and PF Chang launch gas grenades.

Marty freaks -- the cops scramble -- but the tear gas is making 
it impossible to breathe. 

Dave tries to see if Mindy is okay... but is suddenly SNATCHED 
by the attackers.

               DAVE
      Hey -- ?!?


Two cops try to save Dave -- but the attackers take them out as 
they BLAST their way back to the street.

A FLORIST VAN skids up -- the attackers THROW Dave in the back -- 
lay down suppressing fire and get in. 

The van SPEEDS towards the gates -- BUSTS through and escapes.


INT. FLORIST VAN - CONTINUOUS


Dave looks up to see six men in suits and gas masks looking down 
at him. He is well and truly fucked.

               PF CHANG
      Put this on -- 

He THROWS the green wet-suit at Dave. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      This suit... it used to represent 
      freedom and fun, now it only 
      represents death. 

Dave throws the wet-suit back at them.

               DAVE
      I’m not gonna do it -- there’s nothing 
      left you can do to hurt me. 

PF Chang pulls out a trench knife with brass knuckles --

                              94.

               PF CHANG
      Wanna bet?


Suddenly PF Chang’s head EXPLODES as a bullet exits his chin.


EXT. CEMETARY - SAME


The cops are trying to help the wounded. Marcus searches for...

               MARCUS
      Mindy?


No sign of her. Behind Marcus a CONFUSED COP asks --

               COP
      You seen my gun? 

Off Marcus concerned look, CUT TO:

EXT. FLORIST VAN - SAME


Mindy’s on top, a smoking Glock in her hand. She’s covered in 
dirt and blood -- and really f’n pissed. HIT GIRL’S BACK.

              MINDY
     Game on, cock-suckers.

INSIDE THE VAN


The Tumor’s at the wheel -- Bullets RAIN down from above -- 

               TUMOR
      She’s on the roof!

He swerves -- HARD -- 

ON THE ROOF

Mindy loses her grip -- ROLLS off the top  -- but at the last 
second -- GRABS the side-view mirror. The van SWERVES again -- 
but Mindy holds on.

INSIDE THE VAN 

Dave bounces around with the dead bodies --

               DAVE
      GEEEZUS --


OUTSIDE THE VAN

The mercenary riding shotgun takes aim at Mindy -- 

An OLD COUPLE driving a station wagon FREAKS --

                              95.

Mindy SWINGS up on the side-view mirror and FLIPS onto the roof, 
just avoiding the gun fire which BLASTS the station wagon. 

               MINDY
      Those were innocent people --

The mercenary climbs up so he’s sitting on the window -- tries 
to GRAB Mindy on the roof. He gets her leg -- why isn’t she 
fighting back? That’s when she reaches down and opens the door.

It SWINGS open -- the mercenary loses his balance -- FALLS and 
HITS the pavement -- a PICK-UP TRUCK can’t stop in time --

INT. PICK-UP TRUCK - SAME

               TRUCK DRIVER
      Son-of-a-biscuit--

Too late -- he runs over the mercenary -- BA-DUMP-DUMP.

EXT./INT. FLORIST VAN - SAME

Mindy SWINGS back down -- points the Glock at the Tumor.


               MINDY
      Pull-over, shit-breath.

Dave emerges from the pile of bodies in the back as the van 
comes to a stop...

               DAVE
      What the hell is going on?

               MINDY
      Relax, dude -- cavalry’s here. Now get 
      into costume -- we’re gonna finish 
      this once and for all.  
          (to the Tumor)
      We know Chris D’Amico is the 
      Motherfucker -- where’s he hiding?

               TUMOR
      Eat a dick.

               MINDY
      You’re gonna eat yours if you don’t 
      start talking.

               THE TUMOR
      Go ahead, shoot me, you little bitch. 
      There’s nothing you can do to make me 
      talk.

                              96.

               DAVE
          (to Mindy)
      I can’t do this right now -- it’s my 
      Dad’s funeral.

               MINDY
      It’s gonna be your’s, too, if you 
      don’t grow a pair... it’s time to stop 
      taking shit and start giving it. Now 
      help me find some pliers, I’m gonna 
      make this guy eat his own dick.

               THE TUMOR
      Seriously?


EXT. CEMETARY - SUNSET


It’s been a few hours, but the place still looks like a war 
zone. Marcus and the cops are dealing when his cell RINGS --

               MINDY’S VOICE
	(THROUGH PHONE)
      Marcus?

               MARCUS
	(INTO PHONE)
      Mindy -- what’s going on? Have you 
      been hurt?


INT. BIG DADDY’S SAFE HOUSE - INTERCUT WITH ABOVE


Dave and Mindy gear up...

               MINDY
      We’re holed up in one of Dad’s old 
      safe-houses.

               MARCUS
      Mindy -- you promised --

               MINDY
      I know you see me as this little girl, 
      but the truth is... I’m not. I never 
      was. You’re right, Daddy took my 
      childhood away... but I’m not sure 
      that was a bad thing. He gave me a 
      gift, Marcus -- a gift I can’t escape, 
      no matter how hard I try. Daddy gave 
      me the ability to stop evil -- and 
      that’s exactly what I’m gonna do.

Marcus hangs his head... his little girl is all grown up.

              MARCUS
     Just... be careful. For me.

                              97.

               MINDY
      We know where Chris D’Amico’s hiding -- 
      he’s recruiting an army of 
      supervillains.

               MARCUS
      How’d you find that out?

               MINDY
      With pliers.


INT. BIG DADDY’S SAFE HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Mindy’s grabs her gear and guns. Dave looks nervous...

               DAVE
      I posted the address... you think 
      they’ll show? Chris has an army.

               MINDY
      These real-life super dweebs have been 
      waiting all their lives for a call 
      like this. 

Mindy tosses Dave a set of keys.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      You can drive my Daddy’s bike.

               DAVE
      Really -- why?

As Mindy finally puts her Hit Girl mask back on...

               MINDY
      ‘Cause you sure as shit ain’t gonna 
      fit on the back of mine.


EXT. BIG DADDY’S SAFE HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

The garage door ROLLS open as Dave ROARS out on a black Harley. 
It’s pretty badass. 

Mindy ROCKETS past him on a purple Ducati -- does a wheelie. 
Incredibly badass. 

INT. EVIL LAIR - NIGHT

Chris’s evil army has definitely grown. They’re all in masks and 
capes, just hanging out. Like a surprise party before the guest 
of honor arrives.

               CHRIS
      They should be back by now...

                              98.

Chris paces while Black Death, General Tzo, and Mother Russia 
check out his comatose shark.

               BLACK DEATH
      It’s definitely dead.

               GENERAL TZO
      Says on the internet you are supposed 
      to keep them in fresh water.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      It is just hungry... we must feed it. 

She smiles and glares at --

               BLACK DEATH
      Why you looking at me?

Some of Chris’s evil followers start to head out, bored. Chris 
JUMPS on the stage -- does his best Tom Cruise from Magnolia.

               CHRIS
      AWWWW yeah... have I got a show for 
      you, biotches!

Fronts like he’s a Gangsta -- nods to Black Death: hit the 
music. After a beat... One Direction starts playing --

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
          (horrified)
      Not that -- track 2. Track 2.

Chris RUNS over to the ipod -- changes the track. And Public 
Enemy’s Fight the Power KICKS in. Turns back to the crowd --

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      You feel me now?

Chris starts chanting “FIGHT THE POWER,” dancing up a storm, 
thrusting his hips -- really getting his freak on -- and the 
crowd loves it.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      That’s right party people, we’re gonna 
      kill Kick-Ass -- the very first super 
      hero -- together. Cut him into tiny 
      little pieces, feed that shit to M.C. 
      Shark, and post it all on You Tube -- 
      FOR REALZ!

Some of the villains start to CHEER. Todd’s in the crowd, but 
he’s not as excited... whispers to a FEMALE VILLAIN:

                              99.

               TODD
      He’s kidding... right?

               FEMALE VILLAIN
      Motherfucker don’t kid.

               CHRIS
      We’re gonna show the world that we’re 
      not just a bunch of misfit freaks who 
      can be bullied -- we’re gonna show 
      them that the rules don’t apply to us. 

This is his moment -- when he finally claims his destiny.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      We’re gonna make them see that we do 
      what we want, when we want to... 
      That’s what it means to be evil. We’re 
      the real 1% and we’re gonna burn this 
      muthafucker down, or my name’s not the-

               VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Chris D'Amico!

               CHRIS
      THAT. IS NOT. MY NAME!!!

The crowd parts revealing... Kick-Ass. He snuck in.

               DAVE
      You’re right. Your new name is “Little 
      Bitch.”

Next to Kick-Ass is Hit Girl... ready to rock the Casbah. 

               CHRIS
      Are you really this stupid? There are 
      like, a hundred of us, and two of you. 

Mother Russia and the rest of the villains circle up. Chris 
walks down towards Dave and Mindy... gloating. 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Do you seriously have such a hard-on 
      to die?

It looks pretty bleak... but Mindy just smiles.

               MINDY
      No...


Behind her the warehouse doors ROLL open, revealing: 

An army of superheroes.

                              100.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      That’s why we brought friends.

Insect-Man, Doctor Gravity with Eisenhower, Remembering Tommy, 
Marty as Battle-Guy.... even the heroes from the opening 
newscast: Phoenix Jones, Mr. Extreme, Zetaman, Apocalypse Meow. 

And one last face... a bandaged up Night-Bitch. 

              TOMMY’S MOM
     Sure you’re up for this?

              NIGHT-BITCH
     You need all the help you can get...

There are about as many heroes as villains... might actually be 
a fair fight. Mindy holds her two swords across her chest and 
smiles... casually extends both her middle fingers for Chris.

              MINDY
     Avengers assemble, asshole.

Chris actually looks a little nervous. Some of the less 
enthusiastic villains head for the exits.

              CHRIS
     Get back here -- now.

              DAVE
     What’s the matter, Chris? Your shit 
     just hit your shorts?

Kick-Ass steps up to Chris. This is it -- it ends now. 

              CHRIS
     Oh, it’s on... like Donkey Kong.

They begin to circle like two fighters in a ring. 

              DAVE
     You’re gonna pay for what you did to 
     my dad.

              CHRIS
      Your dad? You blew up my dad with a 
      bazooka. 

Mother Russia mad-dogs Hit Girl... Mindy holds the bigger 
woman’s gaze. Bring it, bitch.

Doctor Gravity and Battle-Guy whisper to each other...

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      When is this gonna get started?

                              101.

               MARTY
      Anticipation is killing me...

He’s got Mindy’s sick stick. 

               MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      You know how to turn this thing on?

Chris finally shoves Dave. They’re both pissed -- but they’re 
both too scared to throw the first punch. It may look like the 
beginning of a superhero brawl, but this is the real world -- 
and in the real world most fights start with a shoving match. 

               CHRIS
      Get your hands off me, homo!

               DAVE
      Make me, shit-waffle.

               MINDY
      Would one of you pussies throw a 
      punch?

They PUSH each other at the same time. It’s messy and definitely 
NOT choreographed. Finally --

               NIGHT-BITCH
      I know how to get this started...

She WHISTLES and points at Chris -- who turns just in time to 
see Eisenhower RUN up and CLAMP down on his balls.

               CHRIS
      SWEET-JESUS?!?!?!

WHAM -- Dave DRIVES his FIST into Chris’s face --

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
          (to the heroes)
      What are we standing around for? 

The heroes ROAR like Spartans CHARGING into battle. The villains 
HOWL as they SURGE forward -- in a word: EPIC.

It’s a brutal brawl but the members of Justice Forever are using 
the boxing moves the Colonel taught them and holding their own.

Mindy casually walks through the fray but no one touches her. 
Mother Russia does the same. Chaos swirls around them, but these 
two titans are perfectly calm.

              MOTHER RUSSIA
     Are you ready to die, little girl?

                              102.

               MINDY
      I might be if I have to keep looking 
      at that shit-stain you call a face.

Hit Girl LASHES out with her Katana blades -- Mother Russia 
easily side-steps them and back-hands Mindy so HARD she SKIDS 
across the concrete floor.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      I think I keep you as a broken little 
      toy. I have needs. Needs a little girl 
      can take care of...


MARTY 

Holds his own with that GOTH KID from high-school. 

               MARTY
      How you like that, Marilyn Manson?

               GOTH KID 
      Nice insult, 1994.

The Goth Kid PUNCHES Marty -- he drops the Sick Stick. Goth Kid 
steps over it as he looms towards Marty...

Looks like Marty’s in trouble until -- the Goth Kid vomits and 
shits himself. He drops to he knees, revealing Todd.

               TODD
      You okay?

He’s holding the sick stick.

               MARTY
      Thanks... Ass-Kicker.

The two friends smile... all is forgiven.

DOCTOR GRAVITY 

Raises his tin-foil covered baseball bat in a defensive 
position. A villain in GOGGLES just laughs.

               GOGGLES
      What’s that?

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      It’s a lethal zero G device.

               GOGGLES
      Bullshit.


Doc G hits a button on the handle and a massive spike pops out.

                              103.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      No shit.


Goggles RUNS -- Doc G chases him --


OUTSIDE


Where a cop car cruises by... sees the battle pouring out of the 
warehouse and onto the streets. His PARTNER GRABS the radio --

               PARTNER
      Dispatch, superhero riot in progress --

INT. EVIL LAIR - SAME

It’s uncontrolled, undisciplined chaos. The only trained 
fighters in the mix are Mother Russia and Hit Girl. They trade 
blows like pros in the ultimate MMA death match. And the MTV 
Movie Award for best fight goes to: 

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      I watch your fights online. You are 
      good, but you rely on the weapons too 
      much. What happens when somebody takes 
      toys away?

Mindy SWINGS her sword at Mother Russia’s legs -- the big woman 
STOMPS down on the blade -- and BREAKS it -- for real.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
	(CONT’D)
      I am former Spetsnatz. KGB officer. 
      Trained in Jijitsu, Muay Tai, Savate, 
      Krav Maga. Who was it they said 
      trained you? 

Mother Russia delivers punishing blow after punishing blow. She 
CRUSHES Hit-Girl’s hand -- BREAKING all the bones.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
	(CONT’D)
      Your father? The comic collecting cop?

Mother Russia PICKS Mindy up and --

THROWS her into the 120 inch plasma TV in the VIP area.

The flat screen SHATTERS into thousands of shards -- falls on 
top of Mindy. She rolls over in pain... Mother Russia CRUNCHES 
through the broken glass towards Hit Girl’s crumpled body.

               MOTHER RUSSIA
	(CONT’D)
      I am paid so much money for wearing 
      silly costume. Why do you wear it? 
      Daddy made you?

                              104.

Mindy’s out of options. Knows she going to die. Reaches for the 
Pink and Pretty Kitty syringe in her belt.

               MINDY
      No... but he... gave me this... 

               MOTHER RUSSIA
      You would take your own life? 

               MINDY
      That’s not what it’s for.

Mindy PLUNGES the syringe into her own chest. 

Her pupils dilate -- the PCP kicks in -- and she goes total 
fucking monkey nuts on Mother Russia, JAMMING glass shard after 
shard into the big woman’s roided-out body -- until --

Mother Russia FALLS over dead, a bloody glass porcupine.       
An exhausted Mindy turns and sees: Marty and Todd. Awestruck.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      A cunt that big deserves a lot of 
      pricks.

EXT./INT. EVIL LAIR - SAME 

Dozens of cop cars and SWAT vans ROAR up -- arrest escaping 
villains. NEWS VANS and ONLOOKERS have started to gather. 

Inside, the heroes stand victorious as the remaining villains 
flee...

               NIGHT-BITCH
      Yeah, you’d better run!

The heroes are beaten and exhausted but they’re smiling. They 
did it. Outside they see the flashing police lights...

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      And here comes the calvary. 

               INSECT-MAN
      Fuck yeah.

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      Hey, man -- language.

               INSECT-MAN
      You’re right... if we’re gonna dress 
      like heroes, we gotta act like it.

They all take a moment for their fallen mentor... the Colonel. 

                              105.

               TOMMY’S DAD
      He’d be proud of you... of all of us.


DAVE 


Punches an exhausted Chris... he sucks wind. The fight’s over. 

               DAVE
      It’s done, Chris. The cops are here to 
      put your ass away.

               CHRIS
      No -- I can’t go to jail -- my uncle 
      will kill me.

               DAVE
      You don’t have a choice, dude.

Dave waves to the cops through the open garage doors, 
searchlights SHINING behind them. 

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      Over here, officers!

But no one is waving back. They’re pulling on RIOT gear... 
getting ready to storm the lair. 

               NIGHT-BITCH
      I don’t like the look of this...

Suddenly TEAR GAS grenades are launched inside --

               DOCTOR GRAVITY
      Wait -- this is a mistake!

Too late -- the cops RUN in with their batons --

               RIOT POLICE (OVER LOUDSPEAKER)
      ON THE GROUND NOW -- DO NOT RESIST.

Chris RUNS for the stairs to the roof --

               DAVE
      He’s getting away --

The cops don’t care -- they’re arresting anyone in a costume.

               TOMMY’S DAD
      We’re on your side!

CRACK -- he gets hit with a police baton.

                              106.


INT. STAIRWELL

Chris SPRINTS to the roof -- Dave right behind him -- 

               DAVE
      Chris -- STOP.

EXT. ROOFTOP - MOMENTS LATER

Dave BURSTS onto the roof -- but there’s no sign of Chris. 
Where’s he hiding?

Suddenly -- WHAM -- Chris hits Dave with an old paint can filled 
with rusty nails. Dave goes down -- HARD.

               CHRIS
      You’re such a pussy -- what’s the 
      point of wearing a mask if you can’t 
      do what you want?  

Dave blinks to stay conscious -- trying not to black-out.

               DAVE
      We want... to do... good...

               CHRIS
      No, people want to win the lottery. 
     They want to fuck Angelina Jolie. No 
     one wants to risk their life for some 
      moron who went for a stroll in the 
      projects.

               DAVE
      I. do.


Dave ROLLS and KICKS Chris in the balls -- he doubles over --

               CHRIS
      What was that -- cheap shot?

               DAVE
      That was for the Colonel.

Dave KNEES Chris in the chin -- 

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      That was for Night-Bitch.

Dave brings his baton down on the back of Chris’s head -- CRACK.

               DAVE
	(CONT’D)
      And that was for my Dad.

Chris spits up blood... holds up his hand.

                              107.

               CHRIS
      You win...


And with the other hand THROWS some rusty nails in Dave’s face --

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      ...the asshole award.

Dave blindly SWINGS his baton -- Chris easily ducks it --     
but TRIPS on his own cape -- falls towards the open skylight. 

Dave REACHES out and grabs Chris -- starts to go over, too -- 
but GRABS the edge of the skylight with his free hand.

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      What the hell are you doing?!?

               DAVE
      Saving your whiny ass. 

               CHRIS
      I won’t let you have this -- I’d 
      rather die.

               DAVE
      What is wrong with you, dude? This 
      isn’t a comic book, this is real life. 
      When you’re dead, it’s done. There’s 
      no sequel. 

Chris uses his free hand to punch Dave -- over and over -- 

               CHRIS
      You made it real. You started it. And 
      now I’m ending it... I’ll be immortal. 
      Like an evil Jesus...

Chris HITS him in the face -- Dave has no choice but to let go -- 

Chris FALLS backwards into the warehouse -- time slows down as 
cold-hard reality finally GRABS him by the balls...        

And genuine fear flashes across his face. 

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Wait --


Too late -- SPLASH. “Splash?” Shouldn’t that have been, “splat?” 
Dave looks down through the open skylight --

INT. EVIL LAIR

Where he sees Chris... floating in the shark tank. He survived.

                              108.

               CHRIS
      I’m alive... I’m alive. 

He looks up at Dave -- born again. His sins washed away...

               CHRIS
	(CONT’D)
          (yelling)
      Dave -- you were right -- I do want to 
      live! I’m so sorry, man, for 
      everything -- I’m gonna spend the rest 
      of life making this right, I promise --

Suddenly -- CHOMP -- the shark YANKS him back and forth. Chris 
SCREAMS like the girl in the opening of JAWS. Guess Mother 
Russia was right... the shark was just hungry. The water turns 
crimson as Chris disappears below the surface... 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      The feeling was indescribable. Chris 
      D'Amico, cancelled. Could I have held 
      on longer? Or was I happy to let go? 
      Maybe Chris was right... maybe the 
      mask let me do whatever I wanted.

And with that, Dave takes his mask off. Drops it over the edge. 
As he turns away, one of the police officers below looks up and 
sees Dave’s silhouette --

              RIOT POLICE
	(INTO RADIO)
     There’s another one -- on the roof.

EXT. ROOFTOP 

Dave jumps back as the door behind him opens -- it’s Mindy. 
She’s moving slowly... the PCP clearly took it’s toll.

               MINDY
      I’ve been looking everywhere for you. 
      We need to get out of here -- now.

               DAVE
      Oh, shit. They saw me.


INT. STAIRWELL 

SWAT teams SWARM in -- RACE up the stairwell towards --

EXT. ROOFTOP

Dave and Mindy -- trapped. Panic sets in --

               DAVE
      They’re going to throw us in jail -- 
      My Dad died in there --

                              109.

Mindy takes a deep breath. Knows what she has to do.

               MINDY
      There’s only one way you’re getting 
      out of here.

Mindy steps to the edge of the building -- and WAVES to the 
police officers stationed outside.

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      Hi, Mr. Policeman!

The riot police see her on the roof -- BARK into their radios --

               RIOT POLICE
	(INTO RADIO)
      Hit Girl’s the one on the roof -- use 
      whatever force necessary.

Dave pulls her back.

               DAVE
      Why’d you do that?

               MINDY
      So you could escape.

And with that she leans in and KISSES Dave. 

Dave is floored... but loses himself for a moment as the kiss 
lingers. After a beat, he pulls back in SHOCK --

               DAVE
      What... was that?

               MINDY
      That was my first kiss.

Mindy looks like she might actually blush...

               MINDY
	(CONT’D)
      Be nice, or I’ll rip your ass out 
      through your mouth.

Before Dave can respond, Mindy does a SWAN DIVE off the roof. 

It’s a 70 foot free-fall -- onlookers GASP -- until she extends 
her arms with a SNAP -- turning her cape into a squirrel suit. 

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Mindy said the one thing her father 
      never wanted for her was prison... 

Time slows down as a back-lit Mindy floats through the air --  
no jet-pack this time -- this girl is flying on her own now.  

                              110.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      But she faced it... for me. 

It’s a moment of pure grace that makes your heart soar. Dave has 
no choice but to watch from the shadows as Mindy lands in the 
middle of the riot cops and surrenders. The other heroes CHEER.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      That’s when I finally understood where 
      my life was going.

Dave turns and RUNS -- finally making the LEAP in slow motion 
from one roof to another, before escaping into the night...


EPILOGUE MONTAGE


- Cops muzzles Eisenhower while the members of Justice Forever 
are led away in handcuffs...

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      Just like it had to happen eventually, 
      that real people would try to be 
      superheroes...

- Mindy wears a straight jacket, locked in a padded cell.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      It had to end eventually, too.

- Chris sits alone in the hospital... he survived the attack. 
His arms and legs are stumps now. A glass of water with a straw 
sits just inches away... but it might as well be miles.

              CHRIS
     A little help...? Anyone...?

              DAVE
	(V.O.)
     Superheroes can't exist in the real 
     world for a reason...

- The Chief of Police and Uncle Ralph meet in secret... 

              CHIEF OF POLICE
     Your idiot nephew did what we needed 
     him to do. 

              UNCLE RALPH
     With no one playing Batman, business 
     should get back to normal.

              DAVE
	(V.O.)
     It’s because the real world needs real 
     heroes.

                              111.

- A soaring aerial of the Big Apple... defenceless.

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      And not some punk in a wet suit 
      playing dress-up...

- Our final image is of Dave doing one-armed push-ups, just like 
Mindy taught him. On the wall are plans for her prison break...

               DAVE
	(V.O.)
      But a genuine bad-ass... who can 
      really kick ass.

                           SLAM TO CREDITS.

