            LAST MINUTE MAIDS

               Written by

              Leo Nichols

Benderspink
(323) 904-1815


FADE IN:

INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT

Close up on a pair of CLOSED EYES. As the camera slowly pulls 
out a little wider we see the full head of MAX POWERS, 29, 
clean cut and good looking. Eyes still closed, Hes in deep 
concentration. 

One things odd though, if we listen closely we can hear the 
slight sound of SLURPING in the background. The sound 
continues steadily when - COUGH! COUGH!

Though distant, its pretty hard to ignore. Max cracks a 
single eye open but then quickly closes it when the cough 
dies down. The slurping continues though. A few moments 
later, theres that pesky cough again - COUGH! COUGH!

Concentration broken, both of Maxs eyes SHOOT OPEN.

             MAX
      Look, Ive got a job interview 
      tomorrow and I just got out of a 
      relationship. I dont think this is 
      such a good idea. 

Nothing, only more SLURPING and more distant COUGHING. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Hello?

Still no response. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
        (slightly louder)
      I said I don't think this is such a 
      good idea. 

The slurping sound stops. We are still tight on Maxs face. 

             ASHLEY
	(O.S.)
      You dont think me sucking your 
      cock is a good idea?

We pull out wider to reveal Max is getting a blow job by a 
hot young blonde named ASHLEY, 20s, naked - her mouth 
smothered with lipstick. 

             MAX
      Its just theres someone coughing 
      in the background. I feel like 
      were being watched. 


                                      2.

             ASHLEY
      Yeah me too, its making me hot. 

She goes right back to business. 

             MAX
      No seriously, this doesnt feel 
      right.

She stops again. 

             ASHLEY
      Oh, do you want me to squeeze it 
      harder? Jiggle your sack a little? 
      Tell me what you want. 

COUGH. COUGH. 

             MAX
      Who is coughing? It sounds like 
      someones dying.

             ASHLEY
      Oh thats my Grandpa Bill. Hes 
      crashing with me while his house 
      gets fumigated for bedbugs. Relax 
      hes harmless. 

             MAX
      Bedbugs? Ugh gross. Thats not 
      helping me relax.

             ASHLEY
      Well what can I do to make you more 
      relaxed than I already am?

The two pause to think about the question. 

             ASHLEY
	(CONTD)
      You wanna cum on my face?

INT. HALLWAY. NIGHT

Max hastily heads down the hall trying to get dressed item by 
item as he walks out - its unclear if he took her up on her 
offer. He TIPTOES as he approaches the closed bathroom door. 
We hear the sound of running water.

             ASHLEY
	(O.S.)
      Im just washing the cum off my 
      face, I'll be out in a minute! 

Busted. Time to think fast. 


                                      3.

             MAX
      Umm, okay. I was just going to 
      check on your grandfather to see if 
      hes still alive. Havent heard him 
      cough in like 15 seconds. 

             ASHLEY
	(O.S.)
      Awww, youre so sweet!

             MAX
      Dont worry Im not trying to sneak 
      out or anything. 

BEAT.

Max approaches the door to Grandpas room - KNOCK. KNOCK. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Hello, Grandpa Bill?

Nothing. 

He enters the dark room, slowly approaching the bed-ridden 
figure. We still hear the faint sound of water running as 
Ashley tries to get the cum off her face. 

From Maxs POV we see GRANDPA BILL, 80s and dying, lying 
under the covers, his back turned to Max but his BED BUG 
BITTEN OLD-MAN ASS EXPOSED. As Max gets closer and closer 
the tension GROWS. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Grandpa Bill? You okay pal?

No response. 

By now, Max is next to this poor old bastard and is generally 
concerned that this guy may be dead. He slowly reaches over 
to cover his ass-- BAM! 

GRANDPA BILL flips over and lets out a series of deep wet 
COUGHS. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Ugh, gross!

Bill keeps on doing what he does best. 

INT. BATHROOM. MOMENTS LATER.

Ashley looks up from the sink, her right eye SEALED SHUT WITH 
CUM. 


                                      4.

             ASHLEY 
        (yelling)
      Max? Are you okay? I heard 
      screaming. 

INT. GRANDPA BILLS ROOM. MOMENTS LATER.

             MAX
        (calling back)
      Yeah fine, everythings fine in 
      here! 

Grandpa Bill finishes his coughing fit. Sips a GLASS OF WATER 
on the side of the bed.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
        (sotto)
      Hes not dead, dont worry. 

Bill takes his first clean breath in minutes. 

             GRANDPA BILL
      Not dead YET is what you should be 
      saying. 

             MAX
      Come on Grandpa Bill. Shouldnt you 
      be more optimistic?

             GRANDPA BILL
      Forget it kid, Im on my way out. 

Max pauses to think about how fragile life really is. 

             GRANDPA BILL
	(CONTD)
      But before I go, I need you to do 
      me a favor.

             MAX
      Me? But you dont even know me. 

             GRANDPA BILL
      Well you know my granddaughter 
      Ashley and thats enough for me.

             MAX
      I dont actually know her that 
      well. 


                                      5.

             GRANDPA BILL
      Well you know her well enough to 
      cum on her face which in some 
      strange way makes us feel like 
      family. 

             MAX
      Im not sure I understand youre 
      reasoning there Bill. 

             GRANDPA BILL
      Look the walls are paper thin so 
      cut the shit. Plus weve all tossed 
      our hot mustard into some young 
      lasss eye lashes at one point in 
      our lives. No need to bullshit me, 
      Im dying here pal, no time for 
      sugar coating it. I got a week, 
      maybe two weeks tops. All Im 
      asking for is a favor. 

             MAX
      Oh alright, lets hear it.

             GRANDPA BILL
      See that envelope over there? Grab 
      it.

Max grabs it.

             GRANDPA BILL
	(CONTD)
      Okay so heres the deal. Inside 
      that envelope is a thousand bucks 
      and a spare key to my house. The 
      address is written on the outside. 

             MAX
      I dont understand. 

             GRANDPA BILL
      Probably because I havent told you 
      what I need from you yet. 

             MAX
      Right.

             GRANDPA BILL
      Look, upstairs in my house, in my 
      bedroom closet, I have a giant box 
      of porn. I need you to get rid of 
      it for me.


                                      6.

             MAX
      Jesus. What is it kiddie porn or 
      something?

             GRANDPA BILL
      No its not kiddie porn, but it 
      aint exactly the cleanest stuff 
      either. A lot of ass porn, 
      interracial stuff, pregnant ladies, 
      that sort of thing.  

             MAX
      Gross.

             GRANDPA BILL
      Oh grow up, we all have it. Bottom 
      line is Ashley finds that box when 
      theyre cleaning out my shit and 
      shell never be able to think of me 
      in the same light again. There goes 
      my legacy. 

             MAX
      I dont know Bill, something leads 
      me to believe she may be okay with 
      it. 

             GRANDPA BILL
      So all you have to do is dispose of 
      that box and the money is yours. 

             MAX
      But youre giving me the money now. 

             GRANDPA BILL
      Yes, but I'm trusting you. So take 
      this as a sign. And help a dying 
      man with his last wish. 

They stare each other for a moment as the water shuts off in 
the background. Bill gives Max one final nod, closes his eyes 
and turns over. Max gives Bill one last look before stuffing 
the envelope into his pocket. Right as he does Ashley appears 
in the doorway toweling off her face.

INT. HALLWAY. NIGHT

They close the door to Bills room.  


                                      7.

             ASHLEY
        (whispering)
      Hey sweetie, sorry about that, had 
      a nasty bit in my eyelash. 
      Everything okay?

             MAX
        (whispering)
      Umm yeah perfect, I was just 
      talking to Bill for a moment but I 
      think hes asleep now. 

             ASHLEY
      Thanks for checking on my Gramps, 
      that was so sweet of you. Hes the 
      best. 

             MAX
      Oh it was nothing really, he seems 
      like an interesting guy. A lot of 
      hobbies.

BEAT. Neither are really sure where to go from here.

             ASHLEY
      So you want to fuck me in the ass 
      now?

                              SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. ALLENS HOUSE. NEXT MORNING

A beat up Ford Taurus pulls into the driveway of a small 
everymans house just narrowly missing the garbage cans at 
the foot of the driveway. From a distance, Max gets out, pops 
the trunk and unloads a giant MOVING BOX. He takes it to the 
end of the driveway and sets it down next to the trash cans. 

INT. HOUSE. MORNING

Max enters to see his roommate ALLEN, 20s, Indian kid, dots 
not feathers - think Aziz Ansari -  sitting on the couch 
watching ESPN. Tons of MOVIE POSTERS line the walls. Max 
eagerly plops down next to Allen who is enthralled. 

             MAX
      Hey man. So--

             ALLEN
        (cutting him off)
      Wait until this interview is done. 


INSERT:

The tail end of a SPORTSCENTER Interview. LINDA COHN talks to 
BO JACKSON. 

                                      8.

             LINDA
      So Bo Jackson, Heisman trophy 
      winner. Bo Jackson, first athlete 
      to be an All-Star in two 
      professional sports. Now Bo 
      Jackson, politician?

             BO JACKSON
      Bo knows people. Bo knows what they 
      want. Bo knows politics. 

Linda Cohn is baffled. 

             LINDA
      There you have it folks, Alabama 
      Senate hopeful, Bo Jackson.

Back on Max and Allen. 

             ALLEN
      Love Bo. He was my hero.

             MAX
      So. I was saying --

But Allen is still enthralled. 

             ALLEN
      Shh-

Back on the TV: One of those absurd commercials for a piece 
of exercise equipment called the POWER TOWER. A ridiculously 
strong dude does dips on what looks to be a suped-up walker. 
Its pretty outlandish, but the dude is also very jacked.

             JACKED DUDE FROM TV 
      So what are you waiting for, get 
      your POWER TOWER today!

Allen is now back amongst the living.

             ALLEN
      Hey sorry about that. That thing is 
      sweet. 

             MAX
      Really? It looks like they 
      repossessed your Dads walker and 
      hired Fabio to do pull-ups on it. 


                                      9.

             ALLEN
      Well first off those are dips not 
      pull ups, and second dude is jacked 
      like Arnold in Pumping Iron, so 
      there goes your point. 

             MAX
        (doing Arnold)
      Im cumming when I eat a bologna 
      sandwich. 

             ALLEN
      Exactly. I wanna cum with bologna 
      sandwiches too. Plus, Im trying to 
      get ripped up. Thinking about 
      finally asking Kara out on a date. 
      Just need to talk to her first.

             MAX
      The chick from the Nursing Home? 

Allen shoots his hand up in PROTEST.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Sorry, Assisted Living Community. 
      Anyways, you been saying that for 
      weeks. Believe it when I see it. 

             ALLEN
      I thought my window to talk to her 
      had closed because her Moms about 
      to die, but it turns out shes 
      moving her Dad in this week. 

             MAX
      Yeah, great news. 

Allen makes his way to the kitchen for a drink.  

INT. KITCHEN. MORNING.

             ALLEN
      So what happened with Ashley? Shes 
      a freak right? She help you forget 
      about her who we do not speak of?

             MAX
      Well she was definitely not like 
      she who will not be named. 

             ALLEN
      What does that mean? Did you fuck 
      her in the ass? 


                                      10.

             MAX
      What? No. But listen to this: her 
      dying Grandpa was staying with her 
      and while Ashley was washing the 
      cuh... Err, brushing her teeth, I 
      went to check on him and get this. 

             ALLEN
      You fucked the grandpa in the ass?

             MAX
      Very funny asshole. No seriously, 
      this guy is like about to die and 
      he pulls me in close and gets all 
      sentimental on me, tells me he has 
      a week or two at most and then asks 
      me to do one last favor for him. 

Allen pours a glass of OJ in disbelief - it starts to 
OVERFLOW. He also MUNCHES on a MEATBALL SUB. 

             ALLEN
      What? No way? What did he want?

             MAX
      He gives me a key to his house and 
      tells me he has a giant box of porn 
      he wants me to get rid of so his 
      family doesnt find it after he 
      dies. Youre spilling. And is that 
      a meatball sub? Its 9 am.

             ALLEN
      Im obsessed with this meatball 
      place. You have to try it. Anyways, 
      back to the dying dude. Holy shit! 

             MAX
      Yeah man. Best part is, he gave me 
      a thousand bucks for my services. 

Allen is taking it all in.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Hey, clean that up. And dont leave 
      the OJ out. It will go bad. 

Allen snaps out of it, puts the OJ back in the fridge and 
cleans up his mess. Max heads back to the living room couch.


                                      11.

INT. LIVING ROOM. MORNING

             ALLEN
      So you gonna do it?

He munches on the Sub as he talks. 

             MAX
      Do what?

             ALLEN
      What do you mean what? Dispose of 
      the porn you idiot. 

             MAX
      Oh yeah, already did it. Went over 
      there on my way home. The box is 
      out front with the trash. Easiest 
      money I ever made. 

             ALLEN
      Youre telling me some strangers 
      porn collection is out there with 
      our recyclables?

             MAX
      Thats exactly what Im telling 
      you. Do I smell like bug spray?

Max sniffs as Allen stands up and heads toward the door. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Where you going?

             ALLEN
      To rummage through it and take what 
      interests me and then move that 
      shit two houses down so people 
      dont think were sickos. What if 
      some neighborhood kids go through 
      it?

             MAX
      Then those kids would hit the 
      jackpot.

             ALLEN
      Whatever. Oh theres another 
      overdue notice for you on the 
      counter.

Max picks an ENVELOPE up off the counter, tears it open.


INSERT: Past Due Notice. Final Warning. If he doesn't pay the 
collectors within 30 days he will face jail time. 

                                      12.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Also, dont you have a job 
      interview?

             MAX
      Oh shit, I need to get going.

INT. BATHROOM. MORNING.

Max is in the shower scrubbing the Ashley off of him. Allen 
busts in shuffling through some of Bills discarded DVDs. 

             ALLEN
      Wow, this guy loved interracial 
      stuff. You know he had Black Dicks 
      vs. White Clits V: Operation Miami 
      Beach. You think its an homage to 
      Police Academy V: Assignment Miami 
      Beach? Or just a coincidence?

Allen shoves the movie into the shower. Max bats it away.

             MAX
      Come on man, get that out of here. 
      No more porn talk. I need to focus 
      on the interview.  

Allen takes a look at the other DVD in his hand.

             ALLEN
      Nope, not a coincidence. Black 
      Dicks vs. White Clits VI is 
      subtitled Anal Destruction.

             MAX
      Get out!

INT. MAXS BEDROOM. MORNING

Max is getting dressed. Allen sits on the bed annoying him.

             ALLEN
      Whats this one for again?

             MAX
      Financial Analyst. Just an entry-
      level position but hopefully decent 
      money.


                                      13.

             ALLEN
      Sounds shitty. 

             MAX
      I need the money or Im going to 
      jail. Also it beats working at a 
      nursing home for minimum wage.

             ALLEN
      Assisted living community, dick. 
      Plus my work is so rewarding it 
      cant be quantified with dollars. I 
      take away from it much more than I 
      make. And it keeps me close to my 
      Dad. Besides, look at the house Im 
      living in. Im doing just fine. 

             MAX
      This your Dads house dude - you 
      just filled it with movie posters, 
      and dont make me second guess this 
      any more than I already am. Ive 
      gotta make some money or Im 
      fucked. Im waiting for loan sharks 
      to show up any day now.   

             ALLEN
      I guess youre right. 

Allen seems a little disappointed by this. 

             MAX
      What?

             ALLEN
      Nothing Max, I just hate to see you 
      like this, I wish I could help you. 
      Still, Max 10 years ago wouldnt be 
      moping around whining about she who 
      we do not speak of. Hed tell her 
      to go fuck herself and then fuck 
      her Mom or her sister or some shit. 
      And Max 10 years ago certainly 
      wouldnt even dignify being an 
      analyst at some boring ass company, 
      even if he did owe a bunch of 
      money. If I even suggested a job 
      like this hed tell me to go fuck 
      myself.  

             MAX
      Go fuck yourself. Things change. 
      Ill get over her and this job will 
      be fine. 


                                      14.

             MAX
	(CONT'D)
      Besides, like you said, I need the 
      money. Its getting serious. I 
      cant just hope every girl I fuck 
      in the ass has a dying grandpa 
      ready to give me a G to throw away 
      his smut. 

Max makes his way for the door. Allen follows. 

             ALLEN
      Wow, okay! Two things. First, you 
      blatantly lied to me before when 
      you said you didnt fuck Ashley in 
      the ass. Im willing to overlook 
      that, but only because I like you. 
      And second, forget some boring desk 
      job, you just stumbled upon the 
      greatest business idea ever and you 
      dont even realize it! 

They stop at the front door. Max PAUSES before opening it. 

             MAX
      Oh yeah? Whats that?

             ALLEN
      We get rid of peoples porn when 
      they die so their families dont 
      find it and we charge them money 
      for our services. 

Max thinks. 

             MAX
      Sounds lovely and all but I think 
      youre overlooking one thing. 

             ALLEN
      Oh yeah, whats that?

             MAX
      Where are we supposed to find an 
      endless supply of dying people 
      concealing dirty porn collections?

             ALLEN
      Umm, hello? Remember me? Mr. 
      Underachiever? Raise your hand if 
      you make minimum wage at a nursing,  
      er, assisted living community? 

He raises his hand.


                                      15.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      People drop dead every week. 
      Besides it doesnt have to be porn, 
      it could be any--

KNOCK KNOCK.

Max and Allen look at each other, then Max opens the door to 
reveal:

UPS MAN. 

             UPS MAN
      Delivery for Allen Grand.

We see he holds a box labeled POWER TOWER. 

Max gives Allen a look. If Allen was at all selling him on 
the idea, all the progress he made just disappeared. 

             MAX
      Im going to be late. 

EXT. ROAD. DAY.

Maxs Taurus pulls out of the driveway. A couple of blocks up 
he sees the box of porn overturned, ransacked. What Max 
doesnt see is that hes being followed closely by a BLACK 
CAR with tinted windows.

INT. BLACK CAR. MOMENTS LATER

Two huge black guys, BLACK MAN #1 and BLACK MAN #2 watch Max.

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY. 

Max looks in the mirror, sees the car but thinks nothing of 
it. He drives along in silence. His phones BUZZES - Allen. He 
silences it. Allen calls again. Again, he silences it. 

INT. BLACK CAR. DAY.

The Black Men follow as Maxs Taurus pulls up to an office 
building.  


                                      16.

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

Max kills the engine and looks at the WORKERS filing into the 
office building, dressed in SUITS and TIES, its hard to tell 
them apart. Will he become like them? What is he doing? 

He pulls down the visor to look at himself but instead finds 
a picture of him and SHE WHO WE DO NOT SPEAK OF, her face has 
been SCRATCHED out. Max stares at the picture.

BUZZ. BUZZ.

Its Allen again, only this time he decides to answer it. 

We go SPLIT SCREEN. Max in his car on the left. Allen at home 
on the right trying to do dips on his POWER TOWER. He has the 
phone tucked into his ear. Black Dicks vs. White Clits V or 
VI blares in the background. 

             MAX
      Hello?

UHHH! UHH! WHISTLE IN MY ASS! WHISTLE MY ASS!

             ALLEN
        (loudly over the whistle)
      Look I really think you should 
      consider this business opportunity. 

             MAX
      What? I cant hear you. All I hear 
      is Black Dick on White Clit. 

Allen stops doing dips and pauses the DVD. 

             ALLEN
      I really think you should consider 
      this business opportunity. We could 
      make bank on this Max. This is an 
      untapped market just waiting for 
      someone to step in. There hasnt 
      been an opportunity like this since 
      they let black people into the NBA. 
      If we dont step up and take 
      advantage someone else will. 

             MAX
      I think black people were always 
      allowed in the NBA.

             ALLEN
      Not true, the league integrated in 
      1950. But thats not the point. 

                                      17.

             ALLEN
	(CONT'D)
      The point is people wait their 
      whole lives to come up with an idea 
      as good as this. Look at the guy 
      who invented Scatch. Hes probably 
      off in the Bahamas somewhere eating 
      Pineapple, getting his dick sucked. 

             MAX
      Whats Scatch? Sounds like an STD. 
      You can invent those?

             ALLEN
      Its the beach game where the 
      tennis ball sticks to the circular 
      paddles covered in velcro. 

             MAX
      Fuck, that was a good invention. 

             ALLEN
      Thats what we have here Max. Only 
      were helping people too. Plus its 
      a get rich quick scheme, people die 
      every day! Promise me youll think 
      about it. 

             MAX
      Maybe. Gotta go. 

He hangs up and takes one last look in the mirror when -- 
KNOCK! KNOCK! The Blackmen stand outside. Max already knows 
who they are and what they want. He takes a deep BREATH and 
exits. 

EXT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

             MAX
      How can I help you gentlemen?

             BLACKMAN #1
      I believe you have something were 
      looking for.

             BLACKMAN #2
      Weve come to collect.

Max checks his pockets. 

             MAX
      Hmm, must be in my other pants. 

Max tries to walk away, but #1 grabs him.


                                      18.

             BLACKMAN #1
      Easy, funny man.  

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah, easy funny man. 

Blackman #1 shoots #2 a DIRTY LOOK. 

             MAX
      Look, isnt this a bit soon? I mean 
      I just got the thing this morning. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      And? 

             MAX
      I need some time. I was told I had 
      30 days. 

The Blackmen are puzzled. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      30 days? No sir, we want it now.

             BLACKMAN #2
      Now, son.  

             BLACKMAN #1
      Or we gotta do it the hard way.

             BLACKMAN #2
      The hard way, son. 

Max notices TWO COPS walk out of the building. Gets an idea.

             MAX
      HELP! POLICE! THESE MEN ARE TRYING 
      TO RAPE ME! RAPE!

The Cops CHASE after the Blackmen who scramble towards their 
car. Max uses the diversion to get back in and take off.

INT. MAXS CAR - CONTINUOUS

Max picks up his iPhone, calls Allen. Back to SPLIT SCREEN. 
Allen is refilling his OJ.

             MAX
      Holy shit, youll never guess what 
      just happened? 

             ALLEN
      Good news or bad news?


                                      19.

             MAX
      A little of both I guess.

             ALLEN
      Wait, gimme a sec. Ok, I got it. 
      You def didnt get the job because 
      that was way too fast, but you did 
      get free McRib for life from the 
      McDonalds Monopoly game!

             MAX
      Youre half right. 

             ALLEN
      McRibs!?

             MAX
      Come on, everyone knows you cant 
      get a lifetime supply of a seasonal 
      sandwich. Thats just impossible. 

             ALLEN
      So I was right about the job? You 
      didnt get it?

             MAX
      Yeah, but I didnt want it in the 
      first place. After all, like you 
      said, I need to get rich quick. 

             ALLEN
      Well then whats the good news?

             MAX
      You really think were gonna be 
      able to make money off this thing?

             ALLEN
      What thing? Oh yeah, the thing. 
      Definitely. Its a license to print 
      money. 

             MAX
      Well then the good news is Im in. 

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

             ALLEN
      Really?

Allen does a VICTORY DANCE and pretends the OJ carton is his 
dick. OJ is flying everywhere. He looks at the OJ label: 
Minute Maid. An idea pops into his head.


                                      20.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

             MAX
      Yeah, but if the money doesnt 
      start coming in quick, Im gonna 
      have to figure something else out. 
      I dont wanna go to prison.  

As he drives, Max takes one last look at the pic of she who 
will not be named, crumples it up and tosses it in the back 
seat. It hits the ground next to a DVD lying under the seat - 
one of Bills must have slipped out without Max noticing.

INSERT:

BLACK DICKS vs. WHITE CLITS IV: DARNELLS REVENGE. Definitely 
not a coincidence.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. NURSING HOME. DAY. 

A car pulls past the sign which reads: HAPPY TRAILS, AN 
ASSISTED LIVING COMMUNITY. 

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      I think we call ourselves Last 
      Minute Maids.

             MAX
	(V.O.)
      Wow great name, howd you think of 
      it?

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      Not sure, just came to me.  

VARIOUS SHOTS:

A group of OLD FOLKS play croquet. It doesnt look like a 
very good game. An OLD MAN sends a shot dangerously WIDE. 

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      Anyways, if we start at Happy 
      Trails.

Elsewhere, an OLD LADY paints a picture of a sailboat during 
Arts and Crafts time. 

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      Were just going to have to watch 
      out for Omar the head Orderly. He 
      runs the place. 


                                      21.

Out front, OMAR THE HEAD ORDERLY, a mean-looking, hair-net-
wearing Puerto Rican man in his late 30s - think Luis Guzman 
- climbs off a GOLF CART to help an OLD LADY with a walker 
off a short bus. A cigarette hangs from his mouth. 

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      Hes also a first class dick head. 
      He cant find out. 

SLO-MO: Omar takes one last pull on his cigarette and then 
stomps it out with his steel toed boot. This guy is not to be 
fucked with. 

Back to NORMAL SPEED we track with the same OLD LADY as she 
slowly makes her way through the entrance on her walker. 

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      And youre sure we need the other 
      guy?

             MAX
	(V.O.)
      Definitely. Its one thing if we 
      try and sell them on our services, 
      but its a whole other situation 
      when they are encouraged by one of 
      their own. Plus, he can handle all 
      the contracts and legal shit.

As he says this the CAMERA SPEEDS UP and we move past the OLD 
LADY and fly through the hallway of Happy Trails. 

             ALLEN
	(V.O.)
      You really think hes going to get 
      behind this?

             MAX
	(V.O.)
      Youre gonna make him get behind 
      it. 

Continue through a double doors and were in:

INT. GAME ROOM. DAY.

Back to normal speed we pass through Bingo games and 
crossword puzzles before coming to a stop on Allens Dad, 
SANJAY GRAND, 70s, old and Indian. Again, were talking dots 
not feathers. The camera pulls in until Sanjays face is all 
that fills the frame. We pull out into:


INT. SANJAYS ROOM. DAY.

Sanjay is sitting in a chair next to his bed. He speaks with 
a THICK INDIAN ACCENT. 

                                      22.

             SANJAY
      Absolutely not! Pornographies? You 
      two are out of your sick little 
      minds. What would your Mother say?

             ALLEN
      Dad, just listen.

             SANJAY
      Dicks. Dicks. Dicks. Pussy. Pussy. 
      Pussy. Is that all you think about 
      my boy? 

             ALLEN
      Come on Dad, think about it. Its 
      not just porn we can clean up. It 
      could be anything. A love letter 
      from an old flame. A picture that 
      was never meant to be seen. A diary 
      left behind. Everyone has secrets. 
      And people should be able to take 
      their secrets with them when its 
      their time to go, without having to 
      worry about it.  

             MAX
      Mr. Grand, I also--

But before Max can finish Sanjay cuts him off:

             SANJAY
      Shut the fuck up white boy. 

Max closes his mouth. Sanjay closes his eyes to think. 

             ALLEN
      Like what if I was going through 
      your shit after you croaked and 
      found a huge bag of that Hindu kush 
      you like to smoke. What would Mom 
      say about that?

This gets Sanjays attention. His eyes SHOOT open.

             MAX
      I didnt know you liked to smoke 
      weed, Mr. Grand.


Sanjay throws Max a dirty look - the mood is tense. After a 
moment, Sanjay SMILES.

                                      23.

             SANJAY
      Ha! Reefers? I do not know what you 
      are talking about my son! Not this 
      man! I am a servant of the law. Ha, 
      reefers!

             ALLEN
      Come on Dad, its not a big deal. I 
      mean I may not care, but I bet Mom 
      sure would have. 

Hes back to being PISSED.

             SANJAY
      How dare you my son! 

Sanjay tries to stand in rage but he cant because of his 
recent hip replacement surgery. The boys rush to his aid.

             SANJAY
	(CONTD)
      Ow, my bloody hip!

             ALLEN
      Easy Pop!

They help him back down into his chair, defeated. We pull in 
TIGHT on his face scrunched up in anger.

             SANJAY
      Oh what the damn. I will help you 
      with your little business but I 
      want 50% for my services.

             ALLEN/MAX
      50%!

Sanjay crosses his arms like he wouldnt budge for a tank. 

             SANJAY
      Not a rupee less.

Max looks to Allen. What are they going to do?

             ALLEN
      Youll take the same share as Max 
      and myself or Ill tell Omar that 
      you have a one hitter hidden in the 
      bottom of your sock drawer. 

             SANJAY
      You would do no such thing!


                                      24.

             ALLEN
      Try me. 

Max is impressed. 

INT. HALLWAY. DAY. 

Outside of Sanjays room.

             MAX
      Nice work in there.

             ALLEN
      Hate it when that fool tries to act 
      hard. Thinks were back on the 
      subcontinent. Look, I need to go 
      punch in. Why dont you head into 
      the game room and Ill meet you 
      there in a few minutes.

             MAX
      Sounds like a plan.   

The two give each other a pound and go their separate ways. 

INT. HAPPY TRAILS FRONT OFFICE. MOMENTS LATER.

As Allen finishes stamping his TIME CARD, he sees a HOT GIRL  
in her 20s roll by. Shes attractive in that alternative way 
that every guy wants. This is KARA. 

             ALLEN
      Excuse me, miss?

She backs up, holding a BIG MOVING BOX. 

             KARA
      Yeah?

Is this the moment she finally notices him? We pull in TIGHT.  

             ALLEN
      Would you...want to... would you 
      want any help with that?

             KARA
      No thanks, I can manage. 

She continues along. Stay on Allen, still a pussy. 


                                      25.

INT. HAPPY TRAILS. MOMENTS LATER.

Follow Kara as she rounds a corner - CRASH!

She accidentally collides with Max spilling the moving box 
everywhere. Remember he has no idea who she is. 

             KARA
      Watch where youre going shitbag!

             MAX
      Im so sorry, I didnt see you!

They bend down to clean up as Max takes his first look at her 
- shes gorgeous. They lock eyes. Hes not so bad either.

             KARA
      You should just be more careful.

             MAX
      It really was an accident. 

They sneak glances at one another. 

             KARA
      Look, I know. Im sorry. Im just 
      in a shitty mood. 

             MAX
      Its okay, I probably should have 
      been more careful like you said.

             KARA
      No, I overreacted. Im just all 
      stressed out. Im moving my Dad in. 

He stands as everything is now back in the box. Well, almost 
everything. 

             MAX
      Im sorry to hear that, but, at 
      least that means this isnt yours?

Max holds up a GIANT HALF USED TUB OF VASELINE. 

             KARA
      Funny, but My Dad and I actually 
      shared this. He just picked the 
      longer straw.

She grabs it and takes off down the hallway. Was she serious? 
He calls out after her with the first thing that comes to his 
mind:


                                      26.

             MAX
      Theres nothing like some good ole-
      fashioned father daughter bonding. 

He shakes his head. That probably wasnt the best way to go. 

Kara however SMILES as she rounds the corner. 

INT. GAME ROOM. DAY.

Max sits battling OLD MAN LARRY in checkers. The game looks 
fierce. Max goes to king his opponent when--

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(O.S.)
      Who da fuck is dat muthafucka and 
      what is he doing playing checkers 
      in my fucking gameroom Larry? You 
      gonna act like you dont hear me, 
      papi?

Omar the Orderly walks right up to Old Man Larry. Larry is 
old as shit with oxygen tubes up his nose and hearing aids in 
his ears. He gets all up in Old Man Larrys grill and seems 
to IGNORE Max. Omar speaks with a HEAVY LISP. 

             MAX
      Its okay, Im a friend of--

But Omar cuts him off and gives him a stare.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Whos talking to you vendejo? 

He quickly turns back to Larry.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(CONTD)
      Larry!? You better answer me Larry. 
      I dont want to have to be a mean 
      guy just before pudding time. Dont 
      make me eat that pudding myself 
      Larry.

But the pudding is the last straw. Max has to stop this. 

             MAX
      Hey why dont you leave him alone!   

This is exactly what Omar wanted. He turns to Max and SMILES 
a devilish grin and gets all up in his grill. 


                                      27.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Twinkie, twinkie. My little 
      twinkie. You want me to fuck you in 
      your ear? 

             MAX
      My ear? What? Hes done nothing 
      wrong. Dont take away his pudding. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Dont you worry about Larrys 
      pudding. What you need to worry 
      about is why I didnt see your name 
      on the sign in sheet and how youre 
      going to explain to the police you 
      were trespassing on private--

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Omar!

They both turn to see Allen entering the room. 

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Chill hermano. Hes with me. I just 
      forgot to give him a visitor pass. 

Allen slaps a VISITOR PASS on Maxs chest and steps in to 
separate them. 

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Everythings cool amigo.   

Omar backs off. He turns his attention to Allen. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      We alright for now. But you better 
      not let me catch him running around 
      here again without his name on da 
      damn sign in sheet or those 
      whiteboy ears are mine. As for you 
      Larry, you better watch it homes. I 
      got my eye on you Larry. 

Close up on Larry. This guy cant hear shit.  

Thwarted, Omar turns and walks away. Allen flexes at him as 
he turns. Max gives him the bird.  But when Omar looks back 
they both quickly act like they werent doing anything. 

             MAX
      What a prick. He wanted to take 
      away Larrys pudding. He also 
      threatened to fuck my ears.  


                                      28.

             ALLEN
      Yeah hes into some weird shit. I 
      heard from Sheila the receptionist 
      that hes a watcher.

             MAX
      Thats probably a little too much 
      information.

             ALLEN
      Look Dad says hes going to need to 
      draw up a simple contract before we 
      start signing people up. So I guess 
      for now we wait. But this weekend 
      we should go to Home Depot and get 
      some supplies for the operation.

             MAX
      Supplies?

             ALLEN
      Trust me, if its anything like 
      that box I searched through, 
      sanitation is going to be huge. 
      Besides, I dont wanna be bare-
      fisting other peoples dildos.

             MAX
      You bring up a good point. 

             ALLEN
      Plus I was thinking I could nail a 
      pair of gloves to the wall after 
      each successful extraction. Kinda 
      like Wesley Snipes did after he 
      stole a base in Major League. 

             MAX
      Id expect nothing less.

             ALLEN
      Alright, I gotta get back to work. 
      Let me know if you wanna grab a 
      Meatball sub later. Im telling you 
      theyre unreal. 

They go their separate ways. We stay on Larry. Man he is 
fucking old. 

                                  CUT TO:


                                      29.

EXT. HOME DEPOT. DAY

Allen chills in front of the HOME DEPOT, shopping bag in 
hand. He checks his iPhone while he waits.

Oblivious, an ESCALADE pulls up in front of him. The window 
rolls down to reveal a Woody Allenish JEWISH HOUSE DAD 
squinting through SUPER THICK Woody Allenish eye glasses. 

             JEWISH HOUSE DAD
      Hola, senor?

Allen doesnt pay any attention. He concentrates on his 
phone. Jewish House Dad tries again, still squinting.

             JEWISH HOUSE DAD
	(CONTD)
        (louder this time)
      Senor?

Allen looks around PUZZLED. Me?

             JEWISH HOUSE DAD
	(CONTD)
      Ill give you 25 bucks an hour to 
      come back to my house and help me 
      build a dog house for my daughter. 
      I told her I would hand craft one 
      for her, but lets be honest, we 
      both look at my nose and know the 
      only thing I can build is a sukkah, 
      and not even really. What do ya say 
      amigo? We can swing by Taco Bell 
      when you get hungry. Okay fine, 30 
      dollars and hour and Taco Bells on 
      me, what do ya say?

             ALLEN
      Im not fucking Mexican you racist 
      sonofabitch! 

Hearing this, Jewish House Dad goes pedal to the metal and 
PEELS OUT revealing the BLACK SEDAN from earlier behind it.

Maxs CAR pulls up. Allen gets in. The BLACK SEDAN follows.

INT. MAXS CAR. MOMENTS LATER

             MAX
      Everything okay?

             ALLEN
      Asshole thought I was a Mexican. 


                                      30.

             MAX
      Ha, thats great. Speaking of 
      Mexican, you wanna get some Taco 
      Bell for lunch?

             ALLEN
        (shaking his head)
      Fuck everyone today.

Max looks in the REARVIEW. Takes notice of the Black Car. 

             MAX
      Were being followed. 

             ALLEN
      You couldnt get a follower on 
      Twitter, who would be following you 
      in real life?

             MAX
      Its those loan sharks I told you 
      about. Remember the overdue notice? 
      The 30 days? The prison? Nothing?

Allens STONE FACED until his phone RINGS. He answers.

             ALLEN
      Hello... yeah... Okay... Keys 
      under the mat. Whats the address? 
      Got it... Master bedroom closet, 
      far light switch. Okay, what are we 
      looking for? Right.

Allen hangs up.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      That was Sanjay. We got a gig! Fuck 
      you loan sharks! Its money making 
      time.

             MAX
      Wow, who?

             ALLEN
      That girl Karas mother, Sally. She 
      passed away this morning and Sanjay 
      got her on board just before she 
      croaked! 

             MAX
      Hold on, Im gonna lose them. 


                                      31.

EXT. STREET. DAY.

Max bangs a hard right from the center lane, cutting off the 
guy on his right and losing the Black Sedan. The camera 
floats out as we go WIDE over Suburbia. 

EXT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

Maxs car pulls up in front of a lavish house. 

INT. MAXS CAR. MOMENTS LATER

They both take in the house. 

             MAX
      Nice place. 

             ALLEN
      Yeah wow. Forget the daughter. I 
      shoulda swooped in on the Mom Anna-
      Nicole-Smith style. 

             MAX
      So whats the plan? One of us keeps 
      a watch, the other goes in? 

             ALLEN
      A watch? Its not like were 
      breaking and entering, theres a 
      key under the doormat. Besides, 
      youre white and everyone knows we 
      Asians arent criminals. If we were 
      black Id say wait til nightfall. 
      Plus I know her, kinda.

             MAX
      Asian? Dude youre not Asian, 
      youre Indian.

             ALLEN
      Um, hello? India is considered to 
      be the start of the Asian region.

             MAX
      Youre Indian. Regardless, youre 
      clearly forgetting about 9/11. 
      People think youre Al Qaeda and 
      are gonna blow them up. Ro sham bo.

Convinced, they get to it. Allens rock beats Maxs scissor. 


                                      32.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Fuck, best of three.

Max goes Paper. Allen goes scissor. 

             ALLEN
      Im the champ bitch!

Max reaches into the back seat to Allens Home Depot bag. He 
pulls out two WALKIE TALKIES and a SHOWER CURTAIN. The 
package claims its resistant to mildew. 

             MAX
      Good call on the radios but whats 
      this? I thought you were getting 
      gloves. 

             ALLEN
      I was going to get gloves but then 
      I saw this. Says its Mildew Proof. 
      I couldnt pass it up.  

             MAX
      First the power tower and now this? 
      Weve really gotta control your 
      impulse buying. 

Max SIGHS, balls up the shopping bag and stuffs it into his 
jacket. Grabs a radio. Throws the other one at Allen - 
SQUAWK. As he gets out of the car Allen stops him.

             ALLEN
      Max. 

Max turns. Allen stiffens up, serious.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Just remember. Dont let yourself 
      get attached to anything you are 
      not willing to walk out on in 30 
      seconds flat if you feel the heat 
      around the corner. 

Max shakes his head. This is word for word the iconic wisdom 
Robert De Niro gives Al Pacino in Michael Manns HEAT. 

             MAX
      Thanks De Niro but were not 
      robbing banks. 

             ALLEN
      Its still good advice. Remember 
      were looking for the far closet 
      light switch. 


                                      33.

EXT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

Max reaches the door, cautiously lifts up the doormat and 
grabs the key. 

(NOTE: over the course of the scene all the dialogue will be 
spoken through the WALKIE TALKIES.)

             MAX
      Yahtzee. 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Roger that Gold Leader. Coast is 
      clear.

Max REPLACES the key under the mat and enters the house.

INT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

The place is LAVISH. Crazy MODERN ART litters the walls. 

Max makes his way deeper into the house. He stops to look at 
various PHOTOS of SALLY, none with Kara. He finds the stairs 
and slowly creeps his way up. 

The walkie SQWAUKS to life: 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      You find the payload yet Gold 
      Leader?

             MAX
      Not yet. And stop calling me Gold 
      Leader. This isnt Star Wars.

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Roger that Gold Le--. Sorry, what 
      should I call you then?

             MAX
      Why don't you just call me Max?

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      We shouldnt use our real names.

             MAX
      Fine whatever. Gold Leader is fine. 
      Should I call you Wedge? 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Negative Gold Leader. Please call 
      me DADDY LONGDICK. 


Max tucks away the radio and continues on his quest, 
eventually making his way into the MASTER BEDROOM.

                                      34.

             MAX
      Hey Allen, you said far light 
      switch right? 

There is no answer. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Allen?

Still nothing. Max stops. Lets out a SIGH.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Daddy Longdick, you said the far 
      closet light swtich, right?

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Roger that Gold Leader. 

Max approaches the closet. Seems pretty ordinary, just a long 
walk in closet with HIGH CEILINGS. He sees the LIGHT SWITCH.

             MAX
      Okay, here goes nothing. 

Gives it a flip. 

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

Allen has his eyes closed ready for impact. Then, nothing.

             ALLEN
      What happened?

INT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

Max toggles the switch. The closet lights go ON and OFF.

             MAX
      Nothing. The lights turned on.

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Are you sure you are flipping the 
      far light switch?

About two feet away is ANOTHER LIGHT SWITCH. That was a fail.

             MAX
      Okay now I got it. 


He flicks it, unleashing a MECHANICAL RUMBLING. We PULL in on 
Max who peers into the closet. The RUMBLE continues.

                                      35.

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

Allen hears the rumble through the walkie.

Beat.

             ALLEN
      So, what do you see? 

             MAX
	(O.S.)
      Holy fuck. 

             ALLEN
      What is it?

INT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

Back on Maxs face, STUNNED. His tone matches his look:

             MAX
      I kid you not Daddy Longdick. Its 
      like the Baskin Robbins of DILDOS 
      in here. Karas Mom was a freak!

We finally see what Max is seeing: 

The far closet wall rises up to reveal a HIDDEN COMPARTMENT 
filled ceiling to floor with an ASSORTMENT OF DILDOS AND 
VIBRATORS. Think MEN IN BLACK when a button moves a wall to 
reveal a stash of secret alien weapons only here its DILDOS.

Max SWALLOWS hard and makes his way toward the Dildos. He 
takes the bag out of his jacket and WHIPS it open.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      If I see a spec of mildew on that 
      shower curtain Im going to kick 
      your ass. 

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

Allen is SILENTLY laughing his ass off when something catches 
his eye in the rearview: A CAR APPROACHES. It turns into the 
driveway. He slumps down in his seat. 

             MAX
	(O.S.)
      Its pretty ironic that Im now the 
      one bare fisting dildos.


                                      36.

EXT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

Its Kara. She gets out and heads toward the house. 

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

Seeing this, Allen SLOUCHES down, out of sight.

INT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY

Max apprehensively pulls each dildo out of its wall mounted 
holster and drops each into the bag disgusted. 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      We have a serious problem Gold 
      Leader. Its Kara. Shes coming 
      into the house. 

Maxs eyes go HUGE. He quickens the pace hastily dismounting 
the dildos.

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
	(CONTD)
      You gotta get out of there without 
      her discovering the payload. And no 
      matter what, dont tell her youre 
      with me!

EXT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY.

Karas at the door. She flips up the mat and grabs the key. 

INT. SALLYS HOUSE UPSTAIRS. DAY

Theres one dildo left but its no ordinary dildo. Its A 
MOTOR POWERED MACHINE GUN DILDO and Max is having trouble 
reaching it on its high perch. 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Shes in the house. 

He sees a foot stool. Bingo. 

INT. SALLYS HOUSE KITCHEN. DAY.

KARA hears a NOISE upstairs. Probably nothing.


                                      37.

INT. SALLYS HOUSE UPSTAIRS. DAY. 

Max shoves the Motor Powered Machine Gun Dildo into the bag 
and runs out of the closet. Then he RE-ENTERS and flips the 
switch back. The MECHANICAL RUMBLE starts up again as the 
secret compartment closes back up. Bad move.

Max is too FLUSTERED to see he accidently left a BLACK DILDO 
with THE HAMMER written on its shaft on the floor by the now-
closed compartment.

INT. SALLYS HOUSE DOWNSTAIRS. DAY.

Kara hears the RUMBLE. Suspicious, she grabs a POKER from the 
fireplace and heads to the stairs. 

             KARA
      Hello? Whos there?

INT. SALLYS HOUSE UPSTAIRS. DAY.

Max PANICS. He looks for a way out. He heads for the window. 
Too high to jump. Still he needs to get rid of the DILDOS. He 
tosses the bag out of the window - bon voyage. 

             MAX
      Daddylongdick. Payload headed your 
      way.

EXT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY.

Allen sees the bag of dildos fly from the window.

             ALLEN
      Roger that gold leader. 

INT. SALLYS HOUSE UPSTAIRS. DAY.

Back on Max, unsure of what to do. Hes FUCKED. 

             KARA
	(O.S.)
      Hello?!

He quickly digs in his pocket, grabs his iPhone, throws 
HEADPHONES into his ears, turns around and starts to DANCE. 


                                      38.

INT. SALLYS HOUSE UPSTAIRS. DAY

Kara enters SHOCKED to see some stranger dancing. She raises 
the POKER ready to strike. 

             KARA
      Hey shitbag!  

But Max cant hear. Hes dancing his heart out. Old school 
moves. Its absurd, but Kara isnt laughing. She uses the 
POKER to tap him on the shoulder. Max turns just as she 
SWINGS at him. He DUCKS just in time. 

             MAX
      You? Youre Kara?!

She SWINGS again and MISSES, destroying a LAMP! CRASH!

             KARA
      Vaseline!? What the fuck are you 
      doing here!?

Another SWING and MISS. 

             MAX
      Whoa! Stop! Its not what it looks 
      like! Ummm... Im the Maid!

             KARA
      Bullshit! I dont know about any 
      maid! And how do you know my name 
      you stalker fuck?!

More SWINGS until Max catches the poker and yanks it away.

             MAX
      Please! Calm down. I promise Im 
      the maid. I used the key under the 
      mat. Your mom reached out to me 
      just before she passed away! I uhh, 
      still came because she paid me in 
      advance. Now please, calm down. 

             KARA
      Im calling 911 unless you fess up 
      right now! Are you stalking me?!

             MAX
      No look I found your mother through 
      Happy Trails, thats how I find a 
      lot of my clients. I only know your 
      name because she talked about you, 
      but there were never any pictures. 

                                      39.

             MAX
	(CONT'D)
      Im not hear for anything else 
      other than to clean. I promise.

Kara takes a DEEP BREATH, calming herself. 

             KARA
      So if you are the maid, as you 
      claim to be, why were you dancing? 

Max spots the HAMMER DILDO on the closet floor. SHIT.

             MAX
        (muttering)
      Hammer.  

             KARA
      What? What hammer?

She starts to turn around.

             MAX
      Umm, Hammer Time. MC Hammer? Cant 
      Touch This was playing and I have 
      this weird thing that anytime it 
      comes on I have to dance to it. 

He starts to HAMMERDANCE. Kara cant help but to LAUGH.

             KARA
      Oh yeah? Well where are all your 
      cleaning supplies?

             MAX
      I normally leave them under the 
      sink, go check if you dont believe 
      me.

She goes into the bathroom. Max darts for the closet, grabs 
the Hammer dildo, not sure what to do with it, he shoves it 
down the back of his pants. Trying to secure it, he STUMBLES 
backwards and TRIPS over the foot stool. He lands HARD on his 
ASS - CRUNCH! The Dildos now partially LODGED IN HIS ASS! 

Kara returns.

             KARA
      Theres nothing there. 

She sees Max, who is now RED IN THE FACE perspiring hard. 

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      Whoa, are you okay? You dont look 
      so good. 


                                      40.

             MAX
        (struggling)
      I think I pulled a hamstring on 
      that last hammerdance. Ill be 
      okay. And I just remembered, I took 
      the supplies with me last time. 
      Theyre out in the car. Ill go get 
      them.

Max limps towards the door, clearly in a lot of pain.

             KARA
      Let me help you. Do you want to sit 
      down?

             MAX
      NO! I got it. Why dont you go 
      ahead. Its going to be difficult 
      to get down the stairs.

             KARA
      Ill help you. 

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

Allen is looking through the bag of Dildos, examining each 
one thoroughly. 

INT. SALLYS HOUSE. LATER.

Kara helps Max down the stairs. Step after painful step. 

INT. MAXS CAR. MOMENTS LATER

Allen PRETENDS to fire the Machine Gun Dildo like a gun until 
he sees the front door OPEN. He sinks down in his seat.

EXT. SALLYS HOUSE. DAY.

Max and Kara step out. 

             KARA
      Hey, I didnt get your name. As you 
      know already, Im Kara.

             MAX
      Max. So sorry about this. Im just 
      in a lot of pain. Hamstring 
      injuries are no joke.   


                                      41.

             KARA
      Yeah it seems that way. Let me go 
      get you some ice. 

             MAX
      No really its okay. 

Kara heads back into the house for the ice. Max RIPS the 
dildo out of his ass. The TEARING sound is unbearable. He 
looks at the bloody hunk of rubber and then tosses it as far 
as he can into a neighbors yard. A GOLDEN RETRIEVER grabs it 
and takes it into a nearby DOG HOUSE. Max is somewhat 
relieved. Kara returns with the ice. 

             KARA
      Look Im sorry about trying to kill 
      you with a firepoker before. Things 
      have been rough since my Mom died. 
      Her funeral was yesterday. My 
      parents were divorced and we 
      werent that close but still its 
      been tough. But anyways, the point 
      is, Im sorry. 

             MAX
      No worries. If I stumbled on to me 
      hammer-dancing, Id probably swing 
      at me too. 

She laughs. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Seriously though, I know what its 
      like to lose parents. And its not 
      easy no matter how close you were. 

             KARA
      Thanks. And look I believe you 
      about the cleaning supplies. You 
      might as well come back another 
      time. Theres just no point in you 
      cleaning til I sift though 
      everything.  

             MAX
      That makes sense. Until then, lets 
      just forget this ever happened. 

Max turns to go. 

             KARA
      Hey wait. You forgot the ice. 


                                      42.

             MAX
      Oh right. Thanks. 

             KARA
      And to make up for almost killing 
      you, why dont you come by my bar 
      for a drink one night next week? 
      Gasworks over on Main. Im there 
      every night til late. Theres a 
      jukebox. It has MC Hammer. Plus I 
      also feel like I had something to 
      do with your injury. 

             MAX
      No, dont worry about it. I feel 
      better already. And sorry again for 
      your loss. Maybe Ill see you next 
      week.

Kara watches for a beat as Max limps towards his car. She 
smiles, then goes back inside.

INT. MAXS CAR. LATER

Allen drives. Max is still in pain.

             ALLEN
      So, what happened with Kara? Did 
      you mention me?

             MAX
      No, sorry I was too busy thinking 
      about the dildo up my ass. It must 
      have slipped my mind! Just promise 
      me you had no idea what was in 
      there! Sanjay didnt tell you?

             ALLEN
      Dont you remember we ro sham bod? 

             MAX
      Well the next one is all you. And I 
      hope its even more painful and 
      disgusting. Knowing my luck though 
      itll probably be something cute 
      like puppies. 

             ALLEN
      So youre telling me some 80 year 
      old womans dildo went up your ass 
      and it fit? How did it feel? 

                                      43.

             ALLEN
	(CONT'D)
      Did you like it? And why didnt you 
      just hide it in your pocket?

             MAX
      Can you please focus on the road. 

EXT. ROAD. LATER.

Maxs car continues along into the evening sun. 

                                FADE OUT:

FADE IN:

INT. MAXS ROOM. MORNING. 

Max is fast asleep with his mouth wide open. Allen hovers 
above him. 

             ALLEN
      Max. Wake up.

Nothing. Allen takes down his pants and carefully stands over 
Max so his ass crack is right above Maxs face. He grabs the 
remote control and hits power on the STEREO. 

GANGSTER RAP BLASTS out of the speakers - Maxs head SHOOTS 
UP - directly into Allens ass crack.

             MAX
      What the hell!

He throws Allen off of him and coughs in DISGUST. Allen 
giggles on the ground. 

             ALLEN
      Ive been waiting to get you back 
      since 7th grade motherfucker. Lets 
      move, we just got a gig. 

Max pulls a hair out of his mouth. Gross. 

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Oh, I brought you something home 
      from work.

EXT. APARTMENT COMPLEX. DAY

Maxs car sits parked out front.


                                      44.

INT. MAXS CAR. DAY.

As Max examines a RED RUBBER CUSHION RING for his ass, he 
notices the BLACK SEDAN in the rearview. 

KNOCK! KNOCK! Allen BANGS on the window. He carries two SUPER 
CUTE PUPPIES. 

             ALLEN
      Open the door. 

He gets in. The puppies crawl on Max and lick his face. 

             MAX
      I hate you. 

INT. MAXS CAR. LATER

Max drives. One puppy sits in Allens lap, the other is 
DIGGING for something under the BACK SEAT. We as the audience 
see hes trying to get at BLACK DICKS VS. WHITE CLITS IV: 
DARNELLS REVENGE. Its just out of the little puppys grasp.  

             MAX
      Whats he digging at?

They have no idea. Allen reaches back to make him stop.

             ALLEN
      Cut it out little guy.

Allen SCOOPS him up and puts him in his lap with the other 
Pup. The REARVIEW catches Maxs eye.

             MAX
      Its that black sedan again. 
      Theyre definitely following us.

             ALLEN
      What really?

             MAX
      Im going to lose them again. 

Max cuts the wheel hard. The puppies BARK as they go flying. 

EXT. ROAD. DAY.

Maxs car TURNS with a HARD LEFT. The Black Car follows. 


INT. BLACK CAR. DAY

Same two huge black dudes, BLACK MAN #1 and BLACK MAN #2. 

                                      45.

INT. MAXS CAR. MOMENTS LATER

             ALLEN
      Holy fuck, slow down!

The puppies are BARKING like crazy.

             MAX
      Im gonna shake them!

             ALLEN
      This is a bad idea.

EXT. ROAD. MOMENTS LATER.

Maxs Car pulls a hard right into a neighborhood. This time, 
The Black Car gives CHASE. Its like a suburban version of 
The French Connection. The cars take another right, then a 
left and before you know it they come to a DEAD END.

EXT. DEAD END. DAY.

Max and Allen are boxed in. Nowhere to go. 

The Black Men get out of their car and approach Maxs.

INT. MAXS CAR. MOMENTS LATER

             MAX
      Fuck, were boxed in.

             ALLEN
      More like fuck, two linebacker-
      sized black dudes are headed our 
      way. 

             MAX
      Cant show any fear. Follow my 
      lead. 

             ALLEN
      Did I mention theyre black?

Blackman #1 knocks on the window. Max rolls it down. 


                                      46.

INT/EXT. MAXS CAR. MOMENTS LATER

Cut IN/OUT of the Car as necessary. 

             MAX
      Arent you guys a little much for 
      something this small? We get it. I 
      mean, what size waist are you? 48? 

Allen rolls his window down. The puppies are going wild.

             ALLEN
      Sir, were you by any chance in The 
      Green Mile? 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Again with the jokes. 

Blackman #2 flashes a GUN tucked into his belt. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Not telling jokes now, are you? 

             ALLEN
      Holy shit theyre strapped.

             MAX
      Whoa, whoa. Look, I still dont 
      have it, okay? But I can have it in 
      two weeks. Just, no guns. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      No more 30 days?

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah, no more 30 days?

We go over the roof of the car for a second. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      What did I tell you about saying 
      what I say?

             BLACKMAN #2
      My bad Dubs, Im trying. 

Back to Max and Allen, PUZZLED by their exchange. 

             MAX
      Look, fellas. Please. Give me the 
      two weeks. Stop following me. Ill 
      have it for you then. Give me time 
      to get it, okay?


                                      47.

             BLACKMAN #1
      And what do I say when my boss asks 
      me why you aint forking it over 
      right now?

             MAX
      You tell him I let someone borrow 
      it and theyre out of town, Im 
      just waiting until they give it 
      back, which will be in two weeks. 

The Blackmen look at each other. Looks like theyre going to 
buy it. Max and Allen are surprised. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Two weeks. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Two weeks. 

Blackman #1 shoots #2 a look. 

             MAX
      Two weeks. You will have it then. 
      Tell your boss to remain calm. 

             ALLEN
      You ever have any jamming problems 
      with that thing?

Allen nods to #2s gun. Max punches Allens leg. 

             MAX
      Dude?

             ALLEN
      What? Its a valid question. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Two weeks. If we dont have it 
      then, youll be finding out all 
      about jamming problems. Come on. 
      Lets roll. 

And with that they walk back to their car. 

             MAX
      Next time when people are 
      threatening us, try not to bring up 
      their weapons, okay?


                                      48.

             ALLEN
      First off, the Jim Browns were 
      threatening you. Not me. I dont 
      owe anybody anything.

             MAX
      I need your help on this one Allen. 

Allen does not respond. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Allen?

Nothing.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Daddylongdick?

             ALLEN
      Fine, Ill help, but any bodily 
      harm gets directed at you, okay? So 
      what are we going to do?

             MAX
      Were going to canvas every 
      hospital and old folks home within 
      a 30 mile radius and hope to God 
      people start dying in the next few 
      days. I got a big gap to close. 

             ALLEN
      How much we talking?

             MAX
      All in all? Around 30.

             ALLEN
      30? And were at 2? Damn Max. Im 
      not sure we can do that. 

             MAX
      I know. Dont worry. I will think 
      of something, but in the meantime, 
      lets start pounding the pavement. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT. HAPPY TRAILS OFFICE. DAY

Allen double checks that the coast is clear before he uses 
the copy machine. Massive amount of LAST MINUTE MAIDS fliers 
start pumping out. Each reads Your Secrets Safe With Us. 
CANT TOUCH THIS by MC HAMMER KICKS IN...


                                      49.

A SERIES OF SHOTS:

--Maxs Car approaches a hospital.

--Max posts a flier on a hospital bulletin board. 

--Allen dips into a hospital room where a PERSON IN A FULL 
BODY CAST lies incapacitated. A tray of food sits on the 
bedside table next to him. Allen places a flier on him. 

--Max flirts with a nurse and hands her a stack of fliers. 

--Allen sits next to the person in the full body cast and 
scarfs down the tray of food. 

--Maxs Car approaches another retirement home.

--Max walks through a BINGO HALL and passes out fliers. 

--Allen places a stack on the refreshment table and eats a 
cookie.

--Sanjay picks up a ringing phone and starts taking down 
information. 

--Allen enters a Steakhouse advertising an EARLY BIRD SPECIAL 
on a huge banner, a stack of fliers in tow. He quickly exits 
without any of them. 

--Max is in a beauty parlor where tons of old ladies get 
their hair permed. He peels each off a flier. 

--Sanjay now has two phones. He answers both at the same 
time. 

--Omar The Orderly picks a flier up off the ground in the 
game room and looks at it. He quickly balls it up, ANGRY.

--Maxs car pulls up to a funeral home. Allen exits and 
leaves a stack on the doorstep. 

--Back in a different hospital, Allen flirts with an Indian 
nurse and gives her a stack of fliers. 

--Max moves into a hospital room. An old womans ASS hangs 
out of her hospital gown as she reaches up to change the TV 
channel. Max slips a flier down and tip toes out. 

The MC Hammer FADES OUT...

                                  CUT TO:


                                      50.

EXT. BAR. NIGHT 

Gasworks on Main. This is Karas bar. 

INT. BAR. NIGHT

Max walks in solo and posts up at the bar. Kara is busy with 
a customer but after a moment she comes over. 

             KARA
      Hey, was wondering if youd show. 

             MAX
      Traffic was a bitch, but I figured 
      I had to clear my name. 

             KARA
      Hows the hammy?

             MAX
      Much better, thanks. 

             KARA
      Take a seat.

             MAX
      Ill stand. 

             KARA
      Okay. So, whatll it be cowboy?

             MAX
      How bout a glass of your finest 
      Sasparilla? 

She chuckles.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Surprise me.

             KARA
      Whiskey it is.

She fills up two tall glasses. They CHEERS.

             MAX
      So hows your Dad enjoying Happy 
      Trails?

             KARA
      He thinks hes on a vacation. Will 
      be interesting to see how it 
      compares to Turks and Caicos. 


                                      51.

             MAX
      Hmm, youd think the lack of 
      sunshine and daiquiris would give 
      it away. 

             KARA
      Hes a little slower than most. The 
      golden age of heavy metal hit my 
      Dad pretty hard. He was a musician. 
      Well really just a roadie for Def 
      Leppard. 

             MAX
      Well in that case, pour some sugar 
      on me. 

Man that was dumb. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      What I meant was, mustve been fun. 

             KARA
      I think it was. For him. Certainly 
      wasnt for my Mom. Or for me. 

Someones got Daddy issues. 

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      But enough about my parents, what 
      about you? What do you do when 
      youre not hustling for clients at 
      retirement homes? Besides flash-
      dancing of course.

             MAX
      Well, Im hanging around rest stops 
      turning tricks. Duh. 

             KARA
      I shouldve guessed that from your 
      dental hygiene. 

Max covers his teeth with his lips.

             MAX
      Hey, thats not funny, I floss 
      every night. 

They chuckle. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Well, until I become a full time 
      dancer, I guess its just me and my 
      cleaning business.


                                      52.

             KARA
      Contract killing too or just 
      custodial work?

             MAX
      Well I try to do a little of both 
      when time permits, but mainly its 
      more house cleaning type stuff. 

             KARA
      So you really are a maid.  

             MAX
      Well its a new thing for me, but 
      yeah, I guess I am. 

             KARA
      I can see in your eyes thats not 
      the whole story but Ill believe 
      you for now.

             MAX
      Ha, why would I lie?

             KARA
      Because you wanna sleep with me. Be 
      right back.  
       

Kara gets summoned away by another customer. Max is in it 
now. She comes back with two shot glasses.

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      How bout tequila?

             MAX
      Sure. Hey you ever talk to the 
      Indian guy who works at Happy 
      Trails? 

             KARA
      Not really, seems like a creep.  

             MAX
      Yeah he does, doesnt he?

             KARA
      Why do you ask?

             MAX
      Oh nevermind. 

Begin bar montage. Pour Some Sugar On Me by Def Leppard 
blasts through the bar: 


                                      53.

--Max and Kara throw down shots. 

--A group of aged FRAT BOYS chug a pitcher of beer. 

--Max and Kara throw down two more. 

--Camera tracks down the bar top as people laugh and throw 
back drinks.

--Two more shots.  

--People are getting sloppy and dancing. 

--A group of skinny ASIAN GIRLS chug beers. 

--More shots. 

--Kara is pouring booze in peoples mouth. 

--Kara lines up a row of shots and lights them on fire. 

--The place is bumping. 

--Max is drunk. 

--Kara smiles a beautiful smile. 

--Everyone DANCES. Max, ass still hurting does THE ROBOT.

--Max takes a shot, holds a lighter to his mouth and breathes 
out FLAMES. The places goes wild.

--The camera speeds up and the night plays out in WARP SPEED. 

END MONTAGE.

EXT. BAR. LATER. 

The lights flicker off as Kara and Max stumble out. She locks 
up. Theyre both hammered.

             MAX
      I havent done the flame thrower 
      since grade school. 

             KARA
      That was pretty cool.

             MAX
      Youre pretty cool. 

             KARA
      Youre drunk.


                                      54.

             MAX
      No Im not. 

Max STUMBLES. Kara catches him.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Maybe a little. 

A TAXI pulls up.

             KARA
      Thats my ride. 

             MAX
      So maybe--

She leans in and gives him a big KISS. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      You took the mouth right out of my 
      words. 

She gets into the cab and SMILES.

             KARA
      Youre fun. Lets do it again soon. 

             MAX
      Definitely. Ill face you on 
      Friendbook. 

             KARA
      Sounds like a plan. 

She shuts the door and the cab pulls away. 

Max SMILES ear to ear. He is smitten. And wasted. 

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS. DAY

Establishing. 

INT. SANJAYS ROOM. DAY.

Sanjay has transformed his room into the LMM headquarters. 
Its now filled with tons of office equipment. Allen sits on 
the bed while Max begins to peak into an old file cabinet. 


             SANJAY
      Git your paws outta my cabinets 
      Snow White. 

Max quickly pulls back.

                                      55.

             MAX
      I was just looking, sorry. 

             SANJAY
      Please dont mess with my systems. 

             ALLEN
      Pops. Look we need money. How much 
      have you collected so far?

             SANJAY
      So far? Well not much because all 
      we have is the deposit monies, the 
      real money doesnt come in until 
      the people start croaking my son. 

             MAX
      How are we getting money from 
      people after they die?

             SANJAY
      Dont worry, its all in the 
      contract. I ran a similar system 10 
      years ago when I helped set up 
      payments systems for an online sexy 
      website. You also had to pay after 
      you went. Very easy my boys. 

             ALLEN
      Look we just have to be patient. We 
      just got the word out yesterday. 
      The calls will come. 

             SANJAY
      Patience is virtues my sons. 

             ALLEN
      Its a virtue Dad, patience is a 
      virtue. 

             SANJAY
      Dont you explain patience to me 
      young man. I have been waiting 
      almost thirty years for you to do 
      something with this life we gave 
      you. And here I am still waiting. 


                                      56.

             ALLEN
      Sorry Im not setting up porn 
      websites Dad.

             SANJAY
      That was a one time thing.

             ALLEN
      What would Mom say about that?

             SANJAY
      How dare you bring up your poor 
      mother! 

Max stands up to exit. Hes heard this a hundred times and 
doesnt want to be in the middle of it.

INT. HALLWAY. DAY.

Max looks down the hall to see Kara walking with an OLD MAN. 
He turns to avoid her when a SUPPLY CART crashes into him. 

             MAX
      OW! Watch where youre going!

Its piloted by:

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Oh Im sorry Twinkie. I didnt see 
      you there Papi. But I did see this.

Omar puts something in Maxs hand, then leans in to WHISPER:

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(CONTD)
      I smell what youre up to Twinkie. 
      I smell everything.  

Omar pulls back and INHALES deeply. He then drops Max a 
SHOULDER and rounds the corner. Max looks in his hand to see 
the balled-up ad for LMM. Scribbled on it is a message that 
reads: Im gonna fuck your ears.

             KARA
	(O.S.)
      Max!?

Kara walks with her father ARCHIE, 70s, a ex-rocker who did 
every drug under the sun and looks like it. Max quickly re-
balls up the ad and shoves it in his pocket. 

             MAX
      Kara, hey. I was just umm, visiting 
      a customer. This must be your Dad.


                                      57.

             ARCHIE
        (thick English accent)
      Oo da ell is dis faireee?

             KARA
      Dad, be nice! This is Max, the guy 
      I told you about. Max, this is my 
      Dad, Archie.

             DEL
      Oroight, da cheeky bloke wit da 
      tiny testes? Is dat you boy, you 
      got da tiny testes, ave ya boy?

             KARA
      No Dad that was Patrick, my ex. We 
      dont talk about him anymore, 
      remember?

Archies puzzled, then shakes his head like he gets it. 

             ARCHIE
      Righty-o my girl. Righty o. Lovely 
      boat idnt it boy? Daiquiris iz to 
      die for.

Archie wanders off towards the game room. 

             MAX
      Daiquiris?

             KARA
      What, he was starting to get 
      confused!

Max sees Allen round a corner pushing a LAUNDRY CART. He 
doesnt seem them - YET.

             MAX
      Hey you know what, I just realized 
      Im late for a job. What about 
      dinner tonight? Ill call you. 

Max takes off. Kara is puzzled. Allen rolls up with the cart. 
Unsure of what to say he digs in, pulls out a pair of SOILED 
UNDERWEAR.

             ALLEN
      Looks like youre Dad had an 
      accident.

Wow this guy is weird. She walks away as quickly as she can. 


                                      58.

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. MOMENTS LATER.

Max goes to open his car but is startled by:

             BLACKMAN #1
      Progress report, Mr. Funnypants.

They talk from inside their car. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah Funnypants, progress. 

#1 shoots #2 a look. #2 catches himself. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Boss wants an update. 

             MAX
      Tell your boss I spoke to my friend 
      and he will be back in a week as 
      promised. Were all set. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Thats good, real good. I dont 
      wanna have to break your precious 
      white legs. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      And I dont wanna have to break 
      your Indian friends precious... 
      Indian legs. 

             MAX
      You got it. 

They pull away ARGUING, but for Max, the pressure is on. 

INT. HAPPY TRAILS. LATER. 

Allen is folding clothes in the laundry room. After a couple 
of shirts and some towels, he pulls out a large pair of 
GRANNY PANTIES. He holds them up to see them in all their 
glory. He looks left, then looks right, then goes in to SNIFF 
THE CROTCH! Just as hes about to take a whiff, Omar busts in 
startling Allen - who quickly hides the panties. Did he see? 
Allen plays it off like he didnt.

             ALLEN
      Omar! Hey man, didnt see ya there. 
      Whats cracking chico? Nothing to 
      see here, just doing some folding. 


                                      59.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Do you think Im a fucking idiot?

             ALLEN
      What do you mean? I was just 
      folding. Wasnt doing anything 
      else. But folding. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      You think I was just going to sit 
      down and watch while you, your 
      padre and the gringo started a 
      business right under my nose?

             ALLEN
      I dont know what you mean.

He pulls out the flier. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Dont bullshit me papi. I think 
      youre forgetting Im the patron of 
      this hacienda and the patron gets a 
      taste of everything. And if I dont 
      get that taste, you, the Twinkie 
      and your pops, are gonna need a new 
      teepee. 

             ALLEN
      But--

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      But nothing. I want 50% of the 
      profits or else Im going to 
      management to tell them youre 
      forcing residents into your little 
      service against their will. And 
      then Im going to tell them how you 
      used all the paper in the copy room 
      to make your fliers. And then, if 
      thats not enough, Im going to 
      tell them you were sniffing panties 
      in the laundry room. 

Allen is speechless. Omar has him by the balls. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(CONTD)
      I take cash and credit, vendejo. 

Omar exits. Allen balls up the panties and tosses them in 
anger. 


                                      60.

INT. ALLENS HOUSE. NIGHT

CLOSE ON THE TV. 

Another Sportscenter clip.

             LINDA COHN
      And in a bizarre turn of events, 
      Alabama Senate hopeful Bo Jackson 
      is coming under some scrutiny for 
      some off field antics when he sat 
      out a season in 1992 due to injury. 
      Lets hear from Bo.

Cut to a clip of Bo Jackson.

             BO JACKSON
      Bo thinks the allegations are 
      ridiculous. Bo would never do such 
      a thing. Bo is for the people. Bo 
      is for the kids.

             REPORTER
      So you deny ever acting in any 
      pornography?

             BO JACKSON
      Bo thinks this is ridiculous.

Back to Linda COHN. 

             LINDA COHN
      We will have more for you as this 
      bizarre story continues to develop.

CLICK. The channel changes. We now see the movie TAKEN 
starring Liam Neeson. Its right at the part where he tells 
the kidnapper he has a special set of skills. 

Max and Allen sit on the couch, eating ICE CREAM and drinking 
WINE while watching the TV, dejected. The Puppies look 
dejected too.

             ALLEN
      I wish I had a special set of 
      skills. Id Jackie Chan the shit 
      out of Omar. Then Id Jet Li the 
      Michael Clark Duncan twins. 

             MAX
      I think I could take Liam Neeson. 


                                      61.

             ALLEN
      Are you kidding me? He cant be 
      killed by conventional weapons. He 
      trained Batman, he trained Obi Wan 
      Kinobi. He took on the Nazis. He 
      fought wolves with his bare hands. 
      He reigned over the Gods of Mt. 
      Olympus in not one, but two shitty 
      movies. He would fuck you up. 

             MAX
      I mean real life Liam Neeson. 

             ALLEN
      Yeah and hed fuck you up too. 

They both guzzle wine as Liam Neeson heads to Paris to find 
his daughter. Allen eats ice cream out of the carton. One of 
the puppies licks his lips. Allen lets it happen. 

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
        (mouthful of ice cream)
      How are we going to pay off those 
      Linemen and keep Omar in check?

Max thinks for a moment.

             MAX
      You remember when we got caught 
      shrooming in 8th grade on the field 
      trip to the history museum?

             ALLEN
      You mean almost got caught. I still 
      have no idea what you said to that 
      security guard. 

             MAX
      But none of it wouldve mattered if 
      you didnt eat the rest of the 
      mushrooms. They wouldve found them 
      and we would have been expelled. 
      Probably arrested. 

A look of HORROR fills Allens face.

             ALLEN
      I went to a dark place that day. A 
      place I never want to go back to. 


                                      62.

             MAX
      I think you may have set the 
      Guinness record for hallucinogens 
      ingested by a 14 year old Indian 
      kid. And then you puked all over 
      Sally Coopersmith. That was gross.

             ALLEN
      Just made me trip harder. 

The memory comforts them as memories often do.

             MAX
      Were like life in Jurassic Park.

             ALLEN
      We will find a way. 

CLINK!

They cheers their glasses as Liam Neeson fucks someone up on 
the TV and the JURASSIC PARK THEME blares on the soundtrack. 

INT. HAPPY TRAILS. NIGHT.

John Williamss iconic theme fades into the background as 
melancholy music kicks in. We eerily flow through the 
hallways of Happy Trails into Sanjays room where hes 
sprawled out in a recliner chair, eyes and mouth agape. Death 
comes for all of us eventually. We hold on his face. 

He suddenly SNAPS out it and grabs his one hitter - HE WASNT 
DEAD JUST REALLY, REALLY HIGH. As he exhales - RING! RING! 

             SANJAY
      Last Minute Maids! Cleaning up what 
      you leave behind... Uh huh. Uh huh.

RING! RING! - its the other phone!

             SANJAY
	(CONTD)
      Please hold my sir. Last Minute 
      Maids, taking care of your dirty 
      secrets! Yes. Please hold maam.

Sanjay CLAPS his hands in excitement. He takes one more hit 
off the pipe and resumes the calls. The camera floats out the 
window, over Happy Trails, focusing on the full moon in all 
its glory. The Jurassic Park music SWELLS once again. 


                                      63.

TIME LAPSE as the moon fades away and the SUN rises. Montage 
music takes over, perhaps something like BTOs Taking Care 
of Business or better yet Paul Engemanns Push It To The 
Limit. Hopefully the music budget is large enough to choose 
either. The song blares over

A SERIES OF SHOTS:

--Allen disguised as a PLUMBER knocks on a door. 

--Max dressed as an EXTERMINATOR knocks on a door. 

--Max and Allen ride in Maxs car VIBING to the music.

--Plumber Allen waives off a WOMAN as he pretends to fix the 
toilet. After a moment he lifts up the top of the toilet and 
pulls out a plastic bag. Inside is a GUN!

--Exterminator Max makes his way into the basement. He 
pretends to spray bug repellent for a moment, then digs into 
a box and pulls out a GIANT BONG. 

--QUICK SHOTS of the GUN and the BONG going into the 
DUMPSTER.

--Allen is up on a step ladder HAMMERING Black Utility Gloves 
into the WALL just like WESLEY SNIPES in MAJOR LEAGUE! Only a 
few pairs adorn the wall.

--Max dressed as a FIREMAN enters a house, pointing to a 
SMOKE DETECTOR. Pull out on another SMOKE DETECTOR and were 
now in a bedroom. Max digs through a drawer pulling out a 
FULL BODY BLACK LEATHER SUIT and BALL GAG. 

--Allen huddles around a DYING PATIENT dressed as A DOCTOR. 
As the patient FLATLINES, Allen fades back and digs into his 
pants slipping something out of his wallet. Close on: a naked  
picture of a woman glossed with traces of LIPSTICK. 

--In the LOCKER ROOM at a Country Club, a FAKE MUSTACHE 
wearing, towel-clad Allen dries himself off as he waits for a 
group of OLD WHITE MEN to clear out. As they leave he puts in 
a COMBINATION to a locker. He pulls out a HUGE BAG OF COKE.

--MAX with an ISLAMIC HEADWRAP poses as a Janitor in an 
office building, he waits for some WORKERS to walk by and 
quickly ducks into an office. Inside he digs into the bottom 
desk drawer and pulls out a stack of POLAROIDS. They show a 
man and a woman in DIFFERENT SEX POSITIONS.

--QUICK SHOTS: Lighter fluid into a trash can. A match drops 
in. BIG FLAMES. The bag of coke spills out. The Polaroids 
sprinkle in. 


                                      64.

--The phones ring off the hook as Sanjay moves quickly to 
answer them. 

QUICK, QUICK SHOTS:

--A KNIFE is tossed in a trash can.

--A pair of KNUMBCHUCKS gets trashed.

--A FULLY INFLATED RUBBER WOMAN is disposed of. 

--A BAG OF WEED gets tossed into a trash can. 

--A hand reaches in and PULLS OUT the BAG OF WEED.

--Sanjay puts the weed in his pipe and TOKES UP.

--A Large Amount of FAT CHICK PORNO Mags called BEACHED WHALE 
TAIL get tossed.

--A cluster of ANAL BEADS meets its demise.

--Allen does DIPS on the POWER TOWER. He sweats like a 
BASTARD.

--A BAG OF KNIVES is emptied out.

-- CASH is counted.

--A BAG OF GUNS spills out.

-- MORE CASH is counted. 

As the music FADES OUT, Allen is back up on the Step Ladder, 
he searches for a place to hammer in the gloves. THE WALL IS 
FULL. He gets off the ladder and takes it in.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. BASKIN ROBBINS. NIGHT

Max and Kara sit eating ICE CREAM outside a Baskin Robbins. 

             KARA
      That was delicious. My Dad loves 
      this place. 

             MAX
      He seems like a handful. 


                                      65.

             KARA
      You have no idea. Feels like Ive 
      spent more time looking after him 
      then he did me. We will have to 
      take him out so you can see for 
      yourself.

             MAX
      Mustve been cool having a rock and 
      roll parent though, no?

             KARA
      Not sure I would call him a parent. 
      He was never around. Always on tour 
      somewhere or in the studio with so 
      and so. Loved hanging with the 
      guys. Didnt really know where he 
      was half the time. 

             MAX
      And what about your Mom?

             KARA
      She always wanted something bigger. 
      My Dad just couldnt satisfy her.  
      Not sure the guy she remarried did 
      either.

Maxs eyes WIDEN. If she only knew about the dildos.

             MAX
      I think she took care of herself. 

             KARA
      What do you mean by that?

             MAX
      I, um, saw pictures... at the house 
      - she seemed satisfied.

             KARA
      Oh right, you probably know a lot 
      about her by seeing all her stuff. 
      What about you? Whats your story?

             MAX
      The whole thing?

             KARA
      The whole thing. 

             MAX
      Okay here it goes. 


He takes a deep breath. Then without exhaling:

                                      66.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      My parents had me late in their 
      lives. Not sure why, because they 
      didnt have enough time to see the 
      job through. Spent most of my 
      childhood in and out of the 
      hospital looking after them. After 
      they passed, I wandered around for 
      a couple of years and spent all the 
      money they left me. Then went to 
      college and spent money I didnt 
      have. Met my ex, spent a few years 
      in and out of an emotionally 
      abusive relationship - obviously 
      all her - and now here I am trying 
      to payback my student loans and 
      rebuild my emotional fabric. 

             KARA
      All by cleaning houses. 

             MAX
      More or less. What about you? What 
      happened with Mr. Small Testes?

             KARA
      You mean other than the fact that 
      he had small testes?

             MAX
        (chuckles)
      I dont know, you tell me.

             KARA
      Well, one Tuesday I took Archie to 
      the park and found him asleep on a 
      bench. Turns out he had been out of 
      work for the last six months we 
      dated and never told me. Just 
      didnt have the balls to come 
      clean. Hence...

             MAX
      The small testes. 

Max CRUNCHES down on his CONE. 

             KARA
      Right. Thats why its refreshing 
      to go out with someone who owns 
      their own business. No bullshit. 


                                      67.

GULP.

             MAX
      Im gonna go get some water. 

INT. HAPPY TRAILS. NIGHT. 

Allen enters into Archies room. 

             ALLEN
      Mr. Franklin. You needed me?

Archie is sitting in a chair BOTTOMLESS. We hold on his 
shriveled old uncircumsized dick just a second too long. 

             ARCHIE
      Heard you da boy dtalk to bout 
      gettin rid of me diry bidness.

             ALLEN
        (flustered)
      Alright, whered you put em? Ill 
      get you a fresh pair. Lets make it 
      quick.

             ARCHIE
      No ya cunt, I didnt shit meself. 
      Not at dmoment anyway. Im talkin 
      bout a gig ya focker. 

             ALLEN
      Oh, then why are you sitting here 
      bottomless?

             ARCHIE
      Why Brown bag, ya like what ya see?

As they talk we close in on a tiny SECURITY CAMERA hidden in 
the ceiling air con vent. Their noise drowns out into:

INT. HAPPY TRAILS - OMARS OFFICE. MOMENTS LATER.

Omar listening/watching through a secret video feed. Just one 
of many, we see he has the whole place wired with HIDDEN 
CAMERAS. He grins evilly and picks up his cell. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
        (en Espanol)
      Hola amigo, I need a favor. 


INT. CAR. DAY

Max and Allen pull up between two houses separated by a 
trampoline. 

                                      68.

             ALLEN
      This one is all you.

             MAX
      On the left?

             ALLEN
      Thats it. Right side window is 
      unlocked. Upstairs, small bedroom. 
      Plastic container under the bed. 

Max puts on gloves and grabs his walkie - at this point a 
routine. 

             MAX
      This is it. Weve almost got enough 
      to pay off Johnson and Johnson. 

With a Squawk test, hes off. 

Behind them a tricked out CADILLAC is parked in the distance.

INT. CADILLAC. MOMENTS LATER.

Behind the wheel is THE AMIGO a tatted up Latino gang-banger 
you wouldnt want to fuck with. He pulls out a CELL PHONE. 
(NOTE: THE AMIGO ONLY SPEAKS EN ESPANOL THROUGHOUT THE FILM)

             AMIGO
      Hola, Omar. I got my eye on them. 

INT. HAPPY TRAILS - OMARS OFFICE. DAY

Omar hangs up the phone and reclines. 

             OMAR
      Nobody fucks with Omar and gets 
      away with it.

EXT. HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

As Max makes his way to the window, a LITTLE GIRL spills out 
of the neighboring house and heads to the trampoline. Allen 
watches as Max lifts the window and FALLS IN - CRASH!


                                      69.

INT. HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

Max gathers himself, having knocked over some pictures.

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Hey I was thinking, would you ever 
      wear a coat made of human hair?

He puts the pics back on the table but notices THEY ARE 
PICTURES OF KARA. OH. FUCK. He instantly hits the walkie. 

             MAX
      Al - I mean Daddylongdick, whose 
      house is this?

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Oh that girl Kara. Her Dad hired 
      us. He left something here. 

Max is PANICKING. 

             MAX
      But hes not dead yet. Regardless, 
      Werent you going to tell me?

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      He said it couldnt wait and sorry, 
      I didnt think it would matter. 

             MAX
      Well she already caught me snooping 
      around her Moms place, you dont 
      think it will be a bit odd when she 
      finds me in her own house!? 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Relax Gold Leader - Shes not home. 
      Archie said she takes Yoga on 
      Saturday afternoons. Were good. 

             MAX
      Its Sunday you asshole!

INT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER

As if on cue, Kara pulls into the driveway. Allen ducks.

             ALLEN
      Youre going to laugh, but guess 
      whos home? I mean what are the 
      odds?


                                      70.

INT. HOUSE. DAY

Max peeks through the blinds. 

             MAX
      Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Idiot! You have 
      to distract her. Ill get the 
      payload just distract her! 

Max takes off upstairs. 

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      How am I going to do that? 

             MAX
        (rushing up stairs)
      I dont know. Talk to her! Whatever 
      you do, just dont let her in the 
      house. Ill get arrested.

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Roger that Gold Leader. 

Max is now in ARCHIEs BEDROOM. He moves quickly to the bed, 
reaches under it and SLIDES OUT a 5x2 PLASTIC STORAGE 
CONTAINER. He studies it for a moment.

EXT. FRONT OF THE HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

Allen gets out of the car, and approaches Kara who is inside 
the house, about to shut the front door. Here goes nothing:

             ALLEN
	(O.S.)
      Hey, uh, Kara?

She turns, surprised. 

INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS. MOMENTS LATER

Max - struggling to get a good grip on the mystery container -
hears Kara enter the house. He looks for an escape route. 

INT/EXT. HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

             KARA
      Hi. Um, Allen, right? Is everything 
      okay with my Dad?


                                      71.

             ALLEN
      Oh yeah, hes fine. No recent 
      shits, not since ya know the one. 
      Well Im sure, ya know, on his own.  

             KARA
        (creeped out)
      Great. You came to my house to tell 
      me that?

EXT. HOUSE ROOF. MOMENTS LATER

Max carefully climbs out onto the roof. He struggles to 
balance on the slant with the awkwardly shaped container. At 
the EDGE OF THE ROOF he looks down: yikes! The TRAMPOLINE is 
his only hope. But the little girl is right there. FUCK.

EXT. HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

             ALLEN
      Well, no there is something else. 
      And I just cant keep it inside me 
      any longer... 

On Kara, even more FREAKED OUT. Allen just as NERVOUS.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Howd you like to date with me? I 
      mean go dating with me? I mean go 
      on a date with me?

EXT. HOUSE ROOF. MOMENTS LATER

Trying to distract the girl, Max picks up a PINE CONE from 
the gutter and CHUCKS it into the backyard woods - CRUNCH! 

The little girl pauses. Did she just hear something? Not 
sure, she goes right back to it. Needing something bigger, 
Max opens the container - his eyes widen in HORROR as he 
peers in. We cant see what hes sees. He hesitates then 
reaches in and throws SOMETHING into the woods - CRUNCH!  

Now shes intrigued. We go tight on her face as she makes her 
way towards the edge of the woods. 


                                      72.

EXT/INT. HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

             KARA
      Well Allen, Im flattered but 
      unfortunately, Im seeing someone 
      right now. Its also kinda weird 
      youre at my house.

             ALLEN
      Well, I was just on my way home and 
      thought Id stop by. 

             KARA
      Oh, do you live around here?

             ALLEN
      No.

EXT. HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

The curious little girl sees a mysterious MAGAZINE just 
inside the woods. She goes to pick it up.

INSERT: The MAG is called MOBYS DICK. The cover shows a MAN 
in a whale costume with a GIANT PURPLE WHALE ERECTION ready 
to enter another man dressed as CAPTAIN AHAB. Fine print 
reads: FROM THE CREATORS OF BEACHED WHALE TAIL. 

As she opens it, in the background we see Max - clutching the 
container - come PLUNGING down from the roof onto the 
trampoline and BOUNCE OUT OF FRAME - CRASH!

The little girl WHIPS her head back but sees NOTHING. Back to 
the magazine she sees the contents and starts to CRY. She 
runs inside. 

EXT. FRONT OF THE HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER

Allen is already in the car, defeated. Max hurries to meet 
him when the door of the Little Girls house SWINGS OPEN and 
her MOTHER CHARGES out at Max with a BUTCHER KNIFE raised. 

             MOTHER
      Hey you sick fuck!

Max frantically gets in as Allen PEELS OUT just in time for 
the knife-wielding Mother to eat their dust. She lets out a 
WAR CRY as we crane up to see the car SPEED OFF.


                                      73.

INT. CADILLAC. MOMENTS LATER.

The Amigo puts down a pair of BINOCULARS and scratches his 
head.

INT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER

Maxs jaw hangs at the arsenal of gay porn in his lap. He 
holds up a DVD box for THE HUNT FOR RED COCK-TOBER. 

             ALLEN
      Shes seeing someone. 

             MAX
        (playing dumb)
      What? 

             ALLEN
      Kara, shes dating someone. Who am 
      I kidding, I never had a chance.  

             MAX
      Come on, dont be like that. Im 
      sure this fellow - whoever he is - 
      is a nice guy. 

             ALLEN
      Whats that supposed to mean?

             MAX
      I dont know, nothing. Hes 
      probably a good guy is all. 

BUZZ! Max gets a text. Its from Kara. 

INSERT TEXT MESSAGE: DINNER 2NITE W MY DAD? I HAVE 
FUNNY/WEIRD STORY TO TELL U. 

             ALLEN
      Not sure how thats supposed to 
      help.

BUZZ. Another text.

INSERT TEXT MESSAGE: EXCITED TO SEE YOU AGAIN :) XOXO, KARA.

So is Max. 

             MAX
      Look, youre right theres 
      something I have to tell you. 


             ALLEN
      Okay. 

Here it comes, moment of truth. On Allen, puppy dog eyes.

                                      74.

             MAX
      Lets find this guy and kick his 
      ass Liam Neeson style. 

             ALLEN
      Nah youre right, its not his 
      fault. Maybe shes just not into 
      Asians. 

Allen is bummed.

             MAX
      I just got chased by a lady with a 
      butcher knife, thats not something 
      you see everyday. 

No reaction. The car speeds into the sunset. 

INT. RESTAURANT. NIGHT

Max approaches a table where Kara and Archie are already 
seated.

             MAX
      Sorry, Im late. Just had a work 
      thing. 

             ARCHIE
      No French Maid gitty tday? 

             KARA
      Dad, come on now. Be nice. 

             MAX
      Ya know. Theres something I should  
      tell both of you. 

             KARA
      Okay what is it?

             ARCHIE
      Sittin on a secret, iz ya boy?

They both stare at him. 

             MAX
      I think you both should know... 
      that my roommate loves this place. 


                                      75.

             KARA
      Oh I didnt know you had a 
      roommate. 

             ARCHIE
      Ow da daquiris in dis joint luv?

             MAX
      Lets find out! Excuse me maam.

The waitress turns - its Ashley - the girl Max gave a facial 
to/fucked in the ass in the opening. She puts a few waters 
down on the table. 

             ASHLEY
      Hey guys, welcome to Angelos --

She pauses on Max. He gives a please dont ruin this look. 

             ASHLEY
	(CONTD)
      Italian Sub shop. Have you guys 
      been here before?

             KARA
      No I think were all first timers. 
      Heard its great though. Be careful 
      with the ice Dad. 

Archie rolls his eyes as he takes a sip. 

             ASHLEY
      Can I start you off with something 
      to suck on? Cocktail?

             KARA
        (oblivious)
      Sure. Just a sec.

Kara and Archie look at the menu. Ashley smiles at Max who is 
still trying to plead with his eyes.  

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      Im going to have a glass of the 
      house red, and Dad, what do you--

             ARCHIE
      Strawberry Daiquiri luv, extra rum.

             ASHLEY
      And for you hun?

             MAX
      Ill just have water.


                                      76.

Ashley leaves. 

             KARA
      She looks familiar. Have you ever 
      seen her anywhere? 

             MAX
      Nope, dont think so. 

CLANK! Archie drops his fork on the ground. Kara bends down 
to pick it up. As she does, Max locks eyes with Ashley at the 
waitress station who MIMES A BLOW JOB - poking out her cheek 
with her tongue. He quickly looks away as Kara reemerges.

             KARA
      Careful Daddy. You seem so excited.

             ARCHIE
      Jus happy to be out wit Maxy boy 
      here.

             MAX
      Um, thanks Archie. 

             KARA
      Wow he must really like you. He 
      cant remember my name half the 
      time these days.

Archie WINKS at Max. Ashley comes with some bread.

             ASHLEY
      Drinks should be up in a sec... 
      Have you had a chance to look at 
      the menu? 

             KARA
      Not yet. Any recommendations?

             ASHLEY
      Well, me, I love the balls. 

She points to the menu Kara is looking at. 

INSERT: On the Menu we see the Balls section refers to 
their meatballs.

Ashley looks Max in the eyes as she talks.

             ASHLEY
	(CONTD)
      We really know how to handle them 
      here. We pack them in really tight. 
      And our buns are nice and hard. 


                                      77.

Max tries to ignore her. 

             KARA
      Those sound good. 

             ARCHIE
      I do luv me some balls.

             MAX
      Any other recommendations?

Kara and Archie scan the menu. Max tries to as well.

             ASHLEY
      I pretty much eat anything. But if 
      its not the balls, its the 
      sausage. I love a long thick 
      sausage. 

             KARA
      Me too. I love sausage. And 
      peppers. That sounds good to me. 
      Sausage and peppers hero.

             ARCHIE
      Well I also luv me a good hard 
      sausage, but Im feelin like da 
      balls tonight darlin.

             MAX
      Ill go with the eggplant parm. 

             ASHLEY
      Nothing to start with? We also toss 
      a mean salad. 

Max coughs up a little water. Archie RUBS him on the back.

             ARCHIE
      Eeazy der Maxxyboy! Spit her up!

             MAX
      Im good. Thanks Archie. Mustve 
      went down the wrong pipe.

             ASHLEY
      Im gonna go stick this in. Let me 
      know if you need anything else. 

             ARCHIE
      Right-o luv. 

Ashley exits.


                                      78.

             KARA
      She seemed cool. 

             MAX
      So there really is something I want 
      to tell you.

             KARA
      Me first... 

Max looks up to the front and sees ALLEN walk in. Oh. Fuck.

OVER TO ALLEN:

             ALLEN
      Hey I had a pickup order under the 
      name Daddy L.

             HOSTESS
      Let me check on that for ya. 

BACK OVER TO MAX:

             KARA
      So the weirdest thing happened the 
      other day, remember you know that 
      Indian guy from Happy Trails?

Max stands quickly.

             MAX
      Hey you know what I actually have 
      to go to the bathroom. 

He makes a bee line towards the rest room. Over at the 
waitress station Ashley sees this and makes her move. 

Back up front, Allen waits patiently for his food. 

INT. BATHROOM. MOMENTS LATER. 

The sink runs as Max looks at himself in the mirror. 

Ashley BUSTS in the door, shuts it and locks it. 

             MAX
      Ashley? What are you doing?

She bites her bottom lip. 


                                      79.

             ASHLEY
      Youre a bad boy Max Powers. If you 
      wanted to fuck again, you couldve 
      just called. You dont have to make 
      me jealous. 

             MAX
      What? I didnt know you worked 
      here!

             ASHLEY
      Sure you didnt you naughty boy. 
      Now lets thank Jesus for snaps.

She RIPS open her shirt revealing her lingerie-clad breasts.  

             MAX
      Whoa.

             ASHLEY
      Maybe this time, youll let mama 
      lick off that Fudgesickle.

She goes in for the kill. Max side steps her and makes for 
the door. As he undoes the lock she PINS him against it.

             ASHLEY
	(CONTD)
      Did you think you were just going 
      to fuck me and never talk to me 
      again? 

She LICKS his face. 

             MAX
      Of course not. 

She lowers down and starts to unbuckle his pants. 

             ASHLEY
      Mama wants another glue mask.

Repulsed, he stops her. 

             MAX
      Look not here okay. Lets hold out 
      til we have some place more...

The toilet FLUSHES. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Private. 

             ASHLEY
      But mama wants it now. 


                                      80.

             MAX
      Well Mamas going to have to wait. 

She backs off a little and Max quickly makes his move out the 
door. We stay in the bathroom on Ashley, frustrated. 

             ASHLEY
      But I want it now! 

Another Flush. Then the stall door swings open and out walks 
the JEWISH HOUSE DAD - the same guy who thought Allen was a 
Mexican at Home Depot. 

Quiet beat as they stare at each other. 

Then Ashley RUSHES him and they start making out FURIOUSLY.

INT. RESTAURANT. MOMENTS LATER. 

With no other choice, Max heads back to the table. 

Up-front, Allen pays. As they hand him the food, he sees Max 
sit down. His view is blocked so he cant see who hes with.

BACK AT THE TABLE.

             MAX
      Sorry about that, just really had 
      to go.

             KARA
      Its okay, you didnt miss 
      anything. The service is terrible. 
      I wonder where the waitress is with 
      our drinks? Easy with that ice Dad. 

Archie CRUNCHES down on another ice cube as Allen walks up. 
He stares at Max with a look of betrayal.

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      This is what I was going to tell 
      you. I think this guy is stalking 
      me!

             ARCHIE
      Who? Curry dick?

Allen stares DAGGERS.

             MAX
      Allen, its not how it looks. 


                                      81.

             ALLEN
      Oh really? Because it looks like my 
      best friend is stabbing me in the 
      back by going out with the girl he 
      knew I liked. 

             KARA
      Wait, you guys know each other?

             MAX
      Allen. 

             ALLEN
      Fuck you Max. 

Allen grabs a piece of bread and tosses it at Max. Hes 
helpless as it hits him in the face. Kara is still confused. 
Archie keeps munching away on the ice loving every minute of 
it. Allen STEWS.

             KARA
      Max whats going on here?

Ashley enters with the DRINKS - disheveled and oblivious. 

             ASHLEY
      Okay, one glass of red and one 
      strawberry daiquiri, extra rum. 

             ALLEN
      You couldnt just fuck Ashley here? 
      You prick. You had to fuck Kara 
      too? 

He flicks him off. 

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      And find another place to live.

Allen STORMS OUT. Kara is SHOCKED. 

             KARA
      Hes your roommate?

             MAX
      Allen, wait. 

Max stands up but Allen is long gone. 

             KARA
        (to Ashley)
      And you two know each other too?


                                      82.

             ASHLEY
      Yeah, we almost fucked in the 
      bathroom a minute ago.

COUGH! Archie starts to CHOKE on the ice. 

             MAX
      Shes lying!

             KARA
      Dad! 

Archie falls over choking. CHAOS erupts. 

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      Help! Someone help!

One of the other patrons rushes over. Hes a DOCTOR.

             DOCTOR
      Im a Doctor!

He starts to perform the Heimlich maneuver on Archie who is 
turning BLUE. After a few heaves Archie coughs the ICE up but 
his eyes roll back in his head as he SEIZURES. More panic.

Max puts his hand on Karas shoulder. She throws him off. 

             KARA
        (crying)
      Get the fuck away from me!

She goes back to her seizuring father. 

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      Call an ambulance!

             DOCTOR.
      Hes going to bite his tongue off! 
      I need something for him to bite 
      down on. 

We go tight on Max. His world is fucked. 

INT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Allen is driving. Tears run down his cheeks. He turns up the 
volume on the stereo. Thug Luv by 2Pac and Bone Thugs-n-
Harmony blares through the speakers. As 2pacs hard as fuck 
intro plays through the speakers, Allen toughens up. The 
intro culminates with the sound of a shotgun being COCKED.

CA-CHHH!


Allen mimes the action perfectly in-step with the track. Hes 
now in KILLER MODE. As Bizzy Bones verse drops in, Allen 
tries to keep up with the high-pithed, fast paced sing song - 
its ridiculous, but hes not laughing. The phone rings. 
Sanjay. He turns down the radio.

                                      83.

             ALLEN
      Hello?

             SANJAY
	(O.S.)
      We have an extraction my son. 

             ALLEN
      Give me the details. 

EXT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Thug Luv blasts as Allen speeds into the night. The Amigos 
Cadillac follows closely behind. 

INT. ALLENS HOUSE. NIGHT

Max busts in the door. The dogs BARK excited that hes home.

             MAX
      Allen!? Allen!?

No response. A moment later his phone RINGS. 

      Allen?

             MAX
	(CONTD)
INT. HOSPITAL. NIGHT.

Kara phone to her ear. Her eyes red from CRYING. 

             KARA
      Why is there something called Last 
      Minute Maids listed as an emergency 
      contact for my father? And an even 
      better question: why is your name 
      and number listed as a contact on 
      the website?  

             MAX
      Kara, I can explain.

             KARA
      Yeah right you liar. Go sleep on a 
      bench!


                                      84.

INT. ALLENS HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER.

             MAX
      Fuck. 

He tosses the phone and crouches down against the wall right 
beside the Power Tower. The dogs LICK his face as he stares 
up at the wall filled with black utility gloves. 

INT. CAR. NIGHT

Allen turns on the dome light of the car and pulls off his 
gloves. He holds up a LARGE BAG OF SHROOMS - probably a half 
ounce. How fitting. As he ponders the nights events his eyes 
close. 

HIGH BEAMS FLASH ON behind him.

             MEGAPHONE VOICE
	(O.S.)
      FREEZE, WE HAVE YOU SURROUNDED!

He quickly flicks off the dome light and eyes the bag of 
shrooms. FUCK - where should he hide them? He cant decide! 
He starts to SHOVEL them into his mouth. 

EXT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Two sets of FOOTSTEPS approach the car. 

INT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Just as he gulps down the last handful of shrooms a 
FLASHLIGHT shines in from the passenger side. TAP! TAP!

He rolls down his window and stares into the BLINDING LIGHT 
of another flashlight. He swallows hard. 

             ALLEN
      How can I help you offi--

As the flashlight lowers he sees whos holding it: BLACKMAN 
#1. 

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      What the fuck?

             BLACKMAN #1
      Its payday fuckhead.


                                      85.

Allen tries to start the car in a PANIC as Blackman #2 
SHATTERS the passenger side window. Both black men reach in 
the car as Allen futilely tries to struggle free. 

INT. CADILLAC. MOMENTS LATER.

The Amigo puts down his binoculars and scratches his head.

INT. SANJAYS ROOM. NIGHT.

Sanjay EXHALES a lungful of hindu kush out the window as Max 
enters his room. 

             MAX
      Sanjay - have you seen Allen? Is he 
      here?

Sanjay wafts the smoke out the window and picks up a book 
like he was reading. 

             SANJAY
      What? Im sorry I was just reading. 
      What did you say?

Max smells the weed. 

             MAX
      Right. Your son. Have you seen him? 
      Hes not answering his phone. Its 
      going straight to voicemail. 

             SANJAY
      Last I spoke to that pig headed boy 
      he was going on an extraction. 

             MAX
      Really? Without me?

             SANJAY
      I figured you were together like 
      always, watching the pictures and 
      talking about dicks or whatever it 
      is you underachievers talk about. 

             MAX
      No, we had a fi-- I did something 
      fucked up. He may hate me. 

             SANJAY
      Ha! You two could never hate each 
      other. I wish that werent so, but 
      it is true my boy. 

                                      86.

             SANJAY
	(CONT'D)
      You are the best pair of friends I 
      have ever seen. You are like Butch 
      and the Sundancer. 

Sanjay sees the sadness in Maxs eyes - its serious.

             SANJAY
	(CONTD)
      Oh fuck-fuck. Take a seat. Tell me 
      what happened.

Max sits. Sanjay pulls out his one hitter. 

             SANJAY
	(CONTD)
      Smoke?

             MAX
      No thanks. 

INT. WAREHOUSE. NIGHT.

The Black Sedan pulls into an ominous warehouse. The doors 
open and the Blackmen emerge holding Allen who has his hands 
tied behind his back. They approach an ESCALADE. Blackman #1 
knocks on the back window. It ROLLS DOWN to reveal BO 
JACKSON. Thats right, the same Bo Jackson who played 
baseball and football and is now running for senate. What. 
The. Fuck. 

A look of HORROR fills Allens face. Hes tripping BALLS.

             BO JACKSON
      Bo didnt want it to come to this. 
      But they want to take Bo down. So 
      Bo got to do whats right for Bo. 
      You got what Bo wants?

Allen says nothing. 

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      This motherfucker talk or what?

             BLACKMAN #2
      Somethings up with him boss. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Usually he don't shut the fuck up. 

Focus on Allen. The shrooms have taken over. The sound from 
Bo and his goons DROWNS OUT, their images BLUR. We see what 
Allen sees: LIAM NEESON walks out from behind the Escalade, 
surrounded by a GOLDEN GLOW. He has a WOLF by his side. 


                                      87.

             ALLEN
      Liam Neeson. 

             LIAM NEESON
      Hello Allen. How do you do?

             ALLEN
      Im very well Liam. Nice wolf.

Liam nods and gives the wolf a rub on the head.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Though now that you ask, I feel a 
      tad funny and Im a little scared 
      of these guys.

             LIAM NEESON
      Its okay Allen, just think of me, 
      and all that Ive done, and youll 
      never be scared. 

Allen is in awe.

             ALLEN
      Thanks Liam. 

             LIAM NEESON
      Youre very welcome Allen. 

And with a POOF, Liam and the wolf are gone. Back to Bo and 
co - who look PUZZLED. 

             BO JACKSON
      You got what Bo wants or what?

Allen pauses for a minute, but then he hardens up.

             ALLEN
        (doing his best Neeson)
      I dont know what you want. If you 
      are looking for a ransom, I can 
      tell you, I dont have money. But 
      what I do have, are a very 
      particular set of skills. Skills I 
      have acquired over a very long 
      career. Skills that make me a 
      nightmare for people like you. If 
      you let me go right now, that will 
      be the end of it. I will not look 
      for you. I will not pursue you. But 
      if you dont, I will look for you, 
      I will find you, and I will kill 
      you.  


Bo and his men look at each other. Is this dude serious? Bo 
approaches Allen without saying a word. He pauses then HEAD 
BUTTS Allen - CRACK! Allen goes down.

                                      88.

             BLACKMAN #1
      I think were going to have to call 
      the white boy. Hes clearly the 
      brains here. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah call the white boy. 

             BO JACKSON
      Bo will do the talking. 

EXT. WAREHOUSE. MOMETS LATER.

The Amigo watches from above through a broken window.

             AMIGO
      Bo Jackson? What the fuck!?

He pulls out his cellphone.

             AMIGO
	(CONTD)
      Yo Omar, youre never going to 
      believe this.

INT. HAPPY TRAILS - OMARS OFFICE. MOMENTS LATER.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      What? Okay... Okay... Bo Jackson?  
      What the fuck!? Just keep on 
      them... Dont worry primo. I got my 
      eye on the other two. 

Close in on the hidden feed from Sanjays room until it 
dissolves into:

INT. SANJAYS ROOM. MOMENTS LATER.

Max and Sanjay stare at each other. 

             SANJAY
      And now they both arent answering 
      your cellular calls?

             MAX
      Correct.


                                      89.

             SANJAY
      Well, that was a very bad thing to 
      do to such a dear, dear friend. You 
      should be very, very sorry. 

             MAX
      I am sorry Sanjay. I fucked up and 
      I know it. I just need to talk to 
      him. If I didnt genuinely like her 
      I never wouldve done it. 

BUZZ. BUZZ. Maxs phone rings. Unknown number. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Maybe this is him. Hello?

INT. WAREHOUSE/SANJAYS ROOM. MOMENTS LATER.

Split screen with Bo Jackson in the warehouse. 

             BO JACKSON
      Listen clear white boy. You have 
      something Bo wants and Bo is tired 
      of waiting. You play ball and Bo 
      wont hurt your friend here, you 
      dont play ball and Bo will play 
      ball with your friends balls. 

Max is confused. 

             MAX
      Im sorry who is this?

             BO JACKSON
      Bo Jackson.

             MAX
      Did you say Bo Jackson?

             BO JACKSON
      Thats right motherfucker. 

Max mouths What the fuck. Sanjay is confused.

             MAX
      And you have Allen?

             BO JACKSON
      Did Bo stutter?


                                      90.

             MAX
      No Bo, you didnt stutter, Im just 
      trying to gather all the facts 
      here. This is a little weird. 

             BO JACKSON
      So wheres it at?

             MAX
      Wait, its you whos been after the 
      money this whole time? The Jim 
      Browns are with you?

             BO JACKSON
      Money, when did Bo say anything 
      about money?

             MAX
      The money weve been working hard 
      to collect these last two weeks? 
      The money your boys have been 
      shaking us down for.

Bo shoots a MENACING look to the Blackmen. 

             BO JACKSON
      Bo dont need your money 
      motherfucker. Bo wants the Black 
      Dicks. 

Um, what? 

             MAX
      You want what?

             BO JACKSON
      The Black Dicks! I want Black 
      Dicks!

Max is still puzzled. The Blackmen CHUCKLE a little bit.

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      The DVD motherfucker. Its the last 
      one out there and Bo knows you have 
      it. All the others have been 
      destroyed. Bos campaign is on the 
      line.

HOLY SHIT. Its like Chazz Palmenteri realizing Kevin Spacey 
was Keyser Soze. How did he not read the signs? 

WE FLASH BACK TO VARIOUS SHOTS:

--Linda COHN interviewing Bo about his Senate ambitions.


                                      91.

--Allen talking to Max in the shower about Black Dicks vs. 
White Clits. 

--The contents of the box all over the street.

--The black guys cornering Max at the interview, he tells 
them he just got the thing this morning.

--In the cul-de-sac, Max telling them he let a friend borrow 
it and hed have it in two weeks.

--The Sportscenter clip where Bo calls the claims of him 
acting in Porno ridiculous. 

Back to the PRESENT. Back to Max.

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      Hello?

             MAX
      Yeah Im here. But you better not 
      hurt a hair on Allens head or 
      were going to send a copy to Linda 
      Cohn and expose your ass.

             BO JACKSON
      Oh nah uh. If you want Bo to spare 
      your friend, you wont do a goddamn 
      thing. 

Its a Mexican stand off. 

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      In fact, sick the dogs on that 
      motherfucker. 

Bo holds the phone up as Blackman #2 leads two DOBERMANS up 
to Allen, who is tied to a chair. They BARK viciously. 

             ALLEN
        (to himself)
      Youre a wolf. 

He BARKS back even more viciously. They heal. 

Max pulls back from the phone scared from what hes hearing. 

             MAX
      Okay enough, enough. Lets make a 
      trade. The Black Dicks DVD for 
      Allen. Straight up. 

             BO JACKSON
      And no copies.


                                      92.

             MAX
      Fine, just dont hurt him.   

             BO JACKSON
      Bo agrees. Come to the warehouse 
      district. 1 hour. 

             MAX
      No fuck that, you bring him here. 
      To Happy Trails. The Parking lot. 
      An hour and a half. 

Bo admires his opponents swagger.

             BO JACKSON
      Bo will see you at Happy Trails. 

He hangs up. 

INT. SANJAYS ROOM. MOMENTS LATER.

Sanjay is PUZZLED.

             SANJAY
      You mean Bo Jackson, Bo Jackson? 
      What the fuck?

INT. WAREHOUSE. MOMETS LATER.

             BO JACKSON
      Will one of you google maps Happy 
      Trails?

             BLACKMAN #1
      I know where its at boss.

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah we know where its at boss.

#1 glares at him. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Youre really starting to piss me 
      the fuck off. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah well, youre pissing me off. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Repeat me one more time and Im 
      gonna fucking shoot you. 


                                      93.

Close up on Allen who is SWEATING like a bastard, fully 
consumed by the shrooms. The Blackmen try and grab him but he 
BARKS and BITES at them like an ARCTIC HUSKY. 

EXT. ROADSIDE. MOMENTS LATER.

His Caddy parked on the side of the road, the Amigo paces 
outside on his cell. 

             AMIGO
      So it looks like theyre going to 
      make some sort of exchange for the 
      Indian kid with Bo Jackson.  

INT. HAPPY TRAILS - OMARS OFFICE. MOMENTS LATER.

Omar the other end of the phone. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Those fuckers think they can give 
      my money away. Not in my hacienda. 
      We need some insurance.

Close in on a monitor showing Archies empty room. 

INT. ALLENS HOUSE. MOMENTS LATER.

Max busts in the door followed by Sanjay. The puppies go 
crazy. Max takes off up the stairs - the puppies follow. 
Sanjay walks over to the Power Tower and EXAMINES it. 
Remember he has been hitting the kush all night. 

Upstairs, Max is in Allens room - its a fucking mess. Hes 
frantically searching for the DVDs when one of the Puppies 
enters, holding the ASSIGNNMENT MIAMI BEACH CASE clenched in 
his puppy teeth. Max chases the pup out of the room and into 
his own room. The puppy stops next to Maxs TV and sets the 
case down. Then the puppy motions to Maxs DVD player. 

             MAX
      What are you to trying to tell me 
      fella?

But Max sees it: BLACK DICKS VS. WHITE CHICKS VI: ANAL 
DESTRUCTION is cracked open next to Maxs DVD PLAYER. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      What the fuck?

He hits EJECT and out pops the disc itself.


                                      94.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      He was jerking off in my fucking 
      bed!? 

Back downstairs Max sees Sanjay in the kitchen chuggin OJ and 
munching on a MEATBALL SUB. He stands in the POWER TOWER. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Wow, thats just... weird. Come on, 
      lets go.

Sanjay makes a move, using the Power Tower as a WALKER. 

             SANJAY
      Wait, lets bring the dogs. If they 
      have dogs, we should have dogs too. 

             MAX
      Fine, whatever. 

INT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Max drives while Sanjay rides shotgun. One of the puppies is 
in Sanjays lap, the other tugs at something in the backseat. 
Again we as the audience see its the Darnells Revenge DVD. 

             SANJAY
      I hope my dear boy is okay.

             MAX
      You and me both. 

Sanjay turns around. 

             SANJAY
      What are you doing back there my 
      little friend?

INT. HOSPITAL. NIGHT.

Kara, EYES RED, sits by a comatose Archie in his hospital 
bed. Theres a KNOCK at the door. 

             KARA
      Come in. 

More KNOCKING. 

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      I said come in. 


                                      95.

As shes about to grab the handle the door swings open but we 
dont see who it is.

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. NIGHT. 

Max and Sanjay slowly roll into the parking lot.

INT. CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Max kills the lights. He tries Kara again. Voicemail.

             SANJAY
      I have to pee. 

             MAX
      Now?

             SANJAY
      Im 80 fucking years old. I pee pee 
      all the time. Ill be right back. 

Sanajay gets out of the car and grabs the POWER TOWER out of 
the back seat, the puppy still digging away. He shuts the 
door and turns to leave but then sticks his head back in. 

             SANJAY
	(CONTD)
      Just remember. Dont let yourself 
      get attached to anything you are 
      not willing to walk out on in 30 
      seconds flat if you feel the heat 
      around the corner.  

With that, Sanjay takes off in the Power Tower. Max just 
shakes his head and turns to the puppy in the front seat.

             MAX
      How do they fight so much?

INT. CADILLAC. MOMENTS LATER.

On the other side of the parking lot, Omar and the Amigo 
watch Max and Sanjay. The Amigo has a PITBULL in his lap. 

             AMIGO
      Should I follow the old man?

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Nah, hes probably just going to 
      pee. 


                                      96.

             AMIGO
      Theres Bo Jackson there.  

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. NIGHT.

The BLACK ESCALADE pulls in and parks opposite Max who stands 
in the open parking lot - the puppies by his side and a 
BACKPACK over his shoulder. 

Bo Jackson, the Blackmen and a tied up and gagged Allen all 
exit. Blackman #1 holds the Dobermans on a leash. Blackman #2 
has Allen  - who is still TRIPPING hard. #2 pulls a gun out 
and puts it to ALLENs head. Bo Jackson stands point.

The puppies start to BARK at the Dobermans. The Dobermans 
BARK BACK. Allen tries to BARK through his GAG.

             BO JACKSON
      Enough!

All the barking stops.

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      You must be Max. 

             MAX
      And you must be... Bo Jackson. 

Not a great way to start off. 

             BO JACKSON
      You have what Bo wants?

             MAX
      Yeah I got the Black Dicks. 

Again, The Blackmen CHUCKLE. Off Bos GLARE they toughen up.

             BO JACKSON
      Well hand it over to Bo. 

             MAX
      Not so fast. I want to know hes 
      okay first. Something looks off. 

All eyes to Allen. They undo his gag and he VOMITS. After a 
moment, he resumes BARKING. All the dogs start BARKING again. 

             BO JACKSON
      Enough! Everyone stop barking, 
      especially you chief. Next person 
      who barks, Bo busts a cap in their 
      ass. 


                                      97.

Allen GRITS HIS TEETH at Bo.

             MAX
      What did you do to him? Allen you 
      okay buddy?

             BLACKMAN #1
      We didnt do shit, he was like this 
      when we found him. 

More teeth. Max has seen him like this before.

             MAX
      Wait, did you guys feed him 
      mushrooms?

From Allens POV we see that Max has HUGE BUG EYES and a 
SLITHERY SNAKE TONGUE. Allen GROWLS. Back to REALITY:

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Whatever. Look you undo his ties, 
      send him my way and then Ill give 
      you what you want. 

             BO JACKSON
      Nice try white boy but Bo wants to 
      do it the other way. 

             MAX
      No dice Bo. 

INT. OMARS CAR. MOMENTS LATER.

Omar and The Amigo observe the situation. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      That is Bo Jackson. What the fuck?

             AMIGO
      Isnt he running for Senate?

BUMP. Something stirs in the trunk.  

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      That must be the money in the 
      backpack. Punta thinks he can give 
      my money away? Oh hell no. 

Omar starts to exit. Reveal he is holding a AK-47.


                                      98.

             AMIGO
      Wait. We need verify the money is 
      in the bag before we move. Make 
      sure theres no funny business.  

Omar pulls back, looks at his HUGE gun. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      And youre sure this guns all you 
      got? Seems like a little much.

Now the Amigo pulls out his AK and COCKS it. Then KISSES it.

             AMIGO
      Shes the only bitch I trust.

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS. MOMENTS LATER.

Back to the stand-off. 

             MAX
      Look why dont we just do the drop 
      at the same time? Meet half way?

Everyone NODS in agreement.

             BO JACKSON
      Thats good with Bo. 

Back to Allens POV: everyone now looks like GIANT WALKING 
MEATBALL SUBS. He smiles in horror. Then licks his lips. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Lets move. 

             ALLEN
      Meatballs. Meatballs. Meatballs.

             SANJAY
	(O.S.)
      My son!

All eyes and GUNS turn to Sanjay who is back from his whiz.

             SANJAY
	(CONTD)
      Are you okay? You dont look very 
      well. 

He power towers over to Max and takes the reins of the 
puppies.

             BO JACKSON
      Who is this?


The Blackmen shake their head, they dont know.

                                      99.

             SANJAY
      Who am I? WHO AM I? I am Sanjay 
      Grand from the town of Samadrapur, 
      India, son of Sanjeet 
      Grandanajapur, grandson of Samdeep 
      Grandanajapurkamdaria and I am a 
      man of the law. That is my son you 
      have over there Mr. Jackson. And 
      you have taken him without my 
      Prathana. Last time someone took 
      something without my Prathana, I 
      massacred 37 of his finest goats. 
      Now please, give me back my son and 
      take back your pornos before I must 
      take similar actions against you 
      and your goats. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      You callin us goats, motherfucker?

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah, who you calling goats?

             BLACKMAN #1
        (turning to #2)
      Dont make me shoot you. 

             BO JACKSON
      Enough! Lets make the exchange. 
      You ready white boy?

CLOSE UP on everyones INDIVIDUAL FACE: Bo, Blackman #1, #2, 
The Dobermans, Allen, Max, Sanjay, and then finally, the 
puppies. The mood is TENSE. 

Max meets Blackman #1 in the middle, Allen by his side. The 
puppies follow the bag intently.  

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      Make sure hes got the Dic-- the 
      DVDs.

Max opens the bag, #1 peers in. Nods back to Bo approvingly. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Looks good to me boss. 

They switch. Max and Allen head back to an elated Sanjay. #1 
heads back to Bo and #2 - backback in tow. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(O.S.)
      Freeze Punta Madres! 


All eyes and guns to Omar who holds his AK-47 to the head of 
a panicky, gagged Kara, the Pitbull on a leash BARKING.

                                     100.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(CONTD)
      Drop your guns and give me the 
      satchel papi. Or the bitch gets it. 

             MAX
      Kara!

She STRUGGLES. Everyones FROZEN. DOGS BARKING. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Easy Mami. Now you, big boy, drop 
      the gun and give me the bag. 

#1 looks to Bo. Bo shrugs.

             BO JACKSON
      Bo dont give a fuck about that 
      bitch. Bo dont know her.  

#1 continues walking over to Bo and #2. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Ahora Manolito!

The Amigo pops up out of nowhere and puts his AK to Bos 
head. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(CONTD)
      Now let me repeat myself, drop the 
      guns and bring me the bag. 

Bo nods - they drop their guns and raise their hands - the 
puppies take OFF - the Dobermans follow the puppies. The 
Amigo walks to #1 and takes the backpack then walks backwards 
towards Omar, all with his gun on Bo. Hes halfway when --

Max steps FORWARD, hands raised.

             MAX
      Omar, let her go. She doesnt 
      deserve any of this. Take me 
      instead. Im the one who lied to 
      the girl I may be in love with, and 
      I also lied to my best friend whos 
      done nothing but look out for me my 
      whole life. So please, take me.  

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Oh fuck me, whatever. Just shut up.


The Amigo, backpack in tow, grabs Max and marches him over to 
Omar, gun always trained on Bo. 

                                     101.

             MAX
      Kara, in case this is it, no more 
      secrets. Allen and I help people 
      get rid of things they dont want 
      found when they die. Your Mom loved 
      to masturbate and your Dad is gay. 
      Allen can tell you more. But as for 
      me and you, I really do think Im 
      falling in love with you. And 
      nothing happened with that waitress 
      since I met you, I promise. And 
      Allen, you probably wont remember 
      this since Im pretty sure youre 
      tripping balls, but Im sorry 
      buddy, I should have told you about 
      Kara. You didnt deserve this. Even 
      if you did jerk off in my bed. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Man, you white people talk a lot. 

             MAX
      Oh and one more thing, since Im 
      laying it all out on the table 
      here. Kara: I never pulled a 
      hamstring, I was in pain because 
      one of your Moms dildos 
      accidentally went up my ass.

Everyone is REPULSED. Still, Omar decides to release Kara. 
She runs over to Allen and Sanjay who undo her gag and ties. 

             KARA
      What is all this?

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Shut it. One more word and white 
      boy gets it. Nobody says nothing 
      til I get my money. 

Amigo - guns still on Bo and co - finally tosses the bag to 
Omar. Grinning, he opens it. He lets go of the Pitbull in 
SHOCK. The Pitbull takes off after the other dogs. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
	(CONTD)
      Pornos? What the fuck?

The Amigo turns in shock, lowers his AK. 

             BO JACKSON
	(O.S.)
      Get em! 


                                     102.

BANG! BANG! Bo and the Blackmen fire at Omar and the Amigo 
who unload their AK-47s. BARRRRATTTATTTATT! Omar grabs Max.

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Stay wit me Twinkie!

Glass SHATTERS. Its CHAOS. Kara ducks behind a car. Sanjay 
crouches inside the Power Tower. Allen BOLTS after the dogs!

             ALLEN
      MEATTTTBALLLLLLLLSSSSS!

Its a full on FIRE FIGHT. CRACK! The Amigo gets shot in the 
Clavicle. Omar rushes to a GOLF CART with Max, they get in 
and take off - Omar lays down blind cover fire.

Bo and the Blackmen huddle behind the bullet riddled 
Escalade.

             BO JACKSON
      Watch the girl and the old man. 
      Leave the others to Bo.   

He takes off in a full on SPRINT after Omar and Max. The 
Blackmen STAND.

             BLACKMAN #1
      Come out now, with your hands up! 

Kara and Sanjay stand up. Blackman #1 undoes a roll of DUCK 
TAPE.

             KARA
      Not again. 

INT. GOLF CART. MOMENTS LATER. 

Omar drives with his AK aimed at Max. Behind them Bo follows, 
RUNNING as fast as he can, he suddenly STOPS, pulls up in 
PAIN.

             BO JACKSON
      Ahhh Bos Hammy!

Unable to run, he pulls out his gun and FIRES - BANG! BANG!

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Fucking Bo Jackson thinks he can 
      fire at me. Oh hell no. 

Omar turns to fire at Bo. Max gives him a SHOVE, causing him 
to lose control. The Golf Cart veers wildly into the trees - 
CRASH!


EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. MOMENTS LATER. 

Blackman #1 puts the finishing touches on his TAPE job - Kara 
and Sanjay are now taped together. 

                                     103.

             BLACKMAN #1
      You two aint going nowhere. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Yeah, you two aint going nowhere.

             BLACKMAN #1
      What the fuck did I say? I said 
      dont repeat me.

He SHOVES Blackman #2. 

             BLACKMAN #2
      Dont push me. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      I warned you.

             BLACKMAN #2
      Now Im warning you. 

As they start to PUSH and SHOVE each other, Allen pops his 
head up from behind a car. He eyes Sanjay and Kara, as well 
as the FEUDING Blackmen. He crouches back down. 

             ALLEN
      Youre a wolf... no, youre a man.    
      No, youre a... wolfman. 

He CLOSES his eyes to gather himself. When he OPENS them, THE 
WOLFMAN IS CROUCHED NEXT TO HIM. He nods. Allen nods back. 

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS. MOMENTS LATER.

Bo LIMPS to edge of the woods and sees OMAR caught underneath 
the overturned Golf Cart. Max is nowhere to be seen. 

             OMAR THE ORDERLY
      Help me papi. Please. 

Bo sees the AK-47 on the ground, tosses his gun aside and 
picks it up. 

             BO JACKSON
      Bos gonna have some fun with you. 


                                     104.

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. MOMENTS LATER.

As the Blackmen TUSSLE, Allen tiptoes over and begins to CHEW 
through the TAPE that binds Kara and Sanjay. Back to the 
fight, Blackman #1 is now on top of #2 punching him in the 
face. He stands up victoriously and notices Allen. 

             BLACKMAN #1
      Oh hell fuckin no. 

Allen FREEZES. #1 raises his gun to fire, it JAMS.

             BLACKMAN #1
	(CONTD)
      Oh come on rea--

             BLACKMAN #2
      Hey! Repeat this!

BAM! Blackman #2 CRACKS him in the face - OUT COLD #1 goes 
down hard. His jammed gun hits the pavement and FIRES - BANG!

The bullet RICOCHETS off the Power Tower and hits Allen in 
the arm as he dives in front of Kara to protect her. 

             ALLEN
      Awwwww fucker!

Allen goes down as WHOOP! WHOOP! The Police pull in. Blackman 
#2 books it. Sanjay and Kara rush to help Allen - who 
CLUTCHES his wound. 

             SANJAY
      Are you okay my boy? 

             KARA
      He saved my life! 

From Allens POV we see the Wolfman give him a THUMBS UP.

             ALLEN
      Im not a boy, Im a --

He looks deep into his Fathers eyes.

             ALLEN
	(CONTD)
      Man? 

POOF! The Wolfman disappears. 

             SANJAY
      Yes my son. Now lie still. 

             KARA
      Wheres Max?


EXT. HAPPY TRAILS. MOMENTS LATER.

CRACK! Bo HITS Omar in the face with the AK. Again and again. 
He hears the SIRENS in the distance.  

                                     105.

             BO JACKSON
      Bos done fucking around. Where are 
      the DVDs? 

             MAX
	(O.S.)
      You mean these DVDs?

Bo and AK turn. Max DANGLES the bag, gun aimed at Bo.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Look its over Bo, you can have the 
      DVDs. Just step away from Omar and 
      toss the gun. Im going to put mine 
      down as a show of good faith. See. 

Max slowly lowers his gun. Bo doesnt move.

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      Put it down Bo. 

Bo starts to CRACK. The SIRENS get LOUDER. 

             BO JACKSON
      Bo was young, Bo was injured. Bo 
      just wanted to have some fun.

             MAX
      Its okay Bo. Im going to give you 
      the DVDs, just put the gun down.

             BO JACKSON
        (tearing up)
      Bo never wanted it to get like 
      this. Bo just wanted to be a man of 
      the people. 

Bo LOWERS the AK. Max tosses the bag. Bo wipes his tears and 
looks in, finally at peace. His look CHANGES back to ANGER. 

             BO JACKSON
	(CONTD)
      Where is Darnells Revenge? You 
      have the only copy! Its not here! 

             FBI OFFICER
	(O.S.)
      FBI! Drop it, Mr. Jackson!

Reveal the FBI officer is none other than the JEWISH HOUSE 
DAD - the same guy who called Allen a Mexican and made out 
with Ashley. Other AGENTS rush past him and CUFF Bo. 


                                     106.

             JEWISH HOUSE DAD/FBI AGENT
      Im Agent Berkowitz of the Federal 
      Bureau of Investigation. Bo Jackson 
      you are under arrest for 
      kidnapping, extortion, aggravated 
      assault, conspiracy to commit 
      murder, and possession of an 
      illegal firearm. You have the right 
      to remain silent. Anything you say 
      or do, can and will be used against 
      you in a court of law. Take it from 
      here fellas. 

The AGENTS drag Bo away. 

             BO JACKSON
      This aint over white boy! Bo knows 
      where you live. Ah Bos hammy!

Bo is gone. 

             AGENT BERKOWITZ
      And you, you sicko. You are also 
      under arrest by the FBI.

Agent Berkowitz approaches a barely conscious, bloodied OMAR.

             AGENT BERKOWITZ
	(CONTD)
      For the creation and distribution 
      of homemade pornography created 
      illegally. You sick sonofabitch.  

Agents DRAG Omar away.

             AGENT BERKOWITZ
	(CONTD)
      Sick fucker has been taping his 
      residents in the nude and selling 
      them on the black market. Youd be 
      surprised what you can get for old 
      people porn. 

Max is SPEECHLESS. 

             AGENT BERKOWITZ
	(CONTD)
      The Bureau has been tracking both 
      of them for months, but we couldnt 
      have done it without you and your 
      Mexic-- Indian friend. 

             MAX
      But you just used us as bait. I 
      should file a complaint. We 
      couldve been killed. 


                                     107.

             AGENT BERKOWITZ
      Unfortunately we couldnt take 
      action until Bo did, but we were 
      shadowing you this whole time, 
      including keeping numerous real 
      loan sharks off your back. But 
      youre right. I figure wed call it 
      even by taking care of your 
      outstanding debt and also by taking 
      a blind eye to some of the aspects 
      of youre new business that Uncle 
      Sam may not be so thrilled about. 
      Deal? 

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. MOMENTS LATER.

Max is led back to the scene by Berkowitz just in time to see 
Allen loaded into an Ambulance with Sanjay and Kara. He 
DASHES towards them, but hes too late, the doors CLOSE.

             MAX
      Wait!

CLOSE on Max as the Ambulance pulls away. 

Elsewhere, Agents put Blackman #1 in the back of a cruiser 
with Bo. They also talk to Omar and the Amigo, both bandaged 
and cuffed.  

The Camera PULLS BACK from Max and moves over the now massive 
crime scene. 

                                  CUT TO:

SPORTSCENTER CLIP:

DUNNA-NUH, DUNNA-NUH. 

             SPORTSCENTER ANNOUNCER
      This edition of Sportscenter is 
      brought to you by the POWER TOWER. 

The Power Tower logo blasts on the screen.

             SPORTSCENTER ANNOUNCER
	(CONTD)
      Get yours today. 

We go live with Linda Cohn:


                                     108.

             LINDA COHN
      Good evening. If you thought things 
      couldnt get any weirder for Senate 
      hopeful Bo Jackson after 
      allegations of his participation in 
      a still undiscovered pornographic 
      movie, think again. Were still 
      pulling the details together on 
      this still breaking story, but 
      tonight it appears that Bo has been 
      arrested by Federal Agents after 
      being involved in a shoot out 
      outside of an old folks home in his 
      home state of Alabama. I promise I 
      am not making this up. We go live 
      to Jeremy Schapp whos on the scene 
      with an eyewitness. Jeremy?

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. NIGHT.

Live with JEREMY SCHAPP. 

             JEREMY SCHAPP
      Thanks Linda. Im here with Larry 
      Williams...

Old Man Larry enters the Frame. 

             JEREMY SCHAPP
	(CONTD)
      ...A resident of Happy Trails here 
      in a Alabama where the incident 
      took place. So sir, can you give us 
      any indication of what went on 
      tonight?

Larry just stares into the camera. This guy cant hear shit. 

The clip quickly shuts off. 

INT. HOSPITAL. NIGHT.

Sanjay puts down the remote control. Allen rests in a 
hospital bed, his wounded arm, in a fresh cast and sling. Max 
enters. Sanjay gets up and gives him a BEAR HUG. 

             SANJAY
      You are alive! I was so worried 
      about you my son. 


                                     109.

             MAX
      Im okay. Still a little weirded 
      out by everything, but Im okay. 
      What about this one?

Allen looks straight ahead, IGNORING Max. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      You wanna give us a minute. 

             SANJAY
      Of course, do you have your keys? I 
      think something has been misplaced. 

Max tosses him the keys and he exits. Max takes a seat next 
to Allen who continues to look straight ahead. 

             MAX
      Look I know I deserve this. I do. 
      But I realized something in the...

He checks his watch. 

             MAX
	(CONTD)
      8 hours since you started hating me 
      and its that I cant do anything 
      without you, Allen. Youre my best 
      friend. In fact youre more than 
      that - youre my brother. You and 
      Sanjay are the only family Ive got 
      and I shouldnt have risked that 
      over a girl, despite the fact that 
      I really do think shes the one. I 
      was being selfish. To both of you. 
      Like Ive always been. Even as far 
      back as 8th grade, you didnt want 
      to take those mushrooms, and 
      neither did I, the only reason I 
      did was because I wanted to impress 
      Sally Coopersmith. But I was scared 
      so you took them with me. And then 
      of course you puked on her, but 
      thats not the point, the point is 
      Im always dragging you--

Allen turns. 

             ALLEN
      Omar was right, you white people 
      talk too much. Look I realized 
      something too. 

                                     110.

             ALLEN
	(CONT'D)
      I was tripping hard, like harder 
      than Ive ever tripped before and I 
      was sitting with Liam Neeson and 
      his wolf from The Grey and I was 
      thinking how fucking insane it was, 
      and how nobody would ever believe 
      it. Nobody except you. Weve been 
      through everything together Max, 
      and I would never let a girl come 
      between that. I was just taken 
      aback by it. Besides, it seems like 
      you really do like Kara, and who am 
      I to mess that up? 

             MAX
      Speaking of Kara, is she okay? 
      Shes not answering my calls.
       

SWOOSH - The dividing curtain flings back revealing Kara 
sitting with Archie who is wide eyed and in good spirits. 
Maxs eyes go wide. 

             ALLEN
      I guess I shouldve told you that 
      Kara was on the other side of the 
      curtain, huh?

             ARCHIE
      Jeezus Mary. I was wonderin if you 
      was ever gonna shut your fockin 
      hole boy. 

             KARA
      Dad!

Max rises and heads to Kara. 

             MAX
      Look, Kara, Im so--

             KARA
      Shh!

She puts her fingers up to his lips. 

             KARA
	(CONTD)
      Look, the only thing that matters 
      to me is that moving forward 
      theres no more secrets between us, 
      okay?

             MAX
      I promise. And again Im sor--


                                     111.

             KARA
      I hate apologizers, remember? So 
      just shut up and kiss me before I 
      change my mind. 

They KISS. Its HOT and PASSIONATE. Allen SMILES. 

             ARCHIE
      Alright, alright, thats still my 
      little girl youve got there. 

They SEPARATE. Kara whispers into his ear:

             KARA
      Plus, all that gunfire made my 
      vagina harder than our Vaseline 
      chat. I think theres an open room 
      down the hall. 

She gives him an eye brow raise. Max smiles. 

             NURSE
	(O.S.)
      And how are we feeling Mr. Grand?

Turn to reveal its the HOT INDIAN NURSE that Allen was 
flirting with when they handed out the LMM fliers. 

             ALLEN
      Im feeling okay, but Ill feel 
      much better after you give me a 
      completely unnecessary sponge bath.  

They SMILE at each other. Sanjay renters.

             SANJAY
      I think well all be feeling much 
      better after we sell this to the 
      highest bidder on the eBays.

He holds up the Black Dicks Vs. White Clits IV: Darnells 
Revenge DVD. We see the cover for the first time and Bo 
Jackson is indeed Darnell. 

             ALLEN
      Wow, whered you find that?

             SANJAY
      It was under the seat in Maxs car. 
      The puppies kept trying to get it. 

             MAX
      Wow, mustve fallen out of Grandpa 
      Bills Box.


                                     112.

             ALLEN
      Wonder why those dogs love porn so 
      much?

He looks at Kara whos PUZZLED. 

             MAX
      Its a long story, but I promise I 
      will tell you the whole thing.

             SANJAY
      Speaking of the dogs, where are 
      those little guys?

Everyones face drops. 

EXT. HAPPY TRAILS PARKING LOT. NIGHT.

We slowly crane down to the woods behind the building to see 
that the Puppies, the Pitbull and the Dobermans all CURLED up 
together post-coitus. Its a beautiful sight. The camera 
CRANES back up as the littlest puppy HOWLS into the night. 

THE END. 

As the credits roll, THUG LUV by Bone and Tupac comes on and 
Bo Jackson (doing Pac), Allen (doing Bizzy), Max (doing 
Layzie), Sanjay (doing Krayzie) and Omar (doing Wish) all LIP 
SYNC. Kara, Archie, The Blackmen, The Amigo, Ashley, Grandpa 
Bill and Old Man Larry all dance around in support.

*


