              LINE OF DUTY

               Written by

              Cory Miller

        Based on Shakespeare's MACBETH

                     Bryan Brucks
                     LUBER ROKLIN

                     Chris Ridenhour & Adam Perry
                     APA


A BOOMING THUNDERCLAP crackles over a title card reading--

South Brooklyn, New York. 4 Years Ago, before we fade into--

EXT. SHITHOLE STRETCH OF SOUTH BROOKLYN - NIGHT

Its raining. Hard. A summer storm.

A MAN and a WOMAN sit on the top steps of a large building. 

The Man, 30s, white, grimy. 

The Woman, though. CASSANDRA. Shes unique. Maybe White. 
Maybe Hispanic. 50s but looks 30. Dark red hair.  

And her eyes. One bright blue. The other bright green.

The Man swigs from a PINT of SCOTCH as Cassandra tells him--

             CASSANDRA
      You think you need a gun to do it?

             MAN
      At least. Maybe two.

Cassandra points across the street to a LIQUOR STORE.

             CASSANDRA
      Lot of foot traffic past that spot.
      You figure five percent of them are 
      packing.

             MAN
      Shit, out here, prolly more. 

             CASSANDRA
      They got guns. Why dont they do 
      it?

The Man is stumped. 

             CASSANDRA
	(CONTD)
      Im saying, you either got it in 
      you or you dont.

At that, a black Crown Vic parks in front of the building. 

She watches as FIVE plainclothes COPS exit the car, BADGES 
and KEVLAR on their chests. 

The leader, LT. HOWARD DUNCAN, white, 50s, looks to two of 
the cops - BANKS, black, 40s and CRAWFORD, white, 30s. 


                                      2.

             DUNCAN
      Banks, Crawford, cover the back 
      exit. 

They scatter as Duncan scales the stairs with the other two--

REGINA STEWART, white, 30, too hot to be a cop and too 
authoritative to give a fuck what you think, and--

SEAN STEWART, white, 31, plainclothes warrior. 

Sean tries the door. Locked. Hes about to buzz the Building 
Manager when a HAND gently comes into frame--

Cassandras hand. She taps a few digits on the call box. Sean 
gives her an appreciative nod. Off the doors buzz, we cut to-

INT. LOBBY OF SHITHOLE HIGHRISE - CONTINUOUS

Sean, Regina and Duncan hit the elevator. Sean has a thought 
just before the doors close. He hits the DOOR OPEN button.

             SEAN
      Gimme a second.

INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY OF SHITHOLE HIGHRISE - CONTINUOUS

We track with Sean down the hall as Duncan and Regina follow. 

Sean stops at a door marked BUILDING MANAGER. Pushes open the 
door, revealing the BUILDING MANAGER, 50s, Hispanic. 

             SEAN
      I need you to shut off the 
      buildings water.

             BUILDING MANAGER
      The entire building? 

             SEAN
      Its just for twenty minutes. Ill 
      owe you one. 

INT. HALLWAY - 10TH FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Duncan, Sean and Regina approach Apartment 10B. Duncan knocks 
with his fist.

             DUNCAN
      Police! Warrant! Open the fuck up.


                                      3.

INT. APARTMENT 10B - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

TWO Dominican GUYS, 19, one skinny, one fat, are startled 
from their video game. From outside we hear Duncan yelling--

             DUNCAN
	(O.S.)
      Police! Policia!

The Skinny Dominican whispers to EDWIN, the Fat Dominican-

             SKINNY DOMINICAN
      Dump it.

Edwin bolts up. Opens a nearby DRAWER. Withdraws a bunch of 
BAGGIES filled with glassine tabs of heroin. 

INT. BATHROOM - APARTMENT 8G - CONTINUOUS

Edwin bursts into the bathroom. Locks the door. Dumps the 
BAGGIES of HEROIN into the TOILET.

He FLUSHES. Nothing happens. Frantic, he flushes again. 
Still, nothing. Now hes confused.

He tries the sink. Just dead air. The fucking waters off as 
we realize how smart Sean is.

INT. APARTMENT 10B - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The Skinny Dominican opens the door, allowing Duncan, Sean 
and Regina to enter. 

             SEAN
      The bathroom?

             SKINNY DOMINICAN
      Que?

             SEAN
      El bano. The fucking bano!

The Skinny Dominican points down the hall. We track with Sean 
and Duncan as they head to the bathroom. Locked. Sean KICKS 
it in, revealing--

Edwin, standing by the toilet, spooked, the toilet bowl 
filled with glassines of heroin.

Duncan cracks a big smile. Taps Seans chest with pride.

             DUNCAN
      Smart motherfucker. 


                                      4.

EXT. SHITHOLE HIGHRISE - NIGHT

Sean and Duncan secure the Skinny Dominican in their car 
while Regina perp walks Edwin out the building, Edwin yelling-

             EDWIN
      Yo, this stupid bitch cuffed me too 
      tight. Shits digging in my wrists.

Regina doesnt reply. Banks and Crawford watch with interest.

             EDWIN
	(CONTD)
      Girl, you take these cuffs off Id 
      do you right. Fuck you so hard 
      youd switch from tampons to pads. 

Regina cracks a smile. 

             EDWIN
	(CONTD)
      You hear me? Shits cutting off my 
      circulation and shit. Dumb bitch.

Regina stops. Pulls out her CUFF KEYS. Holds Edwin by the arm 
as she takes off his cuffs. 

A look of surprise from Edwin. And from us. 

Till Regina spins Edwin around. PUNCHES him square in the 
face, knocking him on the ground. She then puts her knees 
into his back as she recuffs him, telling him--

             REGINA
      Now youll forget about your 
      wrists. Give you somewhere else to 
      focus your pain. 

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Edwin sits handcuffed to an interrogation table.

Sean and Banks enter. Edwin, dry blood on his mouth, flinches 
as Sean gets closer. 

But Sean uncuffs him. Hands him an ice pack, a bottle of 
Advil and a can of Coke. 

             SEAN
      Dont take it personally. Shes 
      knocked out bigger and older. 


INT. DETECTIVE SQUAD - CONTINUOUS

Regina and Duncan crack a smile as they watch on a MONITOR 
while Crawford eats a slice of pizza.

                                      5.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sean reads from a piece of paper. 

             SEAN
      Criminal possession of a weapon, 
      trespass, discon, menacing, 
      menacing again. You have more 
      arrests than birthdays, Edwin. Im 
      willing to bet that this wont be 
      your last brush with my department. 
      But if you help me out and we score 
      big, I get a promotion.

             EDWIN
      Who gives a fuck.

             SEAN
      You should, because in a few months 
      when you inevitably fuck up again, 
      Ill be in a great position to pull 
      the strings to get you released. I 
      understand that kind of forward 
      thinking isnt usually part of your 
      profession. But if youre smart 
      enough to flush the drugs, youre 
      smart enough not to flush this 
      opportunity.

Edwins demeanor softens. And Sean cracks a small smile. 

INT. DETECTIVE SQUAD - CONTINUOUS

Duncan and Regina watch as Sean and Banks enter.

             SEAN
      Reynaldo Calderon. Operates out of 
      Club Milky Way on Nostrand. He only 
      deals in weight.

             DUNCAN
      Calderon?

             REGINA
      You know him?


                                      6.

             DUNCAN
      By reputation.

             SEAN
      And?

             DUNCAN
      And this could be very good. For 
      all of us. 

INT. BEDROOM - SEAN AND REGINAS ROWHOUSE - NIGHT

Sean and Regina tear each others clothes off as Sean 
skillfully closes the bedroom door, locking out two GOLDEN 
RETRIEVERS barking like mad to get inside.

Regina pulls Sean onto the bed where she mounts him and they 
move together in loud passionate rhythm--

-until Regina falls back onto the bed. They bask in a calming 
silence that is immediately broken by a WOLF WHISTLE and--

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Oooh, shit, that was hot. 

Sean reaches up and closes their WINDOW, barely muting 
APPLAUSE as we see how shitty their living situation is, a 
typical low rent, NYC stacked box bullshit.

INT. AFTER HOURS CLUB - SOUTH BROOKLYN - NIGHT

Duncan lounges on a couch, a young REDHEAD in his lap and a 
BLONDE giving him a backrub. Crawford makes out with a black 
girl as Duncan turns to a FAT Dominican dude, 25, REYNALDO.

             DUNCAN
      We do a 60/40 split on the buy 
      money.

             REYNALDO
      And Im supposed to use real 
      product?

             DUNCAN
      Ill get it back. I got a guy in 
      the property clerks office that 
      can take care of that. 

             REYNALDO
      Who you sending in?


                                      7.

             DUNCAN
      A boy scout and the woman.

             REYNALDO
      This bitch that knocked out Edwin?

             DUNCAN
      Play nice. Its nothing you cant 
      handle.

             REYNALDO
      You know I like a challenge. 

Reynaldo considers this as he runs his finger down his girls 
back, another loud thunderclap hammering down as we cut to--

INT. CLUB MILKY WAY - SOUTH BROOKLYN - NIGHT

The thunderclap morphs into percussive bass as we settle on--

Sean. He sits in a half moon booth opposite REYNALDO. Between 
them, Regina. Reynaldo looks into a Nike GYM BAG. Its filled 
with banded $100s. Lot of them. Sean grabs the gym bag. Asks-

             SEAN
      You a dog man or a cat man, 
      Reynaldo?

             REYNALDO
      I dont do pets. Too much of a 
      commitment. 

             SEAN
      But you know dogs. 

             REYNALDO
      Yeah, I know dogs.

             SEAN
      Are you the type of dog that sniffs 
      around his food and looks for 
      approval before eating, or are you 
      the type that snatches the bone? 

             REYNALDO
      I wouldnt know. I only eat pussy. 

He takes a long look at Regina. Sean looks at his fat ass.

             SEAN
      Must be some high calorie pussy. 


                                      8.

             REYNALDO
      I know what kind of dog you are.

             SEAN
      Whats that?

             REYNALDO
      The kind of yappy bitch who wont 
      shut the fuck up and just chill. 
      Have a drink.

Reynaldo eyes Sean hard as we cut to--

INT. PASSENGER VAN - CONTINUOUS

Duncan listens in on headphones in the back of the van, 
Crawford in the drivers seat. Off his look of concern--

INT. CLUB MILKY WAY - SOUTH BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Sean laughs to himself. 

             SEAN
      What is this, middle school? You 
      want us to drink or you want to 
      finish our business? 

             REYNALDO
      I grew up in the D.R. outside Santo 
      Domingo. They had elections every 
      two years, and heres what would 
      happen. A truck would roll up to my 
      street driven by the politician. 

Reynaldo pours himself another. 

             REYNALDO
	(CONTD)
      The truck was filled with boxes of 
      new shoes. We were poor as shit, so 
      this was better than Christmas. 
      Hed hand out all the boxes, and 
      youd open them up in excitement. 
      You know what was inside?

             SEAN
      Shoes?

             REYNALDO
      One shoe. Hed tell us wed get the 
      other shoe once he was elected. 


                                      9.

             SEAN
      Thats fucked up.

             REYNALDO
      Whats fucked up is that we never 
      got the other shoe. I learned 
      early. Get both shoes up front.

             SEAN
      Hows that affect us? 

             REYNALDO
      We can finish business right now. 
      But I do it with Regina. Solo.

Sean and Regina share a look.

             SEAN
      No dice. My money. My call. 

Sean grabs the GYM BAG. Then stops as we cut back out to--

INT. PASSENGER VAN - CONTINUOUS

Duncan speaks into a mic. 

             DUNCAN
      Let her go, Sean. Youre gonna 
      spook him.

INT. CLUB MILKY WAY - CONTINUOUS

Duncans orders hit both Sean and Regina. But Reginas tough. 
She tells Sean--

             REGINA
      Its cool. I got this.

Sean looks at her with surprise. Reluctantly gives her the 
gym bag. Reynaldo gets up. Tells Sean-- 

             REYNALDO
      She knows what she wants.  
        (to Regina)
      Cmon. Shits in my car. 

Sean watches as they walk away. Then scans the club. Finds 
what hes looking for--

BANKS, hovering near the bar. 


                                      10.

Sean and Banks share a look as they watch Regina exit the 
club with the bag. This isnt good. 

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Regina and Reynaldo approach an early model LINCOLN. 

Its pissing rain. Regina hangs back, holding the gym bag.

             REGINA
      Where is it? 

             REYNALDO
      In the back seat. Get in.

Regina, reluctant. Worried. Off her look we cut to-

EXT. SHITHOLE STRETCH OF SOUTH BROOKLYN - NIGHT

Cassandra and the Drunk Grimy Man, opposite the liquor store.

             MAN
      If I was gonna do it, Id want a 
      fucking gun.

Cassandra smiles. Speak of the devil and she shall appear. 
She withdraws a GUN. Not menacing. Just displaying. It has a 
beautiful inlay of a silhouetted woman on the grip.

             MAN
	(CONTD)
      You want me to rob that liquor 
      store? 

             CASSANDRA
      No, sweetie. They dont carry my 
      brand. Why dont you run down to 
      that other spot and get some more.

             MAN
      In the rain? Fuck that. 

Cassandra points the gun at the Man.

             CASSANDRA
      I could convince you.

The Man tenses up. She drops the gun. Hands him a $20 bill. 

             CASSANDRA
	(CONTD)
      But I like you. My treat. 


                                      11.

INT. CLUB MILKY WAY - SOUTH BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Sean and Banks confer by the bar. 

             SEAN
      I got a bad feeling. Duncan, whats 
      going on?

INT. PASSENGER VAN - CONTINUOUS

Duncan listens in on his headphones. We hear what he hears. 
Sounds of a struggle. Rough breathing. Fighting. A female 
voice. But this aint what Duncan reports to Sean.

             DUNCAN
      Her fucking wires down. 

Off this monumental lie, we cut back to--

INT. CLUB MILKY WAY - SOUTH BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Sean turns to Banks. Nods for him to follow. 

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Sean and Banks exit the club into the mouth of the alley, 
GUNS at their sides. 

Banks nods towards the end of the alley: Reynaldos car. 

Its rocking on its axles. 

             BANKS
      You take cover, Ill take point.

Before they can act, a muffled SCREAM from inside the car.

Sean rushes down the alley.

As he gets close, he sees STEAMED windows, through which he 
catches--

Reginas FACE, fighting off Reynaldo on top of her. 

Sean grabs the door handle. Yanks back. Locked. 

             SEAN
      Police! Open--

A GUNSHOT from inside the car shatters the back passenger 
window. Barely misses Sean.


                                      12.

He jumps back. Aims into the car. 

But he sees REGINA. He has no shot. 

Another GUNSHOT from Reynaldo clears Sean back. 

The passenger door bursts open. A THUD on the pavement. 

The Lincoln tears ass in reverse down the alley.

As the car clears Seans sight line, he sees what caused the 
thud--

Regina. Ejected from the car by Reynaldo. 

Sean bends down to Regina. Shes bleeding. Battered in her 
face. Beat to shit, but she yells--

             REGINA
      Hes got the buy money.

Sean, torn, till Regina pleads--

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Just go. 

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT

Sean drives. Banks sits shotgun. They speed down the street.

Reynaldos Lincoln is up ahead, but its hard to see in the 
rain. Banks, on the radio--

             BANKS
      Hes driving north on 3rd Avenue. 

INT. DUNCANS CAR (MOVING) - CONTINUOUS

Crawford drives. Duncan sits shotgun, radio in hand.

             DUNCAN
      Lay off, Sean. Well get a warrant 
      on him in the morning.

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - CONTINUOUS

Sean turns to Banks.

             SEAN
      I can fucking get him.


                                      13.

Off Bankss look of concern, Sean speeds up.

Hes gaining on Reynaldo. Weaving in and out of traffic.

As they approach each intersection, Banks shouts--

             BANKS
      Clear.

Another intersection. Theyre coming fast. 

             BANKS
	(CONTD)
      Clear. 

Sean is getting close. Real close, as we cut to--

EXT. BODEGA - CONTINUOUS

The DRUNK MAN from the opening exits the bodega. Swigs from a 
bottle of SCOTCH. Stumbles into the intersection.

White HEADLIGHTS start small but bear down quickly as 
Reynaldos car blows past the MAN, barely missing him.

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - CONTINUOUS

Sean hits the GAS. But Banks sees it first. Screams--

             BANKS
      Sean!

Sean SLAMS the brakes. But its too late. 

The last thing Sean sees is the look of horror on the Drunk 
Mans face before--

BOOM

Sean slams into the Drunk Man at 80 mph.

The Drunk Mans body crunches as Seans car rolls over him. 
Sean stops the car. 

He watches Reynaldo speed away over his deployed airbag. 
Looks to his right. Banks is OK. 

They share a look of horrified recognition as they both 
slowly exit the vehicle onto--


                                      14.

EXT. 3RD AVENUE - BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Sean flinches as tires SCREECH behind him--

DUNCANS CAR. 

Duncan and Crawford exit. Follow Seans eyes from the wrecked 
GRILL of his car to the dead pedestrian on the ground, all of 
them horrified by the scene as we cut out to--

ACROSS THE STREET

Close enough to see Sean and the dead drunk man, presiding 
over this scene in a strangely mysterious way, is--

CASSANDRA. 

She casually takes out a cigarillo. Lights it. Looks on at 
Sean as we cut to--

INT. KINGS COUNTY HOSPITAL - TRIAGE - NIGHT

A DOCTOR, female, 40s, speaks to Sean in the crowded hallway.

             DOCTOR
      He fractured her thumbs. Both index 
      fingers. Contusions on her arms and 
      a fractured jaw. All defensive 
      wounds consistent with rape 
      victims. 

Sean nods. This is hard for him to absorb. He looks past the 
Doctor through the open door of the PATIENT ROOM - Regina 
sleeps, her arms propped up in casts. 

             SEAN
      Can I see her?

             DOCTOR
      Its best to let her sleep. She 
      just finished with the O.B.

             SEAN
      The O.B.?

The Doctor immediately understands the subtext.

             DOCTOR
      With the amount of trauma that she 
      sustained...Im sorry, Sean. She 
      lost the child. 

Sean, floored. He didnt know she was pregnant. 


                                      15.

Banks and Duncan, standing nearby, put reassuring hands on 
Sean. But hes in shock. Duncan tells him softly--

             DUNCAN
      Theres someone you need to meet. 

INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Duncan leads Sean to a table in the corner occupied by a MAN, 
black, 50s, in an expensive suit - MARVIN BRYANT. Marvin 
slides a coffee to Sean as Sean and Duncan sit down.

             DUNCAN
      This is Marvin Bryant. 

             SEAN
      You with the union?

             DUNCAN
      Dressed like that? Not exactly. He 
      represented the Diallo cops, the 
      Louima cops, three of the Sean Bell 
      cops and most of the Dirty 30. He 
      got acquittals for almost everyone.

             MARVIN BRYANT
      Not with Louima, though if you 
      sodomize a prisoner with a toilet 
      plunger, thats beyond me. 

             SEAN
      Youre saying therell be a trial?

             MARVIN BRYANT
      The Brooklyn DAs already gathering 
      evidence. Theyll convene a grand 
      jury, but its doubtful youll be 
      indicted. 

A look of relief from Sean, but its short lived. 

             MARVIN BRYANT
	(CONTD)
      Its the civil trial we have to 
      worry about. The union will back 
      you. The Department wont. 

             SEAN
      It was an accident.


                                      16.

             MARVIN BRYANT
      Doesnt matter. The Departments 
      getting pressure from the ACLU and 
      every other anti-cop faction who 
      will all proclaim from on high that 
      aggressive police action in 
      furtherance of a failed drug war 
      resulted in the tragic loss of an 
      innocent life. All three of us know 
      that these incidents exist in a 
      nuanced gray area, a thousand 
      decisions and circumstances leading 
      up to that moment. But the only 
      thing the public will see is cop 
      hits pedestrian, as if it were 
      premeditated. 

Sean takes a big drink of his coffee. Its a lot to absorb.

             MARVIN BRYANT
	(CONTD)
      Youre a good cop, Sean. You have a 
      clean record. No shootings, no IAB 
      cases. Youre not going to lose 
      your job. Its more a matter of how 
      much of your career can you 
      salvage. 

Sean nods his head in comprehension.

             SEAN
      What do you need from me? 

Marvin doesnt even hesitate.

             MARVIN BRYANT
      A check. 

EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT

A dazed Sean exits the hospital with Duncan and Marvin only 
to be blinded by--

A FLASH--

From a PHOTOGRAPHER, this image freezing and then morphing 
into a PAGE 1 photo in the New York Post under the headline - 
PED-EXED! Cop Plows Pedestrian in Gruesome Accident!

We hold on that photo as we begin a MONTAGE, starting with--


                                      17.

INT. SEAN AND REGINAS HOUSE - DAY

Sean pours a smoothie as his two GOLDEN RETRIEVERS try to get 
at the food. Sean plops a straw into the smoothie. The dogs 
follow Sean as he passes a REAL ESTATE AGENT showing his 
house on his way into the--

BASEMENT, where he sets the smoothie next to REGINA, her arms 
in casts, sweating as she works out her legs on a BOWFLEX as 
we then move to another--

NEWSPAPER ARTICLE - This one on PAGE 13, a photo of Sean 
flanked by a beaming Marvin Bryant walking down the steps at 
100 Centre Street under the Headline - Officer Stewarts 
Trial Moved to Albany.

INT. ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT - QUEENS - DAY

A LANDLORD shows Sean and Regina a shitty apartment. 80s 
style appliances, the bedroom window facing a brick wall.

             LANDLORD
      Rent on the first, two months 
      security deposit. And no pets. 

Off Seans look, shattered, another--

NEWSPAPER ARTICLE - Now PAGE 37. One paragraph. No photo. 
HEADLINE - Cop Acquitted in Accident, our final image being--

INT. ASPCA - MANHATTAN - DAY

Sean leads his two golden retrievers into the pound. Watches 
as a HANDLER takes them away. We hold on Sean, watching this 
scene, as we pull out and--

                             FADE TO BLACK.

TITLE ON SCREEN - PRESENT DAY

FADE IN:

EXT. LARGE APARTMENT BUILDING - BROOKLYN - DAY

A black Chevy Impala parks in front of an imposing building. 
FOUR COPS in civilian clothes, wearing BADGES, exit the car.

Two we recognize - LT. Duncan and Officer Crawford. 


                                      18.

The two new ones - OFFICER LENNOX, black, 30s and OFFICER 
ANGUS, white, 30s. 

INT. BASEMENT HALLWAY - APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

The four cops head to the BUILDING MANAGER. Duncan pushes the 
door open. 

             DUNCAN
      Apartment 8G. 

The Building Manager reluctantly grabs a RING of KEYS.

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      One other thing.

             BUILDING MANAGER
      I know. The water. 

INT. HALLWAY - EIGHTH FLOOR - DAY

Duncan and his team approach APARTMENT 8G.

Duncan quietly inserts a KEY into the lock. Then bursts into 
the apartment, all of the cops following and yelling--

             ALL FOUR COPS
      Police! Dont fucking move!

Waiting for them in Apartment 8G, startled to fuck, are--

A black MALE, 20s, on a couch, counting MONEY. Lots of it.

A black FEMALE, very attractive, 20s, watches TV.

The cops watch as a second black MALE, 20s, quickly grabs a 
BAG. Runs. The cops let him go. 

INT. LIVING ROOM - APARTMENT 8G - CONTINUOUS

Duncan grabs the CASH on the table. Splits it into four 
STACKS. 

Hands one to Angus. One to Lennox. Tosses ones to Crawford. 
And keeps the biggest stack for himself. 

The Black Guy on the couch, ANDRE can only shake his head. 
Crawford turns to the hot black girl.

             CRAWFORD
      You ever fuck a cop?


                                      19.

             HOT BLACK GIRL
      Im not trying to get the swine 
      flu.

The black kid on the couch chuckles nervously. Then all three 
other COPS break into laughter. 

Crawford lunges at the girl, but Duncan holds him back.

             DUNCAN
      Relax, Crawford. Go secure the 
      bathroom. 

Crawford turns to Lennox and Angus, still laughing. Yells--

             CRAWFORD
      Fuck you guys.

Still pissed, he heads down the hallway. KICKS down the 
bathroom door. The kid on the other side jumps back. 

Crawford observes the WATER in the TOILET is moving. 

             CRAWFORD
	(CONTD)
      No shit stains on the bowl and it 
      smells like a Glade Plug-In. Either 
      youre revolutionizing defecation, 
      or youre trying to flush something 
      else. 

He reaches into his back pocket. Pulls out a pair of LATEX 
GLOVES. Starts to put them on as he asks--

             CRAWFORD
	(CONTD)
      Now what could that be, and more 
      importantly, where could you be 
      hiding it. 

INT. PRECINCT - OUTSIDE THE PRISONER HOLDING PEN - DAY

CLOSE ON - A BAGGIE full of HEROIN drops on the desk of--

SEAN STEWART. In full uniform. Now a little chubbier, 
weathered. Broken. 

Crawford stands in front of Sean, holding the now handcuffed 
drug kid from the bathroom by the shirt. 

             CRAWFORD
      Brace yourself, Stewart. This was 
      so far up this kids ass he nearly 
      digested it. 


                                      20.

Crawford cracks up as he places the PERP in the Prisoner 
Holding Pen. 

Sean looks to his left. BANKS, in uniform, tossing a SOFTBALL 
to himself, gives him a sympathetic shake of the head.

Sean opens his desk drawer. Grabs a SANI-WIPE. Picks up the 
bag with the wipe. Gets up and keys his way into a locked 
room behind him marked EVIDENCE, match cutting the SOUND of 
the door closing to--

INT. CRAWFORDS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT

The SOUND of a Zippo LIGHTER being flicked open. 

Crawford lights a cig. Drives over the 3rd Avenue Bridge, 
passing a sign reading Welcome to The Bronx.

EXT. HUNTS POINT AVENUE - THE BRONX - NIGHT

Crawford pulls onto a quiet, industrial street.

Quiet except the DOZEN or so WOMEN, scantily clad, milling 
around on the sidewalk under a huge industrial awning. 

Crawford pulls over. Reaches into his glove compartment. 
Grabs his BADGE and his GUN. Exits his car and shouts--

             CRAWFORD
      Police! Get on the fucking wall.

These girls know the drill. They put their hands on the wall, 
asses out towards the street. 

             CRAWFORD
	(CONTD)
      Not that way. Turn around. 

The girls, confused, do it. Its now a cathouse line-up.

Crawford slowly walks the line. Asian girl, White girl, 
Dominican girl, Asian girl. He stops. 

At a BLACK GIRL. Beautiful but dressed trampy. 30s. DESTINY.

             CRAWFORD
	(CONTD)
      You. Lets go.

             DESTINY
      What the fuck did I do?

             CRAWFORD
      Your job. 


                                      21.

INT. CRAWFORDS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT

Crawford pulls over on a deserted street. Opens his fly. 

             DESTINY
      Look, baby, I got a room over on 
      138th. We can go there. Stay the 
      whole night. Hows that sound?

INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - 138TH STREET - NIGHT

Crawford lays on the bed in only his BOXERS. Destiny stands 
at the foot of the bed rubbing lotion on her hands. 

             DESTINY
      Just gimme a minute to freshen up. 

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Destiny quietly closes the bathroom door. LOCKS it. Opens the 
CABINET under the SINK.

She reaches around till she finds what shes looking for. 
Its TAPED to the top of the cabinet. 

Very quietly, she peels back the tape. Withdraws a GUN.

INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - 138TH STREET - CONTINUOUS

Destiny bursts out of the bathroom, gun pointed at Crawford.

             DESTINY
      Police! Dont fucking move or I 
      will blow your balls off. 

Off Crawfords look - oh fuck - we cut to--

INT. INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT

Destiny, now dressed business casual, stands across from a 
MAN, white, 40s, cop moustache - DETECTIVE WALTER CIPRIANO.

Next to Cipriano, a Hispanic detective, 30s - HECTOR ALVAREZ.

             DESTINY
      He works narcotics in South 
      Brooklyn. Said he has a line on a 
      team of dirty cops. I figured you 
      cats at Internal Affairs might be 
      interested. 


                                      22.

             CIPRIANO
      He ID the team? 

             DESTINY
      He wont say shit till he has a 
      deal in writing. 

Cipriano looks to his right. Through the one way glass - 
Crawford sits handcuffed to a desk. Red eyed, fearful. 
Cipriano turns to Hector.

             CIPRIANO
      Put him in our spot in Coney 
      Island. Ill head to the DA first 
      thing tomorrow morning. 

INT. EVIDENCE ROOM - PRECINCT - NIGHT

Sean goes through a checklist, coordinating voucher numbers 
with vouchered evidence. A RUMBLE as he reaches to a higher 
shelf, causing a BOX of vouchers to fall on his head. This 
job sucks.

A KNOCK on the door. Sean opens up. Its a Fat Cop, 30s.

             FAT COP
      Check this out. 

He hands Sean a large ZIPLOC BAG. Inside - a HANDGUN with a 
beautiful inlay of a silhouetted woman. 

             SEAN
      Whered you get this?

             FAT COP
      Off the perp in the holding pen. 
      Waitll you see this bitch. And do 
      me a favor. When you finish 
      vouchering the gun, transport her 
      to Central Booking with Banks.

             SEAN
      We dont do transpos.

But the Fat Cop is already out the door. 

INT. PRISONER HOLDING PEN AREA - CONTINUOUS

Sean emerges from the evidence room. He looks into the 
prisoner holding pen. Observes the lone perp in the cell.

Its CASSANDRA, the mysterious woman from the opening. 


                                      23.

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT

Sean drives. Banks sits shotgun. Cassandras in back. The 
wiper blades are churning hard. 

             SEAN
      This rain ever gonna let up?

Banks shrugs. Looks thoughtfully out the window.

             CASSANDRA
      Does it make it hard to see?

             SEAN
      What?

             CASSANDRA
      I asked if the rain make it hard to 
      see. While driving. 

             SEAN
      I can see fine, lady. Well get you 
      to Central Booking nice and safe. 

             CASSANDRA
      Because sometimes the rain is 
      beating down so hard the windshield 
      fogs up. Youre speeding down these 
      residential streets. What if some 
      drunk crosses against the red. 

CLOSE ON - Sean. Hes freaked out that this woman is 
basically narrating his most harrowing moment.

             CASSANDRA
	(CONTD)
      Who could fault the driver for 
      hitting him. Its a, what do you 
      call it, a confluence of 
      circumstance.

Sean and Banks share a look. This is eerie. 

             SEAN
      Have we met before?

             CASSANDRA
      Not formally.

             SEAN
      But you know me?

             CASSANDRA
      I know you. Plural. Officer Sean 
      Stewart and Officer Marcus Banks. 


                                      24.

             BANKS
      You have a great memory, you know 
      that. 

             CASSANDRA
      Pardon?

             BANKS
      You read about us in the papers?

             CASSANDRA
      No, sweetie. I dont read the 
      papers. But I wouldnt worry. 

             BANKS
      About what?

             CASSANDRA
      Not you. 
        (to Sean)
      You. Working in the evidence room. 
      Thats beneath you. Your talents 
      lie elsewhere. 

             SEAN
      Wheres that? 

             CASSANDRA
      Narcotics. Youre going to replace 
      that bad boy Officer Crawford. 

             SEAN
        (laughs)
      Oh yeah?

Cassandra leans forward.

             CASSANDRA
      In fact, youre going to take over 
      for Lieutenant Duncan. 

CLOSE ON - Sean. He laughs, but his wheels are spinning. 
Banks decides to play along.

             BANKS
      You got anything for me?

             CASSANDRA
      Nada. But your son Frankie. Newly 
      minted police officer Francis 
      Banks. Hell be the toast of the 
      town. If anyone can stop Officer 
      Stewarts meteoric rise, itll be 
      Frankie.


Sean absorbs this potential threat. Banks whips around.

                                      25.

             BANKS
      What do you know about my son?

             CASSANDRA
      Thats it.

             BANKS
      Whats it?

Cassandra points with her head.

             CASSANDRA
      Thats it. Central booking. Weve 
      arrived. 

Shes right. Sean pulls over. 

INT. CENTRAL BOOKING - PROCESSING DESK - NIGHT

Sean and Banks watch as a CORRECTIONS OFFICER leads Cassandra 
towards the cells. They share a look - that was strange. 

A RING. From Seans cell phone. He notices the ID on the 
display. A curious look on his face. 

             BANKS
      Who is it?

Off the unbelieving look on Seans face, we cut to--

INT. PETER LUGER STEAK HOUSE - NIGHT

Sean, now in street clothes, walks through the restaurant to 
a table occupied by--

LT. DUNCAN. He butters a roll as Sean takes a seat.

             DUNCAN
      You been here before?

             SEAN
      Not since I was a kid. 11th or 12th 
      birthday. I cant remember which.

             DUNCAN
      Yeah, its a special occasion kind 
      of place. Fitting, really.

             SEAN
      Whys that?


                                      26.

             DUNCAN
      Because I have good news. Howd you 
      like to get back into narcotics?

CLOSE ON - SEAN. This is freaky. Hes skeptical. 

             SEAN
      You already have a full team.

             DUNCAN
      No. Im down one.

             SEAN
      Who?

             DUNCAN
      Crawford. Hes out.

Sean cant believe it. Very curious, he asks--

             SEAN
      What happened to Crawford? 

INT. HALF MOON  HOTEL - HALLWAY - NIGHT

We track with DETECTIVE CIPRIANO down the hall into--

ROOM 1013. Uniformed cops stand guard outside the open door. 

Inside, Hector is distraught. 

             HECTOR
      He made his run when Fonrose took a 
      piss. Pushed off Garcia and broke 
      through the fucking glass.

Hector and Cip look to their right. OFFICER GARCIA and 
OFFICER FONROSE nod their assent. 

Cip approaches the shattered window looking out to the beach. 

Theres something off about the whole situation. 

Cip doesnt entirely buy it as he peers out the window.  

DOWN ON THE GROUND - CRAWFORD - illuminated by red and blue 
police lights. Bloodied, bruised, dead.

INT. PETER LUGER STEAK HOUSE - NIGHT

The SOUND of a WINE BOTTLE being UNCORKED. 


A beautiful REDHEAD, 20s, pours wine for Duncan and Sean.

Sean watches as Duncan SCOPES her ass while she walks away. 
He then turns to Duncan.

                                      27.

             SEAN
      Why me?

             DUNCAN
      Youre a good cop. You have the 
      requisite experience. More 
      importantly, youre loyal. I 
      admired how you took responsibility 
      for what happened four years ago.
      And this job I have for us requires 
      that kind of loyalty. 

             SEAN
      The Departments OK with this?

             DUNCAN
      Youre four years back in the 24 
      hour news cycle. They forgot about 
      you.

             SEAN
      And Im three years away from 
      retirement. I get back into 
      narcotics. The chaos. The 
      unpredictability. I dont know. 

             DUNCAN
      Is that really it?

             SEAN
      For the most part.

Duncan takes a drink of wine. Hes not buying it.

             DUNCAN
      You know what I do?

             SEAN
      I have an idea.

             DUNCAN
      And you have a problem with that?

             SEAN
      I dont know if its for me.

             DUNCAN
      But youve thought about it.


                                      28.

             SEAN
      Every cop thinks about it. 

             DUNCAN
      But not every cop acts on it. Why?

             SEAN
      Integrity.

             DUNCAN
      Fear. The public expects a certain 
      level of police corruption. You 
      give guys a gun and the power to 
      arrest, its natural. What they 
      wont stand for is above and 
      beyond. You got Officer Justin 
      Volpe. Guy sticks a plunger up a 
      perps ass, he gets 30 years. Sgt. 
      Kevin Nannery of the Dirty 30 rips 
      off drug dealers to the tune of a 
      couple million. Gets probation. You 
      conquer that fear of consequence, 
      you can do anything. 

He now has Seans attention. 

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      The Sean I knew four years ago was 
      ambitious. He had a plan. Work 
      undercover, get your detectives 
      shield, climb the ladder. That path 
      is closed. Im offering a better 
      one.

Sean is now very intrigued. But he hesitates. 

             SEAN
      I need to think about it.

             DUNCAN
      You mean consult with Regina.

Sean smiles in reply. Duncan knows him well.

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      If youre still interested tomorrow 
      morning, meet me at Greenwood 
      Cemetery at 9. 

INT. BEDROOM - SEAN AND REGINAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

CLOSE ON - Regina. Sexy in lingerie. She paces back and 
forth. Eyes Sean, seated on the bed.


                                      29.

             REGINA
      Maybe that prisoner was right.

             SEAN
      About what?

             REGINA
      You taking over. For Duncan.

             SEAN
      That woman was crazy.

             REGINA
      She called it about Crawford.

             SEAN
      OK, then maybe I do nothing and 
      eventually it just comes to me.

Regina approaches Sean. Seductive. Authoritative.

             REGINA
      Or maybe you man up and you take 
      it.

This hits Sean hard. Calling out his manhood. 

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Duncan was right. Were stuck. Both 
      of us. Any future we had with this 
      department ended four years ago. 

Regina lifts her shirt, revealing a SCAR on her abdomen. 
Right where she lost her baby. She touches Seans hand to it.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      And weve both made sacrifices.

             SEAN
      I cant believe what youre telling 
      me.

             REGINA
      Good. Keep saying that. Use that 
      good nature to your advantage.

             SEAN
      What do you mean?

             REGINA
      Youre nice. Duncan will never see 
      it coming. 

She leans in. Kisses him on the mouth.


                                      30.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Youve played the good cop, Sean. 
      Look how that turned out. 

EXT. BOMBED OUT STREET CORNER - BROWNSVILLE, BROOKLYN - DAY

A tall, skinny COP in uniform, black, 23 - FRANKIE, stands 
watch on a rough corner in Brooklyn.

Hes posted up under a bodega awning out of the rain.

Frankie eyes a dark Jeep Grand Cherokee that pulls a U-Turn 
in the middle of the street. Frankie smiles. Approaches the 
car as the window rolls down to reveal BANKS. 

             BANKS
      You hungry?

             FRANKIE
      You know I cant eat on the 
      footpost.

             BANKS
      Stash it in the bodega and eat it 
      piecemeal. At least thats what I 
      used to do when your motherd bring 
      me food. 

Frankie considers. Takes a bag offered by Banks. 

             FRANKIE
      Thanks, pops. 

             BANKS
      You made any collars yet?

             FRANKIE
      They just got me writing quality of 
      life tickets.

             BANKS
      You ever ticket an older white 
      woman? One green eye. One blue.

             FRANKIE
      A white woman? In this 
      neighborhood?

EXT. GREENWOOD CEMETERY - BROOKLYN - DAY

Sean drives up to a deserted stretch of road in the cemetery. 


Waiting for him under the cover of a mausoleum awning - 
DUNCAN, OFFICER ANGUS and OFFICER LENNOX. 

Sean exits the car. Duncan extends his hand. 

                                      31.

             DUNCAN
      Glad you made it. 

             SEAN
      Me too. 

Angus nods down the hill. A shadowy figure approaches. Duncan 
turns to Sean. 

             DUNCAN
      Youre not gonna like the CI weve 
      been using. Just roll with it.

The man slowly comes into focus.

Duncan was right. Sean is shocked to see who it is. 

The CI - REYNALDO, the man who assaulted Regina. He joins 
them under the awning. Looks Sean over.

             REYNALDO
      Whos this?

             DUNCAN
      The new Crawford. 

             SEAN
      You dont remember me? 

             REYNALDO
      Nope. 

             SEAN
      Four years ago. Club Milky Way.

Reynaldo snaps his fingers in recognition. 

             REYNALDO
      You were with that hot bitch.

             SEAN
      Regina. Thats my wife. 

             REYNALDO
      Im sorry, bro. A woman that 
      fine...I couldnt help myself. 

             SEAN
      Thats an excuse?


                                      32.

             REYNALDO
      Im just saying. 

Sean is pissed. Reynaldo shakes his head. Turns to Duncan--

             REYNALDO
	(CONTD)
      The man doesnt even know how to 
      take a compliment. 

And THATS the trigger. Sean rushes Reynaldo, but Duncan 
catches him. Pulls him aside. 

             DUNCAN
      Go cool off in the car.  

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Sean watches as Duncan, Angus and Lennox talk to Reynaldo, 
his face filled with rage. 

Duncan and Reynaldo shake hands. Reynaldo heads off. Duncan, 
Angus and Lennox join Sean in the car. 

             SEAN
      That fucking guy--

             DUNCAN
      -is a cash cow. 
        (a beat)
      Ill keep you two separate in the 
      future. 

             SEAN
      Whats he get out of this?

             DUNCAN
      Ten percent.

             SEAN
      Of?

Duncan grins before breaking the news. 

             DUNCAN
      One point six mill.

Seans reaction - Holy shit.


INT. PIZZA SHOP ON THE FULTON MALL - BROOKLYN - DAY

Sean and Regina sit in a booth in back, Regina in uniform. 
The place is busy, including TWO 16 year-old BOYS loudly 
hitting on a 14 year-old GIRL.

                                      33.

             REGINA
      Whats your cut?

             SEAN
      One sixty.

             REGINA
      Of one point six?

             SEAN
      Its more than we make in a year, 
      Regina. Combined. 

             REGINA
      Its not enough for the risk youre 
      taking.

             SEAN
      So what do I do? Tell him Im out?

             REGINA
      You cant do that. Not now. 

Sean considers. Meanwhile, one of the boys shouts at the girl-

             TEENAGE BOY 1
      Bitch, I know you got your period. 
      I can smell that shit from here.

The girl, sweet looking, seems uncomfortable. Sean clocks her 
along with a few PATRONS, nobody doing anything, before 
turning back to Regina.

             SEAN
      So, what, I ask for more money?

             REGINA
      Its not about the money. Shit 
      rolls down hill, Sean. Thats why 
      were treading water and Lieutenant 
      Duncan dodged the grand jury four 
      years ago. You need to be in 
      control. Money comes and goes. 
      Power stays till you relinquish it.

             TEENAGE BOY 2
      Nope. You aint going nowhere.


The Teens block the girls path as she tries to exit. Sean 
watches, absorbed, before Regina breaks back in.

                                      34.

             REGINA
      And whos to say how long Duncans 
      been colluding with Reynaldo. For 
      all we know they were working 
      together the night of your 
      accident.

             SEAN
      We dont know that.

             REGINA
      But we do know theyre working 
      together now. How does that make 
      you feel?

             SEAN
      You know how it makes me feel.

             REGINA
      So what do you want to do?

             SEAN
      I want to kill him.

             REGINA
      Now Sean, what did you want to do 
      the night that Reynaldo assaulted 
      me?

             SEAN
      Jesus, Regina.

             REGINA
      Say it. 

             SEAN
      I wanted to hold off on the deal. 
      Then I wanted to follow you to his 
      car.

             REGINA
      But you didnt.

             SEAN
      I was following Duncans orders.

             REGINA
      Exactly. Duncans orders superseded 
      your instincts. 


                                      35.

             REGINA
	(CONT'D)
      You could have stopped it the first 
      time by withholding the money from 
      Reynaldo or even the second time by 
      following me to his car. You wanted 
      to do both, but you did neither. 

This hits Sean hard. 

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      You brought this up to me. If 
      youre not man enough to see it 
      through, just tell me. If you are, 
      then maybe its time you quit being 
      afraid to turn your instincts into 
      action. 

Sean absorbs this as he sees the TEENS grope the girl. Still, 
no one does anything. Regina follows Seans eye line. She 
looks horrified. She moves to get up, but shes preempted. 

By SEAN. Fuming, he storms up from his seat. 

Regina watches as Sean grabs both of the TEENS. 

             TEENAGE BOY 1
      Whoa, what the fuck are you--

Sean punches the boy in the side. He yells in pain. The 
second TEEN tries to run, but Sean catches him. Flashes his 
badge to the proprietor before turning back to the boys. 

             SEAN
      Apologize to her. 

The boys hesitate. Sean gets closer. They blurt out--

             TEENAGE BOYS
      Yo, Im sorry, Im sorry. 

             SEAN
      Now apologize to everyone here.

             TEENAGE BOYS
      Im terribly sorry. I, seriously, 
      Im sorry. 

             SEAN
      Now get out of here. 

As they scatter, a look of thanks from the girl, applause 
from the patrons, surprise from Sean himself that he did it, 
and a sly smile from Regina as we cut out to--


EXT. PIZZA SHOP ON THE FULTON MALL - BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Sean watches the boys run down the mall. He turns to Regina.

                                      36.

             SEAN
      How do we do it?

             REGINA
      Leave the planning to me. I just 
      need you do to one thing. 

They kiss as we dissolve to--

INT. EVIDENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Sean keys his way into the evidence room. Locks the door.

We track with him across the aisles. Theyre labeled by year. 
2012, 2011, etc. Sean turns into the 1998 aisle. 

Sean withdraws a plastic container from a high shelf. 

He sets it on the ground. Starts rifling through the 
container. Pulls out ZIPLOC BAGS of evidence. 

A baggie of heroin. A gravity knife. A dildo. 

Finally, pay dirt. On a folder labeled HENRIQUEZ, Sean 
withdraws a HAND GUN. Glock. Automatic. 

He pulls it from the evidence bag. Releases the CLIP. Full 
load, fifteen bullets. 

He slips the gun into an ANKLE HOLSTER. Grabs the file. Takes 
it to--

THE SHREDDER. Any trace of this voucher is chewed into 
oblivion, the NOISE of the shredder masking the sound of--

THE DOOR closing. Sean jumps with a start. Looks up. 

Its Banks. He watches as Sean turns the shredder off. 

             BANKS
      Duty captain gave me the key. Looks 
      like Im taking over for you.

             SEAN
      Enjoy. 


                                      37.

             BANKS
      Another lateral move. No pay bump. 
      Wish that prognosticating bitch had 
      said Id win the lotto.  

They share a laugh. Sean gets up to leave, but Banks stops 
him.

             BANKS
	(CONTD)
      Anything bother you about that 
      prisoner transpo last night?

             SEAN
      Yeah.
        (a beat)
      We shouldnt have been doing it. 

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Sean secures his KEVLAR vest. Duncan turns to him.

             DUNCAN
      Adrenaline running?

Sean nods.

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      Always makes me need to take a 
      shit.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Sean and Duncan head down a grimy project hallway. Stop at 
APARTMENT 6B. Duncan BANGS on the door with his fist.

             DUNCAN
      Police! Open up!

INT. APARTMENT 6B - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

On the other side of the door - TWO black MEN watch a movie 
with an elderly black WOMAN, 80s, sleeping in a LAY-Z-BOY.

One of the guys is 30s, medium build, dressed sharp - BYRON.

The other is fat but light on his feet, 20s - JUNIOR. 

             BYRON
      Head out the back. Make sure 
      everythings cool downstairs.


                                      38.

Junior gets up. We track with him into the bedroom. He cracks 
the window. Takes one step onto the fire escape. Freezes.

LENNOX and ANGUS wait for him, guns pointed. 

INT. LIVING ROOM - APARTMENT 6B - CONTINUOUS

Lennox and Angus lead Junior into the living room. Sit him 
down on the couch. 

Lennox stands watch over them as Angus opens the door for 
Duncan and Sean, who enter. 

Lennox heads to the BEDROOM. Angus to the KITCHEN. 

             DUNCAN
      Which one of you is Byron Hamilton?

No answer from either of them. The elderly woman snores. 

Sean moves to the couch. Gets both of them up as Duncan 
points his gun at the two men. 

Sean frisks and searches JUNIOR. Finds a GUN. Hands it to 
Duncan. Then grabs his WALLET. Withdraws ID.

             SEAN
      We got Junior Maddox out of 
      Bayonne, New Jersey. 

Sean goes for Byron. Searches. Finds his ID. 

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      And Byron Hamilton. Another Jersey 
      boy. Hes out of Newark. 

Duncan takes a seat in a chair. Crosses his legs, relaxed. 

             DUNCAN
      New Jersey? Whatre you doing in 
      Brooklyn, fellas?

             BYRON
      Taking care of my grandmother.

             DUNCAN
      Thats very considerate of you.

Angus pops his head up from the KITCHEN. Shakes his head. 


INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Lennox finishes ripping apart the bedroom. The mattress is 
flipped. Dressers torn apart. He heads into the living room. 
Shakes his head. Duncan turns to Byron.

                                      39.

             DUNCAN
      Where is it?

             BYRON
      Where is what? 

Duncan, disappointed. He gets up. Points his gun at Byron, 
but uses it to motion into the kitchen.

Byron reluctantly gets up. Duncan leads him into the kitchen. 

             DUNCAN
      We have three options. One, I 
      arrest you two for the gun and 
      trespass. But I dont want that. 

Off Byron, stone-faced, Duncan continues.

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      Two. You give me what I want. Let 
      me and my team walk out of here 
      with all of it. Consider it a one 
      time protection tax. I know you 
      dont want that.

             BYRON
      Whats the third way?

             DUNCAN
      I take your grandmother to the 
      stairwell. Push her down all six 
      flights. Old woman like that, 
      theyd chalk it up to an accident. 
      And then I take what I want anyway. 

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Byron, flanked by Sean and Duncan, knocks on Apartment 4H.

It takes a second, but a sleepy looking woman, NICOLE, really 
hot, in a robe, answers. Looks them over.

             NICOLE
      Can I help you?

             BYRON
      Just wake him up, Nicole. 


                                      40.

INT. LIVING ROOM - APARTMENT 4H - CONTINUOUS

Sean, Duncan and Byron look up as Nicole enters. She carries  
a TODDLER in pajamas, black, 5, clearly just woken up.

Byron motions to follow him. Duncan escorts Nicole and the 
kid, all of them entering--

THE KIDS BEDROOM

Byron approaches the bed, made up in Batman sheets. He flips 
the mattress revealing--

BRICKS OF HEROIN. 25. Maybe 30. A lot. 

Off Sean and Duncans look - jackpot - we cut to--

INT. SHITTY MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Four beer bottles CLINK cheers.

Sean, Duncan, Lennox and Angus swig their drinks as Sean 
turns to Duncan. 

             SEAN
      What happens from here?

Duncan taps the DUFFEL BAG filled with heroin.

             DUNCAN
      We run this up to the Bronx. A 
      retired narcotics captain I know 
      can move it through a connect in 
      White Plains. And then--

He looks to the whole group.

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      --we make a healthy contribution to 
      our retirement funds.

             LENNOX
      Shit, I might retire tomorrow.

Lennox kills his beer. Turns to Angus.

             LENNOX
	(CONTD)
      You want a lift? 

Angus nods. They all shake hands as Lennox and Angus head 
out, leaving Sean and Duncan alone.

Sean eyes Duncan. Drinking his beer. Propped up on the bed. 


He reaches for his ankle holster. Still secure. 

He takes a sip of beer. His hands SHAKE as he brings the 
bottle to his mouth. Duncan is sharp. He notices. Asks--

                                      41.

             DUNCAN
      You OK?

             SEAN
      Yeah. Adrenalines still going.

             DUNCAN
      Bathrooms right there.

Sean laughs nervously. 

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      I know things didnt work out how 
      you planned. 

             SEAN
      Nope. Not exactly. 

             DUNCAN
      Im glad I could get you back on 
      track. At least monetarily. 

Sean nods. Appreciative. But something bothers him.  

             SEAN
      Can I ask you a question?

             DUNCAN
      Whats up?

             SEAN
      Were you working with Reynaldo the 
      night I had my accident?

             DUNCAN
      You really want to know that? 

             SEAN
      Yeah. I do. 

             DUNCAN
      Reynaldo and I had a deal. 60/40 
      split on the buy money. But 
      Reynaldo had a thing for Regina. 

             SEAN
      Clearly.


                                      42.

             DUNCAN
      Reynaldo got a little carried away, 
      Regina fought back. Then you jumped 
      in the mix. Turned into a 
      clusterfuck.

CLOSE ON - SEAN, his uncomfortable realization. 

             DUNCAN
	(CONTD)
      Look, I was gonna give you a cut 
      but I didnt think you were ready 
      for that revelation. I hope you 
      understand.

Seans hand is now steady, his face resolute.

             SEAN
      Completely.

An uncomfortable silence broken by--

A KNOCK on the door. Duncan looks to Sean. Grabs his gun.

Sean gets up. Checks the peephole. Turns back to Duncan.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Dont worry. Just a little thank 
      you gift.

Off Duncans look of curiosity, Sean opens the door to reveal-

A gorgeous WOMAN, 20s, REDHEAD. Sean shuts the door. 

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      You have a thing for redheads, 
      right? 

             DUNCAN
      I have a thing for pussy, though I 
      appreciate the consideration. 

Sean withdraws $400. Pays the redhead. She pockets the cash. 

             SEAN
      You mind if I use the bathroom?

             DUNCAN
      Now?

             SEAN
      Ill be quick. I promise.


                                      43.

INT. BATHROOM - SHITTY MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Sean locks the door. Puts the toilet seat down. Sits. 

He reaches to his ANKLE HOLSTER. Withdraws the GUN.

Then reaches over to the sink. Turns the water on full blast. 
Its LOUD, masking the noise of Sean checking the chamber. 

He then takes a SILENCER from the holster. Carefully screws 
it to the muzzle of the gun. 

Very carefully, he sets the gun on the toilet. No noise. 
Withdraws black GLOVES from his pocket. Puts them on.

He takes one last look in the mirror. Breathing hard.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sean bursts out of the bathroom.

             DUNCAN
      Fucking finally. I thought--

No time to finish the sentence. Sean brings the gun up 
lightning fast. Shoots Duncan in the head. 

The Hooker slides off the bed. Backs herself up against the 
wall near the door.

Sean has an easy shot. He pulls the trigger.

CLICK. Nothing. Sean pulls the trigger again. Another dry 
fire. The fucking gun jammed. 

An awkward moment of silence as Sean and the Hooker realize 
what happened. Sean is frozen. Rattled. 

They make their move at the same time, but the Hooker is 
closer to the door. She slams it shut behind her.

EXT. SHITTY MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Sean bursts out of the room. Its dark. No sign of her.

He listens. Hears footsteps in the distance to his left.

The Hooker sprints through the parking lot. In the distance - 
a 7-11. People milling around. She screams--

             REDHEAD HOOKER
      Help! Somebody, please help!


                                      44.

But shes too far away. She looks behind her. Sean is gaining 
on her. 

The Hooker runs for her life, the 7-11 looking farther and 
farther away, when all of a sudden, a car cuts her off--

A POLICE CAR. The Hooker cries with nervous laughter as she 
approaches the driver, babbling--

             REDHEAD HOOKER
	(CONTD)
      Thank god thank fucking god theres 
      a guy back at the hotel hes--

The lights come on in the cop car, giving us a glimpse of the 
cop--

Its REGINA. The Hooker continues to babble. Goes for the 
back door, but its locked.

             REDHEAD HOOKER
	(CONTD)
      Open the fucking door!

What she doesnt see behind her: Sean. He grabs her. 

The Hooker looks Regina dead in the eye, a horrible 
realization on her face.

She struggles violently, KICKING her legs out, making solid 
contact with Reginas car, causing a big DENT.

Regina exits the car. Squares up. PUNCHES the Hooker in the 
face, knocking her out. 

INT. SHITTY MOTEL - NIGHT

Sean and Regina carry the Hooker inside. Lock the door.

Sean takes a seat. Hes out of sorts. Red eyed, babbling--

             SEAN
      The fucking gun jammed.

             REGINA
      Where is it?

             SEAN
      It fucking jammed. What was I 
      supposed to do, kill her with my 
      bare hands?

             REGINA
      Sean, where is it?


                                      45.

             SEAN
      What, where is what?

             REGINA
      The gun. The fucking gun.

Sean just shrugs his shoulders. He looks over to the bed. 
Sees Duncan dead. He quickly turns away. Retches. 

Regina gets up. Sits next to him. Calmly explains--

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      This girls going to wake up soon, 
      which means shell start screaming. 
      Then the motel manager will 
      investigate and well have to kill 
      him, too. Now calm down and give me 
      the gun.

Sean checks the ankle holster. Not there. He stands up.

Regina reaches behind him. Into his back belt area. Slowly 
withdraws the gun.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Your gloves.

Sean takes them off. Hands them to her. She puts them on. 
Calmly walks over to the Hooker. Shoots her dead.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Ill prep the room. You make the 
      call. Can you do that?

Sean nods. He goes to the phone, but Regina stops him.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Sean.

Sean looks over. She tosses him the gloves. An appreciative 
nod. He puts them on. Takes a deep breath. Dials.

EXT. SHITTY MOTEL - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

A Lincoln pulls up. Parks. A MAN steps out of the car - 
REYNALDO. He looks around when Sean steps out of the shadows.

             REYNALDO
      You got my cut?

Sean nods. Motions for him to come inside, when another 
person steps out of the shadows. Reynaldo cant believe it.


                                      46.

             REYNALDO
	(CONTD)
      I know you.

Its Regina. They share a look, Reynaldos arrogance turning 
to fear in the face of Reginas emotional anger. Its over 
before he can react. Two GUNSHOTS end Reynaldo.

Sean approaches an emotional Regina. They share a kiss. Then 
Regina breaks away. Heads to Reynaldo as Sean gets on his 
cell, stating frantically--

             SEAN
      Central, this is Officer Sean 
      Stewart, shield 2704. I need an 
      ambulance. Officer down, shots 
      fired at--

Sean continues the call as we pan over the parking lot to 
reveal--

REYNALDO. Dead on his back, holding the very GUN that Sean 
had stolen.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

CLOSE ON - A cup of coffee. 

Det. Cipriano sets it down in front of Sean. Takes a seat 
opposite him at a metallic table. 

             CIPRIANO
      Im sorry to keep you awake, but 
      its protocol. 

             SEAN
      Its fine. Im too tired to sleep, 
      if that makes any sense. 

             CIPRIANO
      Im Detective Walter Cipriano, 
      Internal Affairs.

             SEAN
      Sean.

They shake hands. Sean takes a big slurp of coffee. 

             CIPRIANO
      You ready?

Sean nods. Cip hits RECORD on a TAPE RECORDER.


                                      47.

             SEAN
      Duncan and I are getting dressed at 
      our lockers at the end of tour when 
      he asks if Im tired. Im beat. 
      Its my first midnight tour in four 
      years, but I play it off. Tell him 
      Im fine. He turns to me and says, 
      My adrenalines still pumping.

             CIPRIANO 
      Im not following.

             SEAN 
      Neither was I. He explains that the 
      only way he knows how to wind down 
      is with a girl.

             CIPRIANO 
      A prostitute?

             SEAN 
      Thats what I assumed. Duncan had a 
      thing for, uh, for girls. We all 
      knew it was his weak spot. I tell 
      him thanks but no thanks, not 
      really my thing. He says hell be 
      at the Motel 6 if I reconsider. 

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT (BEGIN FLASHBACK)

Sean drives along a residential street, his face conflicted. 

             SEAN
	(V.O.)
      But as Im driving home, I start to 
      worry. Vice has been cracking down 
      on soliciting, youve got 
      undercovers posing as hookers. I 
      know it seems like Im condoning it 
      or colluding, but hes my superior 
      officer. I cant just rat him out. 
      I just want to see if hes OK. 

Sean pulls a U-turn as we cut to--

EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Sean exits his car. Approaches the motel.

             SEAN
	(V.O.)
      I see his car parked in front of 
      room 118. I approach the door. Hear 
      arguing followed by two gunshots.


                                      48.

Sean tries the door. Locked. Before he can react further, 
REYNALDO bursts out of the room.

             SEAN
      Police! Stop. 

Reynaldo turns around. Fires at Sean but misses. Sean returns 
fire. Hits Reynaldo twice, right in the chest. 

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY (END FLASHBACK)

Cip eyes Sean, whos red eyed. Tired. Rubbing his face. 

             CIPRIANO
      You hear what they were arguing 
      about?

             SEAN
      Something about money. I heard a 
      voice. Wasnt Duncans. Wasnt 
      female, so I assume it was this guy-

             CIPRIANO
      Reynaldo Calderon.

             SEAN
      Yeah. He says, cheap 
      motherfucker. Thats when I heard 
      a shot. Then a scream. That was 
      female. Then another shot. My guess 
      is that this guy shoots Duncan, the 
      girl freaks out, he doesnt want to 
      leave a live witness. There you go.

Hes really serving it up for Cip, who takes his time 
assessing this before telling Sean--

             CIPRIANO
      Very detailed guesswork.

             SEAN
      That not match up to something you 
      got?

             CIPRIANO
      Im not at liberty to say, but 
      given the evidence, thats in the 
      ballpark. 

The slightest SIGH of relief from Sean. Cip catches it. They 
share a look, an awkwardly long moment of silence, before Cip 
hits STOP on the recorder. 


                                      49.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Why dont you go home and get some 
      sleep. Ill reach out if I have any 
      other questions. 

Sean nods. They shake hands, but before Sean leaves, Cip asks-

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Howd it feel?

             SEAN
      I just reacted. I didnt feel 
      anything.

             CIPRIANO
      I mean howd it feel when you 
      realized who youd shot?

             SEAN
      What are you talking about?

             CIPRIANO
      Reynaldo Calderon. This is the same 
      man that assaulted your wife. Led 
      you on a high speed chase. It took 
      you a second back there to remember 
      his name. Did you recognize him?

Sean eyes Cip. The guy is smart. Smarter than he expected.

             SEAN
      When I approached him after I fired 
      my weapon, I realized who it was.

             CIPRIANO
      Well howd it feel?

             SEAN
      It hasnt sunk in yet. 

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - DAY

Sean pulls up to his apartment building in the rain. Sees TWO 
CARS parked in front of his building. He looks to their 
bumpers. Notices NYPD decals.

INT. SEANS APARTMENT - KITCHEN - DAY

Sean enters to see Regina having coffee with Lennox & Angus. 
No ones talking. Sean looks to Lennox. 


                                      50.

             SEAN
      You two been waiting long? 

             LENNOX
      Your wife made coffee. 

             ANGUS
      Very hospitable. 

Angus and Lennox are playing it cool with Regina there. 

             REGINA
      I should get ready for tour. Leave 
      you three to talk business. 

This lands on Lennox. He turns to Sean as Regina heads out.

             LENNOX
      She knows?

             SEAN
      You think shed entertain you two 
      if she didnt know? She wouldnt 
      think, what the fuck are Seans co-
      workers doing at our door first 
      thing in the morning? 

This seems to satisfy them. Seans confidence is growing. 

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Anyway, who do you think secured 
      the heroin before I was G.O. 15d?

             ANGUS
      What the fuck happened?

Sean takes a seat. Puts on his best serious face. 

             SEAN
      An escort showed up about ten 
      minutes after you two left. That 
      was my call. I wanted to get Duncan 
      a thank you gift, and I know he has 
      a thing for pussy.

EXT. MOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT (BEGIN FLASHBACK)

Sean drives through the parking lot.

             SEAN
	(V.O.)
      So I leave him to it, but as Im 
      pulling out I see--


                                      51.

Sean looks to his left. REYNALDO, in his Lincoln, pulls in to 
the lot just as Sean exits. 

             SEAN
	(V.O.)
      My alarm bells go off, but the 
      exits one of those right turn only 
      deals. I had to drive half a mile 
      till I could pull a U-turn.

As Sean pulls back into the lot, he sees Reynaldo walk out of 
Duncans room carrying the DUFFEL BAG of heroin. 

             SEAN
	(V.O.)
      So I did what I had to do.

Sean shoots him dead. Grabs the duffel bag. 

INT. SEANS HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY (END FLASHBACK)

Sean watches as Lennox & Angus mull it over, Lennox 
eventually shaking his head.

             LENNOX
      That thieving motherfucker. 

Angus nods. They bought it. A slight smile from Sean.

             ANGUS
      What now?

             SEAN 
      What do you mean what now? We 
      move the product.

             LENNOX
      Through who?

             SEAN
      Duncans connect in the Bronx.

             ANGUS
      That was Duncans connect. 

             SEAN
      So you two have no idea who he is?

Lennox and Angus shake their heads. 

Sean takes a moment to think. He looks to Lennox and Angus. 
Surprisingly, theyre looking into their coffees. Afraid to 
make eye contact. Sean understands, right then, that he is 
the leader. He turns to them--


                                      52.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Set up a meet with Byron.

             LENNOX
      Are you fucking nuts?

             SEAN
      Make it a neutral location. 
      Somewhere safe. I have a business 
      proposition thats very much in his 
      interest. 

EXT. PRECINCT PARKING LOT - DAY

Regina, in uniform, walks around her radio car. She comes to 
the front fender. Inspects the DENT from the Hookers heel.

Its a sizeable dent, and the Hookers red heel left a trace 
of red on the car. Regina tries to rub it out. No luck. 
Another try when a HAND touches her shoulder from behind.

Regina jumps. Its her sergeant, SGT. MARTINEZ, 40s. 

             SGT. MARTINEZ
      You have a second?

INT. SGT. MARTINEZS OFFICE - DAY

Regina sits opposite Sgt. Martinez, who sits at a desk.

             SGT. MARTINEZ
      What do you know about that line of 
      duty killing from last night 
      involving Lt. Duncan?

CLOSE ON - Regina. This is a shock. She covers. 

             REGINA
      Just the basics. Something about a 
      motel.

             SGT. MARTINEZ
      There was a second victim. An 
      escort.

             REGINA
      Oh yeah?

             SGT. MARTINEZ
      A Jane Doe. Homicide and IAB 
      couldnt ID her. No purse, no 
      wallet, nothing. 


                                      53.

             REGINA
      OK.

             SGT. MARTINEZ
      Their plate is full with the Duncan 
      angle. I thought you could help 
      them out. Chase down some leads and 
      ID the girl. I know you can handle 
      it what with your background in 
      vice and narcotics. 

Reginas now confused. Conflicted. Sgt. Martinez notices.

             SGT. MARTINEZ
	(CONTD)
      You wanted your shot, Regina. This 
      is it. Could be a great entree to 
      your detectives shield. Make 
      yourself a good impression. 

INT. ROWHOUSE - QUEENS - DAY

Cip keys his way into his house. His son, RYAN, 15, plays a 
handheld video game while also watching Sportscenter. 

             CIPRIANO
      Youre up early.

             RYAN
      I have school, dad.

Cip shakes his head. He tried. 

             CIPRIANO
      Wheres your mother?

             RYAN
      Out back talking to Cecilia.

             CIPRIANO
      Jesus.

EXT. CIPS HOUSE - BACK PATIO - CONTINUOUS

Cip exits the screen door. His wife, LAURA, 48, white, pretty 
but harried, is in the middle of an argument with their 
neighbor, CECILIA, white, 45. Cecilia holds TWO huge DOGS on 
leashes, braying and barking.

             LAURA
      If I see them in my yard again, Im 
      gonna shoot them.


                                      54.

             CECILIA
      Youre fucking crazy, you know 
      that. Did you hear her, Walter?

             CIPRIANO
      Shes not gonna shoot your dogs, 
      Cecilia.

Cip takes Laura inside where he notices her hand is bleeding.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      What the hell happened to your 
      hand?

Laura looks. Its the first time she notices. She tears up.

             LAURA
      I dont know, I just, Im picking 
      up glass from the trash bin that 
      those goddamn dogs knocked over.

Cip grabs gauze and a bandage from a cabinet. He cleans the 
wound. Puts on the bandage.

             LAURA
	(CONTD)
      Theres no peace, Walter.
      And I need back-up. She wont 
      listen to me. I need you here. 

             CIPRIANO
      Im here. 

Cip finishes the bandage. Laura wipes her eyes. Just as she 
starts to calm down, we hear VIBRATING. From Cips CELL. 

             LAURA
      You gonna go back in?

Cip takes the call. The convo is brief. 

             LAURA
	(CONTD)
      Youre gonna go, arent you?

Cip hangs up. His look says it all. He has to leave.

             LAURA
	(CONTD)
      Go. Fucking go, OK. Well be fine. 

INT. FIREARMS DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD - DAY

Cip holds Reynaldos gun. He fires it three times into a 
cylindrical ballistics machine as Hector watches. 


                                      55.

Cip removes his goggles. A LAB TECH, 40s, tells him--

             LAB TECH
      Itll be a few minutes.

INT. WAITING AREA - FIREARMS DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD - DAY

Cip and Hector drink coffee as they wait.

             HECTOR
      I got a cousin that works for 
      animal control. I can have him roll 
      by your neighbors house. Round up 
      those dogs. Problem solved. 

             CIPRIANO
      Its not just the dogs. Laura hates 
      the crowds. The grime. The noise. 

             HECTOR
      Why dont you bring her and Ryan up 
      to the new place in Suffolk 
      tomorrow night. Jenny will cook. 
      Give Laura a break from the city.

Cip nods appreciatively before telling Hector--

             CIPRIANO
      How you found a place in Suffolk is 
      beyond me.

             HECTOR
      Owner was looking to unload fast. 
      Got fucked by the housing bubble. 

At that, the lab tech comes in. Hands Cip a printout. He 
looks it over. Something catches his eye. 

             CIPRIANO
      This gun was used in a homicide 
      from 98. 

             HECTOR
      Solved or unsolved? 

Cip flips the page. Shows Hector a mugshot of--

             CIPRIANO
      Solved. Robert Henriquez. Fourteen 
      years into a life beef upstate. 

Cip gets up. Paces. Turns to Hector.


                                      56.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      If we have ballistics, that means 
      the DA admitted it as evidence, 
      which means that this gun was 
      vouchered. 

             HECTOR
      So?

             CIPRIANO
      So how does a gun in police custody 
      get back on the street? 

INT. CLUB - NIGHT

Sean leans against the bar flanked by Lennox and Angus. He 
kills a RED BULL. Scans the club. Spots JUNIOR, Byrons guy.

Junior motions the three of them to follow. We track with 
them through the club, up the stairs and into--

INT. CLUB OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Junior closes the door. Locks it behind them. BYRON leans 
against a desk, none too pleased to see these guys.

             BYRON
      Unless youre here to return my 
      product, we got nothing to discuss.

             SEAN
      Then why take the meeting?

             BYRON
      Because youre cops.

Sean takes a seat. Gets comfortable. 

             SEAN
      Exactly. 

             BYRON
      Exactly what, motherfucker?

             SEAN
      Us being cops makes this whole 
      situation different. And 
      potentially advantageous. For you.

             BYRON
      Sorry, friend, Im failing to see 
      my advantage. 


                                      57.

             SEAN
      Youre from Jersey, right?

             BYRON
      You know I am.

             SEAN
      But were in Brooklyn, which tells 
      me youre expanding into New York. 
      That kind of expansion comes with 
      costs. In bodies. And expenditures. 

             BYRON
      Its nothing were not prepared 
      for.

             SEAN
      What if my team targeted your 
      competition. Provided tip offs on 
      raids. Police escorts for your 
      product. Would that help ease your 
      expansion?

Byron and Junior share a look. This is intriguing.

             BYRON
      Whats that gonna cost?

             SEAN
      Nothing.

Byrons taken aback. So are Lennox and Angus.

             BYRON
      Then what the fuck do you want?

             SEAN
      I want you to buy back your product 
      at cost. One point six mill. But 
      beyond that, I want this to be a 
      lasting, lucrative relationship. I 
      want to be partners. 

Byron wasnt expecting this. Now hes very intrigued.

             BYRON
      50/50?

Sean nods. Byron takes a moment.

             SEAN
      Police protection guarantees 
      longevity. And longevity is very 
      hard to come by in your business.


Byron considers. He knows a deal when he hears one. He pushes 
himself off his desk. Extends his hand to Sean. They shake. 

At that, Lennoxs PHONE vibrates. He checks the ID. Takes the 
call. Exits the room. Byron sits back down. 

                                      58.

             BYRON
      We have one issue.

             SEAN
      What?

             BYRON
      Your team stole the product that I 
      would have sold to get you your 
      cash. There is a solution, and 
      frankly Id like a show of good 
      faith given that the last team we 
      spoke I was looking down the barrel 
      of your gun.

             SEAN
      What do you need? 

             BYRON
      Untaxed cigarettes. 

             SEAN
      What the fuck do I want with 
      untaxed cigarettes? 

             BYRON
      I have a truck coming up from 
      Virginia tomorrow night, but no 
      cash to buy it with. What if your 
      team intercepts it. Itd look like 
      a police seizure. You get me those 
      cigarettes, Ill get you your 
      money. 

EXT. CLUB - PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Sean and Angus approach Lennox, who finishes up his phone 
call. Pockets his cell. Turns to Sean.

             LENNOX
      You know a cop named Banks?

             SEAN
      Yeah. Why?

             LENNOX
      Do you trust him? 


                                      59.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - LOWER MANHATTAN - MORNING

Banks sips coffee, an incredulous look on his face.

             BANKS
      You lost a voucher? 

Opposite Banks - Cip and Hector. 

             CIPRIANO
      Its unclear. Records werent 
      computerized till post 9/11. This 
      ones from 98.

             BANKS
      So go check yourselves. Ill give 
      you the key. 

             CIPRIANO
      IAB shows up at the precinct, every 
      chatty Cathy from the duty captain 
      on down starts playing whisper down 
      the lane. A small task like this 
      snowballs into a goddamn police 
      corruption commission. Id prefer 
      more discretion.

             BANKS
      So what is this? An audit?

             CIPRIANO
      An investigation. 

Banks has a thought. Swallows it. Then asks--

             BANKS
      Does this have something to do with 
      Sean Stewart?

Cip and Hector share a look. 

             CIPRIANO
      The voucher were looking for was 
      linked to the gun used in 
      Lieutenant Duncans murder.

             BANKS
      And you think Sean took it?

             HECTOR
      We didnt say anything about Sean. 
      You did.


                                      60.

             BANKS
      Seans a good cop.

             CIPRIANO
      And all we want is for you to 
      confirm that for us. 

Banks shakes his head. Laughs to himself. 

             BANKS
      I dont have to do this and Im not 
      going to.

He gets up, but Cip stops him. 

             CIPRIANO
      You have a son, right? Officer 
      Francis Banks, assigned to a 
      footpost in the seven five?

Banks returns to his seat. Cip got his attention.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      If you dont do this, Ill draft 
      Frankie into Internal Affairs. 
      Thats like getting skunk sprayed. 
      You cant drop the stench. 
      Determines your entire career. 
      Trust me. I know. 

Off Bankss look - you motherfucker - we cut to--

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Halfway down the block, siting in his car, observing Bankss 
whole conversation with Internal Affairs, is--

SEAN, a saddened and disappointed look on his face. 

INT. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER - DAY

A PATHOLOGIST, white, male, 40s, dry sense of humor, walks 
with Regina down the corridor of the OCME. 

             PATHOLOGIST
      No prints in the system. Her dental 
      records are out, but thats a 
      longshot. Plus she had all her 
      shots, which means shes American. 
      Its too bad. ICE would have had 
      her prints on file. Any luck with 
      priors? 


                                      61.

             REGINA
      None. She was fresh.

             PATHOLOGIST
      There is one potential lead, but it 
      could take a few weeks.

             REGINA
      What is it?

The Pathologist pushes open the door to the moratorium. 

             PATHOLOGIST
      DNA from the father.

             REGINA
      You can trace her parents?

He opens the SLIDING DRAWER of a refrigerated unit, revealing 
the dead HOOKER to Regina. 

She finds it hard to look. The Pathologist picks up a small, 
red biohazard CONTAINER next to the hookers body. 

             PATHOLOGIST
      We discovered it during the 
      autopsy.

Regina looks from the Hookers stitched up abdomen to the red 
container. She gets it. And it hits hard. 

             REGINA
      She was pregnant?

EXT. PRECINCT - DAY

A purple CADILLAC parks in the precinct parking lot. BANKS 
exits the Cadillac. Heads into the precinct. 

Observing from down the street - SEAN. 

INT. EVIDENCE ROOM - DAY

Banks carefully locks the door behind him. Heads down the 
rows. Turns into the 1998 AISLE. 

He withdraws a CARD. Consults it. Matches the voucher number 
on the card to a box. The same one Sean pulled earlier. 

Banks sets the box down. Rummages. Finds voucher 98030. Then 
98032. Back to the CARD. Hes looking for 98031. A 
realization on his face when--


             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Marcus.

Banks jumps. Looks down the row. Then positions himself in 
front of the box as best he can to hide it.

                                      62.

             BANKS
      Jesus, Sean. Whatre you doing 
      here?

             SEAN
      I couldnt sleep. Thought Id come 
      down here and clean out my desk.

Banks nods, still sweating, as Sean asks--

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      What about you? Your tour doesnt 
      start for another three hours. 

             BANKS
      Just getting some overtime.

Sean nods. Approaches Banks. Points to the BOX at his feet.

             SEAN
      Youre looking for a gun, arent 
      you?

Banks tries to cover, but before he can speak, Sean says--

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Ill save you the trouble. I took 
      it.

Shock from Banks. And from us. Is Sean about to admit it all?

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Lets get a drink. Ill explain. 

INT. BAR - DAY

Sean and Banks sit at a booth in back, sipping drinks.

             SEAN
      What Im about to tell you stays 
      between you and me, OK?

Banks nods. Sean takes a sip of coffee. Continues--

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      What Id do is target pre 9/11 
      guns. Glocks. Sigs. 


                                      63.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Whatever had the most street value. 
      Then Id file off the serial 
      number, shred the vouchers and 
      drive em up to Rhode Island. 
      Massachusetts, even. Sell em for 
      as much as I could get.

Banks shakes his head in comprehension.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Anyone in the Department checked, 
      theyd be long gone, and the 
      voucher would look like a clerical 
      fuck-up from back in the day.

             BANKS
      Jesus Christ, Sean.

             SEAN
      I only started this three years 
      ago, OK. Back when my career was 
      still in the toilet. Back when I 
      was bleeding money fighting the 
      civil suit from the accident. 
      Reginas medical bills. 

             BANKS
      You didnt think one of these guns 
      could come back on us?

             SEAN
      Honestly, I didnt give a fuck. The 
      Department buried me. They buried 
      you, too. 

Banks nods his acknowledgment. Takes a sip of his drink.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      So what were you doing looking for 
      it? What tipped you off?

Banks considers this very important question.

             BANKS
      Nothing, really. Duty captain asked 
      me to do an audit. Bad timing, I 
      guess.

Off Sean, absorbing this huge lie, we cut to--


                                      64.

INT. ITALIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT

CLOSE ON: SEAN, deep in thought, an ominous look on his face. 
Regina sits across from him in a crowded Italian restaurant.

We are completely in Seans POV, the type of deep thought 
where all sound is put on near mute, Reginas voice slowly 
fading into the distance.

             REGINA
      The thing was in a little box, 
      Sean, like it wasnt even a person. 
      Just biological waste.

Sean rubs his eyes. Looks at Regina, but his mind still 
elsewhere.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      The girl chose that life. She knew 
      the risks. But a kid? A child. It 
      just, it makes me sick to my 
      stomach.

Sean, still deep in thought.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Sean, are you listening to me? 

Regina grabs Seans hand. Sean, startled--

             SEAN
      What, Regina? What the fuck do you 
      want!

Regina, taken aback. The room suddenly comes alive for Sean. 
Several PATRONS nearby look in their direction.

             REGINA
      Im just trying to talk to you.

             SEAN
      So talk.

             REGINA
      Ive been talking.

Sean, suddenly confused. Has she? His face becomes softer.

             SEAN
      Im sorry. Im just tired. My 
      minds elsewhere. 

             REGINA
      Where? What are you thinking?


                                      65.

Sean considers before telling her--

             SEAN
      Its better you not know.

Off Regina, surprised and hurt, we cut to--

INT. SEAN AND REGINAS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT

Sean and Regina drive in awkward silence. Till Sean breaks it-

             SEAN
      What if I told you there was a 
      threat?

             REGINA
      From who?

             SEAN
      From, you know, from IAB.

             REGINA
      We knew they were going to 
      investigate. Whats the threat?

             SEAN
      Youre gonna think Im nuts.

             REGINA
      Either tell me or dont. 

             SEAN
      Its something that prisoner said. 
      About Frankie. 

             REGINA
      Frankies working with IAB?

             SEAN
      No, not really. 

             REGINA
      Is it something you can take care 
      of?

             SEAN
      Yeah. 

             REGINA
      Trust your gut. Dont hesitate. 


                                      66.

EXT. BEAUTIFUL HOUSE - LONG ISLAND - NIGHT

CLOSE ON - Cips finger ringing the DOORBELL.

He holds a bottle of wine. Stands with his wife, Laura and 
his son, Ryan. He takes a moment to admire the property, 
large, beautiful, far from other houses when the DOOR cracks 
open. Hector clocks the bottle of wine in Cips hand.

             HECTOR
      What the fuck is that? I got a 
      whole cellar. 

INT. SPACIOUS DINING ROOM - HECTORS HOUSE - NIGHT

Cip, Laura, Ryan and Hectors wife, JENNY, 40s, white, sit 
around a dining table listening to Hector tell a story.

             HECTOR
      We had this case about six months 
      back on a patrol cop in the four-
      six, Officer Patrick Quinlan.

             CIPRIANO
      Jesus, not at dinner, Hector.

             HECTOR
      Hold on, hold on, I know Ryans 
      gonna love this. So this ambulance 
      is tearing ass up Grand Concourse 
      when it rear ends Quinlan, whos on 
      his way to the same goddamn scene. 
      Shit happens, right. Quinlan goes 
      line of duty with whiplash and a 
      slipped disk. So Quinlan puts in 
      his retirement papers, trying to 
      pull a 75 percent medical pension. 
      But heres the best part. He cites 
      loss of consortium as his long term 
      medical reason for retiring. 

             RYAN
      Whats loss of consortium?

             HECTOR
      Its a legal term meaning you cant 
      fu--

Hector catches himself.

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      --have relations with your wife.


Ryan cracks up. Cip and Laura cringe.

                                      67.

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      So me and Cip gotta go up in a 
      goddamn tree like George McFly 
      trying to confirm Officer Quinlans 
      alleged ailment. 
        (elbows Ryan)
      Makes you wanna be a cop, right?

             RYAN
      Not really.

             HECTOR
        (to the table)
      Kids smart. Wants to make money.

             RYAN
      Its not that. I just dont want a 
      job that pulls me away all the 
      time.

This comment lands on Cip, saddened, as we cut to--

INT. TRUCK (MOVING) - NIGHT

A Hispanic DRIVER, 40s, rubs his eyes. The truck RADIO reads 
2:08 AM. He turns up the volume. Starts singing to Journeys 
Whos Crying Now to keep himself awake when he hears--

A POLICE SIREN. He checks his side-view mirror. An IMPALA 
with a BUBBLE LIGHT pulls up next to him.

The driver of the Impala gets on his LOUDSPEAKER. We 
immediately recognize the voice. 

             SEAN
	(OVER LOUDSPEAKER)
      Exit off the highway, sir, and 
      follow me.

EXT. DESOLATE STRETCH OF INDUSTRIAL ROAD - BROOKLYN - NIGHT

Seans cop car leads the truck to a desolate stretch of road. 

Sean exits his car, his GUN drawn. Yells to the Driver--

             SEAN
      Show me your hands!

The Driver sticks his hands out the window. As Sean gets to 
the cab, he sees a BUSINESS CARD in the Drivers hands.


                                      68.

             TRUCK DRIVER
      Yo, dude, check this out.

Sean takes the card, his gun still pointed at the Driver. 
Its a PATROLMANS BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION card from the NYPD.

             TRUCK DRIVER
	(CONTD)
      My brothers a cop in the six-
      seven. We can work this out, right?

Sean drops the card on the ground. Tells the Driver--

             SEAN
      Put your hands at ten and two on 
      the wheel.

The Driver, disappointed his ploy didnt work, does so. At 
that, Sean hears a VEHICLE approaching behind the truck.

The Driver follows Seans eyes by looking in the side-view. 
He sees a large CUBE TRUCK park behind him.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Very slowly, use your right hand, 
      and only your right hand, to give 
      me the key to the cargo door. 

The Driver complies. Sean takes the key. WHISTLES. A MAN 
approaches from the cube truck. As he gets closer, we see 
that its LENNOX. Sean hands him the key.

Behind the truck, Lennox opens the lock. Slides the cargo 
door open. Shines a flashlight through the rain, revealing 
large cardboard BOXES labeled MARLBORO, CAMEL, WINSTON, etc. 

He hands Angus a box, who starts to load the cube truck.

Back at the cab of the cigarette truck, Sean tells the Driver-

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Slowly get out of the truck and lie 
      on the ground.

             TRUCK DRIVER
      Cmon, dude. Its fucking raining.

Sean cocks his gun. The Driver gets out. As he does so, he 
sees Lennox and Angus unloading boxes. 

             TRUCK DRIVER
	(CONTD)
      What is this, an inspection?

             SEAN
      Just get on the fucking ground.


                                      69.

As the Driver complies, a huge LIGHTNING strike, illuminating 
Seans face. The Driver has a realization. 

             TRUCK DRIVER
      I know you, dude.

Sean ignores him. The Driver persists, trying to clock Sean. 

             TRUCK DRIVER
	(CONTD)
      Where do I fucking know you from.

             SEAN
      From this car stop, now shut the 
      fuck up.

             TRUCK DRIVER
      Oh shit! Youre that cop from a few 
      years back.

CLOSE ON - Sean. Now hes worried.

             TRUCK DRIVER
	(CONTD)
      That car accident. Shit was all 
      over the papers. My brother said 
      you got a bum rap, dude.

             SEAN
      Oh yeah?

The Driver nods towards the back of the truck--

             TRUCK DRIVER
      This isnt you, dude. Youre a good 
      cop, not some skell ass thief. 

Sean ignores him, but the Driver wont stop.

             TRUCK DRIVER
	(CONTD)
      What is your name. I know it. 
      Starts with a--

BANG. The Truck Drivers head reels back as we see the 
smoking gun in Seans hands. 

Lennox and Angus rush over. Sean explains--

             SEAN
      He could ID me. Fuck!

             LENNOX
      Then you had to do it. 


                                      70.

EXT. STORAGE USA - NIGHT

Lennox pulls the cube truck into the parking lot of a massive 
self storage facility. Sean exits. Rushes through the rain 
into--

INT. STORAGE USA - FRONT OFFICE - NIGHT

Sean speaks to a CLERK, black, female, 40s.

             CLERK
      How much you looking to store?

             SEAN
      Biggest unit you got.

             CLERK
      Only elephant units left are on the 
      top floor.

             SEAN
      Ill take it.

             CLERK
      Elevators broken.

INT. STAIRWELL - STORAGE USA - NIGHT

Sean lugs TWO BOXES at a time up the stairs. Sweating.

EXT. STORAGE USA - NIGHT

Sean walks up to Lennox. Hands him a small KEY. Lennox 
pockets the key. Grabs two boxes. Sean sits on the LIFT GATE 
of the cube truck. Catches his breath as we dissolve to--

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - DAY

Sean drives over the Verrazano Bridge. Passes a sign reading 
WELCOME TO NEW JERSEY as the sun rises to his right.

INT. BYRONS MCMANSION - KITCHEN - DAY

Sean slides a KEY across the kitchen island to BYRON.

             SEAN
      This goes to a storage unit in 
      Brooklyn. Your cigs are all there. 


                                      71.

             BYRON
      You gonna tell me which one or am I 
      supposed to scavenge that shit?

             SEAN
      I need you to take care of 
      something first.

Byron, frustrated and skeptical.

             BYRON
      What?

             SEAN
      A mutual threat.

             BYRON
      Thats not really my thing.

             SEAN
      Heisting untaxed cigarettes isnt 
      really my thing but I fucking did 
      it.

Byron nods. Softens a bit, but probes.

             BYRON
      Who?

Sean breaks out his smart phone. Scrolls till he finds-- 

A PHOTO - Of Sean with Banks and Frankie at Frankies Academy 
graduation. 

Sean uses his thumb and index finger to zoom in on Banks and 
Frankie as he tells Byron--

             SEAN
      The older ones a narcotics cop in 
      South Brooklyn. I had drinks with 
      him yesterday, just catching up 
      when he tells me hes on to a big 
      fucking case. He says he has this 
      informant who can give him quote a 
      big dealer from Jersey trying to 
      move into B.K.

This hits Byron hard, exactly what Sean wanted.

             BYRON
      He say who the informant was?


                                      72.

             SEAN
      I fucking tried but cops guard 
      their informants like Mormon girls 
      with their cherry. 

             BYRON
      I dont know. A fucking cop?

             SEAN
      This is the partnership. You think 
      youd fucking know about this if 
      you werent partnered up with me? 
      Youd be chugging along till they 
      perp walked your ass right out the 
      front door. 

Byron considers. 

             BYRON
      I got some guys can do it. But 
      doing a cop, thats gonna cost.

             SEAN
      Two cops.

Sean points to Frankie in the photo. Byron, incredulous.

             BYRON
      The kid? Really?

             SEAN
      Theyre father and son. Real tight. 
      They tell each other everything. 
      You understand? 

EXT. RED HOOK, BROOKLYN - UNDER THE SUBWAY - CONTINUOUS

Regina approaches four hookers - one ASIAN, one BLACK, one 
PUERTO-RICAN, one WHITE, all 20s. 

             BLACK HOOKER
      Here we fucking go.

             REGINA
      Get on the wall.

They comply. Regina shows a piece of PAPER to the four women. 
Its a MORGUE PHOTO of the dead Redhead Hookers face. 

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Any of you recognize her?


                                      73.

             ASIAN HOOKER
      Who is she?

             REGINA
      An escort. Maybe one of you worked 
      with her?

             BLACK HOOKER
      Somebody paid for that?

             ASIAN HOOKER
      Shes paler than that Twilight 
      bitch.

             WHITE HOOKER
      Fucking vampire, exactly. Bite a 
      motherfuckers dick off.

             BLACK HOOKER
      Bitch, vampires go for the neck, 
      not the dick. 

Regina cant believe how cruel these girls are. She eyes the 
silent PUERTO-RICAN HOOKER. Regina can tell theres thought 
behind her eyes as she scans the photo and smokes a cig. 

Regina pushes the Puerto-Rican Hooker against the wall.

             REGINA
      Whatd you fucking say?

Regina starts to cuff her as the other girls start yelling. 

INT. REGINAS CAR (STATIONARY) - DAY

Regina is parked in a desolate area. She hands Trina coffee.

             TRINA
      I dont know her whole name.

             REGINA
      But you recognize her?

Trina nods.

             TRINA
      We went to the same planned 
      parenthood in Sunset Park. You know 
      how you be seeing someone all the 
      time at the coffee shop. That was 
      like me and her at the clinic. She 
      was nice. Always reading. 
      She called herself Alexa. 


                                      74.

Regina writes it down as Trina points to Alexas photo.

             TRINA
	(CONTD)
      Thats messed up, what happened to 
      her. 

Regina can only nod. Little does Trina know.

             TRINA
	(CONTD)
      Shes lucky, though.

             REGINA
      Lucky?

             TRINA
      At least shes got you in her 
      corner. I know Id want the same if 
      it was me. 

This lands on Regina like a ton of bricks as we cut to--

EXT. SOFTBALL FIELD - PROSPECT PARK, BROOKLYN - DAY

A MAN, white, 20s, in shorts and a T-shirt that reads FDNY 
stands near homeplate. He looks into the third base DUGOUT 
filled with guys wearing NYPD T-shirts and shouts--

             FDNY SOFTBALL PLAYER
      Its only drizzling, you pussies. 

An NYPD softball player yells back from the dugout--

             NYPD SOFTBALL PLAYER
      We use metal bats, moron. You wanna 
      play, go right ahead. 

He turns to the players closest to him - BANKS and FRANKIE.

             NYPD SOFTBALL PLAYER
	(CONTD)
      Fucking firemen. 

Frankie laughs. Tells his father--

             FRANKIE
      I got my first big collar 
      yesterday.

             BANKS
      Oh yeah?

Frankie cant hide his excitement. 


                                      75.

             FRANKIE
      I was on my footpost when I see 
      this dude walking down the street. 
      He slows up once, just for a second 
      to adjust his waist.

Banks starts to pay attention as Frankie tells him--

             FRANKIE
	(CONTD)
      I knew something was up, but I 
      didnt have full P.C. like they 
      tell you in the Academy. So I go up 
      to question him. Before I even open 
      my mouth, he pushes off me and 
      runs. I chase him three streets 
      down into the Cypress Hills 
      courtyard, tackle him, and when I 
      do the search I find not one, Dad, 
      but two guns. One in his waist, 
      another in an ankle holster. 

Banks is impressed. Frankie continues.

             FRANKIE
	(CONTD)
      My sergeant said I had great 
      instincts. He told me I keep this 
      up, he could get me into street 
      narcotics enforcement within a 
      year. Then OCCB within two. He said 
      the skys the limit for my career. 

Bankss face registers a combo of pride and angst. Then his 
phone RINGS. He checks the ID. His face drops. 

             FRANKIE
	(CONTD)
      Who is it?

             BANKS
      Its no one.

             FRANKIE
      Is it that guy from Internal 
      Affairs again?

Banks doesnt say, but his face says it all. The phone rings.

             FRANKIE
	(CONTD)
      Just ignore it, Dad.

             BANKS
      I cant.


                                      76.

             FRANKIE
      You could retire tomorrow. What 
      could they possibly do to you?

             BANKS
      Its not me Im worried about.

He picks up the phone. Walks out of the dugout.

INT. INTERNAL AFFAIRS - CIPS OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Cip, on his phone.

             CIPRIANO
      What do you got?

             BANKS
	(O.S.)
      Its complicated. He told me a 
      story. I dont know if I buy it.

             CIPRIANO
      Well whatd he tell you?

At that, a KNOCK on Cips door. Hes very surprised. Says 
into his phone--

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Lemme call you right back.

He hangs up. Standing at Cips door - SEAN.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - LOWER MANHATTAN - DAY

Sean sits across from Cip in a booth. He points to a piece of 
PAPER in the middle of the table.

             SEAN
      Check this out. I pulled the phone 
      records from Duncans motel room. 
      5:14 AM, a call from Room 118 to 
      this 917 number. Reynaldo 
      Calderons cell phone.

Cip eyes the list. Then Sean.

             CIPRIANO
      We already dumped the motel phone.

             SEAN
      Good, good, thats fucking great.


                                      77.

             CIPRIANO
      Its the job.

             SEAN
      Its just, you hear about these 
      guys that get drafted into IAB, 
      they dont give a fuck about the 
      work, do a sloppy job. Its 50/50 
      whether the case gets whitewashed 
      or the cop gets disciplined for no 
      reason, you know what I mean. 

             CIPRIANO
      Thats not me. 

             SEAN
      Hey, Im just covering my ass.

Cip takes a drink of coffee. Grabs the call log. 

             CIPRIANO
      You know you could have faxed this 
      over. Why come all the way down 
      here? 

Sean smiles. Takes a big sip of coffee before telling Cip--

             SEAN
      You got me. Honestly, I wanted to 
      come down and meet face to face 
      again. Show you Im not the guy you 
      think I am.

             CIPRIANO
      And what do you think I think you 
      are?

             SEAN
      We both know Duncan was involved in 
      some sketchy shit. Just because I 
      was on his team doesnt mean I was 
      caught up in all of that. 

             CIPRIANO
      I appreciate the candor, but that 
      runs contrary to my experience. 

Sean takes this in. Has a thought.

             SEAN
      Cipriano, right?

             CIPRIANO
      Yeah.


                                      78.

             SEAN
      Same name as that lieutenant from 
      the Dirty 30 case? There cant be 
      that many Ciprianos in the 
      Department. 

This clearly hits Cip hard. 

             CIPRIANO
      He was my brother. 

             SEAN
      So tell me if this is accurate. Im 
      just going off what I remember from 
      the papers. This guy, your brother, 
      hes supervising this team of 
      narcotics cops. But he has no idea 
      theyre heisting dealers, stealing 
      stashes. One of them even bought a 
      Ferrari, right? 

Cip reluctantly nods.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      So when the indictments finally 
      come down, your brothers signature 
      is all over their paperwork even 
      though he didnt know shit. Just a 
      victim of circumstance, believing 
      his guys were doing a good job. 
      That right? 

             CIPRIANO
        (biting his tongue)
      Thats right.

             SEAN
      Poor guy gets tarred by 
      association. See, thats me. Bad 
      things do happen to good cops.

Cip takes a drink of coffee before replying--

             CIPRIANO
      And good things happen to bad cops. 
      Thats where I come in.

Sean smiles in reply. Touche. He looks out the window. He 
cant believe it. 

Its not raining. SUN RAYS break through as we match cut to--


                                      79.

EXT. SOFTBALL FIELD - PROSPECT PARK, BROOKLYN - DAY

The NYPD players take the field, excited to finally play.

Banks takes his position at third base. Frankie at shortstop. 
As the first pitch is thrown to the FDNY, we cut out to--

BEHIND THE TREES

Watching from about 150 yards away, concealed under tree 
cover - TWO MEN, 20s, one Black, one Dominican, the Dominican 
looking through binoculars.

The Black dude finishes a CIG. Drops it in a PILE on the 
ground.

The Dominican Hitman breaks out a piece of paper - a printout 
of the PHOTO of Banks and Frankie that Sean showed Byron. 

He eyes the photo before passing the binoculars to the Black 
Hitman, who finds Banks and Frankie as cut to--

INT. PLANNED PARENTHOOD - DAY

Regina stands at the check-in desk under a sign IDing the 
place as Planned Parenthood. 

A DESK CLERK, female, Hispanic, 40s, with kind eyes, wearing 
a nametag reading GLORIA, peruses a piece of PAPER.

             REGINA
      Its a subpoena for med recs.

             GLORIA
      For Alexa?

             REGINA
      I know its not much to go on. 

             GLORIA
      Red hair? Real pretty?

Regina nods. 

             GLORIA
	(CONTD)
      Im surprised they sent a cop.

             REGINA
      They?


                                      80.

             GLORIA
      Family court. Usually they send a 
      paralegal or an attorney for 
      custody disputes. Scumbags trying 
      to prove infidelity or STDs, you 
      know. Those cats play dirty.

             REGINA
      This isnt that. Im trying to ID 
      her to do a notification.

Gloria immediately understands the subtext.

             GLORIA
      Something happened to her?

             REGINA
      She was...yeah, something happened.
        (a beat)
      You said a custody dispute?

Gloria nods, still shaken by the news.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      So she knew she was pregnant?

             GLORIA
      Pregnant? No, she has a little 
      girl. Had. Molly. Oh my god, that 
      poor kid.

Off Regina, devastated by this unexpected info, we cut to--

EXT. PROSPECT PARK PATHWAY - DAY

Banks and Frankie walk through the park, still in their NYPD 
T-shirts. A loud THUNDERCLAP. The rain starts up again. 

             BANKS
      You gotta be kidding me.

             FRANKIE
      At least it held out for the game.

             BANKS
      You were always more glass half 
      full than half empty.

They continue walking, entering a covered TUNNEL as Banks 
continues--


                                      81.

             BANKS
	(CONTD)
      I was, too, when I first started. 
      But you know what-

BANG! Banks drops to the ground. 

Frankie hits the deck, too, unaware of whats going on as we 
hear--

FOUR MORE GUNSHOTS. Then the sound of RUNNING. This shit 
happens at lightning speed as we focus on Frankies FACE. 

His eyes closed. They fucking got them...

Or did they? We hold a moment until all of a sudden, Frankie 
opens ONE EYE. Looks up. Sees two men running, one Black and 
one Hispanic. He waits till theyre fully gone.  

He gets up. Pats himself down, breathing hard. No injuries. 

A small pool of blood runs out of his fathers mouth. Another 
larger pool of blood expands at his torso.

Tears start to form in Frankies eyes as he realizes the 
magnitude of what just happened. 

INT. GRIMALDIS PIZZA - BROOKLYN - NIGHT

Sean and Regina sit at a table in the crowded, iconic gourmet 
pizza place. Theyre joined by Angus and his wife and Lennox 
and his wife, Lennox prodding Regina--

             LENNOX 
      You got one, Regina?

             REGINA
      Whats that?

             LENNOX
      Cmon, you gotta have one that 
      sticks out.

Regina thinks. Takes a drink of water.

             REGINA
      This happened years ago when Sean 
      and I were in narcotics together. 

Sean eyes Regina. Then looks past her. A PATRON at a nearby 
table turns and make eye contact with Sean. He flinches, 
freaked out. Its BANKS. Sean looks to Regina, then back to 
the patron. Now its just an old white dude.


                                      82.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      I did the observation post, too. I 
      was on a crackhouse in East 
      Flatbush when I see Jamar Minus 
      roll up. This mope was a crackhead 
      whod outrun us the week before. We 
      had a warrant on him. All were 
      doing now is waiting for him to 
      come out. You remember this?

She taps Sean, who doesnt reply. Something about this story 
hits Sean hard. He eyes the bar. A look of HORROR on his 
face. The Bartender - BANKS, with a bullet-hole in his head. 
He holds a drink up to Sean.

Sean, breathing fast, turns to Regina. Points at the bar. 

             SEAN
      You see that?

She gives him a look. Nothings there. The whole table seems 
a bit uncomfortable. Regina continues her story, her 
confidence and mood growing better as she speaks.

             REGINA
      Out of nowhere, the second floor 
      window shatters and something hits 
      the ground. I couldnt believe it. 
      Its Jamar. The guys naked, with a 
      compound fracture on his leg from 
      the jump, but hes running down the 
      street like Carl Lewis. 

Lennox and Angus cant believe this story.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Sean gets to him first, but Jamars 
      so hopped up, he has that crackhead 
      strength, right, and he overpowers 
      Sean and starts wailing away. I 
      honestly thought for a second he 
      was going to kill Sean, but Banks 
      catches up to him and pulls Jamar 
      off. He saved Sean. 

Seans jarred by the memory of this story as Regina continues-

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      Heres the weird part. All of a 
      sudden, Jamar freezes up and hits 
      the ground. 

             ANGUS
      What happened? You shoot him?


                                      83.

             REGINA
      He had a heart attack. Dropped dead 
      right there in the street. 

Lennox, Angus and their wives absorb this as Regina turns to 
Sean.

At that, the BUSBOY grabs Seans water. Sean looks at him as 
its being filled. He recoils in shock. The busboy is a 
bloody BANKS. Sean gets up with a start. Pushes the busboy 
away, yelling--

             SEAN
      Get the fuck away from me!

Sean rushes out of the restaurant. Lennox, Angus and their 
wives dont know how to react, though Regina most of all.

EXT. GRIMALDIS PIZZA - BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Sean bursts out of the restaurant. Takes a second to calm 
down. He looks around. Sees a PATRON smoking a cig.

             SEAN
      Hey pal, you mind if I borrow your 
      cell? I left mine at home.

The Patron looks at Sean skeptically. Sean flashes his BADGE.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Im not gonna steal it. I promise, 
      itll just be a second.

The Patron hands Sean his cell. Sean walks twenty feet away. 
Dials. On the other end of the call - BYRON at his place in 
Jersey. Intercut as needed.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Yo, its me.

             BYRON
      Whos me?

             SEAN
      Im using a strangers cell, OK. 
      You take care of that thing?

             BYRON
      Its done. My guys did it.

             SEAN
      Both of them?


                                      84.

             BYRON
      I said they did it.

Sean, intensely relieved.

             BYRON
	(CONTD)
      I need the storage info.

             SEAN
      Storage USA in Gravesend. Unit 
      1102.

             BYRON
      Day after tomorrow were set. Ill 
      be in touch. 

As Sean hangs up and gives the phone back to the Patron, he 
sees Regina waiting for him by the door. Sean, now in a much 
better mood, tells her--

             SEAN
      Were all good. It goes down the 
      day after tomorrow.

Regina doesnt share Seans enthusiasm. Somethings up.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Whats going on?

             LENNOX
      I just got a call. Somebody shot 
      and killed Banks.

             SEAN
      What?

But Seans reaction is off, and Regina notices. 

             REGINA
      Dont bullshit me, Sean.

             SEAN
      That was the threat, OK. Banks was 
      the fucking threat. 

             REGINA
      Banks?

             SEAN
      You said trust my gut. Act. I 
      fucking acted. Would you rather it 
      be me? Or you? 


                                      85.

             REGINA
      He was with Frankie. 

             SEAN
      He had to go, too. 

             REGINA
      Theyre debriefing him tonight.

             SEAN
      Who, Frankie? Hes alive? 

Regina nods. Sean goes white, freaked out. 

             REGINA
      Do we have anything to worry about?

             SEAN
      Of course we dont. 

             REGINA
      Then why did you just turn white?

             SEAN
      Its nothing. Ill, look, Ill meet 
      you at home. I gotta go see 
      someone. 

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Frankie, still wearing his NYPD softball T-shirt, sits at a 
table. Hes red eyed, tired and teary. We follow his eyes as 
the door opens. Cip and Hector enter.

             CIPRIANO
      Im Detective Walter Cipriano, this 
      is Detective Hector Alvarez. 
      Internal Affairs. 

             FRANKIE
      Please, just get me some real 
      detectives.

             HECTOR
      Excuse me?

Cip touches Hectors arm, calming him.

             CIPRIANO
      Its fine, Hector.
        (to Frankie)
      Your father told you about us?


Frankie nods.

                                      86.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Whatd he say?

             FRANKIE
      Not a goddamn word, which was more 
      than enough.

             CIPRIANO
      And you think this is our fault?

             FRANKIE
      I know it is.

             CIPRIANO
      Youre smart, you know that.

             FRANKIE
      What?

             CIPRIANO
      Youre smart, Frankie, because 
      youre right.

Frankie storms over to Cip, but Hector catches him.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Im not gonna lie to you Frankie. 
      Im one of the only people in the 
      Department who wont lie to you.
        (a beat)
      Im also one of the only people in 
      the Department who knows how you 
      feel.

             FRANKIE
      Do not pull that shit with me. Not 
      now. 

             CIPRIANO
      You know about the Dirty 30?

Frankie nods.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      They teach it in the Academy, 
      right? Massive case of police 
      corruption involving narcotics cops 
      in the 30th Precinct. My brother 
      Mike was their lieutenant. 

Off Frankies look of surprise, Cip continues.


                                      87.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Mikey was a good cop, just like 
      your father. He wasnt involved in 
      the drug heists or the money grabs. 
      But it was his team. As his cops 
      became more brazen, IAB got a hold 
      of the case. They needed an 
      informant. 

Frankies pacing, taking this all in. 

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      My brother was disgusted by his 
      teams actions, but he was old 
      school, caught between his 
      conscience and the Departments 
      code of silence. Eventually, the 
      disgust outweighed the code. He 
      manned up and cooperated.

             FRANKIE
      What happened to him?

             CIPRIANO
      One morning, shortly after the 
      indictments came down, he finished 
      his breakfast, kissed his wife, 
      walked into the bathroom and ate 
      his gun. 

Shock from Frankie.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Even though he did the right thing, 
      he couldnt live with the fact that 
      he violated the code. I blamed IAB 
      for putting him in that position. 
      But it wasnt IAB. It was his team. 

Frankies beginning to cave. Hes tearing up.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Now you can focus all that negative 
      energy you have onto me, the cop 
      who started the investigation. Or 
      you can help me and focus it on the 
      cop who ordered your execution.

Off Frankies look of understanding, we cut to--


EXT. SOFTBALL FIELD - PROSPECT PARK, BROOKLYN - DAY

Cip, Frankie and Hector stand on the pitchers mound of the 
softball field, rain pouring down. Its dawn. 

                                      88.

             CIPRIANO
      You told the responding officers 
      you heard two sets of footsteps 
      after shots were fired?

             FRANKIE
      Thats right.

             CIPRIANO
      That means two perpetrators. Two 
      suggests coordination, which 
      suggests premeditation. 

As Cip tries to work this out, he has a thought. Asks Frankie-

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Do you remember bumping into anyone 
      strange yesterday? Asking 
      directions, walking their dog, 
      eyeing you funny? 

Frankie shakes his head. 

Cip looks left. Theres a childrens playground. Behind him - 
another softball field. To his right - basketball courts. But 
in front of him, deep in the distance - WOODS near a pathway.

EXT. WOODS NEAR PATHWAY - CONTINUOUS

Cip, Frankie and Hector trek into the woods. Cip looks back 
at the field as they get deeper into the woods.

He starts searching the ground.

             HECTOR
      Whatre you looking for?

             CIPRIANO
      Signs of life.

The three of them search the ground. Till Cip finds something 
- a PILE of CIGARETTE BUTTS and a crumpled pack of cigs. The 
SAME pile we saw earlier with the hit men. 

Cip follows the sight line from the cigs to the field. Its 
perfect for observation.


             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      I think I got something.

Frankie and Hector come over. Cip points to the cig butts.  

                                      89.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      These guys were lying in wait.

             HECTOR
      Even if these were theirs, which is 
      a stretch, the rain killed any 
      forensic evidence.

Frankies face drops. But Cip bends down. Picks up the 
crumpled pack of cigs. Still closed. He covers it carefully 
as he slowly cracks the top. 

A lone CIG, dry, rests inside. Off Cips smile, we cut to--

EXT. UPSTATE NEW YORK - DAY

We hover above Seans car a la the opening to The Shining as 
it weaves along a narrow, upstate road. 

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - CONTINUOUS

Sean, sleepless, slurping coffee, passes a sign reading 
OSWEGO STATE PRISON, NEXT EXIT. 

INT. PRISONER VISITING AREA - OSWEGO STATE PRISON - DAY

Sean sits at a visiting desk, his leg anxiously twitching. 

The industrial BUZZ of the intake door sounds. Sean looks 
momentarily relieved and excited as we finally see who he 
came all this way to visit--

CASSANDRA, the mysterious red-haired woman from the opening. 
She takes a seat opposite Sean. 

             CASSANDRA
      When they told me I had a visitor, 
      I had a feeling it would be you.

             SEAN
      You have a gift for that sort of 
      thing.

             CASSANDRA
      Or a curse. Im the incarcerated 
      one. 



                                      90.

             CASSANDRA
	(CONT'D)
      But you, Detective Stewart, youre 
      a prisoner of a different color. 

             SEAN
      What do you mean?

             CASSANDRA
      A prisoner of your fears. After 
      all, this is no deposition. Youre 
      here for clarity. And confirmation.

Sean is taken aback by her probing. He takes a moment. Says--

             SEAN
      I looked you up.

             CASSANDRA
      Did you?

             SEAN
      Youd never been arrested by 
      Duncan, Crawford, Banks, no one. 
      Your entire record was sealed. Who 
      the fuck are you?

             CASSANDRA
      Is that what you came here to ask 
      me?

             SEAN
      Stop fucking answering my questions 
      with a question.

             CASSANDRA
      Then ask me something worth 
      answering. You drove 200 miles to 
      bend my ear when you have more 
      generous and attractive company at 
      home. Drop the facade, detective.

             SEAN
      This is fucking crazy, you know 
      that. 

             CASSANDRA
      Yet here we sit. 

Sean rubs his eyes. Shakes his head and laughs this off. 
Cassandra decides to break the impasse. 

             CASSANDRA
	(CONTD)
      I can see youre under tremendous 
      pressure, so Ill begin. Are you 
      ready?


Sean reluctantly nods.

                                      91.

             CASSANDRA
	(CONTD)
      You only have one person to fear.

             SEAN
      Who, Frankie?

             CASSANDRA
      Detective Walter Cipriano.

             SEAN
      The IAB hack?

             CASSANDRA
      Hes the one. A real family man. 
      Theres nothing more important to 
      him. Except, maybe, catching you.

             SEAN
      So if I take him out, Ill be safe?

             CASSANDRA
      Now youre putting words in my 
      mouth.

             SEAN
      Well how the fuck else am I 
      supposed to interpret that?

             CASSANDRA
      Youll be safe, Sean, until New 
      Jersey is in New York.

             SEAN
      Thats impossible.

             CASSANDRA
      I dont tell lies.

Sean laughs to himself. Takes a deep, reassuring breath.

             SEAN
      Do you need anything? I can talk to 
      the warden. Maybe petition the 
      judge to lower your sentence.

             CASSANDRA
      Sweetie, my advice is free. Taking 
      it may cost, but you already have 
      and your ledgers heading straight 
      for the black. 


                                      92.

INT. LOW RENT APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY

A little GIRL, 3, sits on the floor. Plays with a toy fire 
truck and a toy police car, ramming them together. 

Regina, in uniform, sits on a chair covered in plastic, 
watching the girl play as a MAN sitting opposite her, HENRY, 
white, 25, his eyes filled with tears, tells Regina--

             HENRY
      I knew it. I just, you know, when 
      she didnt come home that morning.

He starts to break down again before blurting out--

             HENRY
	(CONTD)
      You go through it in your head and 
      you start thinking the worst, like 
      the most elaborately sick way it 
      could happen.

             REGINA
      It wasnt anything like that.

             HENRY
      Good, you know, at least she didnt 
      suffer. Right?

Regina nods. Struggles to find words before telling Henry--

             REGINA
      I can help arrange the burials if 
      you need.

             HENRY
      Burials?

             REGINA
      For--


It dawns on Regina. Henry didnt know.

             REGINA
	(CONTD)
      For her and the child.

             HENRY
      Oh my god, she was pregnant?

Regina nods. Henry cant believe it. This is killing Regina.

             REGINA
      Henry, I need to tell you 
      something.


                                      93.

Henry looks up at her as if shes the only lifeline he has. 
Regina looks from him to Molly, the innocent little girl, who 
turns to Regina with expectant doe eyes. 

Regina, teary eyed herself, cant do it with Molly looking at 
her like that. Regina turns back to Henry, who is now making 
his way to her.

             HENRY
      Thank you.

             REGINA
      What?


             HENRY
      This cant be easy for you, either. 

Regina doesnt even know how to react. 

             HENRY
	(CONTD)
      You said you need to tell me 
      something?

             REGINA
      I, Im going to need Alexas 
      parents information. For the 
      notification.

Henry nods. Then asks Regina--

             HENRY
      I just have one question.

             REGINA
      Anything.

             HENRY
      Would you mind if Molly saw your 
      police car? It would make her day.

EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - DAY

Henry carries Molly out into the rain as Regina walks with 
them. Mollys eyes light up when she sees the police car.

Molly touches the headlights. Looks to Henry with delight. 

Regina is even momentarily calmed. Until Mollys hand rubs 
the DENT her mother kicked into the car.

Molly touches it and begins to cry. This freaks Regina out as 
Henry scoops Molly up and tells her--


                                      94.

             HENRY
      Its OK, sweetie. Its just a dent.

He turns to Regina, shaking his head, no idea how right his 
daughter is. 

INT. ROWHOUSE - BROOKLYN - DAY

An elderly black WOMAN in a wheelchair watches daytime TV as 
we hear the DING of a microwave.

Opening the microwave - a young MAN, black - its the HITMAN 
who had scoped Banks and Frankie at the park - GERMAIN.

He grabs oatmeal from the microwave. Stirs it. Brings it to 
his grandmother and begins feeding her.

Two bites in, he lights a cig. Takes a big drag when--

BOOM! The front AND back doors simultaneously blast open. 
Germain jumps up, spilling oatmeal all over his grandmother, 
causing her to scream.

The COPS are on him fast. A dozen ESU officers (NYPDs answer 
to SWAT, but more badass) tackle Germain to the ground.

EXT. ROWHOUSE - BROOKLYN - CONTINUOUS

Cip and Hector flank ESU cops who lead Germain onto the 
stoop. Cip tells the ESU cops--

             CIPRIANO
      Hold him there.

Cip and Hector walk to a waiting car with tinted windows. 

INT. CHEVY IMPALA - CONTINUOUS

Cip and Hector get into the front seats. Cip turns to the 
backseat. FRANKIE eyes Germain through the tinted window.

             CIPRIANO
      You recognize him?

Frankie takes a long hard look. Finally shakes his head.

             FRANKIE
      It was so fast. Its just, Im not 
      100 percent. All I remember are 
      their sneakers. 


                                      95.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Cip and Hector sit facing Germain and his LAWYER, female, 
black, 40s, dressed sharp.

             LAWYER
      Your evidence is bunk, Cip. All it 
      proves is that my client smoked 
      cigarettes in the park at some 
      point in the recent past.

Cip gives her a look - maybe yes, maybe no. Turns to Germain.

             CIPRIANO
      How tall are you?

Germain looks to his Lawyer. She nods her consent.

             GERMAIN
      Five feet, ten inches.

             CIPRIANO
      Your weight?

             GERMAIN
      One hundred and sixty-three. 

             CIPRIANO
      Very precise. Unlike your shooting, 
      but what can you do.

             LAWYER
      What is this? You already have his 
      pedigree sheet.

             CIPRIANO
      Or was it the other guy who missed? 
      There were two of you, right?

             LAWYER
      Dont answer that.

             CIPRIANO
      Well find out soon enough.
        (to Hector)
      What do you think, twenty minutes 
      to get five guys 510, 160?

             HECTOR
      Maybe less.

It dawns on the Lawyer.


                                      96.

             LAWYER
      Youre doing a line-up?

Cip ignores her. Focuses on Germain.

             CIPRIANO
      Heres the thing, Germain. You or 
      the other guy missed your target. A 
      miracle, really. For him. Not you. 
      Because hes waiting to ID you. 

Germain shakes his head. He doesnt buy it.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      You have two options. One, you ride 
      this out, wait till he IDs you, 
      and I know he will, at which point 
      youre taken into custody and I 
      personally see to it that your 
      grandmother is deported back to 
      that war torn, mud hut village in 
      the Congo from whence you came. 

This lands on Germain hard. He looks at Cip with concern.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Or you tell us who hired you. I 
      bump your charges down to attempted 
      murder. Grandma stays put.

Germain takes a moment. Leans in with irrational confidence. 

             GERMAIN
      You are lying.

Cip smiles. Gets up, as does Hector. Tells Germain--

             CIPRIANO
      Come with me. 

INT. INTERNAL AFFAIRS - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Cip and Hector lead Germain and his Lawyer into a room, 
revealing the window side of a two way MIRROR. 

Seated at a desk in the room that theyre viewing - FRANKIE. 
Germain cant believe it. 

             CIPRIANO
      He described you down to your 
      sneakers, Germain. My offer expires 
      in two minutes. 


                                      97.

Cip is bluffing, obviously, but seeing Frankie freaked 
Germain out. We wait in a tense moment of silence before 
Germain turns to Cip.

             GERMAIN
      If I cooperate, you must put my 
      grandmother in a safe place.

A nod and small smile from Cip.

And a tense look from Hector. He whispers in Cips ear--

             HECTOR
      I gotta take a piss. 

We track with Hector out of the interrogation room, down the 
hall and out the door of the building.

He heads to a dry spot under the awning of a nearby BODEGA.

He takes out his CELL. Looks around. No one. He dials as we 
cut to--

INT. SEANS CAR (MOVING) - DAY

Sean, on his cell phone. New Yorks skyline looms in the 
distance. 

             SEAN
      Did they grand jury him?

On the other end of the line - LENNOX, at home. Intercut as 
needed.

             LENNOX
      First thing tomorrow morning. 

             SEAN
      Then we dont have a problem.

             LENNOX
      Yes we fucking do.

             SEAN
      Relax, Lennox. Were all good. Ill 
      take care of this tonight. Can you 
      set up a meet with your guy?

             LENNOX
      Hes gonna cost.


                                      98.

             SEAN
      Ill take care of the money. This 
      guy works with Cipriano, right?

             LENNOX
      Yeah.

             SEAN
      Good. I have something for you and 
      Angus, too. 

EXT. UNDER THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE - DUSK

Regina scrubs her radio car furiously with a CHAMOIS. Then 
stops. Inspects her work. 

The DENT is still there, as is the red residue left by the 
Hookers heel. 

She tries to scratch out the red with her fingernail, but all 
that does is cause her nail to break. 

She breaths hard. Teary eyed. Lets out a primal scream of 
frustration as we cut to--

INT. CIPS HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Cip drinks tea on his couch. His son, Ryan, to his left, 
sleeps in front of the TV. To his right - Frankie.

He takes a swig of coffee. Turns to Cip.

             FRANKIE
      Who are we after?

             CIPRIANO
      The shooter named a drug dealer 
      from New Jersey. Byron Hamilton.

             FRANKIE
      No, Cip. Youre IAB. Whos the cop?

Cip eyes Frankie. Contemplates not saying. Then relents.

             CIPRIANO
      The shooter didnt know, but Im 
      almost certain its Sean Stewart.

             FRANKIE
        (shocked)
      Sean? Why?


                                      99.

             CIPRIANO
      I think he killed Lt. Duncan in a 
      power grab over drug money. Likely 
      dealing with this guy Byron. Then 
      he targeted your dad 
      because...because he was on to him. 
      Why he targeted you, that remains a 
      mystery. 

             FRANKIE
      Im gonna fucking--

             CIPRIANO
      Youre not going to do anything. We 
      are going to take care of this. 
      Together. Were almost there, OK. 
      Theres a right way and a wrong way 
      to do this. 

Frankie paces. Considers. Nods. He then notices a PHOTO on 
the mantle. It shows a COP in uniform in front of an American 
flag. A typical NYPD portrait. 

             FRANKIE
      This your brother?

Cip nods. Frankie studies the photo before blurting out--

             FRANKIE
	(CONTD)
      He was ugly as sin.

Cip takes a drink of tea. Cracks a smile.

             CIPRIANO
      I used to tell him he was adopted.
        (a beat)
      From the goddamn ASPCA. 

They both start to laugh as we cut to--

INT. ANGUSS CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT

Angus drives. Lennox sits shotgun. In back - Sean and Hector.

             HECTOR
      Hes in the Hyatt downtown. Room 
      1043. Thats the southwest corner 
      of the building, so it borders only 
      one other room.

             SEAN
      1041 or 1045?


             HECTOR
      41. 

Hector hands Sean a KEY CARD. Sean hands Hector an ENVELOPE. 
Hector checks it out. Its filled with cash. 

                                     100.

             SEAN
      Hows my case?

             HECTOR
      Its dead once you take care of 
      this.

             SEAN
      Cipriano tailing us? Using any 
      surveillance?

             HECTOR
      We barely have the budget to run 
      labs.

             SEAN
      But hes persistent?

             HECTOR
      Very.

Sean takes this in. Hands Hector a small pad and a pen.

             SEAN
      Write down his address.

             HECTOR
      What the hell do you want his 
      address for?

             SEAN
      Either write down his address or 
      you write down the salon where your 
      wife Jenny works.

INT. TARGET DEPARTMENT STORE - NIGHT

We track with Regina as she power walks across the aisles of 
a Target.

She passes aisles labeled Make Up, Back to School, Home 
Furnishings, finally turning into an aisle labeled DIY.

She scans the shelves, her eyes darting back and forth.

Until she finds what shes looking for. She grabs a BOX off 
the shelf. 


                                     101.

INT. TARGET DEPARTMENT STORE - CASH REGISTER - CONTINUOUS

The CASHIER scans Reginas purchase - a box labeled As Seen 
on TV! All Purpose Dent Remover!

A look of calm on Reginas face as she withdraws her wallet.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - NIGHT

Hector approaches the end of the hotel hallway where TWO 
young uniformed COPS sit watch outside of Room 1043.

             HECTOR
      Meal time.

             UNIFORMED COP 1
      Detective Cipriano told us to plant 
      our asses here till were relieved.

             HECTOR
      And Im relieving you. For an hour.

The two cops exchange a wary look. 

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      You think Cip and I want two food 
      starved watch officers going stir 
      crazy looking at the same shitty 
      wallpaper for twelve straight 
      hours. Well all be here when you 
      get back. 

The two cops get up. Hector hands them some money.

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      Grab me a Red Bull from that bodega 
      near the courthouse.

They take the money. Head down the hall. Hector takes a seat. 
Watches as they enter the elevator.

He picks up their NY Post. COUGHS twice very loudly. A 
signal.

A MAN rounds the corner near the elevators.

Hector takes a quick peek at the surveillance camera facing 
Room 1043. Then back to his paper, though he does see the man 
through his peripheral vision. 

White, wearing a hat pulled low, the man keys his way into 
Room 1041.


                                     102.

At that, Hector gets up. Knocks on the door of Room 1043. It 
takes a moment, but Germain opens the door. 

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      What do you want to eat?

Past Germain, Hector sees the ADJOINER DOOR between Rooms 
1041 and 1043 crack open.

SEAN silently creeps up behind Germain as he tells Hector--

             GERMAIN
      Are they still serving break--

POP - the silent whiff of a silencer muzzled gunshot takes 
Germain out. 

Hector watches Germain drop to the floor. He and Sean share a 
look before Sean exits the same way he came as we cut to--

EXT. PRECINCT PARKING LOT - DAY

Regina pulls into a parking space in her civilian car. Grabs 
the Dent Remover box.

She heads to her radio car. Withdraws the dent remover from 
the box. Attaches the suction cups above and below the dent. 

If youve ever seen late night TV ads for this, you know the 
type of hack job product this is. Just Google Pops-A-Dent.

Regina slowly twists the knob in the middle of the device.

She watches with growing anticipation as she hears the 
plastic of the quarter panel groan with exertion until--

POP - the dent pops out of place. Aside from the red 
scratches, its as good as new.

Regina looks satisfied and calm for the first time in ages. 

INT. CIPS BEDROOM - DAY

Cip, in a suit, finishes knotting his tie when his cell 
rings. He picks up. A look of panicked shock on his face.

             CIPRIANO
      Jesus Christ. Ill be right there.


                                     103.

INT. ROOM 1043 - HYATT HOTEL - CONTINUOUS

Hector stands in Room 1043 looking at Germains corpse. He 
hangs up his cell. Scrolls through his call log.

A pained look of confliction as he dials.

INT. CIPS HOUSE - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Cip rushes down the hallway. KNOCKS on the bathroom door.

             CIPRIANO
      Meet me at the Hyatt downtown as 
      soon as youre done.

On the other side of the door - FRANKIE, showering.

             FRANKIE
      Whats going on?

But Cips already gone, heading into--

INT. CIPS HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Cip grabs his keys. Laura and Ryan eat breakfast at the 
kitchen table.

             LAURA
      You want to take Ryan to school on 
      your way?

             CIPRIANO
      Cant.

He kisses Laura and rushes out the door. Laura shakes her 
head in frustration. Turns to Ryan.

             LAURA
      I hope you treat your future wife 
      and children with more 
      consideration than your father 
      treats us.

             RYAN
      You think you can find someone 
      better?

             LAURA
      Theres a lot of people in New 
      York.


                                     104.

             RYAN
      Jesus, Mom, hes going to work. 
      Youre gonna fault him for that?

Laura softens at the wisdom of her son. But the moment is 
short lived as we hear DOGS BARK viciously outside.

Followed almost immediately by the sound of TRASHCANS being 
knocked over.

Laura looks furious. She gets up.

             LAURA
      Thats it!

She takes out her keyring. Finds a KEY. Uses it to open a 
drawer in the kitchen cabinet. 

Ryan knows exactly what shes doing when he yells--

             RYAN
      Are you nuts? 

Laura withdraws a GUN from the drawer.

             LAURA
      I just want to scare her.

EXT. CIPS HOUSE - BACK PATIO - CONTINUOUS

The dogs continue to bark. But theyre still on the 
neighbors side of the fence.

Standing on Cips side of the back patio, near the trashcans - 
LENNOX and ANGUS, their guns drawn.

Lennox gives Angus a look as Angus fixes the trashcan.

             ANGUS
      The dogs startled the shit out of 
      me. What do you want.

Lennox quietly reaches for the kitchen door. Gives Angus a 
nod - theyre ready. He goes to grab the door handle but its 
pulled out of his grasp--

The reason: Laura opens the door, ready to confront the dogs.

A brief moment of awkward silence as Laura and Lennox clock 
each other.

But Laura sees Lennoxs gun. They draw their guns together--


                                     105.

Laura shoots. Hits Lennox in the foot and, as hes falling, 
in the throat. 

Startled to fuck, Angus shoots Laura as she tires to close 
the door. Ryan picks up Lauras gun, but hes not fast 
enough. Angus takes aim as we zero in on a panicked Ryan 
before cutting to--

INT. CIPS HOUSE - BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Frankie, in only his pants and bare feet, hears GUNSHOTS.

He grabs his gun from his holster. Quietly opens the door.

We track with Frankie, his gun at his side, as he makes his 
way down the hallway and onto the stairs.

As he rounds the midpoint of the stairs, he points his gun, 
using the banister for cover. No one.

He continues down the stairs, into the living room, towards 
the kitchen.

He approaches the kitchen door. Takes a deep breath. PUSHES 
the door open, pointing his gun to clear the room.

But theres no need. The look on his face says it all - 
horrified and saddened as we reveal what he sees--

RYAN and LAURA on the floor, pools of blood at their side.

Just past them, his body halfway out the door in a gruesome 
pose - LENNOX. 

Hes bleeding from the throat, near death but not quite there 
yet.

Frankie kicks Lennoxs gun away from him. The two men share a 
morbid look as we cut to--

EXT. RANCH HOUSE - LONG ISLAND - DAY

Regina rings the doorbell to a lower middle class home.

No answer. She KNOCKS loudly. Nothing. 

She moves to a nearby window. Peers inside. She sees a PHOTO 
of Alexa, the dead hooker, in a high school graduation pose.

Regina shudders. Moves back to the door. Tries the doorbell 
one last time. Still no answer.


                                     106.

A look of relief on her face and a big, deep breath as she 
turns around and heads back to her car.

But as she gets closer, her face drops. She starts to tear 
up, an unbelieving and agonized look on her face. 

The DENT in her cars quarter panel has caved back in, 
forcing Regina to confront her guilt just when she thought 
she was in the clear. 

INT. HYATT HOTEL SECURITY ROOM - DAY

Cip and Hector scour surveillance tape. Cip fast forwards. 
The monitor shows Room 1043.

Cip stops the tape at the point where Hector relieves the two 
cops. Fast forwards to Hector talking to Germain in the 
doorway.

Hector looks nervous. But before Cip presses play, his cell 
phone rings.

             CIPRIANO
      Calm down, Frankie, whats going 
      on?

Cip looks horrified. He rushes out of the room as we push in 
on Hector, a guilty and nervous look on his face.

EXT. CIPS HOUSE - QUEENS - DAY

Cip parks in front of his house. Jumps out of the car.

He runs past cop cars and an ambulance, their lights 
flashing, up his stoop, into his house and right into 
FRANKIE, who blocks Cips path.

             CIPRIANO
      Where are they?

             FRANKIE
      You dont want to--

             CIPRIANO
      Where the fuck are they?

Frankie releases Cip. Points to the kitchen.

Cip pushes open the kitchen door.

He cant believe it. His kitchen is a crime scene, LAB TECHS 
hovering over bodies.


                                     107.

His gaze lingers on the floor, where LAURA and RYAN lie dead. 
Just past them, Lennox.

Tears well in Cips eyes. His hand shakes. Then motions to 
his waist. At first slowly. 

Then, with lightning speed, he unholsters his GUN, brings it 
to his head and--

BAM - The gun goes off. But only because Frankie tackles Cip 
to the ground. 

Cip, a small graze wound on his temple, looks up at Frankie 
with gratitude and desperation as we cut to--

EXT. CIPS HOUSE - STOOP - DAY

Cip and Frankie sit together on the stoop. Cips eyes are 
still red with tears. 

             CIPRIANO
      It should have been me.

             FRANKIE
      I know what you mean.

And he does. Cip gives him a sympathetic look. Gets up. 

             CIPRIANO
      Go home, Frankie.

             FRANKIE
      And do what?

             CIPRIANO
      Its done. This is over. 

             FRANKIE
      Its not done.

             CIPRIANO
      You keep pushing forward and this 
      is how it ends. 

Cip opens his front door, but Frankie stops him.

             FRANKIE
      Its not over, Cip. Lennox wasnt 
      dead when I found him.

Now he has Cips attention.


                                     108.

             FRANKIE
	(CONTD)
      I know where theyre meeting. I 
      know when. 

             CIPRIANO
      Who?

             FRANKIE
      You were right. Sean Stewart and 
      Byron Hamilton.

Cip slams his hand into the door. Turns back to Frankie. Now 
his wheels are spinning.

             CIPRIANO
      Hes gonna be spooked. Change the 
      meet. Or cancel it altogether.

             FRANKIE
      Not if he thinks hes safe.

             CIPRIANO
      How?

Frankie doesnt know. Its not looking good. 

Then a realization from Cip. He opens the front door. Runs 
through his house towards the back patio.

The Techs are wheeling out the bodies. Cip, frantic--

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Which ones Vernon Lennox?

One of the Techs gets Cips attention.

Cip opens the body bag. The Tech tries to stop him, but Cip 
pushes him away.

Cip rummages through Lennoxs pants, finally finding what 
hes looking for--

Lennoxs CELL PHONE. Cip goes to the Text Message app. 
Starts a new message. Finds Seans number. Then types--

At hospital in Long Island. All clear. Meet you--

Cip stops typing. Turns to Frankie, who watches.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      Its not gonna work. Hell want a 
      voice confirmation. Fuck!

All seems lost. Cip slams the cancel button on the phone.


                                     109.

But a funny thing happens. Cips powerful fat finger 
simultaneously hits the call log button. 

And Cip cant believe what he sees in the Incoming Calls 
menu. Off his look of pained recognition, we cut to--

INT. SEANS CAR (STATIONARY) - UNDER THE HIGHWAY - DAY

Sean in the drivers seat. Angus in the passenger seat, 
spooked.

             SEAN
      What happened?

             ANGUS
      Lennox got hit before I got through 
      the door. I thought it was an 
      ambush.

             SEAN
      IAB was waiting?

             ANGUS
      It was his fucking wife, dude.

             SEAN
      Did you get Cipriano?

             ANGUS
      No!

             SEAN
      Was he even there?

             ANGUS
      I dont fucking know. I wasnt 
      trying to stick around and find 
      out.

Sean thinks on this. Angus, still spooked, blurts out--

             ANGUS
	(CONTD)
      Im done, dude. Im out.

Angus goes for the door. Sean goes for his GUN. Cocks it. 
Points it at Angus.

             SEAN
      There is no out. Not now.

Sean motions for Angus to get back in. Angus does so.


                                     110.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Whatre you afraid of?

             ANGUS
      Right now, you.

Sean lowers his gun. 

             SEAN
      You know Ive forgotten what that 
      feels like. That debilitating 
      feeling you get when you cant act.

             ANGUS
      Sean, Im not sure Lennox was dead.

             SEAN
      So?

             ANGUS
      What if he talked?

Sean nods in comprehension. Thinks. Then takes out his cell.

But before he can dial, his cell RINGS. He looks at the 
CALLER ID. Turns to Angus.

             SEAN
      Speak of the devil.

Sean picks up. Puts the call on SPEAKER.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Yeah.

On the other end - HECTOR in a bare room. Intercut as needed.

             HECTOR
      What they hell did you do!

             SEAN
      It was an ambush. You tell me.

             HECTOR
      You think I tipped them?

             SEAN
      The thought crossed my mind.

             HECTOR
      Fuck you. You dont deserve to hear 
      what I was going to tell you.


                                     111.

             SEAN
      What?

Hector pauses. Then continues. 

             HECTOR
      Ciprianos off the case. What you 
      did, it crushed him.

Sean nods at Angus - there you go - as Hector continues.

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      And Lennox was dead by the time we 
      responded. I imagine that weighed 
      on your mind. He didnt say a word. 
      Youre all good.

Sean hangs up. Turns to Angus.

             SEAN
      There you go.

             ANGUS
      What if hes lying? What if Lennox 
      talked and Cipriano got to Hector?

             SEAN
      Not a chance.

             ANGUS
      What makes you so goddamn sure?

             SEAN
      I just know.

INT. INTERNAL AFFAIRS - HOLDING CELL - CONTINUOUS

Hector hangs up the cell phone. Hes red eyed, scared. We 
pull out to reveal him alone, locked in a holding cell, Cip 
and Frankie on the other side.

Hector hands Cip his phone.

             HECTOR
      I didnt think theyd be home, Cip.

Cip doesnt respond. He disengages the MAGAZINE out of a 
GLOCK 19 handgun.

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      I deliberately called you away 
      before I called Lennox. 


             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      Laura would be taking Ryan to 
      school. Theyd get to an empty 
      house.

                                     112.

Cip removes all the bullets from the mag. Except ONE. 

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      He was gonna kill me, Cip.

Cip engages the magazine back into the gun.

             HECTOR
	(CONTD)
      What do you fucking want? You think 
      you wouldnt have done the same 
      fucking thing to me if you were in 
      that position!

Cip eyes Hector with pure contempt. He places the gun with 
the one bullet on the floor through the bars. Tells Hector--

             CIPRIANO
      If you have any self respect, 
      youll do the right thing.

Hector eyes the gun as Cip and Frankie walk away. 

Then, just before Cip and Frankie get to the elevator - BANG!

Cips expression doesnt even change as the elevator doors 
close on his and Frankies faces.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Cip and Frankie walk down the hallway with a MAN in a suit, 
white, 50s, GEORGE.

             CIPRIANO
      You know Byron Hamilton?

             GEORGE
      Since he was a teenage gangbanger 
      in Newark.

             CIPRIANO
      I can give him to you.

George stops. Turns to Cip.

             GEORGE
      Im sorry for looking your generous 
      gift horse in the mouth, but how 
      about you open up.


                                     113.

             CIPRIANO
      You can have Byron. The drugs. The 
      money. The press. All I want is the 
      NYPD cop hes working with.

George looks at him with skepticism.

             CIPRIANO
	(CONTD)
      I have warrants. Interdiction 
      papers. I just dont have the men.

             GEORGE
      Why come to us?

             CIPRIANO
      I cant trust my own department.

             GEORGE
      What makes you think you can trust 
      mine?

             CIPRIANO
      Its either you guys or I drive 
      down to Pennsylvania. Given the 
      urgency, I thought, what the fuck. 
      Give the hicks a shot. 

George smiles. Shakes Cips hand. Nods for Cip and Frankie to 
follow.

George pushes open a nearby DOOR, revealing a large parking 
lot with marked cop cars. He yells to a nearby COP--

             GEORGE
      Hey Charlie, fire up the bird.

As we push in closer to Charlie, working on a COP CAR 
emblazoned with the insignia of the NEW JERSEY STATE POLICE.

EXT. GREENWOOD CEMETERY - DUSK

The same cemetery where Duncan met with Reynaldo.

Sean and Angus wait in a quiet, desolate section of the 
cemetery. Sean holds the GYM BAG of heroin.

BYRON, flanked by Junior and another man, walks into focus. 

One of his men carries a small SUITCASE. 

             SEAN
      You ready? 


                                     114.

Byron motions for his man to give Sean the suitcase.

Sean takes it. Hands over the gym bag. 

Byrons man looks inside. Seems satisfied. Gives Byron a nod.

Sean kneels down. Unzips the suitcase. As he cracks it open, 
his face brightens. 

This is the moment hes been waiting for - $1.6 million in 
cash. 

He looks up at Angus, who despite being spooked so recently, 
starts laughing uncontrollably. 

Sean joins him. They slap five. 

Byron approaches Sean. Extends his hand. Sean gets up, but 
before he can shake Byrons hand, his PHONE rings.

Sean looks at the ID.

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      I gotta take this.

Byron, left hanging, definitely put off. 

             SEAN
	(CONTD)
      Hey, baby!

On the other end of the line - Regina, in her parked police 
car. Shes been crying. 

             REGINA
      Sean.

Her voice is broken. Distant. Sean instantly knows something 
is up. 

             SEAN
      Whats wrong? 

             REGINA
      I just wanted to tell you. 

             SEAN
      What?

             REGINA
      Ill see you soon.

A smile from Sean. But we then see on Reginas side that she 
brings a GUN into her open mouth, her finger on the trigger.


On Seans side of the convo - BANG! We dont see it, but Sean 
knows exactly what happened. He looks shocked. Saddened.

                                     115.

And now Byron is spooked.

             BYRON
      Everything cool?

Sean cant help but shake his head. An involuntary reaction.

             BYRON
	(CONTD)
      What the hells going on?

Byron has his hand on his GUN as they all begin to hear a 
distant WHIRRING. Getting closer. And closer.

Everyone but Sean looks up.

Angus is the first to see it - a HELICOPTER. He cant believe 
his eyes.

             ANGUS
      What the hell are the New Jersey 
      State Police doing in New York?

This JOLTS Sean out of his depression.

             SEAN
      What did you say?

             ANGUS
      Whats New Jersey doing in New 
      York?

It hits Sean - Cassandras prophecy come true.

It also dawns on Byron. To him, it looks like a double cross.

             BYRON
      You motherfuckers. 

Byron draws his gun. Angus draws his faster. Hits Byron in 
the shoulder.

Junior puts three bullets in Anguss chest. Wheels around on 
Sean.

But Sean is gone. He runs down the hill with the suitcase.

INT. HELICOPTER - CONTINUOUS

The helicopter lands in a clearing of the graveyard.


                                     116.

Cip and Frankie watch as Sean runs down the hill. Byron, 
wounded, runs in the other direction.

GEORGE and TWO NJ State cops rush out of the helicopter 
towards Byron.

EXT. GREENWOOD CEMETERY - CONTINUOUS

Byron makes it over a clearing, right into--

A WALL of NJ State Trooper CARS.

He and one of his men turn around, only to see that theyre 
surrounded.

George and his deputies point guns at Byron. They got him.

EXT. GREENWOOD CEMETERY - PATHWAY - CONTINUOUS

Sean rushes downhill. Looks behind him. Cip and Frankie are 
in the deep distance.

Sean looks to the road ahead, when all of a sudden a NJ State 
Trooper car cuts off his path. Hes fucked.

But he thinks fast. He slows up his pace.

As the YOUNG NJ State Trooper gets out of his car, his gun 
pointed, Sean flashes his BADGE. Yells--

             SEAN
      Whoa, stand down. Im a cop.

The NJ State Troopers moment of hesitation is all Sean 
needs. He puts three bullets in his chest. Climbs into the 
drivers seat. 

Cip and Frankie get there just as Sean pulls away. Cip 
notices the CAR NUMBER - 1238.

He looks around frantically. Another NJ State Trooper car 
pulls up. Cip flashes his badge.

             CIPRIANO
      Stewart commandeered car 1238 up 
      ahead.  

The Driver unlocks the doors. Cip and Frankie get in the back 
seat as the cop starts to speed after Sean.


                                     117.

INT. NEW JERSEY STATE TROOPER CAR 1238 - CONTINUOUS

Sean breaks through the Greenwood Cemetery GATE. Turns north 
onto 4TH AVENUE. 

He looks behind him. Another NJ State Trooper car is on his 
ass.

INT. CIPS NJ STATE TROOPER CAR - CONTINUOUS

Cip yells up front--

             CIPRIANO
      Roll down the windows.

The Driver does so. Cip and Frankie take a window each. Start 
shooting at Seans car.

But this aint some unrealistic fucking action movie. 
Shooting at a moving car going 60 mph down a residential 
street is hard. They dont hit a goddamn thing.

INT. NEW JERSEY STATE TROOPER CAR 1238 - CONTINUOUS

Sean looks behind him. Theyve stopped shooting. A smile on 
his face as he turns back around to face the road. 

A look of SHOCK--

All of a sudden a PEDESTRIAN crosses just as Sean approaches 
the intersection. Just like in the beginning of the movie.

But this time, Sean sees him in time.

He cuts the wheel. Hits the brakes. But the car is going too 
fast. Sean FLIPS the car, CRASHING into the middle of the 
intersection.

INT. CIPS NJ STATE TROOPER CAR - CONTINUOUS

The NJ State Trooper driving Cip and Frankie slams on the 
brakes. A quick moment of calm before - BAM. 

The car behind them slams into their trooper car.

Everyone jolts forward, the violence of the crash intense.

Cip blinks himself awake. Hes OK, apart from a broken nose.

He looks to his left - Frankie is unconscious. Bleeding. But 
still breathing.


                                     118.

Same goes for the Driver up front. Cip grabs his gun. Crawls 
out the window.

INT. NEW JERSEY STATE TROOPER CAR 1238 - CONTINUOUS

Seans car flipped, but landed upright. Sean checks himself 
out. Yells in pain when he touches his left arm. Definitely 
broken. 

He grabs the suitcase full of money. Exits the car, only to 
be stopped in his tracks by--

             CIPRIANO
	(O.S.)
      Show me your fucking hands!

Sean, standing in the middle of the accident strewn 
intersection, turns around to face Cip.

             SEAN
      Can you do it? 

             CIPRIANO
      Dont say another goddamn word.

Sean puts the suitcase down. Bears his hands for Cip.

             SEAN
      Thats what I thought.

And THAT is the trigger. Cip points his gun at Sean. FIRES.

CLICK. Out of bullets. Cip and Sean realize at the same time. 

Sean draws his gun. Points it at Cip, who is now resigned to 
his fate.

             CIPRIANO
      Just end it.

             SEAN
      Suicide by cop. Runs in the family.

             CIPRIANO
      Youre no cop. 

Sean moves closer to Cip when they both hear a REVVING 
approaching. 

Its too late for Sean to react.

All he sees before hes blindsided are the increasingly 
growing headlights of a NJ State Trooper car, and the 
vindictive face of its DRIVER--


                                     119.

FRANKIE!

Frankie PLOWS Sean at 65 mph, Seans body run over and 
demolished, all at the hands of Frankie, just as Cassandra 
predicted at the beginning.

Frankie exits the car. Stumbles over to Cip.

They share a cathartic embrace as they look on at Seans dead 
body next to the smoking police car as we--

                             FADE TO BLACK.

                               FADE IN TO:

EXT. INDUSTRIAL SECTION OF RED HOOK, BROOKLYN - NIGHT

Two police cars are parked on a quiet stretch of road, their 
lights flashing. They surround a small, white CARGO TRUCK. 

TITLE ON SCREEN - 3 YEARS LATER

We track with two men as they exit a car. Approach the truck.

CIP & FRANKIE, both in suits, wearing badges on their belts.

As they come around on the cab of the truck they see the 
DRIVER, Mexican, 40s, slumped over the wheel, shot dead.

The PASSENGER, also Mexican, also dead, hangs halfway out the 
passenger door. One of the Uniforms asks Cip--

             UNIFORMED COP 1  
      You IAB?

Cip and Frankie nod. The uniformed cop walks over to his car. 
Escorts a MAN, black, 30s, to Cip & Frankie. 

             CIPRIANO
      You see what happened?

             WITNESS
      Oh yeah. I was up in my place.

He points to an apartment with an ideal view of the scene. 

             WITNESS
	(CONTD)
      These two cops rolled up on the 
      truck, jumped out of their car and 
      just blasted away.

             FRANKIE
      How do you know they were cops?


                                     120.

             WITNESS
      They had that walk, you know what I 
      mean. And they was driving one of 
      them ghetto cruisers. Ford Kampala. 

Cip and Frankie share a quick laugh. Then Frankie breaks 
away. Heads towards the back of the truck, where he notices 
the sliding back door is open.

             MAN
	(O.S.)
      Pssst.

Frankie jumps. Turns around. From out of the shadows emerges 
a grimy black dude, 40s, homeless, smoking a CIGARETTE. 

             HOMELESS MAN
      You a detective?

             FRANKIE
      Yeah, you see what went down?

             HOMELESS MAN
      I didnt see the shooting.

Frankie looks disappointed. 

             HOMELESS MAN
	(CONTD)
      But I heard it, right. And I saw 
      what those men did after. 

             FRANKIE
      Which was?

             HOMELESS MAN
      They ran up in that truck. Right up 
      there.

Frankie follows the mans gaze to the back of the truck. He 
climbs up onto the lift gate into the storage area.

He starts poking around. The whole storage area is empty.

             HOMELESS MAN
	(CONTD)
      Nah, all the way in back. 

Frankie heads in back. Knocks on the WALL with his fist. A 
HOLLOW reverberation. Frankie, curious. He runs his fingers 
along the wall. Finds a LATCH. Pulls hard.

Much to his surprise, its a false wall. Frankie cracks it 
open, revealing a sizeable compartment. Filled with--

NOTHING. Frankie, disappointed. He climbs off the truck.


                                     121.

             FRANKIE
      You see what they took?

             HOMELESS MAN
      Cash, baby. Lots of it. 

             FRANKIE
      Thanks for your time.

Frankie starts walking away. But the homeless man pulls him 
back.

             HOMELESS MAN
      Hold up.

Frankie turns around.

             HOMELESS MAN
	(CONTD)
      I know where theyre hiding it.

             FRANKIE
      OK, come with me.

             HOMELESS MAN
      No, no, no. This is just between 
      you and me. Get you a little 
      something for all that hard work.

Frankie gets the subtext. Hes unsure as the man tells him--

             HOMELESS MAN
	(CONTD)
      Your choice.

As Frankie seriously contemplates this devils offer, the 
Homeless Man turns away from Frankie. 

He puts the cig into his mouth. As he walks deeper into the 
shadows, he approaches a drum barrel fire manned by two 
others. 

The first, a young, surprisingly attractive but grimy white 
woman.

The second we know - its CASSANDRA! 

She gives the homeless man a welcoming nod as we see these 
three witches huddle together, the homeless man taking a big 
pull off his cig before throwing it into the fire, igniting a 
burst of smoke that fills the screen as we--

                              CUT TO BLACK.


