         UNTITLED STRIPPER PROJECT 

             by Reid Carolin

                7.27.11

SS/GJ/NW/CT/RC

TITLE CARD: JUNE

EXT. TAMPA - MORNING

The wet sun rises up out of the bay, lighting up rows of 
ramshackle houses sandwiched together on the beach.  

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - CONTINUOUS

MIKE - 28, good looking, toned - crawls out of bed, hungover.  
He rips off a paper WRISTBAND, stumbles to the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Mike steps in, turns on the shower - a long row of hair/body 
products line a shelf.  He brushes his teeth, washes.   
Moments later, the curtain is yanked back.

             MIKE
      Jesus, babe, y’scared the shit 
      outta me.

A beautiful NAKED WOMAN - AMBER, 30 - steps into the shower.  

             AMBER
        (hugging him)
      Can we just stay here all day?  I 
      think I’m still drunk.

             MIKE
      I wish.  Gonna be hot as fuck 
      today. 

             AMBER
      Sweating’s good for your skin.

She gives Mike a kiss, grabs the toothbrush from his mouth, 
brushes.   

             MIKE
      That’s gross.  

She smiles.  Mike climbs out of the shower, goes to the 
mirror, starts grooming himself-- 

We see into the bedroom - another NAKED GIRL sleeps in bed.

                                      2.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      What are we gonna do about her?

             AMBER
      What was her name again?

             MIKE
        (thinks)
      Penelope?  I don’t know, you just 
      kept callin’ her your little bitch, 
      making her crawl around the room 
      barking.  

Amber laughs, climbs out, towels off.  

             AMBER
      She was fun, whatever her name is. 
        (putting pants on)
      You know I’ve got to go commando 
      today because someone ripped my 
      favorite pair of panties off last 
      night.   

             MIKE
      Will you just make sure she gets 
      home and stuff?  

             AMBER
      I’ve got to work too, you know.

             MIKE
      I can’t have a whole thing when I 
      get home - just...just take care of 
      her. 

             AMBER
      Oh I’ll definitely take care of 
      her. Maybe I’ll call in sick.  

EXT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - CONTINUOUS

Mike climbs in his SHINY NEW F-150.  A VAN parked next to it 
reads ‘Mike’s Mobile Detailing.’

INT. MIKE’S TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Mike drives, sings along to a CD.    

The TAMPA URBAN SPRAWL speeds by. 

                                      3.

FOR SALE SIGNS, empty storefronts, half-painted billboards, 
half-built houses, ramshackle ads for politicians, lawyers, 
doctors, entrepreneurs.  Typical Florida - a temporary world.  

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY

Mike pulls up to a gigantic housing development smack on the 
water in Saint Pete.  Rows of unfinished, vacant homes.  

He gets out, walks towards a TOOL VAN.  On his way he passes 
a busted-up OLD CIVIC - a towel wedged into the window.  
Looks like someone’s sleeping inside.

A FOREMAN greets Mike at the van.

             FOREMAN
      There he is. Magic Mike. You have a 
      good night?

             MIKE
      For a Thursday. 

Mike starts loading up his tool belt.  He sees someone - THE 
KID, 19, clean-cut good looks - climb out of the Civic.  

             FOREMAN
      Well, today is lucky Friday.

             MIKE
      Yeah?  How’s that?

             FOREMAN
      Cause not only am I gonna forget 
      about the fact that you’re fifteen 
      minutes late, but I’m bumping you 
      up to lead man - pays four bucks 
      more.  How’s that sound?  

A beat. Mike looks around.

             MIKE
      Where’s George and the rest of the 
      crew?

             FOREMAN
      Took another gig last minute. 
      Fuckers left me high and dry - you 
      believe that?  

Mike looks at the crew climbing up on the roof - a ragtag 
bunch of illegal immigrants.

                                      4.

             MIKE
      Uh huh. Looks to me like someone 
      taught you how to use Craigslist.  

             FOREMAN
      Mikey, don’t insult me. They’re all 
      referrals.  I’ve got enough to 
      worry about let alone having union 
      crews barking at me about fuckin’ 
      benefits.  Benefits - I mean, shit, 
      does it look like 2005 around here?   

             MIKE
      Sal, I ain’t jumpin’ up with that 
      crew for no fourteen bucks an hour. 
      No way.   

             FOREMAN
      Don’t make me the asshole here, 
      Mike--

             MIKE
      Twenty or I walk.  

             FOREMAN
      You better be fuckin’ with me.
        (off Mike’s stare)
      Sixteen.  

             MIKE
      Quality’s in the details, Sal.  You 
      want these poor people calling Toll 
      Brothers in two months asking why 
      they got a swimming pool in their 
      living room?  Fine by me.  
        (turns to walk)

             FOREMAN
      Eighteen.  Or you can fuck off. For 
      real. 

Mike smiles, heads up for the roof.  

EXT. ROOF - LATER

Mike rolls tar-paper out, shoots it in place with a NAIL GUN.  
He barks at a MEXICAN MAN who steps on some roofing tiles.  

             MIKE
      Senor!  Don’t step...those are 
      Cordovas, man.  No los zapatos, 
      comprende? 

The man smiles, backs off.  Mike looks across the roof, sees 
THE KID awkwardly shooting the nail gun.  He’s an amateur.  

                                      5.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (to himself)
      Christ.

The Kid BLASTS himself in the foot.  

             THE KID
      Fuck!

Mike sighs, walks over.  

             MIKE
      You alright, kid?

             THE KID
        (yanking the nail out)
      Shit grazed my toe!  This gun’s all 
      fucked up, man.

             MIKE
      Yeah?  

Mike takes the gun, blasts a nail in place.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      You’re puttin’ em in here at an 
      angle.  That’s no good.  You want 
      to center the head - like this.
        (shoots another)
      Get some steel toed boots.  And 
      some shorts.  You’re gonna die in 
      this heat if you keep showing up in 
      jeans.   

             THE KID
      Thanks for the tip.  

             MIKE
      When you staple your foot to the 
      truss just holler - name’s Mike.


Adam.  

Mike goes back to work.  

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - AFTERNOON

The day’s wrapped.  Mike drops his belt off at the tool van.

                                      6.

             MIKE
        (to the Foreman)
      See you next week, Sal.

             FOREMAN
      Go fuck yourself, Mikey.

Mike walks to his truck.  On the way he sees the Kid trying 
to start his car, but the engine won’t turn.  Mike walks up.

             MIKE
      It’s overheated.  

             THE KID
      It’s a piece of shit is what it is.

             MIKE
      That too.  You live around here? 

             THE KID
      Near Ybor.  

             MIKE
      Might as well give up and come back 
      at night with some coolant.  I can 
      swing you home if you need.  

INT. MIKE’S TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Mike and the Kid drive.  

             MIKE
      Take the wheel a sec.

             THE KID
      What?

Mike takes his hands off the wheel.  The Kid instinctively 
grabs it.  Mike turns, reaches into a COOLER behind his seat,  
grabs a BEER, cracks it. 

             MIKE
      Want one?

             THE KID
      Sure.

Mike tosses the kid a beer, takes the wheel.  

             MIKE
      Relax, Kid.  

                                      7.

             THE KID
        (admiring the car)
      How you afford a ride like this on 
      roofing money?  

             MIKE
      Roofing?  Come on, man. I’m an 
      entrepreneur.  You watch Mad Money?

The Kid shrugs - what’s that?  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Check it out.  Everybody’s 
      leveraging - lot of opportunities 
      out there, all about timing.    
        (beat)
      So how’d you get the gig with Sal?

             THE KID
      Craigslist.  

             MIKE
        (laughs)
      No shit.  Where you from?  

             THE KID
      Citrus Springs.  

             MIKE
      Y’all played for states a couple 
      years back, right?   

             THE KID
      I started at strong safety.    

             MIKE
      Yeah?  I was Outside Linebacker.  
      Wellington High Wolverines - down 
      in West Palm.  Still tryin to play?

             THE KID
      Na.  Gave college the college try.  
      Didn’t work out.  

             MIKE
      Couldn’t resist the lure of the 
      roofing business.  

             THE KID
      Yeah.  That and the lure of my 
      sister’s couch.  Take a right in 
      here.

Mike pulls into a small apartment complex off the highway.

                                      8.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      That’s me right there.
        (the Kid jumps out)
      Thanks, man.

             MIKE
      No doubt, Kid.  See you around.

Mike watches as the Kid walks up to an apartment door.

EXT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

The Kid unlocks the door, starts to enter when-- it swings 
back in his face, revealing PAIGE - 26, cute, put-together.

             PAIGE
      You lose your phone or something?

             THE KID
      Na - all good, sis.  

He goes to walk by her but she SLUGS him in the arm. Hard.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Ow!

             PAIGE
      I called you six times, dick.  

             THE KID
        (laughs)
      Ease up, man.

             PAIGE
      Next time you blow off an interview 
      I set up for you, at least call.  

             THE KID
      I told you - no offices.  I’ll 
      fuckin kill myself if I have to 
      work in an office.  

             PAIGE
      Just don’t embarrass me again or 
      I’ll whip your ass. 

             THE KID
        (walking inside)
      Alright, alright.

MIKE watches from his truck, checks out PAIGE - she smacks 
the Kid as he walks back inside. 

EXT. MIKE’S APARTMENT - DUSK

Mike pulls up outside his house.  An attractive BUSINESSWOMAN 
stands outside his door, BANGING.  He gets out.  

                                      9.

             MIKE
      Can I help you?  

             BUSINESSWOMAN
        (she turns)
      Can you help me?  You were supposed 
      to detail our cars today--

Mike sees her - fuck.

             MIKE
      Oh - yeah, listen I...

             BUSINESSWOMAN
      We paid up front!  What is this?  
      This isn’t a business address. 

             MIKE
      Let me explain-- 

             BUSINESSWOMAN
      You don’t even remember my name do 
      you?  

             MIKE
      Of course I do...
        (searching)
      Tara.

             BUSINESSWOMAN
        (softens)
      My boss is gonna kill me - he 
      wanted their cars done today.

             MIKE
      Just let me finish.  The crew I put 
      on your job called me an hour ago 
      saying the van wouldn’t start - it 
      overheated.  I was like ‘change the 
      filter it’s not that hard’ - but 
      the damage was already done, so I 
      had to fire em.  I was literally 
      just about to walk in and call you.  

             BUSINESSWOMAN
      Yeah?  Well, we need a refund.  

                                      10.

             MIKE
      Look, here’s what I’m gonna do - 
      I’m gonna give you 25% off and on 
      Monday I’m going to bring in my top 
      crew.  I’ll call your boss 
      personally and make sure he knows 
      it was my fault.
        (looks at her dress)
      Is this what you go to work in?

             BUSINESSWOMAN
      Yeah - why?

             MIKE
      How many times a day does your boss 
      hit on you? 

             BUSINESSWOMAN
      Excuse me?

             MIKE
      Just saying.  You look scorched  - 
      what can I get you to drink?  

             BUSINESSWOMAN
      I’ve got to go. 

             MIKE
      C’mon, it’s happy hour.  If I 
      remember you’re a vodka-rocks-lemon 
      girl, right? 

She looks at Mike, softens.  He’s got her.  

EXT. CHILI’S, YBOR CITY - LATER THAT NIGHT

The Kid walks out of dinner with SUSAN - 20, apple pie cute.  
He pulls out a water bottle full of whiskey, takes a swig, 
passes it to her.

             SUSAN
      I’ve got to drive. And maybe you 
      should slow down so I don’t have 
      hold your head over a toilet later.

             THE KID
      Come on. You’re not gettin’ trashed 
      off of one sip.  
        (she doesn’t bite)
      I don’t want to go to Renee’s 
      house. Why don’t we try to get into 
      Ampitheater?  

                                      11.

             SUSAN
      With our non-existent fake ID’s?

             THE KID
      You’re hot - they won’t card us.

             SUSAN
        (smiles)
      We told Melissa we’d meet her at 
      the movie - we can’t just bail.  

             THE KID
      You told her we’d meet her.

             SUSAN
      I want to hang with them, OK?

They approach her car in an EMPTY PARKING LOT.  The Kid leans 
into her against the car.

             THE KID
      But I want to hang with you.

He gives her a long kiss.  She likes it.  He starts to put 
his hand down her pants - she abruptly stops him.

             SUSAN
      Come on - stop it.  

The Kid lets out a sigh, takes another swig.  

             SUSAN
	(CONT’D)
      We’re in a parking lot, Adam. 

             THE KID
        (cold)
      Right.  My bad.

             SUSAN
      Can’t you just be nice? 

             THE KID
      Not when all we do is sit around 
      with your friends and talk about 
      fucking internships and sororities 
      and shit.  

             SUSAN
      What’s that supposed to mean?

             THE KID
      You’re being boring.  And your 
      friends are boring.

                                      12.

That hurt.

             SUSAN
      Maybe we should both just go home.  

             THE KID
      Good.  I need to jerk off.  Again.

He slams the car door, turns and walks off. 

             SUSAN
      Adam!

EXT. YBOR CITY - MOMENTS LATER

The Kid walks by some newspaper stands, KNOCKS them to the 
ground.

He walks through a row of BARS, packed with attractive women 
and guys with money to spend - a better life.   

He turns a corner, sees a LINE of people outside AMPITHEATER - 
a giant, popular club.  He walks up.

EXT. AMPITHEATER - CONTINUOUS

The Kid gets in line, checks out some of the girls, taps an 
attractive looking girl on the shoulder.

             THE KID
      Hey - who’s spinning tonight?

She turns - is he underage?  

             ATTRACTIVE GIRL
      Uh, I don’t know.  Sorry.  

             THE KID
        (nods)
      Cool.

The Kid sees BOUNCERS CHECKING ID, letting more connected 
people through the rope.  It’s a lost cause.

Then--  The Kid sees MIKE walking through the line with a 
couple hot girls.  The bouncer lets him right through.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Hey Mike!  

Mike doesn’t hear.  The Kid budges in towards the rope.

                                      13.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Yo Mike!

Mike turns, sees the Kid.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Could you help me out?  

             MIKE
      Kid?  The hell you doin’ here?  

             THE KID
      Tryin’ to get in.

             MIKE
      They got those new ID scanners at 
      the door...unless you brought your 
      skirt I think you’re kind of 
      fucked.

A beat. The Kid looks around, bummed.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      How bout this - I'll get you in, 
      but you gotta return the favor.  
      Any girl I point out you gotta go 
      talk to her, no questions asked.  

             THE KID
      Seriously?  No problem.  

             MIKE
      And you gotta swear this’ll be the 
      last time you rock those old ass 
      sneaks.  You’ll get nowhere in here 
      with those things.
        (off the Kid’s look)
      Well c’mon!
        (to the bouncer)
      Darius, I got one more with me.

Mike brings the Kid through the rope.  They go into the club.

INT. AMPITHEATER CLUB - CONTINUOUS

‘It Feels So Good’ by Sonique blasts.  

A monstrous two level space packed to the brim - a rotating 
dance floor in the center (GLOW-DANCERS performing on it), 
pulsing lights, rocking bass, scantily clad women.  Mike 
introduces the Kid to the girls he walked in with.  

                                      14.

             MIKE
      Kid, meet Ruby and Portia.  Ladies, 
      meet the Kid.  

Mike greets a HOSTESS with a kiss - she escorts the group to 
the VIP floor.  Portia takes the Kid’s hand, leads him.  He 
checks out all the hot chicks, every one says hi to Mike.

They get to a TABLE full of BOTTLES.

INT. AMPITHEATER, VIP TABLE - CONTINUOUS

             MIKE
      Pour yourself a drink, Kid.  

             THE KID
        (hesitating)
      It’s free?

             MIKE
      Don’t worry - you’re gonna earn 
      your keep.  
        (to the girls)
      What do you ladies think?  

             RUBY
      Oh yeah, cougars’ll eat him up.  

             MIKE
      You hear that, Kid?  That’s a 
      quality endorsement.  

             THE KID
        (to the girls)
      What do you guys do?  

The girls look at each other and laugh.  

             MIKE
      Anytime you meet a girl named after 
      a flower, a stone, or a car, don’t 
      bother asking what she does.

Mike points out a group of college-age women at the bar 
waiting to get a drink.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      See that group over there?  You 
      drink free the rest of the night if 
      you get them to come join us for a 
      cocktail.  Think you can handle 
      that?  

                                      15.

             THE KID
      Yeah, no problem.  What do I say?

             MIKE
      What do you say?  Jesus, have you 
      ever talked to a girl before?  Be 
      creative - just make it happen. 

The Kid walks over to the girls.  Mike watches - after a 
moment the Kid walks back empty handed.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      What happened, big guy?  

             THE KID
      They weren’t into it.   

             MIKE
      No - you just didn’t sell it right. 

             THE KID
      They didn’t want to be bothered.  
      What’s this for, anyway?

             MIKE
      Bothered?  Look at what they’re 
      wearing - they’re asking to get 
      bothered.  Go back over there, 
      apologize for being a bumbling 
      idiot.  Tell them that your boy is 
      a friend of the owner and he’d like 
      them all to come over to his table 
      and have a drink off his bottles.  

             THE KID
      I don’t know, man.     

             MIKE
      We made a deal, Kid. You want to be  
      in here, or you want to be outside?  

The Kid gives in, walks back over, talks to them.  In moments 
the girls abandon the bar, come over to Mike’s table.    

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Welcome, ladies - grab a shot.  
      They just give me all these things - 
      I can’t drink em by myself.  

Mike pours shots - the girls take them.  Mike raises a glass. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      To our children.  May they have 
      rich fuckin’ parents.

                                      16.

The girls laugh, take the shots.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Y’all go to USF?
        (off their nod)
      So it’s summer break - I’ll drink 
      to that!

Mike lines up more shots.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      What’re y’all doing tomorrow night?

             COLLEGE GIRL
      Wouldn’t you like to know?

             MIKE
      I would, actually.  It’s a little 
      embarrassing, but if y’all like to 
      get a little crazy you should come 
      see a show.   

Mike pulls out a few FLYERS from his back pocket - hands them 
to the girls.  They look at them, then at Mike.  

             GIRL
        (lights up)
      Seriously?   Yeah, maybe we’ll come 
      check you out.

The Kid looks at one of the flyers - it’s for a MALE DANCE 
REVUE.  Mike sees another GROUP OF GIRLS through the crowd.  

             MIKE
      And on that note I’m going to leave 
      you in the kind hands of my good 
      friend here.

Mike pulls out more FLYERS, hands a small stack to the Kid.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Put your drinks on my tab.  Just 
      pass em all out - and have fun.  
        (off the Kid’s look)
      And here you were thinking roofing 
      was your only talent.

Mike leaves, strikes up a conversation with another girl.  
The Kid turns back to the college girls.

             COLLEGE GIRL
      What are you waiting for?  Pour us 
      some more, handsome.

                                      17.

On the Kid, music pulsing - he pours more shots.  The girls 
down them, bring the Kid to his feet, start DANCING.  

On the Kid, grinding with the girls.  This is the life.

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - THE NEXT MORNING

The Kid lies passed out, snoring on the couch.  Paige walks 
up in scrubs, drops a couple ICE CUBES down his back.  

             THE KID
        (shooting up)
      Shit!  What the hell?

             PAIGE
      It’s seven-thirty!

             THE KID
      Seriously?  Fuck.  

The Kid goes to the sink, splashes some water on his face, 
pulls on some black pants and a collared shirt.  

             PAIGE
      If you can’t get up for work, 
      how’re you gonna afford to make it 
      off this couch?  And you smell like 
      a brewery.   

The Kid lifts his armpit up to Paige.  

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      Get out of here!  

EXT. DILLARD’S DEPARTMENT STORE - MOMENTS LATER

The Kid’s car putters into the parking lot.  He blow dries 
his hair in the AC, trims stubble with a disposable razor.

                                  CUT TO:

A timecard punches in - 7:46 AM

INT. DILLARD’S - MOMENTS LATER

The Kid walks behind the perfume station.  He gets a couple 
samplers out, starts priming the air.  

JERRY - 50, bald, ambiguously gay, the boss - strides up.

                                      18.

             JERRY
      Seven forty-six.  That’s a whole 
      hour of late time coming off your 
      check.  And only two strikes left.  

             THE KID
      I’m sorry.  My car broke down.  

             JERRY
      Look at this display.  The eau de 
      vivre doesn’t go next to the bath 
      salts. 

The Kid starts rearranging the stuff.  Jerry eyes the Kid.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      We got a new CK scrub in today.  So 
      when a lady walks by you offer to 
      bring her by the wash basin. 
        (grabs the Kid’s hand)
      Then take them by the hand and rub 
      the lotion in like this.

He gently rubs lotion on the Kid’s hand.  The Kid pulls away.

             JERRY
	(CONT’D)
      Tuck your shirt in tight.  I need 
      you clean-cut.    

Jerry walks off.  The Kid steams.  

EXT. DILLARD’S - AFTERNOON

The Kid walks back to his car - another shitty day.  He opens 
up a paycheck - $198.63 after taxes for the week.  He sighs, 
puts the keys in, looks at the passenger seat.

One of Mike’s FLYERS sits on the floor.  ‘Are you ready to 
dance?’  THE KINGS OF TAMPA.  XQUISITE.  This Sat.  

On the Kid.

EXT. XQUISITE - DUSK

The Kid’s car pulls up into a strip-mall parking lot.  A 
large sign outside a storefront reads “XQUISITE.”

He walks up to the front doors -- LOCKED.  A hand-written 
sign says “Doors open at 8.”

                                      19.

The Kid sees a CAR drive around the back of the club.  

MOMENTS LATER:

The Kid walks around to the back of the club.  A buff, 
monstrous guy - BIG DICK RICHIE, 35 - smokes against a wall.

             THE KID
      Hey.  I’m looking for Mike.

             BIG DICK RICHIE
        (takes a drag)
      No dudes, man.  

             THE KID
      What?

             BIG DICK RICHIE
      No.  Dudes.

             THE KID
      I’m a friend.  Is Mike in there?   

Richie flicks his cigarette on the ground, walks through a 
door, calls out for Mike.  The Kid waits.  Then, Mike pops 
out the door.  He’s dressed in a cut-off TUXEDO.  

             MIKE
      Kid?  The hell you doing here?

             THE KID
      Hey man - thanks for last night.

             MIKE
      No problem.  Good to see you’re 
      alive - you were smacked!

             THE KID
      Yeah.

             MIKE
      So what’s up?

             THE KID
      I uhhh...this is awkward--

             MIKE
        (uh oh)
      What’s up, man?  

             THE KID
      I was wondering if y’all had any 
      open jobs or anything.  

                                      20.

             MIKE
        (phew!)
      Oh...shit.  I thought you might’ve 
      been about to gay out on me.  No 
      offense, pro homo and all but-- you 
      know.  So...jobs?  Like what, more 
      flyers?  Come back next week, man.   

             THE KID
      No.  I mean, like as a dancer or 
      something.  

             MIKE
        (laughs)
      A dancer?  Come on--  

But the Kid doesn’t flinch - he’s desperately serious.  Mike 
looks the Kid over a moment.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Out of curiosity - how crazy are 
      you?  Scale of one to ten.  

             THE KID
      Nine.

             MIKE
      OK.  You really want a job, you 
      gotta talk to Dallas.   

INT. XQUISITE - CONTINUOUS

Mike leads the Kid down a hallway, through a small DRESSING 
ROOM where four STRIPPERS prepare for the night’s show.  

             MIKE
      Guys, this is the Kid.

All the strippers say ‘hey.’  Mike introduces each one to the 
Kid by name.    

BIG DICK RICHIE mends a GIGANTIC THONG with a sewing machine.    

KEN - 38, just like a Ken doll - primps his hair in a mirror.  

TARZAN - 50, long mane - lifts weights.  

TITO - suave, 20’s, Puerto Pican - lathers NAIR on his legs.  

They walk down a hallway and finally out to--

INT. XQUISITE STAGE - CONTINUOUS

A slick, muscular man with a serious tan - Dallas, 40 - 
stands on stage, practices BLOWING FIRE from a torch.  He 
sees Mike.

                                      21.

             DALLAS
      They’ll eat it up, man.  I’m gonna 
      give the routine to Tarzan if you 
      don’t want it.  What do you think?

             MIKE
      I’m good.  It’s cool, though.

             DALLAS
        (looks at the Kid)
      Who’s this?

             MIKE
      This is...
        (what’s his name again?)
      The Kid.  He wants a job.  

Dallas looks the Kid over, laughs.

             DALLAS
      As what - a waitress?

             MIKE
      He wants to dance.

             DALLAS
      You kidding me?  What are you, 160?  
      What am I supposed to do with that? 

             THE KID
      I can dance.  

             DALLAS
        (hates that word)
      Dance?  You gotta perform, man.  
        (lifts up his shirt)
      You see this?  You gotta have a V-8 
      under the hood if you want to hit 
      the track, you dig?  

             MIKE
      He’s a good kid, Dallas - just 
      looking to pick up some extra cash.  
      Maybe he could work the door--  

             DALLAS
        (to the Kid)
      Take off your shirt.

                                      22.

             DALLAS
	(CONT'D)
        (the Kid hesitates)
      Go on--

The Kid takes off his shirt.  He’s more ripped than expected.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Turn around.

The kid turns around.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Come back when you’re ready to be a 
      professional.  

             MIKE
      We’re having to set up our own acts 
      as it is.  Maybe he could host, run 
      the props-- 

             DALLAS
        (looks the Kid over)
      How old are you?

             THE KID
      Nineteen.  

             DALLAS
        (to Mike)
      Shit, Mike.  Can we even have 
      nineteen year-old’s working here?  

Mike shrugs.  

             THE KID
      Fuck that - I don’t look nineteen.  

Dallas looks at Mike - the Kid’s got attitude.  

             DALLAS
      Listen, Kid. This isn’t a joke, and 
      it’s not a fucking hobby.  It’s a 
      serious business.  Someday we’re 
      gonna be in Vegas, New York, Dubai.  
      Only my A-team makes it on to that 
      stage.  I don’t need some teenage 
      liability around here.    
        (takes a moment)
      I like your passion.  And you got 
      my number one here vouching for 
      you.  So I’ll make you a deal.  We 
      try you out as a host for one 
      night, see how the ladies like you.  
      I'll toss you a hundred bucks.  
      After that, we’ll see.  How’s that?

                                      23.

             THE KID
      When would I start?

             DALLAS
      Tonight.

INT. XQUISITE - LATER

Girls stream into the club.  The Kid greets them.

             THE KID
      Welcome, ladies - take a seat 
      wherever you’d like.  

             RANDOM WOMAN
      Oh I will, cutie pie.  

Mike comes up behind the Kid.

             MIKE
      Come on - five minute warning.

Mike walks the Kid back to the dressing room.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Hosting’s easy.  You just gotta 
      make sure every act’s set-up right.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

They walk in.  The strippers oil-up, do push-ups.  Big Dick 
Richie pumps up his dick with a gigantic PENIS PUMP.

             MIKE
      We do a group act.  Then solos.  
      Then the hot seats.  The acts go 
      smooth, we jack up the price of the 
      hot seats.  That’s when the tips 
      come rolling in.  

TARZAN shoots some steroids into his arm.  There’s so much 
muscle that the fluid comes squirting right back out.  

             THE KID
      And if they don’t?

             MIKE
      You don’t know what it’s like to 
      get booed till you’re booed by a 
      pack of three hundred hormonal 
      women.  

                                      24.

Mike points to a series of PILES of various PROPS.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      You go one by one, starting with 
      the first.  Bring em out on stage 
      just before each act starts.  

             THE KID
      OK.  But do I...

TOBIAS - 30, eccentric club DJ - walks up, bro-hugs Mike.

             TOBIAS
      What up, dawg!  Y’all ready to 
      pussy tease and make some cheese?

             MIKE
      Tobias - the Kid.  Kid - Tobias, 
      resident DJ.  He’ll give you the 
      signal before he cues up each song. 

Tobias holds up a LITTLE BOTTLE of liquid - GHB.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      In a minute - save some.   
        (to the Kid)
      When the lights go off he’ll crank 
      the fog machine.  That’s when you 
      bring out the first set.  The one 
      thing you need to remember is...

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (over the PA)
      Alright alright, ladies.  How you 
      doing tonight?  
        (girls SCREAM)
      Are you ready get wild, get crazy, 
      get downright dirty?  
        (more SCREAMS)
      I can’t hear you!  

             MIKE
      That’s my cue.  
        (off the Kid’s reaction)
      Relax.  You’ll do fine.

Mike walks off.  A bass drum echoes over the sound system.

             DALLAS 
        (into mic)
      Did y’all come here to see some 
      hard bodies?  Well, here we go... 
      Reach into those purses and show 
      some love.  

             DALLAS 
	(CONT'D)
      Steppin’ right up to that center 
      stage, please welcome the cock-
      rockin Kings Of Tampa! 

                                      25.

The lights shut off and the Fog machine spits to life.  The 
strippers line up, dressed in TOP GUN outfits. 

             MIKE
      Kid - go!  

The Kid grabs the first pile of props - a group of airplane 
LIGHT STICKS - runs them out on stage.  Girls SCREAM. 

INT. STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Kenny Loggins’ ‘Danger Zone’ blasts

The dancers come out and do a “Top Gun” routine.  Big Dick 
Richie waves glow sticks directing stripper-traffic.

The chorus kicks in - Highway to the Danger Zone...

The strippers RIP OFF their jackets, revealing bare chests, 
start into a choreographed routine.  Mike’s at the center of 
the group, clearly the best dancer.

The song transitions to The Weather Girls’ ‘IT’S RAINING MEN. 
The dancers work the crowd then exit as the girls go wild, 
MAKE IT RAIN with dollar bills.  

             DALLAS
        (over the PA)
      Alright, alright - that’s what I’m 
      talkin’ about, show some love!  Now 
      every one of you lovely ladies was 
      once just a little girl, playing 
      with her Barbie Dolls.  Remember?   
      Now I want you to close your eyes, 
      and put your hands together - cause 
      we got a special treat for you 
      tonight.  

Tobias CUES the Kid.  He rushes the second pile of props - a 
small rolling KITCHENETTE and a LOVE-SEAT - out to the stage.

‘Small Town Girl’ by Journey plays.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I need an especially lovely Barbie 
      to join us up on the stage.

A handful of girls SCREAM.  Dallas picks out a BLONDE, brings 
her up to the kitchenette.

                                      26.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      It’s dinner time, girl.  Don’t burn 
      the pork chops...cause Daddy’s 
      coming home.  Please welcome to the 
      stage - your very own, KEN!

KEN comes out dressed in preppy clothes.  The girl stands at 
the stove.  Ken begins a playful routine that culminates with 
him taking it all off and humping her on the love-seat.  The 
crowd goes CRAZY.

MORE ROUTINES FLASH BY--

--BIG DICK RICHIE does a ‘silhouette dance’ - the girls all 
GASP at the silhouette of his gigantic penis.  

--TITO does a FIREMAN routine.  As the Kid rushes out he 
drops a prop FIRE HYDRANT, breaking the top off.  Dallas 
glares at him as Tito takes the stage.  

The lights dim - fog blows through purple spotlights.

MOMENTS LATER:

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (over P.A.)
      His fame has travelled far and 
      wide.  But his art remains a 
      mystery.  Please welcome, our 
      feature presentation, the Houdini 
      of the dance floor.  Magic Miiiike! 

Usher’s ‘My Way’ plays as Mike steps out.  He begins a slow, 
sexy routine - he’s an incredible dancer, the girls freak!

Mike exits the stage and a loud TARZAN-HOWL screams over the 
speakers, followed by AC/DC’s Thunderstruck.  

                                    CUT:

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Alright ladies lets pump up the 
      volume and get ready to swing. 
      Please welcome to the stage, our 
      very own...Tarzan!

But no one comes to the stage.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Steppin’ up to that center 
      stage...Tarzan!

Still nothing.  The crowd quiets.  Dallas rushes back-stage.

                                      27.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

             DALLAS
      Where the fuck is he?

Dallas sees MIKE and the others gathered around TARZAN on the 
floor.  He’s groggy, talking to himself, not getting up.

             KEN
      He’s G’d out, boss.

             DALLAS
      Jesus Christ - this guy.
        (leans down)
      I’m losin’ serious money out there 
      right now, you piece of shit!  

Dallas KICKS Tarzan.  Tarzan GROANS, talks nonsense.   

             MIKE
      Hey hey - lets figure this out.   

             DALLAS
      We gotta send someone.  Ken - why 
      don’t you take the S&M routine?

             KEN
        (insecure)
      I, uh, I’m really not comfortable 
      with it yet.  

The crowd BOOOOS outside.

             DALLAS
      Shit.  Richie - how bout the fire-
      breathing thing?

             RICHIE
      I got, like, a fire issue.  A 
      pho...bia.   

             MIKE
      Why don’t you send the Kid out? 

On the Kid - not what he expected.  

             DALLAS
      This ain’t the time for jokes.  
      We’re professionals here, Mike.

Dallas goes back to thinking.  Mike looks at the Kid, slips 
out, takes the MIC, goes onto stage…

                                      28.

INT. STAGE - CONTINUOUS

             MIKE
        (to the audience)
      Ladies, we’re sorry for the delay, 
      but we’re taking our time cause 
      we’ve got a real treat for you 
      tonight--

Dallas looks out at Mike - what the fuck is he doing?

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      A real live virgin is here in the 
      house!  How would you beautiful 
      ladies like to do a virgin tonight?

The girls CHEER, CLAP!  The Kid freezes...

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      That’s what I thought.  Now - this 
      is just between me and you.  But 
      you ladies are really gonna have to 
      make some noise cause he’s never 
      done this before and he’s a little 
      shy.  So...lets hear it.

They ERUPT!  Mike walks off.  

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Mike walks up to the group, looks at the Kid.

             MIKE
      You said you wanted to dance, Kid.  
      Go show em what you got.

Dallas gives Mike a ‘screw you’ look, but the crowd’s made up 
his mind.  He holds out a THONG to the Kid.  

             DALLAS
      Throw your clothes on over this.

On the Kid.  

Madonna’s ‘LIKE A VIRGIN’ plays.  The Kid goes out on stage 
in his clothes.  He awkwardly starts to dance - the crowd 
laughs a bit.  Dallas puts his head in his hands.  Then...

‘You make me feel shiny and new...Like a Virgin...”

MOMENTS LATER:

                                      29.

The Kid starts to seriously move.  He’s not a bad dancer.  As 
he dances he starts awkwardly slipping out of his clothes.  
The crowd EATS IT UP.  

He dances up to a group of YOUNG GIRLS on a BIRTHDAY PARTY.

             MIKE
	(O.S.)
        (over the P.A.)
      That’s right, birthday girls - show 
      our little virgin some love.

The girls drop dollars down the kid’s pants, grope him as he 
strips down to his thong.  Mike laughs.

The Kid dances right up on one girl - they meet eyes for a 
long moment, then the Kid leans down and KISSES HER, sending 
the crowd into a FRENZY--

Tobias cues up YMCA.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (over P.A.)
      Alright ladies, lets get these hot-
      seats going!  Five bucks a pop to 
      get popped by Florida’s finest.

The other dancers come out on stage and set-up the lap-dance 
‘hot seats’ to close out the show.  Mike walks by the Kid.

             MIKE
      Welcome to the crazy club, Kid.    

Mike signals for the kid to follow him into the crowd.  He 
mimics Mike and dances for tips in the crowd.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - LATER

Everyone gets dressed.  The strippers congratulate the Kid.  

             TITO
      On the real, Kid.  I thought you 
      was DOA.  That kiss - damn!  They 
      was pouring out they purses.

             BIG DICK RICHIE
        (serious)
      You gotta watch out for herpes.

             TITO
      Richie found out the hard way.

The Kid laughs as Dallas walks up.

                                      30.

             DALLAS
      Never kiss the girls.  That’s 
      performer 101, Kid.  
        (off the Kid’s look)
      But tonight - you took a chance and 
      it paid off.  I like it.  

Dallas hands the Kid a stack of MONEY.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      That’s $465.  Get ready to work - 
      won’t be that easy every time.  

The Kid stares at the money - holy shit.  

             MIKE
	(O.S.)
      Kid!  Come out here.

The Kid gets up, walks out to the stage.  MIKE stands there 
with the group of BIRTHDAY GIRLS.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      We’re all gonna go see DJ Gemeni 
      spin at the Amp.  Wanna come?  

             THE KID
      Sure.

             MIKE
      Funny thing - I was talking to 
      these lovely ladies here, and this 
      one was too embarrassed to tell you 
      herself, but she’s got only one 
      birthday wish this year.  
        (whispers to the Kid)
      To fuck a virgin.  

The girls giggle.  Mike winks.

INT. AMPITHEATER CLUB - LATER

Mike, the Kid, Tobias, and the BIRTHDAY GIRLS DANCE and 
PARTY.  Mike makes out with one of the girls.  The Kid grinds 
with the birthday girl.

INT. VIP ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The BIRTHDAY GIRL goes down on the Kid.   

             THE KID
        (sincere)
      Happy birthday.

                                      31.

She laughs.  On the Kid - this could be the greatest night of 
his life.

EXT. TAMPA BAY BRIDGE - SUNRISE

Mike, the Kid, Tobias, and the girls drunkenly watch the sun 
rise out of the bay.  Everyone lets out a SIGH when it rises.    

             MIKE 
      Shhhh...  Just watch.  That’s over 
      five million light miles away, man. 
      The surface is like...ten thousand 
      degrees.

It’s a beautiful sight.  Then, the Kid fake-pushes one of the 
girls off the bridge.  She squeals.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Careful, Kid.

             THE KID
      No one’s gonna fall.  

             MIKE
        (gives a crazy smile)
      Oh yeah?

Mike climbs up on the railing.  It’s a big drop.

             THE KID
      Bullshit.

Then, Mike does a BACKFLIP off the edge.  The girls shriek.  
He splashes down in the water.  

The Kid’s shocked.  He looks down - Mike comes up for air--

The Kid climbs up on the railing, looks down--  It’s a BIG 
DROP.

             GIRLS
      No, don’t!

The Kid closes his eyes, then--

LEAPS OFF, sailing down into the water with a SPLASH!

EXT. BAY - CONTINUOUS

The Kid comes up for air.  He and Mike float back to shore. 

             THE KID
      We should be best friends.

             MIKE
        (laughs)
      OK, Kid.  

                                      32.

                                 FADE TO:

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - THE NEXT MORNING

Mike wakes up, lets the BIRTHDAY GIRLS out the front door.

He goes out into the living room, grabs a beer from the 
fridge, cracks it.  He takes another one, walks over to the 
couch where THE KID sleeps, lays it on the Kid’s neck.

             THE KID
        (waking up)
      Shit!  

             MIKE
      Rise and shine, soldier.  Got 
      practice today.  

             THE KID
      My head hurts.  

             MIKE
      Well, drink your medicine then.  

The Kid cracks his beer, looks around Mike’s place - it’s 
nice.  Mike notices some COLLECTION LETTERS on the table, 
trashes them.  

             THE KID
      Nice digs.  

             MIKE
      I wanted it to feel kind of 
      industrial-meets-beach-chic, you 
      know? 

             THE KID
        (no)
      For sure.  You seen my shoes?

             MIKE
      By the door.  Floor’s walnut - 
      y’all scuffed it up last night.   

             THE KID
      Shit.  What happened to the girls?  

                                      33.

             MIKE
      She left her number on the table.

The Kid gets up, admires a unique looking KITCHEN TABLE.  
Some books on penny stocks on top of it.  

             THE KID
      What’s this?

Mike comes over, puts the Kid’s beer on a coaster.

             MIKE 
      I’m looking into the penny stock 
      game.  Lot of volatility there.   
        (off the Kid’s look)
      Oh - the table?  It’s an old 
      wrought iron door, washed up during 
      a hurricane.  Fashioned some engine 
      parts to it from my foster dad’s 
      chevy.

             THE KID
      You made it?
        (Mike nods)
      Damn.  You should sell these 
      things.  

             MIKE
      That’s the plan.  Gonna open my own 
      shop someday.  “Mike’s Custom 
      Cuts.”  Market just ain't hit that 
      sweet spot yet.  Soon the banks’ll 
      start making the kind of 
      competitive loans I want - that’s 
      when I’ll swoop in with my rain-nor-
      shine money.   

Mike takes a WAD OF CASH from last night, tucks it in a WALL 
SAFE.  

             THE KID 
      What’s that?

             MIKE
      Cash I don’t touch come rain-nor-
      shine.  Got like seven grand tucked 
      away, only need a few more to make 
      the down payment.  

             THE KID
      What about the club?

                                      34.

             MIKE
      It’s a band-aid to get me there, 
      like everything else.  Check this 
      out-

Mike flicks on the TV, plays a DVD.  An INFOMERCIAL comes on 
screen - MIKE, dressed in a suit, talks to camera.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (on TV)
      Two years ago I was making thirty K 
      a year as a hospital administrator.  
      Now, thanks to Elliot Partners and 
      their revolutionary ‘Guide to Day 
      Trading At Home,’ I’m living 
      here...
        (reveal he’s in a mansion 
         with a beautiful family)
      And banking over $300,000 annually.  
      I’ll tell you how I did it, and how 
      you can too.  All it takes is one 
      simple phone call...

Mike mutes the sound.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Dallas hooked it up.  Aired on 
      every local network, and cable.  

             THE KID
      Damn.  You must be flush from that 
      shit, whatamacall...residuals.

             MIKE
      I did alright, yeah.  You ready to 
      rock?  

             THE KID
      Yeah - can you run me home real 
      quick to change?  

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - MORNING

A doorbell rings.  Paige comes to the door, opens it - 

The Kid and Mike - laughing, beers in hand.   

             PAIGE
      Oh Jesus - I don’t even want to 
      know.

                                      35.

             THE KID
        (walking in)
      Hey, sis.  This is my friend, Mike.  
      This is Paige.  

Mike and Paige meet eyes - he’s immediately taken with her.  

             MIKE
      Pleasure’s all mine.  
        (notices her scrubs)
      Nurse?

             PAIGE
      “Medical assistant.”  I get to file 
      all their paperwork.   

             MIKE
      Way cooler.

             PAIGE
      Exactly.

             THE KID
      Be back in a sec.     

The Kid walks off.  Mike looks around the apartment. Paige 
doesn’t know what to make of him.

             MIKE
      Did a nice job in here.  Wouldn’t 
      have gone contemporary with the 
      kitchen set though.

             PAIGE
      What?

             MIKE
      Gives it a kinda cold feel.  
      Something naturalist would make it 
      more lived-in.  

             PAIGE
      Thanks for the tip.  I’m sorry, how 
      do you know my brother again?

             MIKE
      Work.

             PAIGE
      Dillard’s?

             MIKE
      My roofin’ crew.  The rest, as they 
      say, is history.

                                      36.

             PAIGE
      I’m sure.    

             MIKE
      I’m an entrepreneur, though - got a 
      few businesses I manage right now.  

             PAIGE
      That’s nice. 

Mike sits down at the table.

             MIKE
      So the Kid said something about 
      breakfast--

On Paige - he better be joking.

             PAIGE
      Well, he must still be drunk cause 
      I don’t cook fuckin’ “breakfast.”

Mike laughs - unexpected.

             MIKE
      I didn’t mean you cookin’ it.  He 
      said you liked breakfast so we were 
      gonna swing by IHOP on our way into 
      town.  

             PAIGE
      Oh.  I--

             MIKE
      It’s cool. I’m just gonna wait 
      outside with the rest of the 
      breakfast lovers of the world.  
      Maybe I’ll see ya around though?

Mike extends his hand.  Paige shakes it.  

             PAIGE
      Maybe.

INT. GOLD’S GYM - LATER THAT DAY

The strippers rehearse in the mirror-walled aerobics studio. 
MUSIC plays from a BOOMBOX.  Dallas pulls the Kid aside.

                                      37.

             DALLAS
      I’m giving you the virgin routine.  
      Once you nail it I’ll throw you 
      another one.  Now lets see it -  
      take it off.  

Dallas cues music.  The Kid looks around - it’s a public gym.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s go - take off your clothes!  

The Kid awkwardly starts dancing, taking off his clothes.  
Dallas watches closely. 

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (stops the music)
      What’re you, a goddamn twelve-year- 
      old in a locker room?  You can’t 
      just pull your clothes off - you’ve 
      got to seduce,  man!  Last time you 
      got lucky cause Mike set you up so 
      nice.  You gotta commit!  When 
      you’re up there you gotta believe 
      that you’re inside every one of em.

Dallas stands inches away from the mirror, does a BODY ROLL.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      See that?  It’s like hitting the g-
      spot.  You’re not just stripping - 
      you’re fulfilling their wildest 
      fantasies.  You gotta be the 
      husband they wish they had, the guy 
      they dreamed about that never came 
      along.  Now, take a breath, then 
      fuck this mirror like you mean it.  

Dallas cues the music.  The Kid practices.  Dallas walks up 
behind him, grabs the Kid’s hips, starts to control his speed 
and direction.  Mike looks over and laughs - so weird.

The strippers pack up.  Dallas walks with Mike and the Kid.

                                   LATER:

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      You gotta start hittin’ the 
      supplements and bulking up.  We’ll 
      get you on a regular routine.

             THE KID
      Like what - creatine?  

                                      38.

             DALLAS
      Fuck creatine. I’m talking 
      rhaponticum carthenoids, anabolics.  
      I’m working on an exclusive brand 
      with the club’s name.  My top 
      dancers, like Mike here, will get a 
      taste of equity.  

             THE KID
      Cool.

             DALLAS
      Now lets get you some hardware. 

INT. THONG SHOP - DAY

Dallas, Mike, and the Kid walk through a small room full of 
male/female stripper clothes.  An OLD LADY with a major tan 
and bright gold hair tailors thongs at a sewing machine.  

             DALLAS
      Not all thongs are created equal.  
      It’s like underwear - one fit’s 
      different from another.

The Kid scans the rows of thongs.  Some of them with long, 
built-in penis pouches.  Others with diamond studs.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Stay away from those elephant 
      socks, Kid.  You’ll want a lively 
      color for the younger girls.  
      Mike’s in blue, so...

             MIKE
      Go red.

             DALLAS
      Bingo.  
        (picks out a red one)
      And you’ll want a black one in case 
      I throw you an S&M routine or 
      something.

Dallas holds a thong up in front of the Kid’s crotch.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Darla - what do you think?

The old woman looks up at the Kid, gives a THUMBS UP.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Winner winner chicken dinner.

                                      39.

They go to checkout with the old woman.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Shit - forgot my wallet.

Mike gives Dallas a look, pulls out his CREDIT CARD.  The 
woman swipes it.  A beat. 

             DARLA
      Declined.  

             MIKE
      Huh?  Oh, just got it in the mail, 
      forgot to authorize it.

             THE KID
      It’s cool - I got it.

The Kid pulls out his wallet, pays.

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT, BATHROOM - NIGHT

The Kid shaves his legs in the tub with Paige’s pink razor - 
he's never done it before - it's awkward.  

PAIGE walks into the apartment, hears the Kid in the 
bathroom, goes to the door, yells over the shower noise.  

             PAIGE
      Hey, will you be out by seven?  
      Paul’s driving up from Orlando.

             THE KID
      Yeah - I’m leaving in a bit.

She turns to walk away, when something catches her eye -- a 
big Rubbermaid BOX on the floor.  She looks at it...

It’s packed with THONGS, COMBAT BOOTS, cut-off JEAN SHORTS, 
KNEE-HIGH SOCKS, etc.  What the hell?

             PAIGE
        (yells)
      What is this shit?

             THE KID
      What?   

             PAIGE
      I said what is--

Paige opens the door-- 

             THE KID
      Hey!  

She sees the Kid shaving his legs. 

                                      40.

             PAIGE
      What the hell are you doing?

             THE KID
      Nothin’.  Get out of here!

             PAIGE
      Are you...?  You’re gettin’ all the 
      hair in my drain!

             THE KID
      I’m sorry!  

             PAIGE
      What are you shaving your fucking 
      legs for?  

             THE KID
      Would you get the fuck outta here?  

             PAIGE
      No.  I want to know.    

Beat.

             THE KID
      I joined a swim team.

             PAIGE 
      Fuck you.

Paige turns the shower water on COLD, points it at the Kid.

             THE KID
      Alright, alright!  Jesus Christ! 
      I’m doing some dancing. 

             PAIGE
      Dancing?  What kind of dancing?

             THE KID
      The kind of dancing where I rub my 
      nuts on girls’ chests for money -  
      that kind of dancing.  

             PAIGE
      Whaaaat?  Oh no.  No.  
        (laughs)
      You can’t even dance.

                                      41.

             THE KID
      How would you know?  

             PAIGE
      You better be fucking with me.

The Kid smirks - nope.

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      How is Susan OK with this?

             THE KID
      We're on a break. 

             PAIGE
      What?  A break?  You gave her a 
      promise ring, Adam. 

             THE KID
      It is what it is. 

             PAIGE
        (overwhelmed)
      Mom and Dad will freak.  

             THE KID
      Fuck Mom and Dad.  They hate 
      everything I do anyway.  I'm gonna 
      pay rent now - you should be happy.  

Paige gives up.  

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Fifty bucks says something comes up 
      again and he doesn’t show tonight.

             PAIGE
      Shut up.   

             THE KID
      Just saying.  When you get lonely 
      feel free to stop by-- Club 
      Xquisite down on Dale Maybre, doors 
      open at eight.  

             PAIGE
      Not in a million fuckin years.  

The Kid gets up, does a little stripper dance.  

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh my God, gross!!

Paige walks out, slams the door.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT 

All the strippers dress backstage, talk shop.

                                      42.

             KEN
      It’s all about ‘apps’ right now - 
      the market is hot on an exponential 
      level.  I’ve been sayin’ to Dallas 
      forever - ‘we gotta get an app.’  
      I’ve figured out the codes and 
      stuff but I ain’t gonna do it for 
      free, you know? 

             TITO
      You know what I wish there was -- 
      an app where you could see all the 
      routines other dancers use, with 
      all the props, songs, moves...  
      Right now there’s just like no way 
      to know what else is out there.  

             KEN
      I’d go 75/25 with you on it since I 
      know the codes.  Think about it.  

             TITO
        (to Mike)
      How’s the mobile detailing going -  
      you in the green?

             MIKE
      I’m seeing solid returns. 

TOBIAS walks through shaking a small BOTTLE of pills.

             TOBIAS
      Gotta get that love potion!  

One by one the strippers grab pills, hand Tobias $10.  Mike 
takes one, washes it down with a beer, gives Tobias a $20.  
Tobias hands the Kid a pill.   

             TOBIAS
	(CONT’D)
      Enjoy, Kid - that’s pure.  

The KID swallows the pill.  Dallas’ voice booms over the P.A.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
      Alright alright, ladies...

                                      43.

INT. STAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Another show begins.  The strippers hit the stage.  One by 
one their routines ZOOM BY -- 

- ‘WHOLE LOTTA ROSIE’ by AC/DC blasts.  BIG DICK RICHIE picks 
a FAT GIRL up over his head, buries her crotch in his face.

- KEN does a ‘Hot For Teacher’ routine, brings a random girl 
on stage to play the student, spanks her.  

- TARZAN does his Tarzan routine, wildly swinging on a rope 
out through the audience.

THE KID goes out to the virgin routine - the girls go crazy.  
He grinds on an OLD WOMAN in the meat seats.

             OLD WOMAN
      You remind me of my nephew!    

On the Kid - lost in the moment, hundreds of screaming girls 
all crowing at him, waving money.  It’s INSANE--

As the Kid dances PAIGE walks into the club - her face 
clearly indicating that indeed she got stood up.  She looks 
up at the stage and CAN’T BELIEVE HER EYES--  

Mike looks out from backstage, spots Paige.  

             MIKE 
        (to self)
      No shit.  

He throws on a jacket, walks through the crowd and up to her.

INT. XQUISITE - CONTINUOUS

             MIKE
      Somehow I didn’t take you for one 
      of these girls but-- guess you just 
      never know.  

Paige turns, sees Mike.  

             PAIGE
      Wow.  You know I’ve met a few 
      ‘entrepreneurs’ in my life, but you 
      really take the cake.

             MIKE
      You should see me jump out of one.

                                      44.

             PAIGE
      Funny.  

They look out at the Kid dancing.

             MIKE
      So you come to see baby bro shake 
      it? 

             PAIGE
      Nope.  I came because I still held 
      out a sliver of hope that this was 
      all a big joke.    

Women stuff dollar bills down the Kid’s thong as he dances.  

             MIKE
      Looks pretty funny to me.

             PAIGE
        (serious)
      You better look after him.  

             MIKE
      ‘Look after him?’  Or what?

             PAIGE
      Or I’ll kick your goddamn ass, is 
      what.  Mike.

             MIKE
      I’d let you kick my ass any day.
        (off her look)
      Kidding!  Ease up, I promise. 

The music ends.  The Kid picks up dollar bills.  

             DALLAS
        (over P.A.)
      Alright put your hands together and 
      show some love for The Virgin, 
      ladies.  Now, it's time for a 
      little two-for-one to make-you-cum!  
      Please welcome to that center 
      stage, the Houdini of the dance 
      floor.  Our featured performer - 
      Mister Magic Mike! 

Paige looks at Mike - 'Magic Mike?  Are you serious?' 

             MIKE
      That’s my cue.  

Mike shrugs, heads for the stage, starts into his routine.  

Paige goes to leave.  On the way she turns, takes in a few 
moments of Mike’s act - she can’t help but enjoy it.

                                      45.

She walks out.  

INT. THE VILLAGE INN - LATER

The strippers eat at a late-night diner.  They pour drinks 
from bottles under the table - the waitresses don’t care.   

             KEN
      Hey Kid - check it out.  
        (puts his index finger up 
         to the Kid’s nose)
      This one’s the Mexican chick in the 
      front row.  
        (now his middle finger)
      This’ the bachelorette.

             THE KID
      Sick!  I prolly just got nose 
      crabs.

All the strippers laugh.  Big Dick Richie strains his back 
when he laughs.  

             BIG DICK RICHIE
      I think I got another hernia from 
      picking that fat chick up, man.

             MIKE
      Sucks, bro.  

             TITO
      We told you to stop with that shit, 
      man.  What is that - four now?  

             BIG DICK RICHIE
      It’s my signature move.  

             MIKE
      What can you do - big girls need 
      love too.  

 Dallas comes over, counting stacks of CASH.

             TOBIAS
      How’d we come out?  

             DALLAS
      Best weekend this summer, boys.  
      Everybody gets a little bonus.  

He passes out money to the guys, hands the Kid $400. 

                                      46.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I gotta say, Kid - you can jam.  
      Maybe I’ll make a performer out of 
      you yet.  
        (to the group)
      And as always, our number one 
      stunner, clocking in at five 
      hundred twenty bones - Magic Mike.

The strippers CLAP as Dallas hands Mike a fat stack of CASH.  

A group of FEMALE STRIPPERS walk into the restaurant with 
some guys.  One of them is AMBER.     

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Well boys, it’s officially Monday.
        (they BOOO...)
      I’m gonna throw some new stuff into 
      the mix for next weekend, so make 
      sure you come to practice ready to 
      rock. 

Dallas walks off towards the girls, strikes up a conversation 
with one.  Mike and Amber meet eyes - she’s with a GUY.   

             THE KID
      Who’re they?

             MIKE
      Ladies of Mons Venus.  Future 
      doctors and lawyers of America. 

The Kid laughs, focuses on a dark-haired, pierced stripper - 
ZORA, 26, man-eater.  Mike notices.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      That’s Zora.  She’s a whole 
      different brand of crazy, Kid.  

The Kid takes a big pull of whiskey.

             TOBIAS
      Hope you don’t have to get up 
      early.

             THE KID
      Got work at seven thirty.  

             TOBIAS
      Ouch.  Where?

                                      47.

             THE KID
      Dillard’s.  The perfume counter.  

Mike and Tobias laugh.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      I know - I’m fuckin quitting.  

             TOBIAS
      No man - it’s genius.  You know how 
      much tail you could bring to the 
      club with that job? 

             MIKE
      He’s right.  Always look on the 
      bright side.  This is the land of 
      opportunity, you know.  

Mike takes the whiskey, pours a few glasses.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      To great friends and beautiful 
      futures.

The Kid smiles - they cheers and slam their shots.  

                                  CUT TO:

A TIMECARD punches in.

“I Was Made For Loving You” by Kiss blares

INT. DILLARD’S - THE NEXT DAY

The Kid works at Dillard's.  He talks to some girls who come 
in to test perfume, hands them FLYERS for Xquisite.

EXT. HOME DEPOT - DAY

Mike picks up a bunch of Mexican day-laborers at Home Depot 
in the ‘Mike’s Mobile Detailing’ van.

EXT. OFFICE COMPLEX - DAY

Mike and the Mexicans detail cars in an office parking lot.  
The BUSINESSWOMAN who came to his house waves at Mike.   

INT. PAIGE’S BATHROOM - DAY

The Kid lays out tuxedo pants, a dress shirt, cuff-links--

                                      48.

INT. GOLD’S GYM - DAY

Dallas works with the Kid on a new routine (Camp Grenada).  
The other strippers practice a SAILOR routine.  

INT. TANNING SALON - DAY

Mike and the Kid go TANNING (in the middle of the summer).  

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY

Mike and The Kid work on the ROOFING crew.

INT. PAIGE’S BATHROOM - DAY

The Kid cuts the sleeves off a dress shirt--

INT. AMPITHEATER CLUB - NIGHT

Mike brings the Kid through the rope with a pack of girls. 

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - DAY

THE KID watches MTV videos and PRACTICES DANCE MOVES in front 
of the TV.  PAIGE laughs at him.  

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - MORNING

Mike lets AMBER out the door.  

INT. PAIGE’S BATHROOM - DAY

The Kid fastens a bow-tie around his neck

INT. GNC - DAY

Dallas picks out SUPPLEMENTS for the Kid. 

INT. AMPITHEATER CLUB - NIGHT

Mike and the Kid pass out FLYERS to girls in the crowd.

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - MORNING

Paige goes to walk out the door, sees a small stack of CASH.  
A note says ‘rent.’  

                                      49.

INT. GOLD’S GYM - DAY

Mike and the Kid LIFT WEIGHTS.  

INT. PAIGE’S BATHROOM - DAY

The Kid studies himself in the mirror - pure Chippendale’s 
material.  

                                 FADE TO:

TITLE CARD: JULY

INT. BANK OF AMERICA - DAY

MIKE - coiffed, dressed in a suit - sits down in front of a 
FEMALE BANKER.  

             MIKE
      You’re Jennifer?
        (she nods)
      Mr. Rodriguez told me to come talk 
      to you about the status of my SBA 
      application.  

             BANKER
      Of course, sir.  Name and social?

             MIKE
      Michael Martingano.  330-72-7447.   

He lays out his ID.  She checks it - they meet eyes.  She 
smiles, looks at her computer.  

             BANKER
      It says your tax return analysis is 
      still incomplete.  If you just--

             MIKE
      As I told Mr. Rodriguez last week, 
      the businesses I manage deal 
      exclusively in cash, so the returns 
      wouldn’t paint an accurate portrait 
      of my income.  

                                      50.

             MIKE
	(CONT'D)
      He told me to just forego that 
      section.  Should be noted there.

             BANKER
        (nope)
      Of course.  And you’re currently a 
      manager of an ‘automotive 
      accessories’ business?

             MIKE
      And an event management company, a 
      home design firm - list goes on.    

             BANKER
        (not)
      Impressive.    

             MIKE
      So what kind of rates am I looking 
      at?  

             BANKER
      Well, let me just check with Mr. 
      Rodriguez about the returns and--

             MIKE
      I thought today was his day off. 

             BANKER
      It is.  If you come back tomorrow-- 

             MIKE
      Thursday’s my only free day and he 
      said you were the lady to talk to 
      on Thursdays.  I need to get this 
      processed or unfortunately I’ve got 
      to consider another bank. 

             BANKER
      Certainly.  

She takes a moment, looks back at her computer.  

             BANKER
	(CONT’D)
      There also seems to be a...credit 
      issue with your mortgage account, 
      sir.  Could be late payments--

             MIKE
      No, I don’t think so--

                                      51.

             BANKER
      There are ways, of course, to clear 
      that up over time but we have a 
      policy that--

             MIKE
      You’re just punching buttons on 
      your computer and you think you 
      know something about me?   

             BANKER
      I-- no.  Of course not, but it’s 
      company policy.  We can’t issue 
      loans to customers who score below 
      credit thresholds.

             MIKE
      Listen, I’m just looking for a 
      reasonable deal here.

             BANKER
      There are programs, sir, that we 
      offer to qualified distressed 
      clients--

             MIKE
        (getting up)
      Distressed?  I read the paper - 
      y’all are the only thing that’s 
      distressed.  Tell Mr. Rodriguez I’m 
      taking my business to Wells Fargo.  

             BANKER
      I’m very sorry, sir.

             MIKE
        (fuck you)
      No problem at all.  

             BANKER
      Happy Fourth.  

Mike leaves, quiet rage burning through him.

INT. MIKE’S TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Mike exits the bank, walks to his truck, climbs in--

He sits behind the wheel a moment, takes a breath, then-- 

VIOLENTLY PUNCHES the steering wheel.  WHAM.  WHAM.  WHAM.  

                                      52.

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING

KNOCK.  KNOCK.  KNOCK.  A BANGING on the door.  No one 
answers.  More BANGING....  

Lights turns on - PAIGE comes out in her pajamas, opens up -

MIKE stands there in a cheap Marilyn Monroe COSTUME, with a 
red-white-and-blue TOP HAT, blowing a KAZOO.

             MIKE
      Happy birthday, America!

             PAIGE
      What are you doing here?  

             MIKE
      Sandbar party!  Let’s go, let’s go-- 

             PAIGE
      It’s seven in the morning.    

             MIKE
        (imitating her)
      It’s seven in the morning - I hate 
      fun.  Where’s the Kid?

             PAIGE
      He’s sleeping.   

Mike walks back to the living room - the Kid sleeps on the 
couch.  He blows the kazoo, tosses one to the Kid.  

             MIKE
      Wake up, Kid.

The Kid wakes up, laughs when he sees Mike.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Paige)
      You’re coming too - let’s go.  

             PAIGE
      I think not.  It’s my day off, and 
      he’s got work.

             MIKE
      Don’t worry - I already called in 
      sick for him.  
        (to the Kid)
      Your boss, Jerry, seems very nice.  
      He offered to come drop off some 
      chicken soup.  

                                      53.

             MIKE
	(CONT'D)
      I told him he’d be the first one 
      you’d call in case you needed a 
      dick hickey. 

             THE KID
        (laughing)
      You asshole - that’s my last sick 
      day! 

             MIKE
        (to Paige)
      How bout you?  Let’s make your sick 
      call - what should we say?  Swine 
      flu, bird flu, painful urination--   
        (off Paige’s look)
      --cramps? 

             PAIGE
      I’m going back to bed.

She turns to walk away.  

             MIKE
      I hope you’ve got epic plans if 
      you’re gonna turn your back on the 
      sandbar.

             THE KID
      Oh she does.  There’s a whole 
      twenty-four hours for her to argue 
      on the phone with Paul.  

Paige turns, annoyed.  On Mike - Paul?

             PAIGE
      That’s not true - I’ve got plans. 

             THE KID
      Oh really?  With who?

On Paige - she knows the Kid’s got her pegged.  She looks at 
Mike, he grins.

EXT. SANDBAR, GULF OF MEXICO - DAY

             MIKE
	(O.S.)
      Bombs away!

A KEG splashes down into the water as a POWERBOAT engine 
idles.  We pull out to reveal MIKE, PAIGE, THE KID, and 
TOBIAS descending from a boat into-- 

                                      54.

A MASSIVE party in the middle of the ocean.  A handful of 
boats surround party-goers on a sandbar.  Girls - some 
TOPLESS - wade in the water, toss beach-balls, lounge in 
rafts, drink from half-sunken kegs.  ROMAN CANDLES blast.  

The Kid takes it all in - paradise.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      What did I tell you?   

             PAIGE
      Marooned on an island with all the 
      strippers and meatheads in Tampa.  
      How did I get so lucky?

             MIKE
      I ask myself that same question 
      every day.

A PARTYGIRL comes up with a bottle of TEQUILA.

             PARTYGIRL
      Arrival shots!

Mike opens his mouth and she pours.  The Kid does the same.  
Paige waves her hand - no shots for me.  

             MIKE
      Uh oh - we got a party pooper on 
      our hands.

Mike and Paige meet eyes a moment.  Then, Paige opens her 
mouth, takes an extra long shot.  Mike claps.

      		THE KID
	There she is!

		MIKE
	Whoa! 


Paige finishes, grimaces as she swallows, cracks a grin.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      So that’s what the Kid meant when 
      he said you liked breakfast.  

Paige laughs.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
      There they are!  

DALLAS emerges from the crowd.  He bro-hugs Mike and the Kid.  

             THE KID
      Dallas, this is my sister, Paige.  

                                      55.

             DALLAS
        (putting on the charm)
      Hello, sweetheart.

             PAIGE
      It’s Paige.

             DALLAS
        (awkward)
      Right.  Boys’re over here.

Dallas leads them through the crowd to the group - TITO, BIG 
DICK CHARLIE, KEN and his stripper-ish WIFE, and a handful of 
other partiers greet them with BEERS.

             THE KID
        (to Paige)
      Oh I’m so happy you came!

The Kid hugs Paige, lifts her up.  She shreiks, tries to 
break free as he drags her down into the water.  

             PAIGE
      No!  You punk!

He drags her under.  A few moments go by and she emerges from 
the water with the kid in a FULL-NELSON.  

             MIKE
      One.  Two.  Three.  He’s out!

She lets go and Mike raises her hand in the air.  She smiles.  

                                   LATER:

The group lounges in chairs, talks.  

             PAIGE
      So you’re saying you don’t believe 
      in school at all?

             DALLAS
      Fuck school.  I’d just have Mad 
      Money on TV all day.  Teach my kid 
      everything about stocks, put him on 
      Ameritrade and all that shit.  He 
      wouldn’t even need college - by the 
      time he was eighteen he’d be flush.

             TOBIAS
      I don’t know why everyone doesn’t 
      do that.  Think of it purely from 
      an investment standpoint--

                                      56.

             DALLAS
      That’s the country we live in, man.  
      People are just stupid, you know?  

             PAIGE
      Please let me be a fly on the wall 
      when you have kids.

             DALLAS
      No problem.  You can stay in one of 
      our three pool-houses.    

Mike laughs.  Paige rolls her eyes, gets up, walks out alone 
down the sandbar.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Your sis’ got a little of the bitch 
      in her, huh?

             THE KID
      Nah, she’s just mad stubborn.  

             TOBIAS
      Does she dominate her dude? 

             THE KID
      No - he’s an even bigger asshole 
      than her.  Don’t know why she stays 
      with him.

Mike processes that.

             TOBIAS
      You ask me, somebody ain’t hittin’ 
      that right.  

             THE KID
        (gross)
      Alright, enough!

Some nearby GIRLS call at the Kid.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      That’s my cue.

The Kid walks off.  Dallas looks at Mike.

             DALLAS
      I’ll tell you, man, I consider 
      myself a good talent scout, but I 
      gotta hand it to you - you found us 
      a little diamond in the rough.  

Mike looks out at Paige, wading into the water.

                                      57.

MOMENTS LATER:

             MIKE
      Yeah.

Mike walks up to Paige in the water.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Need a refill?

She turns. 

             PAIGE
      I’m good.  

             MIKE
      Having fun?

             PAIGE
      Not really my scene, but-- it’s 
      nice out here.

             MIKE
      See, I’m not all bad.

             PAIGE
      Lets not go too far.  

Mike smiles.

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      I hear you’re a pretty talented 
      builder.

             MIKE
      Yeah?  Where’d you hear that?

             PAIGE
      A little birdie.

             MIKE
      A little birdie wearing a thong?

             PAIGE
      Yeah, I think so.

             MIKE
      I’m opening up my own shop.  Just 
      waiting for the markets to hit the 
      sweet spot.  

             PAIGE
      Right.  I always wanted to be an 
      interior designer.

                                      58.

             MIKE
      What happened?

             PAIGE
      I don’t know - something always 
      came up.  School’s expensive.  Then 
      the glitz and glam of the medical 
      assistant world came calling.    

             MIKE
      So you just gave up?  

             PAIGE
      No.  I needed to be able to support 
      myself.  You know - mortgage, heath 
      care, 401k--  

             MIKE
      Jesus.  See that’s your issue - 
      just hearing that stuff makes me 
      want to kill myself.  When you run 
      your own business you don’t gotta 
      deal with that shit.

             PAIGE
      The wise words of the stripper. 

             MIKE
      I’m not a stripper.  

             PAIGE
      Entrepreneur.  Sorry.

Paige looks back to the party, sees the Kid making out with a 
STRIPPERISH GIRL.  She sighs. 

             MIKE
      Relax.

             PAIGE
      What’s that supposed to mean?  

             MIKE
      Trying to control him is like 
      trying to control the weather. He’s 
      young, he’s gotta sew his oats.

             PAIGE
      Oh he’s sewing his oats.
        (Mike laughs)
      It’s easy for you to say, he’s not 
      your family.  

                                      59.

             MIKE
      And you were never a nineteen-year- 
      old guy.  Just ease up. 

             PAIGE
      I’d love to. But I can’t.

             MIKE
      You think he could do better.

             PAIGE
        (is he offended?)
      Yeah.  So?

             MIKE
      So maybe you’re an elitist.  Maybe 
      you don’t like to have any fun.  

             PAIGE
      Wouldn’t you like to know if that’s 
      the truth?  

             MIKE
      I would, actually.  
        (she rolls her eyes)
      Listen, don’t worry.  I’m looking 
      out for him, OK?

She looks at Mike - OK.

             RANDOM PARTYER
	(O.S.)
      We got a floater!  

One of the kegs floats up to the surface - the crowd gives a 
collective AWWWW--

             MIKE
      That’s all she wrote.

A FIREWORK shoots up into the sky and EXPLODES.  

                                  CUT TO:

Red-white-and-blue LIGHTS shoot through the black.  COME SAIL 
AWAY by Styx blasts.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (into P.A.)
      Alright you lovely ladies - it’s 
      time to say Happy Birthday to Uncle 
      Sam and his six big, strong, 
      brothers.  

                                      60.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
	(CONT'D)
      I see you all rockin’ that red-
      white-and-blue, but green’s the 
      only color that matters in here.  
      So open up those purses and say 
      hello to the cock-rocking Kings of 
      Tampa!

INT. XQUISITE - NIGHT

The strippers come out in SAILOR uniforms and begin a 
choreographed routine.  The crowd goes wild and DOLLAR BILLS  
rain down on the dancers.   

Routines race by --

- Tito does a SALSA routine to ‘Mambo Number Five.’

- The Kid does his new Camp Grenada routine.  “Hello Muddah, 
Hello Fadah” -- the crowd LAUGHS but eats it up.  

- Mike does a routine to ‘Addicted to Love.’  He dances up to 
a group of girls on a bachelorette party.  

Mike gives the BACHELORETTE - NICOLE, 40’s, attractive, 
professional - a LAPDANCE--  

She enjoys every second, runs her hands over his stomach, his 
shoulders, they meet eyes--

The routine ends and Nicole tucks a HUNDRED DOLLAR BILL in 
Mike’s g-string.

INT. BACKSTAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Mike collects all his dollar bills together, stuffs them into 
a TUBE SOCK, exploding with cash.  He unfolds the $100 - 
inside is a BUSINESS CARD.  

NICOLE MILLER, Esq. Winston & Strawn, LLP.  

There’s a hand-written phone number on the back.

EXT. ‘TRIP PARK’ - NIGHT

Mike, Tobias, and The Kid sit in a concrete park, get high - 
they watch as FIREWORKS light up the night sky over the bay.  

             THE KID
      That Camp Grenada shit is lame, 
      man.  It’s faggy.

                                      61.

             MIKE
      So change it up then.  

             THE KID
      Richie said it’s a classic - kills 
      it every time.

             MIKE
      Right.  So basically you’re gonna 
      keep taking professional advice 
      from a guy named ‘Big Dick Richie’.  

Mike and Tobias laugh.

             TOBIAS
      Stay with us, Kid.  

             MIKE
      Just put your own spin on it. If 
      you did Camp Grenada like this--

Mike imitates the Kid doing Camp Grenada, throws some SLICK 
dance moves in--

             THE KID
      Damn!

             TOBIAS
      Throw your own shit in there, Kid.  
      I can toss in some effects, some 
      delay, maybe.  Get creative.  

             THE KID
      What about a NASA routine?  I get 
      like a spacesuit on, we play Pink 
      Floyd and shit.  Could be cool--

             MIKE
      On second thought maybe stay with 
      Camp Grenada.

They all laugh. 

             TOBIAS
      Chicks hate science and shit, dude - 
      never works.

Mike looks up at the night sky. 

             MIKE
      Okay. Forget about work and girls 
      and shit for a minute and let me 
      ask y’all a serious question.  
      Y’all believe in aliens?

                                      62.

             TOBIAS
      Like what - martians and shit?

             MIKE
      Yeah, like whatever.  

             THE KID
      Look at all the stars, man - course 
      something’s out there.  Like, the 
      odds say there has to be.

             MIKE
      There’re more stars than grains of 
      sand on all the beaches in the 
      world.  Heard that on CNN.

             THE KID
      Damn.  That’s fucked up.  

             TOBIAS
      I don’t think it’s martians.  I 
      think it’s other you’s and me’s.  
      That’s the dimension you get sucked 
      into inside a black hole, man.  
      There’s no time, everything exists 
      in multiple realities. And then the 
      shit gets so dense that it like, 
      explodes again. 

             MIKE
      Implodes, dumbass.

             TOBIAS
      Right.

             THE KID
      That’s not what a black hole is.

             TOBIAS
      Oh?  When was the last time you 
      went to a black hole?  

             MIKE
      I think it’s all a game.  Like 
      somebody’s just teasing us saying 
      look at all that stuff out there.  
      But we’re just all alone.  

             THE KID
      Fuck that - something is out there, 
      and I bet it knows we’re here.  
      Gimme another hit.

Mike watches as the Kid takes another hit - he’s fucked up.  

                                      63.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Where we goin tonight?  Who’s 
      spinning at the Amp?

             MIKE
      Relax, killer.  It’s only Friday - 
      we got time.  

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The Kid leans on the door, smashed and tired.  Mike knocks.  
PAIGE opens up.  The Kid stumbles inside.  

             MIKE
      See - told you I’d look after him.

             PAIGE
        (not expecting this)
      Thanks.

She goes to shut the door - Mike sees a GUY, Paul, inside.  
Doesn’t look like a happy environment.  

             MIKE
      Have fun.  

             PAIGE
      You too.

Mike goes to leave.

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks for bringing him home.

Mike nods, walks off.

                                 FADE TO:

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - NIGHT

Mike walks in - it's dark, lonely.

He goes to the fridge, cracks a beer, sits on the couch--

He pulls out a wad of DOLLAR BILLS from the night, starts 
straightening out each one on the table--  

He reaches the $100 bill.  NICOLE'S BUSINESS CARD falls out.

Mike looks at it a moment, then takes out his cell, dials--

INT. NICOLE’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

A PHONE RINGS.  The lights go on, revealing an elegant room.

NICOLE wakes up next to her FIANCEE in bed, answers--  

                                      64.

             NICOLE
      Hello?

             NICOLE’S FIANCEE
      It’s two AM - who is that? 

INTERCUT WITH INT. MIKE’S CONDO

             MIKE
      Hey - it’s Mike.

             NICOLE
      Who?

             MIKE
      Mike - from the club.  You gave me 
      your card.

             NICOLE
      Tom, jesus.  It’s two in the 
      morning-- 

             MIKE
      Sorry - nevermind.

             NICOLE
        (sighs)
      Just walk me through it again.

             MIKE
      Excuse me?

             NICOLE
        (to her fiancee)
      They need me to take a statement.
        (into the phone)
      Where’s the client right now?

             MIKE
      Um...

             NICOLE
      His street address, Tom. Where the 
      client is right now.

             MIKE
      Oh-- 1346 Jupiter Road.  

                                      65.

Nicole gets out of bed.

             NICOLE
      I’ll be there - just don’t waste my 
      fucking time, OK? 

She hangs up, kisses her fiancee.  

             NICOLE
	(CONT’D)
      Idiot.

             NICOLE’S FIANCEE
      I don’t know why you stay with this 
      firm.

             NICOLE
      I know.  See you later.  

She walks out the door.

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Paige gets out of bed, goes to the kitchen, sees THE KID up, 
drinking alone.  She sits down, has a drink with him. 

             PAIGE
      Sure you wanna keep hitting that?

He has another drink.  

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      Listen, brother bear - if you don’t 
      get your act together I’m gonna 
      have to kick your ass out of here.  

             THE KID
      I know.

             PAIGE
      We gotta have rules.  Like no 
      coming home trashed and unannounced 
      when I’m on a date.  

             THE KID
      Didn’t look like much of a date.

Beat.

             PAIGE
      It wasn’t.

             THE KID
      See, look at all I do for you.

                                      66.

She smiles.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      You know maybe it would do you good 
      to just get with some random guy.  
      Loosen up, look on the bright side - 
      there’s a lotta opportunity out 
      there.  

This lands on Paige.  She takes a moment.  

             PAIGE
      We’ll see.    
        (beat)
      For real, though--  If you bring 
      any stripper trash back here I will 
      whop her ass so good you’ll have to 
      sew her back together in the 
      morning.  You hear me?   

             THE KID
      I know you will.  That’s why I love 
      you.

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - NIGHT

NICOLE knocks on the door.  Mike answers it.   

             MIKE
      Hi.

             NICOLE
        (walking past him)
      Hi.

She looks around the apartment.  An awkward silence.

             NICOLE
	(CONT’D)
      Nice place.

             MIKE
      You want a drink?

She nods.  Mike goes to the fridge, pours a vodka.  He brings 
it to her.  As she takes it he leans in to kiss her-- but she 
roughly PUSHES him back--

On Mike - that was unexpected.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry, I thought--

He goes to her, but she PUSHES him back even harder.

                                      67.

             NICOLE
      Shut up.  

Mike looks at her a moment, then--  

She pushes him back AGAIN, but just stands there, daring him 
to come forward.

He moves forward, she tries to push him back, but he gets his 
arms inside hers, GRABS her, slams her up against the wall, 
KISSES HER, biting her lip. She isn’t kissing him--she’s 
devouring him.

             MIKE
      Is that a “yes”?

On Nicole.  She smirks-- YES.

A HEADBOARD BANGS in the darkness--

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh yeah.  Oh god.

             NICOLE
      Fuck me.  Keep fucking me!   

MOMENTS LATER:

MIKE and NICOLE fuck wildly--  

UNCHAINED MELODY by the Righteous Brothers begins to play--

                                 FADE TO:

A spinning wheel of CLAY.  We slowly zoom out--

INT. XQUISITE - NIGHT

‘Time, goes by... So slowly...’

A dark haired WOMAN molds clay on a spinning wheel on stage.

MIKE comes out from backstage, slowly dances up behind her, 
takes off his shirt--  SCREAMS from the audience.  

Mike slowly dances with the girl - it’s the GHOST ROUTINE.  
The clay on the wheel is in the mold of a LARGE PENIS.  The 
crowd goes crazy as-- 

The song kicks into a RE-MIXED DANCE BEAT.  The lights turn 
off and Mike begins giving the woman an AGGRESSIVE LAP DANCE.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      68.

More STRIPPING SEQUENCES fly by--

The Kid does ‘Camp Grenada’ but puts some new moves into it - 
it’s getting pretty good.

Mike does his MY WAY routine--

The Kid goes out into the audience, gets MOBBED BY WOMEN.

Mike grinds seductively on a girl in the hot seats.  She runs 
her hands all over his body.  

Girls MAKE IT RAIN everywhere.  

Dallas comes backstage with WADS OF CASH, BEAMING--  

TITLE CARD: AUGUST

INT. DALLAS’ HOUSE, HURRICANE PARTY - AFTERNOON

A raging party at Dallas’ house - all the strippers are 
there, as are the Mons Venus girls and a handful of other 
shady party-goers.  RAIN POURS outside as everyone dances.  
ZORA, bikini-clad, dances on a table - the entertainment.

The Kid hangs with Tobias.  Tobias eats a pill.  

             TOBIAS
      If you want I’d go halfsies with 
      you on a front, like I do with 
      Mike.  If we did a pack we could 
      make it really worth our while.  

             THE KID
        (what does that mean?)
      Yeah man, definitely.  

We pan over to MIKE, who stands with AMBER, surveying all the 
GIRLS in the crowd.

             AMBER
      Iny-miny-miny-mo, catch-a-tiger-by-
      the-tow -- who’s it gonna be?

Mike looks around - no sign of the Kid, or Zora.  

             MIKE
      I dunno - who do you think?  

             AMBER
      I want a red head--
        (scanning)
      There.

                                      69.

She points out a cute looking REDHEAD.

             MIKE
      Good choice.  

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (yelling)
      Alright everyone - settle down!  

Mike looks over at Dallas.  Big Dick Richie stands on Dallas’ 
sofa to quiet people down.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Richie - that’s fuckin micro-suede, 
      dude.  
        (Richie steps off)
      Thank you.   

Dallas slips off his shoes, stands on his sofa.    

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, quiet - I have an 
      announcement.  That means you too, 
      Tarzan - out of the shadows and 
      into the light, buddy. 

TARZAN lifts himself off a chair in the corner of the room.  
The crowd quiets.     

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I told y’all that this was a 
      special night, now I’m gonna tell 
      you why.  As y’all know, despite 
      the hurricane that has soiled our 
      otherwise bountiful Saturday, the 
      good Lord has blessed the Kings of 
      Tampa this summer.

Hoots and hollers from the audience.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      And we’ve been talking for a long 
      time now about the market, when it 
      would hit the sweet spot, when we 
      could make a move and take this 
      thing global.  And I’m here to tell 
      y’all that that sweet spot is here.   

On Mike - what’s he talking about?

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      As of September 1st, 2011, we will 
      no longer be the cock-rocking Kings 
      of Tampa.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      We’ll be the cock  rockin’ kings of 
      four thousand square feet of pure 
      Miami beach real estate.  The big 
      time - how do y’all like that?     

                                      70.

Cheers.  On THE KID, pure excitement.  He and Mike share a 
look. On Mike--

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Magic Mike and the Kid here will 
      top-line for us, and we’re gonna-- 
        (looks at a note-card)
      simul-cast shows online all over 
      the world.  So here’s to four more 
      weeks of Tampa - lets burn this 
      place down! 

The crowd toasts, erupts.  Dallas throws out a handful of 
FLYERS - the Kid and Mike stand shirtless in front of a 
cheesy superimposed background:  Club Menage, Miami.

The Kid goes to Mike.

             THE KID
      How crazy is this!  

They fist-bump.  

             MIKE
      Yeah man!  

             THE KID
      We’re gonna fuckin’ kill it down 
      there.  

The Kid looks at ZORA through the crowd - she cradles a POT-
BELLY PIG.  She looks back at him seductively.  Mike sees. 

             MIKE
      Go get em, tiger. Just put a condom 
      on your brain.

Mike walks over to Dallas.

             DALLAS
      Hey, buddy.  How’s it feel to be 
      moving up in the world?

             MIKE
      Good.  Happening pretty fast, huh?

             DALLAS
      Making moves, baby.  If you ain’t 
      fast you’re last - you know.  

                                      71.

             MIKE
      Yeah, I know.  It’s just - I got my 
      condo, been looking around for 
      space for my business and all.  

             DALLAS
      Your business?  Come on, dog, we 
      been doing this for what now - six 
      years?  This is your business - the 
      moment we’ve been waiting for.  
      Take it in.   

             MIKE
      Yeah.  Just gotta sink in I guess.  

             DALLAS
      No doubt.  Remember, we’re in this 
      together, like we always said.  
      Seven point five across the board.    

             MIKE
      Wasn’t it ten?

             DALLAS
      Well, yeah, but we gotta cut the 
      Kid in a bit.  You’ll both be top-
      lining, he’ll bring in the teen 
      demographic so I was thinking like 
      two point five, but we’ll all sit 
      down and work it out.  

Mike looks across the room - AMBER flirtatiously waves.  

             MIKE
      Yeah - we’ll figure it out.  

             DALLAS
      Exactly.  Drink up.

Dallas raises his glass - they CHEERS and drink.  

Across the room, the Kid talks with ZORA.  She’s got one foot 
in this world, one somewhere else.  Her gaze is piercing.  

MOMENTS LATER:

             ZORA
      This is Herman.

Zora pets her PIG.  

             THE KID
      Hi, Herman.  Nice to meet you.  

The Kid pets Herman - it squeals.

                                      72.

             ZORA
      He likes you.

             THE KID
      Cool.
        (I’m in)
      So - where you from?

             ZORA
      Right here.  

             THE KID
      Like Tampa?

             ZORA
      No.  Like here.

             THE KID
      Oh.  That must be nice.

             ZORA
      Sometimes.  

             THE KID
      Sometimes what?  

             ZORA
      Do you want some Molly?

             THE KID
        (Molly?)
      Definitely.

She grins - he’s an amateur.  

             ZORA
      Come on.  

Zora leads the Kid back down a hallway in Dallas’ house.  
They open up a door to a bedroom, enter--

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

They walk in, find KEN and his wife, who’s TOPLESS.  Zora 
lets her pig onto the ground.  

             KEN
      Hey y’all.

             THE KID
      Hey.

                                      73.

             ZORA
      We’d like to order, please. 

             KEN
      Angels or demons?

             ZORA
      Angels.

Ken pulls out two pills of MDMA, hands them over.

             KEN
      How you kids doing?  

             KEN’S WIFE
      This storm is crazy, huh?

Thunder claps outside.  Zora takes a pill, the Kid takes one.   

             THE KID
      Yeah - nuts.  

The Kid looks at Ken’s wife’s TITS.  Ken catches him.

             KEN
      My wife’s tits are awesome, right?

             THE KID
      Oh, yeah - sure.  

             KEN
      Check em out.  Go ahead - feel em.

             THE KID
      What?

             KEN
      Go ahead.

             KEN’S WIFE
      They’re real, I swear.    

The Kid awkwardly reaches over, feels Ken’s wife’s tits.

             KEN’S WIFE
	(CONT’D)
      See?

             THE KID
      Pretty great.

             KEN
      Keep going.

Ken and the Kid meet eyes.  Ken’s wife touches the Kid.

                                      74.

             KEN’S WIFE
      You have such good energy.
        (to Zora)
      Come here, sweetheart.

Zora smiles, walks over, KISSES Ken’s wife, then MAKES OUT 
with the Kid.  Ken watches as they start to GO AT IT--

INT.  DALLAS’ HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Amber walks up to Mike with the RED-HEAD.

             AMBER
      Hey, mister big shot, this is my 
      lovely new friend, Kate. 

             REDHEAD
        (dangerously innocent)
      Hi.

             AMBER
      Guess what I discovered she has--  
      shrooms.  Maybe we go somewhere 
      more private and enjoy them?

On Mike - not exactly where his head’s at.  

             MIKE
      Sure.  Gimme one sec, I’ll meet you 
      guys--

INT. BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Mike walks into the bathroom, downs his drink in one gulp, 
looks in the mirror-- 

He looks out the window - the rain pours down.  He OPENS the 
window, wedges himself out, climbs onto the roof--

EXT. DALLAS’ ROOF - CONTINUOUS

Mike crawls onto the roof in the rain.  Thunder barks.

He lays down, lets the wind and rain wash over him.  

                                 FADE TO:

EXT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - THE NEXT DAY

The Kid and Mike pull up outside in a BRAND NEW TRUCK, lifted 
up on big wheels.  The subwoofer BLASTS.  The Kid HONKS the 
horn a couple times.  Paige comes out-- 

                                      75.

             PAIGE
      Oh Jesus.

             THE KID
      Whatta think?

             PAIGE
      It’s very-- you.

             THE KID
      Why thank you, sis.  

             PAIGE
      And to what pleasure do I owe this 
      visit?

             THE KID
      We thought you could help us 
      celebrate.

On Paige-- what does that even mean?

EXT. GO-KART RACING TRACK - DUSK

VROOOM!! Paige, Mike, and the Kid WHIP around a corner in a 
GO-KART race.  They bump each other, laugh.

They approach the finish line.  Mike drafts the Kid and pulls 
ahead, but Paige comes up from the outside--

Mike races forward, the finish approaching--  He looks over, 
sees Paige, he’s in the clear--

But she suddenly SWERVES into him, sending him spinning out 
into the tires.  She races forward for the WIN.

MOMENTS LATER:

They climb out of the cars.  Paige laughs as Mike runs over.

      		MIKE
	That was so cold!

		THE KID
	You bitch!

Paige smiles - don’t sleep on me.

                                      76.

             THE KID
      I want another shot at the title.  
      Let’s go - I got both you guys.  

He pulls out a WAD of ONES from his pocket to pay.

             PAIGE
      I’m going out on a high note.  I’ll 
      be at the bar.

             MIKE
      Yeah, I think I got whiplash, dude.

             THE KID
      Awwww... OK, I’m doing one more.  
      See y’all up there.

INT. RACE-TRACK BAR - MOMENTS LATER

Paige and Mike have a drink.

             PAIGE
      So Miami sounds...crazy.

             MIKE
      Yeah, it’s gonna be.  

             PAIGE
      I don’t like it.  But I’m done 
      trying to make him listen.

             MIKE
      Whoa - did the Earth just shift?  
      Are you taking my advice for once?

             PAIGE
      As much as I hate to say it.
        (Mike smiles)
      I’m sure y’all will enjoy 
      yourselves.  Don’t forget about me 
      and all your other normal friends.

             MIKE
      Oh come on now, you’re not so 
      normal.

             PAIGE
      Oh no - how’s that?

             MIKE
      You’re a little better than normal, 
      I guess.

                                      77.

             PAIGE
      A little better, huh?  Well thanks, 
      I guess.

             MIKE
      No problem.

Paige takes a drink.  Mike looks at her a beat.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey - what if you and me went out 
      sometime?  Like, to dinner or 
      something.

Paige turns to him.

             PAIGE
      What do you mean, like a date?

             MIKE
      No, I mean I dunno, you don’t have 
      to call it that - just hang out.  

             PAIGE
        (back to reality)
      I don’t just sport-fuck my 
      brother’s stripper friends.

             MIKE
      That’s not what I meant.

             PAIGE
      No, I apologize.  It’s just, I 
      don’t think you and me are really-- 
      I’d rather not if that’s OK.    

On Mike - something just sank inside, but he plays it off.

             MIKE
      Relax.  I just thought we could 
      talk, be friends.

             PAIGE
      If you just want to talk, my door 
      is always open.  

THE KID walks up.

             THE KID
      You tryin’ to get with my sister 
      over there?

                                      78.

             MIKE
      Pshhh...  And what would you do 
      about it if I were?

             THE KID
      Not me.  Her.

Paige smiles.  

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Yo, you get Dallas’ text?
        (Mike shakes his head)
      We got a private tonight.  Some 
      sorority house.  

Paige puts her fingers in her ears.

             PAIGE
      Nananananana--

Mike playfully pulls her fingers out, she squeals.

             THE KID
        (in Paige’s face)
      $750 bones to rub our nuts on some 
      college girls!

INT. SORORITY HOUSE - NIGHT

Mike and The Kid knock on the door.  A couple giggling COEDS 
let them in.  A room full of girls OGGLE them. 

             MIKE
      There a bathroom to change in?

One of the girls points.  Mike and the Kid head for it.  On 
the way they notice a group of FRAT-BOYS drinking out on a 
balcony.

                                   LATER:

Mike and the Kid, down to just THONGS, give LAP-DANCES to 
various young pledges while sorority sisters WILDLY CHEER.

The Kid seems to dig the girl he dances for.  Mike looks 
over, sees the Kid hand the girl a couple PILLS--

The Kid and Mike dance with the last of the pledges - the 
party’s winding down.  The song switches.

                                   LATER:

             SORORITY GIRL
      OK pledges - last song!

One of the FRAT-BOYS comes into the room, drunk, taps on the 
Kid’s shoulder.  Mike looks over. 

                                      79.

             FRAT BOY
      Hey - you give some ecstasy to my 
      chick?

             THE KID
      What?

             FRAT BOY
      I said-- did you give ecstasy to my 
      girl?

             THE KID
      No, man.  Sorry.

             FRAT BOY
      OK - cool.

The guy walks off.  A SONG starts.  The Kid begins to dance 
when--

SMACK!  The Kid is CLUBBED from behind with a BEER BOTTLE.  
It doesn’t break.  He hits the floor--  

             FRAT BOY
	(CONT’D)
      Fuckin faggot!

Girls SCREAM and run.  MIKE rushes over.  The Kid gets to his 
feet--

Mike squares off with the Frat-Boy, BLASTS him with a 
combination, puts him down--

             FRAT BOYS
	(O.S.)
      FAGGOTS!!

A pack of FRAT-BOYS streams into the room--

             MIKE
      Kid, lets go!

But the Kid goes straight at the Frat-Boys, picks up a CHAIR, 
throws it--  A MELEE ensues through the house--   

Mike rushes to his aid, gets CLOCKED by one of the Frat-Boys.  
A SORORITY GIRL jumps on the Frat-Boy’s back to stop him.  
Mike gets up and DRIVES THEM INTO A WALL-- 

                                      80.

The Kid connects with a few solid punches, takes a few--  
Mike fights his way to the Kid, GRABS him--

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Come on!  

Mike pulls the Kid through a nearby window.

EXT. SORORITY HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

They JUMP down off the roof as Frat-Boys give chase.  More 
come out the front door--

Mike and the Kid RUN across the lawn to the Kid’s truck.  
They reach the truck.

             MIKE
      The keys!

The Kid fumbles with his sock.  The frat boys close in--

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s go, let’s go!

The Kid pulls out the keys, unlocks the car.  They climb in, 
shut the doors JUST as the frat-boys reach them.

INT. THE KID’S TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

The Frat-Boys POUND on the truck, start prying open the doors-

Mike cranks the engine and hits the gas--

The car screeches forward--  But one Frat-Boy comes out of 
nowhere and JUMPS on the hood--

             FRAT BOY
      Faggots!!

Mike swerves wildly, driving through a palmetto patch and up 
onto the lawn.  The car doughnuts and the Frat-Boy whips off 
the hood--

Mike guns it across the lawn and back onto the road--  He 
turns a corner, checks the rearview -- clear.  

             MIKE
      What the FUCK!  

                                      81.

             THE KID
        (eye swelling)
      My fucking backpack, man!  I gotta 
      go back there and get it.

             MIKE
      Your backpack?  Are you fucking 
      kidding me?

On the Kid - something was important in that backpack.

             THE KID
      Fuck.  I don’t even want to get out 
      and look at this fucking truck.

             MIKE
      Insurance’ll pay for it.  
        (beat)
      What the hell are you doing giving 
      pills to those chicks?  

             THE KID
      It was just a couple.

             MIKE
      It was more than a couple.  Where’d 
      you get em?

             THE KID
      Tobias fronted em to me.  

             MIKE
      What?  How many?

             THE KID
        (thinks a moment)
      Just a few.  It’s no big deal. 

             MIKE
      A few?  Be exact - ‘fronting’ means 
      you gotta pay him back for every 
      last one you fuckin’ idiot.  

             THE KID
      Like ten, OK?  I’ll pay him 
      tomorrow and we’ll be square.  
      Chill out, Jesus.  

Mike eases up - they drive.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Plus fuck worrying about money now 
      that we’re partners.   

                                      82.

             MIKE
      What?  

             THE KID
      What do you mean ‘what?’  The new 
      club-- you and me splittin’ the ten 
      percent--  We’re gonna be flush!  

Mike looks at the Kid, processes the comment.

             MIKE
      Right.  

             THE KID
      We clocked a couple of em pretty 
      good, huh?

             MIKE
      Hell yeah we did.

They fist-pound.  

             THE KID
      I can’t go home like this. I need a 
      drink - lets go to Ybor.  

EXT. TAMPA STREETS - MOMENTS LATER

Mike, the Kid, and Zora walk to the clubs.  On the way they 
pass by a NICE RESTAURANT.  Mike looks in the window-- 

He sees NICOLE and her FIANCEE inside eating.  He STARES for 
a moment.  They’re dressed nice, looks expensive-- 

Mike calls out to the Kid and Zora.

             MIKE
      Y’all go ahead, I’ll meet you at 
      the club.

Mike walks into the restaurant.

INT. RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS

Mike walks in all roughed up.  Nicole turns, sees him- uh oh.

They meet eyes.  Awkward.  Mike comes up to their table.

             MIKE
      I thought that was you.

                                      83.

             NICOLE
      Hi.

        (to her husband)
      Ryan, this is Mike.

             MIKE
        (extends his hand)
      Nice to meet you.

Ryan looks at Mike - did this guy just break out of jail?

             RYAN
      Nice to meet you.

             MIKE
        (to Ryan)
      I’m sure you know this, but your 
      wife is a killer.  She handled my 
      case like...it was amazing to 
      watch.

             RYAN
      She works hard.  Too hard, 
      sometimes.

             MIKE
      Well, don’t let me interrupt.  I 
      just wanted to say thanks again.

             NICOLE
      I’m glad you’re happy.

             MIKE
      Bye.

             RYAN
      Bye.

Mike leaves.

             RYAN
	(CONT’D)
      What case was that?

             NICOLE
      Multiple DUIs.  Violent offender. 
      Rich parents keep bailing him out. 
      Are we getting the flan?

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - LATER THAT NIGHT

NICOLE and MIKE lie in bed, post-coital.  She smokes a JOINT.

                                      84.

             NICOLE
      So you made this headboard?  

             MIKE
      Yeah.

             NICOLE
      It’s beautiful.  You did an amazing 
      job with the space.  

             MIKE
      Thanks.  

Mike takes a hit.  She looks at him--

             NICOLE
      So do you enjoy stripping?  

             MIKE
      Yeah, it’s OK.  Good money, fun.  

             NICOLE
      Lots of pussy--

             MIKE
      You’re my first, actually.

Nicole laughs.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      It feels good to provide a release 
      for women.  I like it.  

             NICOLE
      How do you mean?

             MIKE
      You know - fulfill their fantasies, 
      make ‘em feel what they’re not 
      feelin’ in their regular life.  

This lands on Nicole, but she doesn’t show it.  

             NICOLE
      You’re quite a public servant.

             MIKE
      Guess so.

             NICOLE
      So you’re happy-- with your job?

                                      85.

             MIKE
      It’s not my job.  I got a lot of 
      other shit going on.  I’m opening 
      up my own design/build shop.  

             NICOLE
      That’s great.  

             MIKE
      What about you?  

             NICOLE
      My job?  Money’s good, but I work 
      all the time so it’s tough... 
      personally.  But I love it.    

Mike takes a puff.  

             MIKE
      Sometimes - right at the moment 
      when I start to take off my 
      clothes, that’s when it feels a 
      little fucked-up, you know?

             NICOLE
      Huh?

             MIKE
      Just that moment is a little weird.  
      Like God is watching me.  Then it’s 
      gone.

             NICOLE
        (we’re going too deep)
      Yeah.  

             MIKE
      Relax!  I’m just playing with you.

She laughs, lets out a nervous breath.  Was he serious?

INT. ZORA’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

ZORA and THE KID FUCK on the bathroom floor, high out of 
their minds--  The Pig runs around, SQUEALS.

It's dark, wild sex.  The Kid is lost in the moment--

                                 FADE TO:

                                      86.

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - NEXT MORNING

A loud BANGING, followed by various SMASHES--

Mike and Nicole lay in bed.  More SMASHES--

Nicole wakes up.

             NICOLE
        (waking Mike)
      Hey.  Hey!

SMASH--  Mike wakes up. 

             MIKE
      What the fuck?

Mike RUNS out to the living room, SEES--

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

TWO MASKED MEN, SMASHING things with BATS, rifling through 
his stuff--

             MIKE
      Hey!

They keep SMASHING--

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Heeeyyy!!

They look and see him, stop.  NICOLE comes out, SCREAMS!

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Get back in the bedroom!

She slams the door.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (screaming)
      What the FUCK are you doing?

             MASKED MAN
      Tobias said--

Mike holds his FINGER to his mouth-- Shhhhhh...

             MIKE
        (whispering)
      I said eight PM not eight AM you 
      idiots!

                                      87.

             MASKED MAN
      Fuck you.

             MIKE
        (ready to kill)
      Fuck me?

Mike looks and sees they’ve SMASHED his homemade TABLE. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      You motherfuckers.  
        (SCREAMS)
      Ahhhhhhhh -- get the fuck out of 
      here!  Get out!

Mike motions to them to LEAVE.  They finally get the point, 
pretend to SCREAM and RUN OFF.  Mike sits down--

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Nicole)
      You can come out!

NICOLE opens the door, sees the destruction--

             NICOLE
      Oh.  My.  God.  What happened?

             MIKE
      They must’ve been looking for my 
      safe.  

Mike goes to his WALL-SAFE, checks it.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      I scared them off.

             NICOLE
      Who were they?

             MIKE
      Who knows.  I’m calling the cops.

             NICOLE
      Yeah.  Let me--

             MIKE
      Don’t worry, I’ll wait till you 
      leave.  

             NICOLE
      This is terrible.  I hope you’re 
      insured.

                                      88.

             MIKE
      I am.  

             NICOLE
      I wish I could help, I just can’t 
      be a witness, you know. 

Mike looks at her - she wants nothing to do with him.  

             MIKE
      Whatever.  Don’t worry about it.  

             NICOLE
      Right.  Well, if for some reason it 
      ends up in court just call me if 
      you need a favor with the judge.  

             MIKE
      Why would I need a favor?  

             NICOLE
      Because.  They look at everything 
      in court.  It’s really so 
      subjective with these judges, 
      morally speaking at least.

             MIKE
      What do you mean?

             NICOLE
      Just that they judge everything 
      about you under a microscope, 
      that’s all.  
        (awkward silence)
      Look, forget it.

Mike stares at her, cold.  He knows what she means--

             MIKE
      Do they judge you if you’re a lying 
      whore who cheats on her husband?  
        (off her stare)
      Morally speaking, I’m just curious.

             NICOLE
      Fuck you.  I was trying to help.

             MIKE
      No fuck you!  

Mike THROWS a PLATE from the floor at the wall.

                                      89.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (exploding)
      You think you know me?  Get out of 
      here!  Get out!

She screams.  Mike grabs her, pulls her out the door, throws 
her clothes out after her, SLAMS the door.  

He takes a moment, then picks up the phone, dials 911.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
        (into phone)
      Yeah, I want to report a break-in.  

INT. XQUISITE DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

The strippers get dressed backstage.  Mike and the Kid sport 
shiners.

             THE KID
      I still can’t believe that shit.  
      They smashed your fucking table?  I 
      mean - what for?

             MIKE
      That’s what I want to know, Kid.

Mike stares across the room at TOBIAS.  They lock eyes.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      It was the ONE thing that really 
      mattered to me in there, and they 
      fuckin’ smashed it.

             THE KID
      I still say we find em, fuck em up.  

             MIKE
      Insurance is takin’ care of it.  

             TITO
      What do you get for a claim like 
      that?

             MIKE
      We’ll see.  It was a lot of damage, 
      but could’ve been more if they came 
      when I wasn’t there.

Again he locks eyes with Tobias.

                                      90.

             TOBIAS
      You probably shouldn’t have come 
      out and chased em off.  For your 
      own safety, I mean.  You got lucky.  

             MIKE
      Lucky?  They’re a bunch of fuckin’ 
      retards, lucky I didn’t kill ‘em.

             THE KID
      This is why these fuckin’ gun laws 
      piss me off.  It’s first amendment, 
      so why can’t we carry?

             TARZAN
      My second cousin was killed by a 
      firearm.

             MIKE
      OK - just chill out, it’s fine.  
      Just wish they wouldn’t of smashed 
      the table.      

Dallas comes into the room, looks at the Kid and Mike. 

             DALLAS
      Look what the cat dragged in.  
        (off their looks)
      Y’all got nothing to say?   

             MIKE
      It was fucked, man.  No point in 
      discussing it.  

             DALLAS
      And I’m assuming you didn’t collect-

             MIKE
      I forgot to ask em while they were 
      chasing us out the fuckin’ windows.  

             DALLAS
      This is the last thing I need for 
      my reputation right before we make 
      the big move.  

             MIKE
      Yeah, well you wouldn’t be making 
      the ‘big move’ without me and the 
      Kid so maybe you should chill out. 

             DALLAS
      What’d you say, buddy? 

                                      91.

             MIKE
      I said chill out.   

Dallas goes to Mike, gets real close.

             DALLAS
      You better watch yourself, old 
      friend.  No one walks on water on 
      my team.  

             MIKE
      No one but you.  

Dallas processes the comment.  He leans in, lowers his voice.

             DALLAS
      Thinkin’ bout biting the hand that 
      feeds you, big dog?

Mike looks back at Dallas, says nothing.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      That’s what I thought.  We got our 
      blowout show next weekend.  You 
      better be there with bells on and 
      act like the professional I trained 
      you to be.  We’ll put this all 
      behind us in Miami.  

             MIKE
      Roger that.  

             DALLAS
        (gets up, to the room)
      OK boys, lets rock and rule!

INT. XQUISITE STAGE - MOMENTS LATER

The show’s in full swing.  Let’s Get Married by Jagged Edge--

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (over P.A.)
      Alright ladies, it’s time to 
      exchange some vows so get those 
      tissues out and please welcome up 
      to that center stage, Mister Magic 
      Mike!

Mike, dressed like a GROOM, goes out to a SCREAMING crowd, 
begins to dance up to girls in the crowd.  They eat it up--

‘Girl lets just married, I just wanna get married...’

                                      92.

Mike takes his shirt off in front of a group of birthday 
girls.  We see that the birthday girl is SUSAN (the Kid’s ex-
girlfriend).  Susan’s embarrassed but her friends CHEER as 
Mike dances on her--

Mike moves to another group.  ON HIS FACE as he unbuckles his 
pants, takes them off.  Girls GROPE, stuff dollars at him--

Mike dances up to a girl in camo shorts who’s MISSING AN ARM.  
He gives her an extra long lap dance.  She smiles.

MOMENTS LATER:

Mike’s routine ends.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (over P.A.)
      Alright ladies, show some love for 
      Magic Mike.  
        (cheers)
      Now please welcome to the stage our 
      next performer...

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Mike comes backstage.  

             KEN
      I could barely hold it in watchin’ 
      that chick grab you with her one 
      fuckin’ hand.  Shoulda YouTubed it.  
        (the others LAUGH)

             MIKE
        (dead serious)
      Shut up.  

Mike walks off past The Kid, who’s dressed in a COWBOY 
outfit, waiting to go out.   

             THE KID
      That one’s a winner, man.  

             MIKE
      Thanks.  

‘Dead or Alive’ by Bon Jovi blasts--  The Lights dim--

             DALLAS
        (over P.A.)
      ...stepping right up to that center 
      stage with his six shooter cocked 
      and ready to rock-- THE KID!

                                      93.

The Kid steps out on stage.  ‘I’m a cowboy...On a still horse 
I ride.  I’m wanted...dead or alive.’  

The lights go up and the Kid starts to dance.  On SUSAN as 
the Kid dances towards them.  She looks up---

Their EYES MEET--  HOLY SHIT.  The Kid freezes---

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Alright birthday girls, you don’t 
      just have to look - you can touch!

He starts back into his dance, goes up to the girls.  Susan’s 
AWESTRUCK as the Kid dances over them, right up to her--

The Kid’s routine ends.  He picks up dollar bills.  

MOMENTS LATER:

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (over P.A.)
      Alright ladies, give it up for our 
      resident outlaw, the Kid!

The Kid walks off the stage.  On his way he turns, sees SUSAN 
get up, WIPE A TEAR away, walk off through the crowd.   

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

The Kid walks backstage.  Mike sees something’s up.  

             MIKE
      You good?

             THE KID
      Yeah.  Let’s get crazy tonight.  

             MIKE
      I don’t know, man.  

             THE KID
      Come on, pussy.  It’s Saturday - 
      let’s do this!

The Kid swallows a couple PILLS with a swig of water, gives 
Mike a crazy face.

             MIKE
      Oh you’re gonna challenge me, huh?
        (the Kid nods - it’s on!)
      That’s it - gimme some.    

Mike snaps into PARTY MODE.  

                                      94.

INT. AMPITHEATER CLUB - NIGHT

‘Bounce’ by Calvin Harris shakes the bass through a packed 
house.  Glo-boys dance on stage.  The crowd dances, sweats.  

MIKE, ZORA, AMBER, and THE KID wildly dance in the crowd.   

They all walk out of the club, high as hell.  

A COP CAR screams by.  On the Kid - the SIRENS reverberate 
over and over though his head.  He laughs-- 

                                   LATER:

INT. MIKE’S TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

They cross the bridge on the way to Mike’s.  Zora holds her 
PIG in the backseat.  The Kid sees a HUGE CELL-PHONE TOWER at 
the far end of the bridge, overlooking the water.  

             THE KID
      How high is that?

             ZORA
      Like a hundred feet man.  

             THE KID
        (to Mike)
      Pull over.  

             MIKE
      Huh?

             THE KID
      Pull over - right there.  

Mike pulls over.

EXT. ROADSIDE - CONTINUOUS

The Kid gets out of the car, walks over to the cell tower, 
HOPS THE FENCE surrounding it--

             MIKE
      Fuck is he doing?

The Kid starts to CLIMB the side of the tower--

ZORA laughs as the Kid climbs higher up.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Shit. 

                                      95.

Mike hops the fence after him.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Kid!

The Kid looks down and laughs, climbs higher--

EXT. CELL PHONE TOWER - CONTINUOUS

The Kid makes his way towards a small LEDGE at the top.  He 
reaches for a hold, barely grabs it, pulls himself up--  

             THE KID
      Whooooooo!!!!

The Kid starts DANCING on the ledge, looks over the city.  

Zora blasts MUSIC from Mike’s car, laughs as the Kid dances.

Mike climbs up after him, looks down -- holy shit it’s far.

The Kid does a HANDSTAND.  Zora holds up both her hands--

             ZORA
      That’s an eight, baby!

Mike gets to the ledge, grabs the hold, pulls himself up.

             THE KID
      Welcome to the top of the world!

             MIKE
      You crazy motherfucker.

Mike climbs up on the ledge and does a TWIRL.  The girls hold 
up their hands--

             AMBER
      Nine!

The Kid climbs onto a railing and starts to walk it like a 
TIGHTROPE-- 

             ZORA
      Wooooo -- Ten!  

On his feet, step after step, they wobble...then--

He SLIPS--

But Mike GRABS him at the last second, pulls him back to the 
ledge.

                                      96.

             THE KID
      Holy shit!!!

             MIKE
      Let’s get the fuck outta here.

They look down - a big drop.  Mike lets out a nervous laugh. 

EXT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - THE NEXT DAY

Music plays loudly inside.  Through a window we see Mike 
SOUND ASLEEP in bed next to Amber--

A KNOCKING--  Mike still doesn’t wake up.  

More KNOCKING--

PAIGE’s face comes to the window.  She sees Mike in bed, 
knocks hard on the window.  

             PAIGE
      Hey!  Open up.

Mike finally opens his eyes, sees Paige.  He gets up, goes to 
the living room, opens the door.

             MIKE
        (over the music)
      Hey.  

             PAIGE
        (yelling)
      Have fun last night?

Mike goes to talk, realizes how loud the music is, turns it 
off, comes back to the door.

             MIKE
      Sorry.  What’s up?  

             PAIGE
      Is Adam here?  He left me a couple 
      weird voice mails last night.  He 
      sounded all fucked-up, now I can’t 
      reach him.    

Mike takes a moment.  Paige looks down, sees the Kid’s SHOES.

             MIKE
      Oh - yeah.  He’s fine, he’s in the 
      guest room.

Paige walks in past Mike.

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - CONTINUOUS

Paige looks around Mike’s place - still trashed, scattered 
beer cans lie everywhere.

                                      97.

             PAIGE
      Wow.

             MIKE
      Vandals.  Smashed everything.

             PAIGE
      Nice floors.  

             MIKE
      Yeah - it’s cherry walnut.

They walk to the guest room.  A pig’s GRUNT.  Mike looks at 
Paige, shrugs. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Just knock in case--

But Paige just OPENS the door, sees--

THE KID, passed out face-down on the floor in a POOL OF 
VOMIT, a bloody SCRATCH on his back-

ZORA lies on the bed, her bra pulled up over her breasts--

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      What the fuck--

The PIG squeals.  On PAIGE--

She RUNS to the Kid, flips him over.

             PAIGE
      Adam!  Adam...

She slaps his face a couple times -- nothing.

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      What’d he take?

             MIKE
      I--  Ecstasy, maybe some G, I don’t 
      know--

She lays him down, starts PUMPING on his chest--

             PAIGE
      Come on, come on--

Nothing.  On Mike - he’s frozen, SHOCKED--  He bends down to 
help.

                                      98.

             MIKE
      C’mon, Kid!  

             PAIGE
      Get off!  God, please--

She puts her ear to his chest.

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      He’s barely breathing.
        (screaming)
      Come on, Adam!

Paige raises her hand, POUNDS down on his chest, then--

The Kid GASPS, spitting up vomit-- 

He coughs, looks up at Paige with bloodshot, glassy eyes.

She and the Kid meet eyes for a long moment.  Then, Paige 
looks at ZORA, RUNS over to the bed, JUMPS on her--

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      What the FUCK did you do to my 
      brother you fucking slut!!

Paige CHOKES Zora and starts PUNCHING HER IN THE FACE--  But 
Zora’s still passed out like a wet noodle, she just groans.

Paige gets a few huge rights in, then Mike GRABS her--

She turns, PUNCHES MIKE in the face, knocking him backwards.  
She comes to hit him again, raises her hand, Mike FLINCHES--

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll kill you!

He and Paige meet eyes.  She’s on fire.  

             MIKE
      I’m sorry.  I’m just trying to 
      HELP!

             PAIGE
      You’re sorry?  Oh, I apologize 
      then.  I didn’t realize that all 
      this time you just wanted to help.  

             MIKE
      He’s OK.  I fucked up, but this’ll 
      be OK.  

                                      99.

             PAIGE
      OK?  You don’t get it!!
        (points at the Kid)
      That’s my brother!  That’s all I 
      have.

Mike goes to speak - but he’s got nothing.

             PAIGE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh - what’s the matter?  No 
      bullshit excuse for that?  No 
      clever line to calm me down?  

             MIKE
      Paige--

             PAIGE
      Shut up!  I see you, dude. You 
      think you’ve got everyone all 
      figured out, but I see you.   

             MIKE
      Yeah?  What do you see?    

             PAIGE
      You talk a big game, and cause 
      you’re so cool you got everybody 
      buying the shit you sell.  But 
      you’re just a fuckin loser, pulling 
      everybody down into your shit.  

             MIKE
      You’re fuckin’ crazy.

             PAIGE
      Yeah, and you’re a thirty year old 
      bullshit male stripper.  

             MIKE
      Fuck you.   

             PAIGE
      Great answer.  Next time try 
      ‘you’re right, I need help.’

             MIKE
      Get out.

Paige bends down to pick the Kid off the floor.  He’s limp, 
she struggles.  Mike goes to help--

             PAIGE
      JUST LET ME CARRY HIM!

                                     100.

Mike backs off.  Paige lifts the Kid’s arm over her shoulder, 
walks him to the door.  Mike watches as they exit. 

He looks around his wrecked house, breathes--  

Then, he PUNCHES his wall!  The force is so hard his fist 
goes right through.  He hits it AGAIN and AGAIN--

INT. PAIGE’S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Paige drives.  The Kid wakes up in the backseat, covered in 
vomit. He gets his bearings, sees Paige.  They meet eyes - 
she’s on the verge of tears.

             THE KID
        (sheepish)
      My bad, sis...

Paige looks at him like she wants to hug him and kill him at 
the same.  She lets out a nervous laugh as a tear falls-- 

             PAIGE
      I can’t take it anymore, Adam.  

             THE KID
      I know.  

EXT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - THAT AFTERNOON

Mike walks back from the beach.  Rows of houses with for sale-
signs line the community.  Mike sees TOBIAS waiting in his 
driveway.  He walks up.  

             MIKE
      Hey.  

             TOBIAS
      Hey, buddy.  Been trying your cell 
      all day.

             MIKE
      Left my phone at the house.

             TOBIAS
      Yo, that claim come in yet?  I 
      gotta tell my guys something.

             MIKE
      They fucked up, man. 

                                     101.

             TOBIAS
      I know.  They’re willing go down to 
      $500 in consideration--

             MIKE
        (snapping)
      Fuck them!  If they want it tell em 
      to come and get it from me!

             TOBIAS
      Chill.  We made a deal.  So I’ll 
      tell them you’ll give em the $500 
      when you calm down. 

Mike looks at Tobias.

             MIKE
      OK, buddy.

             TOBIAS
      You seen the Kid around?  He ain’t 
      picking up his phone either. 

             MIKE
      Yeah - he had a rough night.

             TOBIAS
      We all did, but he’s late on a 
      front.  

             MIKE
      It’s a hundred bucks.  Relax, he’s 
      good for it.     

             TOBIAS
      A hundred bucks?  He went in on a 
      pack with me.

             MIKE
        (Jesus)
      WHAT?  How much is his half? 

             TOBIAS
      Five grand.  
        (off Mike’s look)
      Listen, Mikey - this kid’s gonna 
      have a tough time dancing if his 
      fucking legs don’t work. He needs 
      to take care of this, now. The only 
      reason I'm giving him the benefit 
      of the doubt is ‘cause of you. He’s 
      been putting me off for weeks. 

Mike takes a deep breath, thinks.

                                     102.

             MIKE
      Come inside.

INT. MIKE’S BEACH CONDO - MOMENTS LATER

Mike opens up his WALL SAFE, takes out his MONEY, starts 
counting it--

                                 FADE TO:

INT. CHILI’S RESTAURANT - DAYS LATER

Mike waits in a booth.  THE KID comes in, sits down.

             THE KID
      Hey.

             MIKE
      Hey.  How you doing?

             THE KID
      Good.  Sore throat, about it.

             MIKE
      You're the luckiest damn kid I've 
      ever met.  

             THE KID
      I’m luckier my sister didn’t kill 
      me.  

             MIKE
      Yeah.  How’s Zora?

             THE KID
      I went back to see her last night 
      at Mons Venus.  She was dancing on 
      stage with two fuckin’ black eyes.

             MIKE
        (chuckles)
      You talk to her at all?

             THE KID
      That’s what messed up.  I asked her 
      if she wanted to hang out later and 
      she told me to deal with her pimp.

             MIKE
      What’d I tell you, Kid?  

             THE KID
      I know, I know.  

A WAITRESS takes their orders.  The Kid turns back to Mike.

                                     103.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      Listen, I don’t know what to say 
      about the money.  Just-- thanks for 
      doing that, you didn’t have to.

             MIKE
      Eh - you’d do it for me.

             THE KID
        (would I?)
      I’m gonna pay you back. 

             MIKE
      I know.  I was thinkin’ maybe you 
      could help me set up some shit to 
      get my company going.  We could 
      work on it together, you know.  
      Like a business plan.  

             THE KID
      Yeah--
        (beat)
      You mean like take a break from the 
      club?  

             MIKE
      Yeah, I guess.  Just take it easy 
      for a bit, you know.      

On the Kid - not what he had in mind.

             THE KID
      Listen - I know I fucked up.  But 
      I’m not ruining this for both of 
      us.  This is Miami, man.  We’re 
      gonna own a piece of that club. 

             MIKE
      I don’t know.  These last few days, 
      I just started thinkin’, you know--

             THE KID
      I know, man.  But what’re we gonna 
      do?  Open up a building business in 
      this economy when we got a gold 
      mine just laying at our feet?  

On Mike - maybe the Kid’s right.  

                                     104.

             THE KID
	(CONT’D)
      This is our opportunity.  We’re 
      good at this, and you know how 
      crazy it’s gonna be.  Plus I ain’t 
      goin’ back to Dillard’s.

             MIKE
      Why not?  At least you smelled good 
      back then.  

They laugh.

             THE KID
      Come on - let’s do this.  We got 
      the blowout show this weekend, I’ll 
      start paying you back, we’ll get 
      down to Miami and it’ll be like 
      none of this ever happened.  

             MIKE
      What about Paige?

             THE KID
      I’m leaving on Sunday, dude.  The 
      other night was the last straw - we 
      ain’t made to be roommates.    

             MIKE
      You could say that again.  

The Kid lifts his beer.  

             THE KID
      Hey--  To great friends and 
      beautiful futures.

Mike looks at the Kid - it’s like looking into a mirror.  

He smiles, raises his glass--  CHEERS.

EXT. XQUISITE - SATURDAY NIGHT

FLYERS featuring Mike and the Kid scatter the ground.  The 
Xquisite Closeout Blowout!  Girls file in in droves.  

INT. DRESSING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The Kid, Mike, and all the strippers get dressed.  

             MIKE
      See Tito, your problem is the 
      details.  


                                     105.

             MIKE
	(CONT'D)
      The frozen yogurt stands didn’t 
      work out because you put them in 
      the malls.  You shoulda gone to the 
      waterfront where there’s less 
      competition.

             TITO
      Who knew Pinkberry was gonna be so 
      huge?  

             KEN
      Fuck Pinkberry.  I’m telling you 
      guys it’s all about these Hospis 
      stores.  You just buy the shit from 
      em’ for nothing, then re-sell it on 
      E-Bay with premium branding and 
      shit.  Huge margins, huge.    

             THE KID
      What’s Ebay’s cut?

             TITO
      Like thirty-three percent.

             KEN
      I’m sure we could get them down if 
      we deal in bulk.

             THE KID
      What if we sold it off our own 
      website?  I mean, with social 
      networking we have the power to 
      just do it ourselves.

On the other strippers - the Kid has a point.  Tobias enters--

             TOBIAS
      Gotta get that boom boom boom--

He passes around some mini bottles of GHB.  TARZAN downs one.  
Dallas enters.

             DALLAS
        (loudly)
      Y’all ready to go out with a bang?
        (mimics banging a girl)

They stippers clap.  The crowd ROARS outside.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Suit up, my brothers.  I’m joining 
      you tonight.   

They all throw on MONK ROBES.  Dallas throws one on as well.

GREGORIAN CHANT music swells--

                                     106.

MOMENTS LATER:

The strippers line up on stage in the darkness - MONKS 
praying in a V-formation.  Dallas looks at Mike.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Just like old times, partner.

             MIKE
      Yeah.

             DALLAS
      You ready to live the dream?

Mike looks at Dallas.  Dallas smiles--

Then, the LIGHTS GO UP as the song transitions to IT’S 
RAINING MEN.  The gigantic CROWD GOES WILD!

The dancers shed their robes and begin their routine.

Mike watches as Dallas grabs a torch, BLOWS FIRE into the 
air, dances wildly out into the crowd, grinds on some girls.

Dollar bills rain down as Mike and the Kid dance into the 
crowd.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BACKSTAGE - MOMENTS LATER

The show’s in full swing.  Tarzan dances as the other 
strippers change backstage.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (over P.A.)
      Alright you lovely ladies - this is 
      Tarzan’s last time swinging through 
      these trees, so he won’t mind if 
      you defile him.  He likes it dirty!

Mike puts on his CUT-OFF TUX outfit while the Kid puts on his 
COWBOY costume.  

             THE KID
      This is nuts!  You see that blonde 
      in the front row?

             MIKE
      With the huge rack?  

                                     107.

             THE KID
        (nods)
      I’m hittin’ that.  She was eye-
      fuckin’ the shit outta me.    

             MIKE 
      Go for it.

             THE KID
      See you out there, man.  

The Kid walks out, leaving Mike alone.  He looks into the 
MIRROR as he pulls his pants over his thong, buckles them--

On his face, studying his reflection--

INT. STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Tarzan’s routine ends.  

             DALLAS 
        (over P.A)
      C’mon and show some love for our 
      wild, beastly friend, ladies!  

Tarzan wobbles off the stage.  On his way he stops, teeters-- 
Is he gonna G out again?  

Then, he catches his breath, carries on.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (over P.A.)
      A little too much jungle juice for 
      Tarzan.  

The lights dim, turn BLUE.  The FOG MACHINE spurts--

The beginnings of Usher’s MY WAY fade up from the speakers--

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Alright, ladies.  You know what 
      time it is.  It’s time for our 
      featured performer!
        (cheers)
      His name’s traveled for miles.  His 
      moves mystify the mysterious.  His 
      gaze can pierce your soul.  And for 
      the very last time in Tampa 
      history, please welcome up to that 
      center stage-- the Houdini of the 
      dance floor, Mister-- MAGIC MIKE!!!    

The girls SCREAM!  On the stage--

                                     108.

Nobody steps out.  Fog blows.

Tobias looks at Dallas, loops the song.

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      For the last time ever, Mister 
      Magic Mike...

Still nothing.  A few seconds go by.  On the faces of the 
GIRLS in the audience, waiting, confused.  

             DALLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Maaaagic Mike!

Nothing.  Dallas rushes backstage.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

             DALLAS
      Mike!  What the fuck?

Dallas rushes in, looks around-- Mike’s nowhere to be found.  
All the other guys shrug-- they don’t know where he is.

INT. MIKE’S TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

MIKE DRIVES, still dressed in his cut-off tux.  He breathes 
hard.  The Tampa urban sprawl speeds by outside.

INT. BACKSTAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Dallas takes a moment to think--

The crowd grows RESTLESS.  Dallas looks at THE KID.  

             DALLAS
      You ready, my man?  

The Kid takes a moment, thinks--

INT. MIKE’S TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Mike drives, takes a turn, pulls the car to a stop.

He looks out the window at something, breathes.

DEAD OR ALIVE plays--

                                     109.

             DALLAS
	(O.S.)
        (over P.A.)
      For the last time ever here at 
      Xquisite, stepping up to that 
      center stage-- Our overnight 
      sensation, the only virgin who’s 
      not too young to make you cum--  
      Our new featured performer...  The 
      Kidddddd!

INT. XQUISITE STAGE - MOMENTS LATER

The song kicks into high gear as THE KID launches into his 
routine--

Girls go crazy and shower the stage with dollar bills.  On 
the Kid.  He’s the man now--

INT. PAIGE’S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Paige reads in bed, hears a LOUD KNOCKING at her door.  She 
gets up, walks to the door, opens it--

MIKE stands there, sweating, in his cut-off tux.  She looks 
him over - something’s definitely not right.

             PAIGE
      Hey.  What are you doing here?  

             MIKE
        (I don’t know)
      I, ummm--

             PAIGE
      Aren’t you supposed to be at the 
      show? 

             MIKE
      Yeah.  Listen, I--  

             PAIGE
      What?

             MIKE
      I just-- I need to talk.  

Paige studies him a moment - this isn’t the Mike she knows.  

             PAIGE
      C’mon in.    

She opens the door, lets him in.  

They sit down and look at each other.

INT. XQUISITE STAGE - THE NEXT DAY

END CREDITS roll over the empty club. 

                                     110.

                                 FADE TO:

