              MAKE A WISH

               Written by

             Zach Z. Frankel

© 2013

Zach Frankel
(310) 990 - 4199
zzfrankel@gmail.com


FADE IN:

CLOSE ON the face of IZZY SCHOENBERG, 14.  We don’t know what 
he’s doing, but it looks like...is he?  He is.  He’s jerking 
off. 

             IZZY
      J-E-T-S!  Jets!  Jets! Je--

             LOIS
	(O.S.)
      Okay Izzy are you read...

Izzy’s mom LOIS SCHOENBERG, 40s, overweight, over made-up, 
and over-protective opens the door and sees...

             LOIS
	(CONT’D)
        (disgusted)
      ...oh, Izzy.  

             IZZY
      Ahhh!  

Izzy falls off the bed and out of frame. 

             IZZY
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Mom!  God fucking damnit!  You’re 
      ruining my pre-game ritual!  

             LOIS
      Let’s go Izzy.  Everyone’s waiting.  

Lois shuts the door and we get a glimpse of the room.  It’s a 
bit cold and sterile.  

                                  CUT TO:

INT. TUNNEL -- METLIFE STADIUM - NIGHT

BUTCHIE JONES, 20s, a black 6’4” 210 pound speed demon runs 
through a tunnel in his New York Jets uniform (number 88) as 
FIREWORKS pop-off.

The P.A. Announcer welcomes Butchie and the crowd ROARS.  
Fireworks explode as Butchie makes his way to the field.

             DOCTOR PETERS
	(V.O. PRELAP)
      I am so sorry...

INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE -- HOSPITAL - NIGHT 

DOCTOR PETERS, 50s, extends an x-ray across his desk.  


                                      2.

             DOCTOR PETERS
      ...but nothing we’ve tried has 
      worked.  If anything, the growth 
      has accelerated.  I’m afraid there 
      is nothing more I can medically do.  

Lois clutches her husband MEL, 40s, BAWLING her eyes out.  

             LOIS
      But it...it can’t be.  There’s got 
      to be something!

             DOCTOR PETERS
      The disease has spread to almost 
      every major organ in the body.  We 
      tried everything, we really did.  

Lois holds her head and cries.  

             DOCTOR PETERS
	(CONT’D)
      If there’s anything else you need, 
      or any questions you might have...

             IZZY
	(O.S.)
      I’ve got a question.

Izzy sits stone-faced between his parents.  We get our first 
real look at him: he’s bald, frail beanpole.  Izzy wears a 
Jets jersey (number 88) with the nameplate reading “JONES” 
over his hospital gown.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      You couldn’t have done this 
      earlier?  The Jets are playing.  

             DOCTOR PETERS
      Izzy, I know this must be hard for 
      you, and there are some exceptional 
      psychiatrists--

             IZZY
      I get it Doc, I’m dying.  It sucks.  
      And I’m sorry for not caring, but I 
      knew I was hopeless from day-one 
      and now I’m missing Monday Night 
      Football!  The Jets are about to 
      taint-baste those faggot-ass 
      Vikings on national T.V., and if I 
      don’t jerk-off before kickoff, I’m 
      sabotaging their chances.  

             DR. PETERS
      I understand how difficult this 
      must be for you to hear--


                                      3.

             IZZY
      I don’t think you do.  For two 
      friggin years I’ve been poked, and 
      prodded, and irradiated.  And for 
      what?  ‘I’m sorry’?  A shandeh!  A 
      shandeh fur die goyem.  This is 
      what happens when we go to the 
      gentiles for medical help.  Sloan 
      Kettering my tuchas.  Now if you’ll 
      excuse me, I’m gonna rub one out if 
      there’s still time.  I’m done with 
      this asshole. 

Izzy gets up and flips Doctor Peter’s the bird as he walks 
out -- the back side of his gown flaps open, exposing Izzy’s 
butt. 

EXT. METLIFE STADIUM -- FIELD LEVEL - CONTINUOUS

Butchie jogs onto the field and takes in the 80,000 SCREAMING 
fans in the seats.  Butchie notices 2 in particular...

BUTCHIE’S POV

A beautiful young black woman, TAMIKA, 20s, holds up a young 
girl, SUNNY, 3.  She smiles and waves at Butchie (Camera).  

             SUNNY
      Go Daddy!

BUTCHIE

Doesn’t acknowledge them.  He’s already moved on, winking at 
the Jets Flight Crew (the cheerleaders) as he runs past.  

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 

The TV is tuned to the pre-game.  Lois drapes Izzy’s Jets 
blanket over his frail body.  Mel sits by Izzy’s side. 

             LOIS
      My little man, it’s not over.  
      We’ll get other doctors.  

             IZZY
        (trying to watch)
      We’ve already seen em’.  Could you 
      not block the T.V., please.

             LOIS
      I take it you studied your Torah 
      portion today?


                                      4.

             IZZY
      Jesus fucking Christ Lois, the 
      game’s about to start.

             LOIS
      Tomorrow, Torah portion or else I’m 
      telling Doctor Peters to take this 
      thing away.   

             IZZY
      Why do we have to go through this 
      every fucking week?   

             MEL
      Izzy...

             IZZY
      I’m fourteen.  You get bar 
      mitzvahed at thirteen.  

             LOIS
      You were dealing with your illness.  

             IZZY
      You mean the same illness that’s 
      killing me?  Tell me Lois, why 
      should I do for God when clearly 
      God is not doing for me?  

Lois CRIES and leaves the room.  Mel shakes his head and gets 
up to chase after his wife.  

             MEL
      She wants you to become a man, 
      that’s all.  It’s not easy for her, 
      for either of us.

             IZZY
      Not easy for her?  I’m the one 
      dying here, not her, not you.  Now, 
      unless you’re here to watch Butchie 
      Jones and the rest of Gang Green 
      murder these bitches, I will see 
      you tomorrow.  

             MEL
      Good night Izzy.  

             IZZY
      ‘Good night Izzy’ and...?  

             MEL
      Go Jets.


                                      5.

EXT. FIELD -- METLIFE STADIUM - NIGHT 

Butchie hears the quarterback yell “hike,” and takes off.

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      McCoy in the shotgun, takes the 
      snap, got a man down-field...

Butchie catches the ball and runs over a would-be defender.

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      He’s got Jones for a big gain down 
      at the fifteen yard line.

INTERCUT AS NECESSARY WITH:

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

IZZY stands on his hospital bed and air jacks-off.

             IZZY
      All fucking day baby!  All day!  

BUTCHIE catches another pass. 

IZZY pumps his fist.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      First down bitches.  

A NURSE comes by and shakes her head. 

BUTCHIE runs through the back of the end-zone and catches a 
touchdown pass.

IZZY gets on all fours and lifts up his leg, pretending to 
urinate like a dog.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      This is for you Coach Frazier.  
      Coach a defense my tuchas.  

                                  CUT TO:

IZZY sits on the bed in a cold-sweat.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Peterson, you are KILLING me faster 
      than cancer!   

BUTCHIE blocks a linebacker named RANDLE, a monster-sized 
human.  Randle jaws at Butchie after the play finishes.  


                                      6.

             RANDLE
      You a dead man Butchie Jones.  I’ma 
      take your bitch, and your 
      daughter’s gonna call me ‘Daddy.’

Butchie slaps at Randle’s helmet.  They tussle.  

IZZY throws shadow punches.  

             IZZY
      You’re the man Butchie.  Don’t take 
      any shit from that asshole!

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      And it looks like Butchie’s going 
      to cost his team fifteen yards for 
      the extracurriculars.  

             IZZY
      NOOO!!!

LATER

BUTCHIE stands on the line of scrimmage. 

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      And the Jets trail by three with 
      just under a minute to go with the 
      ball at the Vikings’ thirty-four 
      yard line. 

IZZY hides his head under his blanket.

             IZZY
      I can’t watch.  I can’t watch.  I 
      can’t--

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      McCoy takes the snap--

Izzy peers out from the blanket.  

BUTCHIE runs a post route into double coverage.  He steps 
inside, catching the CORNERBACK defending him flat-footed.  
Butchie explodes to the outside, and breaks free.  

IZZY stands on the edge of the bed, watching the play unfold.

             IZZY
      Throw the fucking ball!

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      McCoy lets it fly, and he’s got 
      Jones down the sideline.  


                                      7.

BUTCHIE has only the FREE SAFETY to beat.  They run in lock-
step as the ball flies through the air...

...Butchie twists his body and snares the pass while 
simultaneously tapping his toes in the corner of the end-zone 
before he falls to the ground.

The REFEREE signals touchdown.

             ANNOUNCER
	(V.O.)
      ...Jones hauls it in for the 
      touchdown!  What a remarkable catch 
      by Butchie Jones.   

IZZY signals touchdown.

             IZZY
      Suck it!  Suck it!  Suck it!  

Izzy mimes jacking off as other kids in the pediatric ward 
crowd around his doorway, awoken by the commotion.  

BUTCHIE spikes the ball.  Teammates mob him with hugs as 
Butchie heads over to the sideline.  

Butchie runs past the Jets Flight Crew and winks at COURTNEY, 
a gorgeous brunette who winks back at Butchie.

END INTERCUTTING

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The TV in the corner has caught the interaction...and so has 
Izzy.

             IZZY
      Did he?  He just winked at her!  
      He’s banging the flight crew too?  
      Awww man, does it get any better?    
      He’s the man I tell ya!  The man.  
      Jets win baby, Jets win!  J-E-T-S, 
      JETS, JETS, JETS! 

SCOOT, a 9 year old cancer patient approaches.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      What is up my friend?  You got what 
      we talked about?  

Scoot hands Izzy a wadded tissue.  Izzy inspects the tissue.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      This better not be your jizz rag.


                                      8.

In the wadded tissue are 4 pills.  

             SCOOT
      Izzy, Doctor Peters says these will 
      help me fall asleep--

             IZZY
      Scoot, the Jets just asshole raped 
      the Vikings, this is cause for a 
      celebration.  Besides, you can 
      sleep when you’re dead...which 
      might be kinda soon.

Scoot casts his head down, on the verge of tears.  Izzy 
realizes he has gone too far.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Hey-hey, okay, you’re not dying, 
      okay?  I’m dying, you’re stage 
      three-A, not three-B you’re gonna 
      be fine, y’know that right?  Right?  

It doesn’t help.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay fine.  Tough negotiator, I 
      like it.  Alright, stop kvetching 
      I’ve got something for you too. 

Izzy pulls a dirty magazine from underneath his pillow.   
Scoot immediately cranes his head up, all better.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Listen Scoot, this might be a 
      little graphic for you.  Hustler is 
      great because it actually shows the 
      schmeckel going into the wide wide 
      world of vag,  sweet scrumptious 
      money pit that it is.  You ever 
      seen a wild rose in full bloom?  

Scoot shakes his head no.  Izzy opens a page in the dirty 
magazine and Scoot’s eyes go wide.  Izzy notices something in 
Scoot’s direction and winces.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Uhmm Scoot, I hope that’s not for 
      me.  Be careful or else you’ll poke 
      your dog’s eye out with that thing. 

Scoot covers his crotch.


                                      9.

             SCOOT
      Izzy.  Have you ever, y’know, 
      touched girls in these places?

             IZZY
      You kidding?  Before I got in here 
      I was like the Butchie Jones of 
      getting pussy.  Juke left, stutter-
      step right.  Go deep.  REAL deep.  
      Touchdown.   

Izzy lifts his hands like a ref to signal a score.

             SCOOT
      Wow.  So Butchie Jones--

             IZZY
      Is.  The.  Man. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT. EQUIPMENT ROOM -- METLIFE STADIUM - NIGHT 

Butchie bangs Courtney (the cheerleader) from behind amongst 
a sea of football pads and gear.  It’s gross and sad. 

             BUTCHIE
      Who’s the man?  

             COURTNEY
      You are Butchie.

             BUTCHIE
      You like that?

              COURTNEY
      I like two touchdowns on Monday 
      Night Football, baby.  

             BUTCHIE
      You keep talking like that, I’ma 
      make you my agent.  

INT. PLAYER’S ENTRANCE TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS

Tamika looks at her daughter then checks her watch.

             TAMIKA
      I guess we’ll just have to see 
      Daddy at home, okay baby? 

             SUNNY
      But I wanna see Daddy now.


                                      10.

             TAMIKA
      Me too baby, me too. 

INT. SCORES - NIGHT 

The most famous (and best) strip club in New York City.  

Butchie sits in the VIP section surrounded by 3 GORGEOUS 
STRIPPERS: (BLONDIE, CINNAMON, CHAMPAGNE), and a few of his 
burly teammates MEAT, a huge offensive lineman and TRUCK, 
almost just as large.  

Butchie showers the girls with money.

             BUTCHIE
      Let’s get some more dances and 
      bottles for my O-line here who 
      block so well and allow me to look 
      soo good doing what I do.  

Butchie chugs a bottle of Kristal.  Butchie checks his phone.

INSERT PHONE SCREEN:

A text message from Tamika reads: “WHERE R U?  SUNNY WAITED 4 
U 2 TUCK HER IN!”

BUTCHIE

Puts his phone away when Blondie whispers something in his 
ear.  Butchie looks intrigued.  Blondie leads him away.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      I gotta jet.  

Butchie exits the club.  

             MEAT
        (to Truck)
      Again?  I don’t have this much sex 
      in a week.

             TRUCK
      You don’t get this much in a year.  

EXT. BUTCHIE’S RANGE ROVER - NIGHT 

The vehicle swerves all over the West Side Highway.

                                  CUT TO:


                                      11.

INT. BUTCHIE’S RANGE ROVER - NIGHT 

Butchie is wasted behind the wheel as Blondie’s head bobs in 
and out of his lap.  

Butchie closes his eyes to relax when the SIRENS blare.  

The glow of the red and blues reflected in his face.  

             BLONDIE
	(O.S.)
      Oh shit. 

Butchie calmly pulls over and smiles.

             BUTCHIE
      Relax.  I got this. 

Butchie parks and rolls down the window.  

2 POLICEMEN approach with flashlights.

             POLICEMAN 1
      You have any idea why we pulled you 
      over sir? 

             BUTCHIE
      No sir.

Butchie smiles, hoping the cops recognize him.

             POLICEMAN 2
      License and registration please.

Butchie hands Policeman 2 his license and registration.  They 
scrutinize the info, growing somewhat incredulous.

             POLICEMAN 1
      Hey, isn’t that--?  

             POLICEMAN 2
      Yeah.  I think it is.  Looks we 
      have a celebrity on our hands.  
        (to Butchie)
      You have anything to drink tonight 
      Sir?  

             BUTCHIE
      Nah, I’m just driving my friend 
      uhhh...

             BLONDIE
      ...Melanie.


                                      12.

             BUTCHIE
      My friend Melanie home.  You know, 
      post-game celebration.  

             POLICEMAN 1
      You had some game tonight.  

             BUTCHIE
      Thanks.  You let me go, I get you 
      all the autographs you want.  

             POLICEMAN 1
      I would, but I have the Vikings 
      Defense in my fantasy league.  So 
      I’m gonna need you to step out of 
      the car please. 

             BUTCHIE
      C’mon man, I got practice in seven 
      hours.  Is there any way we can, 
      y’know, avoid this situation?

Butchie extends a wad of cash.  The policemen look at it.  

             POLICEMAN 2
      Are you attempting to bribe a law 
      enforcement official? 

             BUTCHIE
      Nah, not at all man, I’m just--

             POLICEMAN 2
      Out of the car.  Let’s go. 

             BUTCHIE
      This some bullshit right here.

Butchie gets out of the car as the Policemen put his hands on 
the hood and frisk him, then put him in handcuffs.

INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE -- HOSPITAL - DAY 

Dr. Peters sits across from Lois and Mel.  A KNOCK on the 
door.  SUSAN GALE, 40s, enters and extends her hand to Mel 
and Lois.   

             DR. PETERS
      Lois, Mel, I’d like to introduce my 
      colleague Susan Gale.  She’s the 
      hospital liaison who will be 
      assisting you in the transition 
      phase of Izzy’s care. 


                                      13.

             SUSAN
      I’m so sorry to hear about Izzy.  
      The hospital works with many great 
      hospice facilities should--

             LOIS
        (stern)
      He’s coming home. 

An awkward silence fills the air.

             SUSAN
      Right.  Uhmm, on a more positive 
      note.  Because of Izzy’s situation, 
      we’ve been in contact with some 
      institutions that specialize in 
      helping children with terminal 
      conditions.  Perhaps you’ve heard 
      of the Make a Wish Foundation?

Mel and Lois nod yes. 

             SUSAN
	(CONT’D)
      They specialize in treating kids 
      like Izzy to a day they’ll never 
      forget, usually a celebrity or a 
      special activity is involved.  
      Well, I’m happy to report that we 
      put an inquiry in on Izzy’s behalf 
      and...the foundation responded.  
      Make A Wish would love to make 
      Izzy’s wish come true.  Is there a 
      particular celebrity or athlete, or 
      an activity that Izzy is 
      particularly fond of? 

             MEL
      Butchie Jones.    

             LOIS
      Izzy loves Butchie Jones.

INT. CITY LOCKUP - DAY 

A bailiff removes cuffs from Butchie, and he walks up to 
Tamika.  Her eyes are red from crying. 

             TAMIKA
      I hate you Butchie Jones.  How 
      could you do this to me?  To Sunny?  

             BUTCHIE
      What do you want me to say? 


                                      14.

             TAMIKA
      How bout ‘I’m sorry I’m such a 
      terrible father and husband’?  I 
      shoulda known.  All Those nights 
      you came home smelling like cheap 
      perfume, stinking drunk.  I never 
      said anything because I knew you 
      were a professional athlete and 
      hey, what can I expect, girls throw 
      themselves at you all the time.

             BUTCHIE
      You mean like you?  You think I 
      didn’t know that I was just a 
      target to you?  A way to a better 
      life?  

             TAMIKA
      Is that really all you think of me? 
      You’re right Butchie.  You’re 
      always right.  Thanks for making 
      this real easy for me. 

Tamika walks away, leaving Butchie confused.

             BUTCHIE
      Where you going?

Tamika spins around. 

             TAMIKA
      Where do you think?  I’m leaving 
      your dumb ass.  If you ever want to 
      see Sunny again you can contact my 
      attorney, which by the way, you 
      gonna pay for.  

             BUTCHIE
      Bitch!  You ain’t taking my 
      daughter.

             TAMIKA
      Why?  You want to be a parent?  You 
      had that chance.  You didn’t want 
      it.  Bye Butchie.

EXT. CITY LOCKUP - DAY 

Butchie exits to throngs of reporters and flashbulbs.  He’s 
flanked by his agent DAN ROSEN, 40s, a good Jew.  


                                      15.

             DAN 
      No questions please.  Make way.
        (to Butchie)
      You’ve really done it this time my 
      friend.

Dan leads Butchie into the back of a black town car.  

INT. TOWN CAR - LATER 

Butchie stares vacantly out the window.

             DAN
        (into phone)
      Okay, yes, that would be great.  
      I’ll ask him now, okay.  Great.

Dan ends his call. 

             BUTCHIE
      What are they gonna do?  One game?  
      Shit, one game check don’t mean 
      nothing to me. 

             DAN
      It’s not just one game.  This is a 
      contract year for you, you get 
      suspended with your team on the 
      verge of missing the playoffs.  
      This is New York for chrissakes!  
      They’d murder you on the back pages 
      if that happens.  All it takes is 
      one single screw-up, which you just 
      handed them on a silver-platter.  

             BUTCHIE
      Shit.

             DAN
      Exactly.  But, good news.  I just 
      got off the phone with the team 
      publicity rep.  She’s got an 
      opportunity for you to clean up 
      your image.  There’s this kid, 
      terminal cancer or something like 
      that.  Worships you.  You spend a 
      day with him, little smile for the 
      cameras, and maybe the commissioner 
      comes down easier on you.  

             BUTCHIE
      Aww come on Dan, I don’t do kids.  
      I just wanna play football.  


                                      16.

             DAN
      That’s just it.  You don’t make 
      this right and you could be looking 
      at Kansas City, or even worse... 
      Buffalo.  

             BUTCHIE
      I ain’t going to Buffalo.  

             DAN
        (losing his temper)
      Then you have to do this!
      It’ll be easy.  Play nice for an 
      hour maximum in front of some 
      cameras.  It’s a win-win.  Please,  
      for me.  Whaddaya say? 

             BUTCHIE
      I do this, you get me a max deal, 
      right?  Calvin Johnson money?  

             DAN
      I swear on my children’s lives.    

Butchie rubs his head in his hands, deliberating.

             BUTCHIE
      Make the call.  

Dan hugs Butchie then takes out his phone and dials.  

             DAN
      Thank you, thank you, thank you.
        (into phone)
      He’s in...the sooner the better...  
      Today?  Sure, why not.

INSERT: TV SCREEN

A Sports Center ANCHOR sits in frame, a super-imposed image 
of Butchie appears in the corner of the screen.

                                  CUT TO:

             SPORTSCENTER ANCHOR
      Breaking news out of New York today 
      as Jets all-pro wide receiver 
      Butchie Jones was arrested on a 
      D.U.I., charge late last night with 
      an unidentified female companion.  


INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Izzy watches SportsCenter as he packs up his Jets gear. 

                                      17.

             SPORTSCENTER ANCHOR
	(V.O.)
      No word yet on what fines or 
      suspensions will be handed down by 
      the league but sources say at least 
      one game is more than likely.

             IZZY
      What the fuck!?  NOOO!!!  

CELESTE, 15, a frail girl who wheezes due to cystic fibrosis, 
stands in the doorway.

             CELESTE
      Would you keep it down?  Some of us 
      are trying to sleep. 

             IZZY
      But the season’s ruined!

             CELESTE
      As a Pats fan, I guess all I can 
      say is suck it cause this Sunday my 
      future husband Tom Brady is gonna 
      kick...their...ass.

             IZZY
      Brady’s an Ugg Boot-wearing fag.  
      And I’m pretty sure he paid Mo 
      Lewis to have Drew Bledsoe injured.

             CELESTE
      You’re retarded, and F.Y.I., Doctor 
      Peters confiscated that dirty 
      magazine you gave to Scoot.  

             IZZY
      Just because your shelf life is 
      fifteen years longer than mine does 
      not mean you are better than me.

Izzy mimes jerking off in Celeste’s direction and she flips 
him off as she walks away.  Scoot runs to the doorway 
followed by EDDIE, 8, another cute little cancer-kid.

             SCOOT
      Izzy!  

             IZZY
      What do you want?  I don’t have any 
      more porn...unless you have cash.


                                      18.

             SCOOT
      No.  Izzy.  Someone’s coming to see 
      you.  

             EDDIE
      Yeah it’s--

Scoot punches Eddie in the arm.  Eddie YELPS.

             SCOOT
      Shhh.  It’s a secret.   

EXT. HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS

The car stops in front of the hospital.  Dan and Butchie exit 
the car and get swarmed by HOLLY, 30ish, the Jets’ Public 
Relations Coordinator.  In her hands is a Jets Football and 
one of Butchie’s jerseys.  

             HOLLY
      Hi guys.  Butchie, thank you so 
      much for doing this.  I know it’s a 
      hassle, but it’s going to play 
      really well with the league and 
      with ownership.  

Holly hands the football and jersey to Butchie.

             HOLLY
	(CONT’D)
      These are for you to give to the 
      kid, but don’t give it to him right 
      away, wait for the crew to setup.  
      Okay?  Great.  Everybody’s inside 
      so, whenever you’re ready.

Holly scampers into the hospital. 

Butchie looks at the items in his hands and feels queasy.

             BUTCHIE
      You sure about this man?  It feels 
      kinda dirty.  

             DAN
      Don’t take this the wrong way  
      because you’re my favorite client 
      and I love you, but you’re not the 
      greatest arbiter of moral decency I 
      have ever seen.   

             BUTCHIE
      And you are mister agent?  Didn’t 
      you used to sell cars before this?


                                      19.

             DAN
      Look, I’m not just saying this as 
      your agent, or as the guy who just 
      bailed your ass out of jail, but as 
      a father of three who desperately 
      wants his children to attend snooty 
      ivy-league universities which are 
      considerably more expensive than 
      their less pedigreed state schools.  
      Get out there and show this kid the 
      time of his life.  Whatever he 
      wants, understood?  

             BUTCHIE
      I guess.

             DAN
      Great.  Now shut-up and smile.

Dan slaps Butchie on the ass like a coach would a player.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Butchie enters and is immediately blinded by a spotlight.  A 
CAMERA CREW consisting of 3 guys: a pony-tailed loser CAMERA 
MAN, an overweight PHOTOGRAPHER, and a BOOM OPERATOR decked 
out in camouflage, set the scene.

Susan and Doctor Peters stand off to the side with Holly.  
Dan walks over to them and shakes their hands.  

THE ELEVATOR

At the end of the hall DINGS and the doors slide open.

SLO MO

Izzy stands between Lois and Mel.  His eyes go wide when he 
sees his hero standing but 100 feet away.  Flash bulbs going 
off.  The biggest smile in human history exposes Izzy’s 
pearly whites.  

             IZZY
      I think I just came a little. 

***(We’re still in SLO MO just in case you’ve forgotten).***  

IZZY

Bounds out of the elevator and runs straight for Butchie. 

BUTCHIE


Recoils, thinking he is about to be attacked.

IZZY 

Stands a foot away from Butchie, and raises his hand.

                                      20.

REAL TIME

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Whatup my nigga?!

Holly turns to the Cameraman.

             HOLLY
      Can you edit that out?  

The Cameraman gives a thumb’s up. 

             MEL
      Izzy!  
        (to Butchie)
      He’s very sorry we don’t talk like 
      that.

             IZZY
      What did I do?  Remove the ‘er’ 
      remove the hate, right?  

Susan intervenes.

             SUSAN
      Izzy, on behalf of the Make A Wish 
      Foundation, I’d like to present you 
      with your wish...Butchie Jones of 
      the New York Jets. 

Izzy hugs Butchie who stands frozen, unsure how he should 
react.  

Dan nudges Butchie.

             BUTCHIE
        (rote)
      On behalf of the New York Jets it’s 
      my honor to give you this ball and 
      jersey.  

Izzy takes the jersey and puts it on. 

             IZZY
      Awesome.  Is this game-worn?  

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t think--


                                      21.

             DAN
      Yes.  It is.  
        (to Butchie)
      Just go with it.

             BUTCHIE
      Uhhh, you want me to sign it?

Holly puts a Sharpie in Butchie’s hands and he signs the 
jersey on the numbers. 

             IZZY
      Bitching.  Now do my head.

             LOIS
      Izzy--

             IZZY
      Ma!  I’m never washing this head 
      again.  Butchie c’mon.  Sign it.

Izzy bends over.  Butchie looks to Dan who shrugs why not.  
Behind them, Holly shakes her head.

Butchie reluctantly signs Izzy’s head.  

             BUTCHIE
      There ya go.  

             HOLLY
        (to Cameraman)
      You can edit that out, right?

The Cameraman again gives Holly a thumb’s up.  

             BUTCHIE
      So cancer huh? 

             IZZY
      Yep, brain, liver, kidneys, it’s 
      like the triple crown of dying. 

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah I think my aunt had that.  She 
      died. 

Dan smacks his head in frustration.  This is a disaster.

             HOLLY
        (to self)
      Fantastic. 


                                      22.

             DAN
        (to Butchie)
      Throw the ball with him or 
      something.  You’re killing us. 

Mel heard that and shoots Dan a look.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
        (to Mel)
      Sorry. 

             BUTCHIE
      So, you wanna have a catch? 

             IZZY
      Fuck yes I do.

Izzy runs a few feet back and gets ready to play catch. 

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Lois, where’s that iPhone you got 
      me?  Shoot some b-roll. 

Butchie tosses the ball to Izzy who cannot stop smiling.  
Butchie looks miserable as the Photographer shoots.  FLASH.  

Lois takes out an iPhone and films.

             DR. PETERS
      Izzy, you might want to settle down 
      and save your energy for--

             IZZY
      Aww screw you.  Y’know what?  
      Forget this.  C’mon Butchie, let’s 
      blow this joint before Doctor 
      Mengele over here kills you too.

Izzy catches one last pass then walks up to Lois and snags 
the iPhone from her.  Izzy grabs Butchie by the hand and    
leads him down the hallway to the open elevator.  

Butchie looks back to Dan, confused about how to proceed.  

Dan motions for Butchie to carry on.  

Izzy and Butchie enter the elevator. 

             HOLLY
        (to Cameraman)
      Follow them. 

The Cameraman again gives the thumb’s up.  


                                      23.

Izzy flips the bird to all as the elevator doors close.

             HOLLY
	(CONT’D)
      I need a drink. 

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

Izzy stands next to Butchie and snaps photo after photo.  

FREEZE FRAME

Izzy’s smile is a mile wide.  Butchie wants to die.  

FREEZE FRAME

Izzy puts an arm around Butchie.  Butchie’s not even looking.  

FREEZE FRAME

Izzy makes a muscle pose.  Butchie stares at Izzy like the 
kid is crazy.  

IZZY

Looks through the pictures and his smile fades. 

             IZZY
      You’re not having fun, are you? 

             BUTCHIE
      Look, kid, don’t take this the 
      wrong way cause I’m rooting for you 
      and all, but, I got real problems 
      too and I’m having a pretty 
      terrible day, so if we could just 
      get this over with as fast as 
      possible, it would help me out a 
      lot.  You understand, right?

             IZZY
      Yeah.  I get it.  Totally 
      understandable.  You clearly have 
      real problems.  

             BUTCHIE
      Thanks.  So...we take some 
      pictures, toss the ball around for 
      a little bit, whatever, and then 
      I’ll be out of your hair--I mean.  
      Sorry.  


                                      24.

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - DAY

20 children suffering from various stages of different 
illnesses mill about.  Some are playing, some are watching 
TV.  Some are in their beds receiving treatment.   

The elevator doors open and Izzy leads Butchie out.

             IZZY
      Welcome to sympathy central.  These 
      kids don’t have ‘problems’ like you 
      per se, but take Scoot for example.

Izzy points to Scoot who smiles and waves from his bed.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas at 
      six!  Little bastard’s been here 
      longer than me, and I’m the old man 
      of this ward.  Now that’s what I 
      call funny.

Izzy leads Butchie down the row of beds to Eddie, 6, a bald 
little boy with a big toothless smile. 

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      This is Eddie.  He just lost his 
      front tooth last week.  When 
      doctors discovered he had an acute 
      retinoblastoma last year, his 
      parents dumped him on the steps of 
      an orphanage because they couldn’t 
      afford to pay for his treatment.  
      At least he doesn’t have problems 
      like you though, right?  

             BUTCHIE
      Okay kid, I get your point.

             IZZY
      Really?  Cause I don’t think you 
      do.  

Izzy and Butchie keep walking -- they pass Celeste, who 
barely glances up from watching T.V.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      And that’s Celeste.  She’s a 
      Scorpio and a cunt.  She says she’s 
      got cystic fibrosis, but I think 
      she wheezes from too much AWHAHH.  

Izzy makes a blowjob gesture.  Celeste gives Izzy the finger.


                                      25.

             CELESTE
      Go Pats.  Nice to meet you.  

All the kids now see Butchie in their space, they brighten 
and flock to him. 

             IZZY
      Alright, alright, Mister Jones is 
      an important man, and unlike you 
      little shit-stains he’s got big 
      problems.  So you can all fuck off.  

Butchie waves to the kids.  Izzy grabs him and pulls him into 
a more private area.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Listen Butchie, I appreciate your 
      honesty, I really do, but my time 
      is short and since we’re being 
      honest...I need a favor.  

             BUTCHIE
      Is it part of this wish thing?  

             IZZY
      Yes, Butchie, it is.  Are you 
      always this dumb?  Don’t answer 
      that.  Look, I’m being moved into 
      hospice soon.  They’re gonna dope 
      me up, fluff my pillow, and wait 
      for me to die.     

             BUTCHIE
      Sounds like Buffalo.  

             IZZY
      I always thought meeting you was 
      going to be the highlight of my 
      life, but now I see that you’re 
      just an asshole who doesn’t give a 
      shit about anyone else.  So I think 
      I want to change my wish. 

             BUTCHIE
      Fine by me so long as it gets me 
      out of here.

             IZZY
      Oh it will.  I want some pussy 
      before I die.  And you’re gonna 
      help me get it.

A beat.  Butchie can’t believe what he just heard.


                                      26.

             BUTCHIE
      You’re messing with me, right?

             IZZY
      I’m as serious as cancer.  

             BUTCHIE
      That’s really not what this day is 
      supposed to be about.  

             IZZY
      But it’s my wish!  Look, I’m 
      fourteen and in a couple weeks I’m 
      going to be dead.  I want to die a 
      man, what’s wrong with that?

             BUTCHIE
      Because getting ass doesn’t make 
      you a man.

             IZZY
      How old were you when you first got 
      some? 

             BUTCHIE
      I dunno, twelve.

             IZZY
      TWELVE?!  Where did you grow up, 
      and can you take me there?

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t think you want to go to 
      where I grew up.

             IZZY
      You kidding?  I’d love to nail 
      twelve year olds...and I’m at an 
      age where it’s not morally 
      reprehensible to say that.  

DING.  The elevator door opens.  Holly and the camera crew 
spot Butchie and Izzy and get in place to shoot.  

Holly approaches, eager to get some good footage.

             HOLLY
      Hi guys, I was wondering if we 
      could continue your conversation in 
      front of the cameras?

             BUTCHIE
      No we cannot. 


                                      27.

             HOLLY
      But--

             IZZY
      Excuse me miss, I think you and I 
      should fuck, right here, right now.  
      You can keep the cameras rolling if 
      you like.  

A beat.

             HOLLY
      I’ll just let you two talk.

Holly walks away and shoos the camera crew back into the 
elevator.

             BUTCHIE
      What are you doing!?  You can’t 
      just go up to women and ask them to 
      have sex with you.  

             IZZY
      Then how would you do it?

             BUTCHIE
      I see what you’re doing.  I ain’t 
      helping you.  End of story.

             IZZY
      Yes you are.  You are going to use 
      your powers to get that bitch to 
      change her mind and fuck me!  

             BUTCHIE
      That’s not how it works.

             IZZY
      Then show me!  Please.  You want me 
      to beg?  Because I would totally 
      get down on my knees and beg if not 
      for the giant tumor attached to my 
      spine making bending an incredibly 
      difficult ordeal.  

             BUTCHIE
      I can’t deal with this. 

             IZZY
      You don’t have a choice!  

             BUTCHIE
      So now you’re threatening me?  
      You’re nuts kid.  I’m outta here. 


                                      28.

Butchie walks away.  Izzy runs after Butchie and tugs on his 
shirt.

             IZZY
      Wait!  I didn’t want to have to do 
      this, but if I have to take this 
      thing nuclear I will.  

Izzy lifts up his iPhone.

             BUTCHIE’S VOICE
	(O.S.)
        (audio recording)
      Look, kid, don’t take this the 
      wrong way cause I’m rooting for you 
      and all, but, I got real problems 
      too and I’m having a pretty 
      terrible day, so if we could just 
      get this over with as fast as 
      possible, it would help me out a 
      lot.  You understand, right?

             BUTCHIE
      You little son of a--

             IZZY
      You’re in the middle of a P.R., 
      nightmare and you think ‘gee, I’ll 
      spend some time with this cancer 
      punk and all my problems will be 
      over.’  But you know what America 
      hates more than a schvartze athlete 
      with a sense of entitlement who’s 
      trying to cover up his fuck-ups?

             BUTCHIE
      What?

             IZZY
      A schvartze athlete with a sense of 
      entitlement who gets caught trying 
      to cover up his fuck-ups with a 
      stupid P.R., stunt that backfires 
      horribly.  I don’t even have to 
      play that recording for anybody, 
      all I have to do is go to the Post 
      with my mom and dad and tell them 
      that you treated me like shit and 
      it’s off to Buffalo for you.  

             BUTCHIE
      Who knows if you’ll even make it 
      long enough to call me out.  You 
      could die right now, right?  


A beat.  Butchie realizes he has crossed a line.  Izzy’s lips 
quiver, on the verge of tears.

                                      29.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Kid, I didn’t mean, I am so sor--

             IZZY
      Gotcha sucka!  You should’ve seen 
      your face.   

Izzy busts out into a smile.

             BUTCHIE
      There is something truly wrong with 
      you, y’know that?  And I ain’t 
      talking about cancer. 

             IZZY
      So that’s a yes?  You’ll do it?  

             BUTCHIE
      No I won’t do it.  You think a 
      nigga with a D.U.I.’s a problem, 
      then how do you think a nigga who 
      steals a dying kid and gets him a 
      hooker’s gonna look?

             IZZY
      One, that only matters if we get 
      caught, and two, it doesn’t have to 
      be a hooker.  I’m not picky.  It 
      could be your mother for all I 
      care.  

             BUTCHIE
      Hey!

             IZZY
      Or what about Shoshanna Feldman!  
      Yes.  That would be awesome.

             BUTCHIE
      Who?

             IZZY
      Shoshanna Feldman was the hottest 
      girl in my grade.  I’m just saying, 
      the possibilities are endless.  So, 
      are you gonna help me?  Or do I 
      need to call Mike and the Mad Dog 
      and tell them that you are without 
      a doubt, the biggest douche-bag in 
      all of New York.  


             IZZY
	(CONT'D)
      We’re talking worse than A-Rod and 
      Donald Trump combined.

Izzy extends his hand.  Butchie considers his options.  

                                      30.

             BUTCHIE
      I gotta talk to my agent about 
      this.  

             IZZY
      No you don’t!  You have to be your 
      own agent right now.  You either 
      help me, or you get shipped to 
      Buffalo, right?  

Izzy pushes his iPhone key-pad and winces.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      And whaddayaknow, it’s six degrees 
      in Buffalo right now.  

             BUTCHIE
      Fuck me. 

             IZZY
      And that’s not even factoring in 
      the wind-chill factor.  So really, 
      it’s negative degrees in Buffalo. 

Izzy sticks out his hand again.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon Butchie, let’s you and me 
      bust a move on some bitches.  
      Clock’s ticking.

Butchie SIGHS, resigned to his fate.  Butchie grabs Izzy’s 
hand.  

             BUTCHIE
      You got yourself a deal.  And what 
      the fuck does ‘schvartze’ mean?

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - LATER

Dan mingles with Lois, Mel, Holly, and the film crew.  

The elevator doors open and out walk Butchie and Izzy (who’s 
now wearing green Jets sweat pants under his gown).  

They head for the exit.  Confused/concerned, Dan runs up to 
Butchie.


                                      31.

             DAN
      What’s going on?

             BUTCHIE
      The kid said that if I don’t get 
      him some pussy, he’s gonna call the 
      FAN and say I’m some horrible 
      schvartze.  

             DAN
      What? 

             BUTCHIE
      So I’m gonna get the kid some ass.  

Lois approaches Dan and Butchie.  

             LOIS
      What’s going on?  Where are you 
      taking my son?

Izzy runs to his mother and wards her off.

             IZZY
      Ma, Butchie’s gonna show me around 
      town, we’ll be gone for two, three 
      hours max.  And then I’ll be back, 
      I swear.  

             LOIS
      I don’t know.

             BUTCHIE
      I think your mom’s right maybe we 
      should--

             IZZY
        (to Butchie) 
      Shut your fucking mouth.  
        (to Lois)
      Lois, Ma.  If you don’t let me go, 
      no bar mitzvah.  

Lois eyes Butchie with contempt, but then turns to her son 
and hands him a $20 bill. 

             LOIS
      Here’s a little something extra.  
      Enjoy yourself. 

             BUTCHIE
        (to self)
      Gonna cost a lot more than that.


                                      32.

             IZZY
      Let’s go Butchie.

Izzy bounds out of the hospital.

             DAN
      But you can’t just take him without 
      his parents permission.  This is 
      not what we talked about earlier.

             BUTCHIE
      I thought you said ‘whatever he 
      wants,’ right?

Butchie and Izzy continue walking for the door.  Izzy exits.   

             DAN
      Wait.  Can you get me laid too?  

             BUTCHIE
      Ain’t you married? 

             DAN
      Not happily.

             IZZY
	(O.S.)
      C’mon!  I’m freezing my dick off. 

Butchie moves past a shocked Dan and heads out.

EXT. STREETS OF NEW YORK - DAY 

Izzy and Butchie stand on 5th Avenue.  Lost before they’ve 
begun.

             IZZY
      Alright, so where’s your car?  

             BUTCHIE
      Impound lot.  I got a D.U.I., last 
      night, remember?

             IZZY
      What?  Well how the shit are we 
      gonna get around?  I refuse to take 
      the subway, I mean, the street-
      crawling denizens there...just, 
      yuck.    

             BUTCHIE
      Why?  Afraid they’re gonna make you 
      sicker.


                                      33.

             IZZY
      Very funny, now where’s our 
      transport?

             BUTCHIE
      Maybe you should’ve thought of that 
      before you forced me into this.  

Izzy takes out his iPhone.

             IZZY
      Okay, let me just see here.  These 
      phones are great.  I can Google 
      just about anyone like, say Mike 
      Lupica of the Daily News and--

             BUTCHIE
      Alright kid.  Shit, let me make a 
      call. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT/EXT. LINCOLN NAVIGATOR - DAY 

Meat (from earlier) sits in the driver’s seat.  The back door 
opens and Izzy flies in.  Butchie enters the passenger side 
and shakes hands with Meat.

             BUTCHIE
      Thanks for getting us man.  

             MEAT
      Don’t sweat it, when you told me 
      the situation I thought there is no 
      way I could pass this up.  

             BUTCHIE
      Izzy, allow me to introduce you to--

             IZZY
      Meat fucking Ferguson?!  No way.  
      You’re my favorite nose tackle in 
      the game.

             MEAT
      I like this kid.  

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah, he’s a real gem. 

             IZZY
      Remember when you pancake blocked 
      DeAndre Cromartie last year?


                                      34.

             MEAT
      Hell yeah I do.  Butchie, you 
      didn’t tell me this kid was a 
      connoisseur of the art of blocking.  

             IZZY
      That’s because Butchie doesn’t give 
      a crap unless he’s getting the 
      ball.

Meat and Izzy share a laugh.  Butchie scowls. 

             BUTCHIE
      What?  I block.  I block well.  

             IZZY
      Remember when Butchie got thrown to 
      the ground on that pick play 
      against the Rams?  Finnegan just 
      grabbed him, and threw him down 
      like a little bitch.  

             MEAT
      Okay, now I really like this kid.  
      Where you want to go Izzy? 

             IZZY
      Butchie, any ideas?

             BUTCHIE
      Kid, can’t we just take you to 
      lunch or something.  Forget all 
      this nonsense?

             IZZY
      Sure.  Maybe we can invite Michael 
      Kay and tell him what a great guy 
      you are.

             BUTCHIE
      You a hateful little shit, y’know 
      that?  Take us to Chelsea Piers 
      Meat. 

             MEAT
      Wait.  You don’t mean--

             BUTCHIE
      Yes.  I do.  

Meat shakes his head.  

             MEAT
      You the boss.  


EXT. NEW YORK - DAY 

The Navigator drives South through Mid-town Manhattan.

                                      35.

             IZZY
	(V.O.)
      Hey Meat, how many pounds of shit 
      you think you produce in a year, 
      gross tonnage?  

             BUTCHIE
	(V.O.)
      Hah.  

             MEAT
	(V.O.)
      I’m starting to like this kid less 
      and less.  

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. CHELSEA PIERS - DAY 

The Lincoln Navigator pulls up to the Chelsea Piers Complex.  

INT/EXT. NAVIGATOR - CONTINUOUS

All 3 look to the building in front of them, Butchie now sits 
up front with Meat.

             MEAT
      Butchie, this is a suicide mission.

             BUTCHIE
      You got any other better ideas? 

Silence.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      I didn’t think so.

Butchie opens the passenger door.  

             MEAT
      Can I watch this happen?  I’m 
      pretty sure you’re gonna get 
      smacked at the very least. 

             BUTCHIE
      Stay in the car.  

Izzy opens the back door.


                                      36.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Izzy)
      You too.  Lemme handle this.  When 
      we’re good to go I’ll call you in.  
      Alright?  

             IZZY
      Sure thing.  You call my number, I 
      come in, touchdown.

Izzy air humps the seat and makes a touchdown signal.  

Butchie shakes his head and SLAMS the door shut.  

INT. CHELSEA PIERS DANCE STUDIO - DAY 

A private studio where some 20 cheerleaders, members of the 
Jets Flight Crew, practice their routines in a mirrored room.

Courtney looks up when she sees Butchie in the mirror’s 
reflection.  Butchie waves to her.  

The other dancers notice and fawn like school girls, chiding 
Courtney to go talk to Butchie.  

INT. HALLWAY -- DANCE STUDIO - CONTINUOUS

Courtney comes out of the studio to find Butchie waiting.  
She goes in for the lover’s hug. 

             COURTNEY
      Are you okay?  I heard about what 
      happened. 

Butchie gives her a weak back-pat, making her nervous.  

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah, I mean, I’ll be alright.  
      Look, is there some place we can 
      talk..away from all of them?

             COURTNEY
      You never cared about them seeing 
      us before.  Is this about your 
      wife?  Because if you ask me it’s 
      about time that you--

             BUTCHIE
      No, this ain’t about--look, I need 
      a favor from you. 


                                      37.

             COURTNEY
      Of course, you know I’d do anything 
      for you, that’s why we work so well 
      together. 

             BUTCHIE
      That’s the hard part, it ain’t 
      exactly an ordinary type of favor. 

             COURTNEY
      Babe, you’re scaring me.  What is 
      it?  You can ask me anything. 

A beat as Butchie searches for the right words...

             BUTCHIE
      When Dan bailed me out this morning 
      he told me that unless I did this 
      “Make A Wish” thing for this cancer 
      kid, that the team might be looking 
      to send me to Buffalo and--

             COURTNEY
      Oh my God.  Yes.  I say yes.  I’ll 
      go to Buffalo with you.  Butchie, I 
      love you, you know that.  And, I 
      know there was another girl with 
      you last night, and I know she 
      didn’t mean anything to you.  I 
      forgive you for all of that.

Silence.  Butchie cringes. 

             BUTCHIE
      That’s, really sweet, and I 
      appreciate it but...

Meat and Izzy enter.  Izzy films Butchie and Courtney on his 
iPhone.  Butchie turns Courtney away from their direction.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      ...but, in truth, the real reason 
      I’m here is because...

             COURTNEY
      ...because?

             BUTCHIE
      This kid.  He’s dying, got cancer 
      all over his body, and all he wants 
      to do before he dies is have sex 
      with somebody.


Silence.  Courtney stares at Butchie, perplexed.  Courtney 
LAUGHS, breaking the tension.  

                                      38.

             COURTNEY
      You’re joking, right?  This is 
      another one of those stupid jokes 
      that football players play, right?

             BUTCHIE
      No.  This ain’t a joke.  The kid--

             COURTNEY
      Just exactly how old is he?

             BUTCHIE
      Thirteen, maybe fourteen.  He’s 
      hiding behind the door.
      Izzy!  You can come on out, now.

The door opens, and Izzy bounds through the door with a 
strut.  His iPhone films as he approaches Courtney.  

             IZZY
      The name’s Schoenberg...Izzy 
      Schoenberg, I’ve been told that I’m 
      something of a cunning linguist, 
      but don’t take my word for it.

Butchie winces.  Courtney looks down to Izzy then back up to 
Butchie.  Tears well in her eyes, her lower lip trembles.  

             BUTCHIE
      Courtney I know how this 
      looks...and sounds, but if you knew 
      the position I was in you would--

INT. DANCE STUDIO - CONTINUOUS

SMACK.  Courtney slaps Butchie as hard as she can and SCREAMS 
at the top of her lungs.  The Cheerleaders watch in stunned 
silence.  

INT. HALLWAY -- DANCE STUDIO - CONTINUOUS

             IZZY
      Oh shit dude she just--

Courtney SMACKS Izzy almost as hard. 

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Owww!  You stupid bitch, you can’t 
      just smack people because--


                                      39.

Courtney SMACKS Izzy again.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Owww!  Butchie, get this trifling 
      ho off me!

Butchie separates Courtney from Izzy.  

             COURTNEY
      You bastard!  I thought you were 
      going to leave your wife for me.  
      And instead, you come here with 
      this little pervert and try and 
      pull some Jerry Sandusky shit.

      		BUTCHIE
	Hey!  Ain’t nobody tried to 
	Jerry Sandusky nothing. 

		IZZY
	I mean, technically, I want 
	this to happen, and you’re a 
                     chick so--

Courtney swats the phone out of Izzy’s hand.

             IZZY
      Alright that was just rude.  Now I 
      don’t even want to bang you.  It’s 
      bad enough that you’re Butchie’s 
      leftovers.

             BUTCHIE
      Watch your mouth.

Courtney SMACKS Izzy on the head.

             IZZY
      STOP!  One more and I call the 
      police.  

Courtney walks away, but stops and turns back, bee-lining for 
Izzy. 

             COURTNEY
      I hope you never get laid.  In 
      fact, I hope both of you drop dead!

INT. NAVIGATOR - LATER 

Butchie, Meat, and Izzy sit in the car, dumbfounded.

             IZZY
      What did you see in her anyway? 

             BUTCHIE
      I dunno.  


                                      40.

             IZZY
      Doe your wife know about her? 

             BUTCHIE
      I dunno.  Probably.

             IZZY
      If you ask me--

             BUTCHIE
      I didn’t. 

             IZZY
      Relax, all I was gonna say is that 
      I think your wife is hotter, okay?  

             MEAT
      I agree.  

             BUTCHIE
      I didn’t ask you neither.  

They all sit in silence.  

             IZZY
      So...where to next?  

Butchie shoots Izzy a withering look.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      What?  

             BUTCHIE
        (mocking)
      ‘Hi my name’s Izzy, I’ve been told 
      that I’m a cunning linguist’...what 
      the fuck was that? 

             IZZY
      What?  That’s my line.  

             BUTCHIE
      No it ain’t.  

             IZZY
      That shiksa bitch not banging me 
      has nothing to do with the line.  
      What were you thinking trying to 
      get your girl on the side to give 
      me some?     


                                      41.

             BUTCHIE
        (enraged)
      I was thinking that this was the 
      one chick I could depend on who 
      would do a-ny-thing for me no 
      questions asked, until you came 
      into my life and fucked it up!

             IZZY
      Okay, okay, geez, chill out, I’m 
      sorry.  I won’t use the line any 
      more, alright?  Now, what’s next?

             BUTCHIE
      I dunno.  I guess we could go back 
      to Scores, ask around over there.

             MEAT
      You sure that’s such a good idea?

             BUTCHIE
      Just drive Meat.  

INT. SCORES - DAY 

Butchie sits at the bar when Cinnamon (one of the strippers 
from earlier) approaches with a smile and sits down.

             BUTCHIE
      Hey.  Candi? 

             CINNAMON
      Cinnamon.  Gus said you were 
      looking for Blondie?  

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah, you seen her around?

             CINNAMON
      She’s not coming in today.  I think 
      you might’ve got her in trouble.

             BUTCHIE
      You know where I can find her?  

             CINNAMON
      We’re not really supposed to give 
      that information out.  I might see 
      her later if you have something you 
      want me to give to her.


                                      42.

             BUTCHIE
      Nah, I had a business proposition 
      for her.

             CINNAMON
      What kind of business proposition? 

             BUTCHIE
      The physical kind.  

             CINNAMON
      You trying to get a working girl in 
      trouble or something? 

             BUTCHIE
      It ain’t nothing like that.  I got 
      my own problems with five-oh, I 
      don’t need no more. 

             CINNAMON
      Blondie told me all about it. 

             BUTCHIE
      Right.

             CINNAMON
      Well, I’m right here and I’m all 
      ears.  What do you have in mind? 

Cinnamon caresses Butchie’s arm.  He pulls back, 
confusing/offending her. 

             BUTCHIE
      I got a kid in my ride--

             CINNAMON
      Kinky baby.  

             BUTCHIE
      No.  Not--this kid’s dying.  He’s 
      never been with a woman before, and 
      I kinda promised him I could help 
      him out, y’know, before he goes. 

             CINNAMON
      You serious? 

             BUTCHIE
      I wish I wasn’t.  

             CINNAMON
      Wow.


                                      43.

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah.  You know anybody who would 
      be down for something like that?

Cinnamon scans around to see if she is being setup.  

A beat.  Cinnamon scrutinizes Butchie.

             CINNAMON
      Hypothetically, let’s say I knew a 
      girl for this kind of assignment, 
      how much are you thinking?

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t know, what’s the market for 
      something like that?  

             CINNAMON
      How old we talking here?  

Butchie mouths the word “fourteen.”

             CINNAMON
	(CONT’D)
      That’s young.  Are you sure he’s 
      old enough to--

             BUTCHIE
      I dunno!  I don’t inspect his junk 
      to see if it works.  It’s what he 
      wants.  So how much we talking...  
      hypothetically.

             CINNAMON
      Twenty-five hundred, 
      hypothetically.

             BUTCHIE
      What kind of fool you take me for? 

             CINNAMON
      Hey, that’s the going rate.  We’re 
      the ones assuming all the risk 
      here.  You don’t like it, you can 
      always take the boy to Hunts Point.  

             BUTCHIE
      You got yourself a deal.

Butchie sticks his hand out and Cinnamon grabs it.  They 
shake hands.    


INT. NAVIGATOR - CONTINUOUS

Izzy and Meat stare out the window.

                                      44.

             IZZY
      You remember your first time Meat?

             MEAT
      It was kind of awful. We were on 
      this bed and as soon as I got on 
      top of her--

             IZZY
      You on top of a woman?  Jesus 
      fucking Christ.

             MEAT
      Yeah, the bed broke.  

             IZZY
      Hah!  

             MEAT
      Yeah.  It ain’t all it’s cracked up 
      to be, especially the first time.  

             IZZY
      What if it was the last time?  

IZZY’S POV

Butchie and Cinnamon exit the club and walk towards the car.

             MEAT
	(O.S.)
      Looks like Butchie hooked you up.

IZZY

He’s nervous.  Really nervous.  

Butchie and Cinnamon enter the car.  

             BUTCHIE
      Cinnamon, meet Izzy.  Izzy, 
      Cinnamon.  

Cinnamon smiles and strokes Izzy’s cheek. 

             CINNAMON
      Aww, he’s cute. 

             IZZY
        (meekly)
      Hi.  


                                      45.

             CINNAMON
      So, Izzy.  Do you have a place in 
      mind for this? 

             IZZY
      Uhhhhh, I uhhhh.  

             BUTCHIE
      Unbelievable.  He finally shuts up.  
      Meat, you know of any motels where--

             CINNAMON
      ‘Motels’?  I’m not some hooker you 
      get on forty second street and 
      screw in an alley.  

             IZZY
      Butchie what the fuck man?  Can’t 
      you see this is one classy bitch?  
      Take us to the Plaza.  

             CINNAMON
      No.  No hotels.  This needs to be 
      somewhere quiet, respectable.  
      Somewhere like...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BUTCHIE’S APARTMENT - DAY 

Izzy, Cinnamon, Butchie, and Meat enter Butchie’s swank 
apartment.  High above NYC with great views, it’s opulent but 
understated, except for the framed images of Jesus Christ and 
Tony Montana.

             IZZY
      Now this is living!  

             BUTCHIE
      I can’t believe I’m letting this 
      happen.

             CINNAMON
        (to Butchie)
      Which way is the bedroom? 

Butchie grabs Cinnamon’s arm before she can walk away.  

             BUTCHIE
      Don’t steal nothing.  

Cinnamon shakes free of Butchie’s grip, offended.


                                      46.

             CINNAMON
      Hey asshole, what kind of person do 
      you take me for? 

Cinnamon turns to Izzy and caresses his cheek.

             CINNAMON
	(CONT’D)
      Give me a minute to slip into 
      something a little more comfortable 
      and I’ll call you when I’m ready, 
      okay sweetie?

Cinnamon kisses Izzy on the lips and saunters out of frame.

             IZZY
      Holy fucking shit.  This is really 
      happening.  You’re the man, 
      Butchie.  

             BUTCHIE
      You’re welcome kid, but, after 
      this, we’re straight right?  You 
      leave me alone?  

             IZZY
      You kidding?  After this, I’m 
      telling my parents I want to be 
      buried in your jersey.

A beat.  Meat and Butchie stare at each other.

             BUTCHIE
      Wow, that’s...

             MEAT
      Heavy.  

             CINNAMON
	(O.S.)
      I-zzy, I’m rea-dy.  

Izzy fist-bumps Meat and then Butchie.  

             BUTCHIE
      Alright kid, handle your business.  

             IZZY
      Alright.  Cool.  Handling.  

Izzy heads for the bedroom, but pauses, then turns around.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Remind me again, where’s the 
      clitoris?  


                                      47.

             MEAT
      Imagine the pussy is like a melon 
      cut in half with a pistachio at the 
      top part.

             BUTCHIE
      Pistachio?  What the--no.  It 
      doesn’t matter.  

             IZZY
      But what if I want to get her wet?  
      I can’t use my cunning linguist 
      line if I’m unfit for duty.  It’s a 
      fraudulent bill of sale.

             BUTCHIE
      I forbid you from going down on 
      her.  She’s a hooker.

             CINNAMON
	(O.S.)
      I’m not a hooker!  You keep 
      offending me and the deal’s off and 
      all sales are final.  

             IZZY
      Dude, she’s not a hooker, shut up.

Izzy hands his iPhone to Meat.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Meat, I want pics with Butchie, 
      before I’m a man, and after.  

Izzy puts his arm around Butchie and grins. 

FREEZE FRAME

Izzy gives a double thumbs-up.  Butchie covers his face.  

IZZY

Grabs the iPhone from Meat and stares at the photo.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Awesome.

Izzy heads for the bedroom.  His phone RINGS.  He answers.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
        (into phone)
      Ma!  I said I’ll study later, I’m 
      about to get my fuck on.  Bye!  
        (to Butchie)
      Women.  


                                      48.

Izzy walks into the bedroom and SLAMS the door shut. 

Butchie lets out a SIGH and sits down on the couch with Meat. 

             BUTCHIE
      Finally some peace and quiet.  

The front door opens and in walks Tamika.  Butchie and Meat 
scramble to action, freaked out.  Tamika notes their odd 
demeanor.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing here?

             TAMIKA
      I forgot some things, but don’t 
      worry Butchie, pretty soon me and 
      Sunny will be gone forever.  Guess 
      my mama was right, I married a 
      damned fool.      

             BUTCHIE
      I didn’t mean it like that.  

             MEAT
      Leaving?  Butchie, how come you 
      didn’t tell me this?  I thought we 
      were friends.

Butchie glowers at Meat, who shrinks. 

             BUTCHIE
      Baby--

             TAMIKA
      Don’t you ‘baby’ me.  I’m just some 
      trifling bitch who only had your 
      baby cause I knew you were gonna 
      make it big-time, remember?  

             MEAT
      You said that to her?  No wonder 
      she’s leaving you.  

             BUTCHIE
      Meat.  Would you please shut the 
      fuck up.

             MEAT
      Lucinda’s gonna be so sad.

             TAMIKA
      Meat, we’re staying with you and 
      Lucinda till we sort things out.


                                      49.

             MEAT
      Oh.  Good.  If she caught me saying 
      any of that mess to her, she would 
      kill me.  

             IZZY
	(O.S.)
      I GET TO GO IN THERE!?  

Tamika looks to the bedroom.  She knows something is up.

             TAMIKA
      What was that?  

             BUTCHIE
      What?  

             TAMIKA
      What are you doing now, Butchie?  

             BUTCHIE
      I’m right out here.  Talking to 
      you.  That’s what I’m doing.  

             CINNAMON
	(O.S.)
      Hey!  No Pictures!

Tamika goes to the door, but Butchie blocks her. 

             BUTCHIE
      Tamika.  I know I messed up.  
      Bigger than I ever have before.  
      But I swear to you, this right 
      here, I’ve been doing out of 
      kindness, not malice.  Meat will 
      testify to that. 

Meat nods in agreement.

             TAMIKA
      I don’t give a rat’s ass if you’ve 
      got Nelson Mandela in there.  Get 
      out of my way.  

             BUTCHIE
      I’m begging you, don’t go in there.

Tamika stares at Butchie and backs down.  

             TAMIKA
      Fine, I don’t care.  Probably just   
      Another one of those skanks who you 
      take on your drunken joyrides.    

Butchie breathes a huge sigh of relief.  BUT THEN...


The door opens and out walks Cinnamon, in a bra and panties.

                                      50.

             CINNAMON
      Screw you and screw that little 
      pervert in there.  I’m keeping the 
      money, and I don’t ever want to see 
      you at the club again.  You’re all 
      pieces of shit.  And so are you for 
      being married to this piece of 
      shit.   

Izzy exits the bedroom, struggling to pull his pants up.

             IZZY
      Next time you get you get a breast 
      augmentation go for silicone not 
      saline because I can see wrinkles 
      on the underside of your titties 
      you bitch!  

Cinnamon exits, SLAMMING the door as she leaves.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
        (calling after her)
      I love you. 

Izzy notices Tamika and changes his demeanor.  He walks over 
to her, hand extended.  Tamika is too shocked to respond.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      You must be Tamika.  Lovely to meet 
      you.  

Tamika stares at Izzy, then at Butchie.  Then at Izzy.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t worry, this hand’s clean, but 
      you know what’s not?  That chick’s 
      snatch, it was like the Broadway 
      Danny Rose at the Carnegie Deli: 
      one side’s a pound of pastrami, the 
      other, a pound of roast beef.  I 
      have pictures.  

Izzy whips out his iPhone.  

             TAMIKA
      Butchie?!  

             BUTCHIE
      Tamika, I can explain.  This 
      morning...

Tamika SLAPS Butchie in the face.  


             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Tamika.  Please.

Tamika digs into her coat and slaps papers into Butchie’s 
chest.  Butchie looks at the papers, dread washes over him.  

                                      51.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Divorce?  Already?  

             TAMIKA
      I didn’t want to have to do it this 
      way.  But seeing this...even for 
      you, this is messed up.    

             BUTCHIE
      Tamika, you didn’t even let me 
      explain.

             TAMIKA
      I don’t think there’s a man alive 
      who could make sense of all this.  
      Stay away from me you creep.   

Tamika opens the door.  

             MEAT
      Tamika...  

Meat rushes up to her.  

             MEAT
	(CONT’D)
      Please don’t tell Lucinda.  

Tamika shakes her head and leaves, SLAMMING the door.

Izzy,- once again - wears his Butchie Jones jersey and sits 
on the couch, unaffected. 

             IZZY
      That’s three women in one day 
      who’ve told you they never want to 
      see you again.  That’s gotta be 
      some sort of record.  
        (a beat)
      So, where to next?  

Butchie lifts Izzy off the couch and shoves him toward the 
door.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      What the fuck?  

             BUTCHIE
      Out.  Now.  


                                      52.

             IZZY
      But I didn’t even score yet.

             BUTCHIE
      That’s your fault.  You had your 
      chance.  You messed it up, and 
      ruined my life in the process. 
      We’re done.

             IZZY
      What?  That was just the tip.  I 
      grazed it, barely.  And by the way, 
      I ruined your life?  Nigga please.

Butchie is ready to take a swing at Izzy.  Meat stops him.

             MEAT
      Easy, easy.  

             BUTCHIE
        (to Izzy)
      Leave.  

             IZZY
      Fine.  You can send me a postcard 
      from Buffalo, that is, unless I’m 
      already dead.  

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t care.  Say whatever 
      horrible shit you want.  Spending a 
      year in Buffalo’s better than five 
      more minutes with your crazy ass.  

Butchie marches Izzy toward the door.

             IZZY
      Wait, hey.  C’mon.  I’m sorry okay?  
      I didn’t mean it.

Butchie shoves Izzy out of the apartment and is about to shut 
the door on Izzy, when...

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      I can help you get your wife back!

A beat.  Butchie stares at Izzy.

             BUTCHIE
      How?

             IZZY
      I don’t know yet, but, I’ll figure 
      something out, I swear.  


                                      53.

             IZZY
	(CONT'D)
      Look, this is all I have to look 
      forward to in my life, that’s it.  
      And seeing you just now with Tamika-
      -she’s it for you, I saw it in your 
      eyes.

             BUTCHIE
      What would you know about it?

             IZZY
      I know that in your four seasons in 
      the league, Tamika’s missed a total 
      of six games.  Guess how many of 
      those you’ve won, asshole?  

             BUTCHIE
      I dunno, two?  

             IZZY
      None.  You know how many touchdowns 
      you have in those games?  Zero.  

Meat and Butchie contemplate this. 

             BUTCHIE
      Fuck me...

             IZZY
      No.  Fuck me, somebody, anybody, 
      please.

A beat.

             BUTCHIE
      One more, and that’s it.  I’m done.

             IZZY
      Okay.  Great.  

EXT. HUNTS POINT, THE BRONX - DUSK 

The Navigator rolls up to  one of the seediest areas of NYC.  
4 DISGUSTING HOOKERS wait on the corner.  Their asses droop 
out of short shorts (in the dead of winter) as they smoke 
cigarettes and shiver in the cold.  

INT. NAVIGATOR - CONTINUOUS

Izzy surveys the scene and winces when he spots the hookers.

             IZZY
      Where are we?


                                      54.

             BUTCHIE
      The end of your virginity.  

Izzy checks his iPhone.  

             IZZY
      Wait, it’s Friday, there’s always a 
      party on Fridays at some senior’s 
      house.  Shoshanna Feldman’s going 
      to be there, and I really think I 
      could convince Lois to let me...

Butchie ignores Izzy and jumps out of the car...

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      ...or you could just walk away.  
      Asshole.  

IZZY’S POV

...and approaches one of the ladies of the night.  

They palaver a bit and then Butchie points to the car.  The 
HOOKER, JAZMINA, a really sad looking woman in her 40s, 
stares at Izzy (Camera) and winks.  Butchie hands her cash.

IZZY 

Hides under the seat when Jazmina stares in his direction.  

             MEAT
      Little man, I’m telling you.  You 
      don’t want this.  

             IZZY 
      Yeah I do.  You got any condoms 
      here? 

Meat opens the glove compartment and hands Izzy a Magnum 
condom.  Izzy rips open the package and stares in horror.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus fucking Christ Meat, I asked 
      for a condom not a Bedouin tent.  
      Do you lose brain function when you 
      get your schmeckel hard?  

Meat shrugs.  

Butchie opens the door. 

             BUTCHIE
      We’re all set.  Izzy, allow me to 
      introduce you to...


                                      55.

Jazmina the hooker looks Izzy up and down. 

             JAZMINA
      Hasmeena.  You so sexy baby.  So 
      cute.

             BUTCHIE
      Hasmeena, meet Izzy.  Izzy, 
      Hasmeena.

Jazmina extends her hand Izzy takes it reluctantly.  

             JAZMINA
      Come on baby, I show you a really 
      good time.  

             IZZY
      Wuh-wait?  Where are we going? 

             JAZMINA
      I have room, you come.  

             BUTCHIE
      It’s the flophouse on the corner.  
      I ain’t sure it’s safe, but then 
      again, what does it matter, right?  

Butchie smiles.  This is revenge for him.  Izzy looks to the 
broke-down building on the corner.  

             IZZY
      Fuck it.  Lead the way madame.  

Izzy slides out of the car and kisses Jazmina’s hand.  He 
COUGHS and spits.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Do you stub your cigarettes out on 
      the back of your hand or something?  

             JAZMINA
      You so funny baby.  

Butchie hops into the passenger seat, getting warm as Izzy 
and Jazmina walk off.  Butchie watches them vanish into the 
night (reflected in the window).  

             MEAT 
      You really think that’s cool? 

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t care.  


                                      56.

Butchie takes out his cell phone and dials a number.  The 
phone RINGS and RINGS.  Butchie ends the call before it goes 
to voice-mail.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Damn.

Meat stares at Butchie, rage brewing.  Butchie turns to Meat.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      What?  

             MEAT
      That’s messed up man.  

             BUTCHIE
      What the fuck is it with you?  
      Since when are you a four hundred 
      pound Jiminy Cricket all of a 
      sudden?  

             MEAT
      Three twenty-five.

             BUTCHIE
      And Izzy’s got a full head of hair.  
      Three twenty-five?  Nigga please.  

             MEAT
      Fine.  Three forty...

             BUTCHIE
      Meat, it’s me, man. 

             MEAT
      Okay, three fifty.  I swear.  Why 
      are you allowing this to happen?  

             BUTCHIE
      You know why.  You were with me 
      last night as I recall.  

             MEAT
      I can look at the menu, I just 
      can’t order nothing.  I know right 
      from wrong when I see it.  

             BUTCHIE
      And what’s that supposed to mean?

             MEAT
      This is wrong Butchie.


             BUTCHIE
      How do you know the kid’s not 
      having a great time?  

                                      57.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. TENEMENT APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

A flophouse’s flophouse.  Cigarette butts and cheap 
tapestries everywhere.  A few strung-out bodies on the floor. 

Jazmina opens the door and Izzy surveys the room.

             IZZY
      Wow.  This is nice, got a rustic 
      touch but also kinda urban.  Did 
      you decorate this yourself?

Jazmina stares at Izzy and then smiles.

             JAZMINA
      You so sexy baby with you big bald 
      head.

Jazmina rubs Izzy’s head then kisses him on the mouth.  Izzy 
recoils but cannot break free until Jazmina lets go.

             IZZY
      Uchhh, tastes like the East River.  

             JAZMINA
      Come.  


Jazmina grabs Izzy by the hand and they walk over some of the 
strung-out bodies into an unlit room and the door SLAMS shut.

INT. NAVIGATOR - CONTINUOUS

Butchie and Meat keep talking.  

             BUTCHIE
      Shirelle Tompkins.  We was out 
      chasing jack-rabbits on a hot 
      summer day and I took my shirt off. 
      She gave me this look, like I was a 
      piece of fried chicken or 
      something, and I knew right at that 
      moment: it was on.  Went into her 
      granddaddy’s shed and none of us 
      knew what we was doing, and 
      then...it just happened.  


                                      58.

             MEAT
      See.  

             BUTCHIE
      What?

             MEAT
      You smiled thinking about it.  It’s 
      a beautiful memory for you.

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah, so?  

             MEAT
      So you think Izzy’s gonna feel the 
      same way when he looks back on it?

             BUTCHIE
      How many times do I have to say 
      this?  I don’t care.  He does his 
      thing and I go back to being 
      Butchie Jones.

A beat.  Meat is furious with Butchie.  

             MEAT
      Y’know what man, get outta my car.

             BUTCHIE
      What?

             MEAT
      Seriously.  You ain’t gonna get the 
      kid then you best get out before I 
      throw your ass out.  I did thirty-
      eight reps at two-twenty five at 
      the combine, that’s already more 
      than your punk ass. 

             BUTCHIE
      Meat, chill out man.  Why you doing 
      this?

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      For your own good dawg.  I may only 
      be the fat fuck who blocks for you, 
      but at least I know who I am.  But 
      you on the other-hand...on Sunday, 
      you get to be mister flashy 
      primadonna asshole, and that’s 
      cool, but that’s only one day a 
      week.  How do you live with 
      yourself Monday thru Saturday?   


Butchie stares out the window.  That hit him in his soul. 

                                      59.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      When Sunny was born I swore I 
      wasn’t gonna be just another nigga 
      like my father was to me.

             MEAT
      So don’t be.  

Butchie punches the console, furious with himself.  He thinks 
for a beat, then exits the car to Meat’s delight.  

             BUTCHIE
        (not looking back)
      And stop smiling cause you’re right 
      for a change!

Meat’s smile fades.

EXT. HUNTS POINT -- THE BRONX - CONTINUOUS

We follow Butchie through the cold dingy street into...

INT. TENEMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS

Still following Butchie as he tracks through a terrifying 
hallway.  Lights flicker, johns meander, addicts shoot-up.  
It’s a scene straight out of “The Wire.” 

             BUTCHIE
      Yo Izzy!

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Izzy where you at?  

Echo.  

WAILING.  

A random DRUGGIE stumbles past in a fog.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Druggie)
      You seen a little bald kid, 
      anywhere?

The Druggie keeps on walking; a zombie.

Butchie walks up a flight of stairs, becoming more frantic 
with each step. 


             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      IZZY!

A NEGLECTED LITTLE BOY scampers past clutching a doll.    

                                      60.

Butchie stops the boy on the stairwell.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey.  Uhmm, English?  

The Neglected Little Boy stares blankly.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Uhmm, gringo, blanco.  Aqui?  

Nothing.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Hasmeena?  

             NEGLECTED LITTLE BOY
      Mama?

             BUTCHIE
        (relieved)
      Si, si, mama.  

The Neglected Little Boy points to a door at the top of the 
stairs. 

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you, thank you-gracias.  

Butchie continues upstairs, but pauses.  He rushes back down 
the stairs and takes out his fat bank roll, pressing it into 
the palm of the Neglected Little Boy.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      For you, okay?  

Butchie runs back up the stairs and opens the door.

INT. TENEMENT APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Butchie moves through the hovel.  He hears noises coming from 
another room...

             IZZY
	(O.S.)
      Aww yeah, I’m gonna make you my 
      bitch, I should start calling you 
      Brady.  J-E-T-S wooohooo.  

Butchie enters the...


                                      61.

BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

...and finds Izzy lying on a couch.  Jazmina’s hand bobs up 
and down on Izzy’s lap under a cruddy blanket.  

Izzy sees Butchie standing in the doorway and mouths “what 
the fuck dude?” 

             BUTCHIE
      Izzy.  C’mon man.  Let’s go.

             IZZY
      You’re ruining this for me.  I’m 
      just getting warmed-up.  

             BUTCHIE
      You don’t want to do this.  

             IZZY
      No, what I don’t want is somebody 
      busting in as I’m about to nut.  

             BUTCHIE
      You really want your first time to 
      be like this?  

             IZZY
      I don’t really care so much about 
      the who as I do the how, and you’re 
      blowing it for me right now.

             BUTCHIE
      Look at this place!  Look at her!  
      You think either of you want this?  

             JAZMINA
      Caliete!

Izzy stares into Jazmina’s eyes and his excitement fades.

             IZZY
      I--I dunno man. 

             BUTCHIE
      Izzy please, I’m sorry I brought 
      you here.  Let’s just go and we’ll 
      figure something else out.    

A beat.

Izzy gets up from the couch and walks past Butchie.

             IZZY
      Asshole.  


                                      62.

Butchie smiles and follows Izzy out.  

EXT. HUNTS POINT - NIGHT 

Butchie catches up to Izzy on the street and stops Izzy 
before Izzy gets to the car. 

             BUTCHIE
      You made the right choice.  
      Seriously.  I’m proud of you.  

             IZZY
      What is it with you?  Huh?  I was 
      close.  So close.  

             BUTCHIE
      So we’ll keep trying.

             IZZY
      Keep trying?!  You don’t get it.  
      I’m on borrowed time as is.  And 
      I’m supposed to be back in twenty 
      minutes.  It’s not like I can just 
      meet up with you next weekend or 
      pick a night to go clubbing.  

             BUTCHIE
      Alright, alright, calm down. 

             IZZY
        (crying)
      I’m dying you schmuck.  That was my 
      chance, and you ruined it for me!  

             BUTCHIE
      Izzy--

             IZZY
      Take me back.  

             BUTCHIE
      Izzy.

             IZZY
      I SAID TAKE ME BACK!  I want my mom 
      and dad.  I don’t want to be here, 
      I want to go home! 

Izzy runs off.  

             BUTCHIE
      Shit.


                                      63.

Butchie catches up to Izzy and grabs him by the shoulders.  
Izzy SOBS.  Butchie looks around, just as lost and confused.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 

Butchie gets SMACKED in the face by a hand.  

PULL BACK TO REVEAL...

Lois, who smacks Butchie once again.

Izzy sits on his bed in a semi-catatonic state, depressed.

Meat and Mel stand in the background.

             LOIS
      You no-good, dumb-jock, asshat! 

             BUTCHIE
      Miss Schoenberg, if you would just--

             LOIS
      How could you do this?  We were 
      worried about this stunt to begin 
      with, but look at my child.  What 
      happened to him?  What did you do 
      to him?

Dan enters the room followed by Holly.  

             DAN
      Miss Schoenberg, so good to see 
      you.  I understand that you’re a 
      bit upset--

             LOIS
      I’m well past a bit.  I’m furious.  
      How could this happen?  I thought 
      they were going out for ice cream? 

             DAN
      And as far as we all know that’s 
      what happened.  The way I see it, 
      the way Butchie sees it, this was 
      all just a misunderstanding and 
      thank heavens, no one was hurt.  

             LOIS
      I’m hurt Mister Rosen.  And so is 
      my husband.  


                                      64.

             LOIS
	(CONT'D)
      We have precious little time left 
      with our son, and when he returns 
      here crying, after six hours doing 
      god knows what, I assume the worst.  
      Can you comprehend that?

             DAN
      Of course. 

             LOIS
      Our lawyers will be contacting you 
      very soon.  I hope you have 
      ‘exactly what happened,’ 
      corroborated by evidence at that 
      time because we are going to sue 
      you, your client, The Make A Wish 
      Foundation, and the New York Jets.  

Mel picks up Izzy.  Lois leads them out of the room.  Butchie 
stares back at Izzy one last time before the door shuts.

             DAN
      Jesus Butchie!  What did you do 
      with the kid?  

             BUTCHIE
      What do you want from me?!  He 
      forced me to get him laid.

             DAN
      With what, his physically imposing 
      stature?  

             HOLLY
      From a P.R., standpoint, this is a 
      nightmare.  This is like Lance 
      Armstrong-level bad.  

             BUTCHIE
      I know how it looks, but Meat can 
      back me up--

             HOLLY
      Two black entitled athletes in a 
      pickle is worse than one.  

             MEAT
        (meekly)
      I’m not entitled.


INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Mel, Izzy, and Lois head down the hall.  Lois has her cell 
phone to her ear having an animated conversation with someone 
(probably a lawyer).  

                                      65.

Scoot runs up to Izzy. 

             SCOOT
      Izzy.  How’s it going?

             IZZY
      Not so great Scoot.  

             SCOOT
      Did you and Butchie have fun?  Did 
      he take you to the stadium?  

             IZZY
      No Scoot, it sucked.  Butchie 
      sucks.  

             SCOOT
      Oh, okay.  Where are you going? 

             IZZY
      I’m leaving Scoot.  You take care 
      of yourself, alright?  

Izzy and his parents keep walking, leaving Scoot in their 
wake.  He’s upset. 

             SCOOT
      Bye Izzy.  

Izzy and his parents stand in front of the elevator.  

             IZZY
      Bye Scoot.  Come to my funeral.

             MEL
      Izzy...

             SCOOT
        (tears welling)
      Okay.  

             IZZY
      Don’t worry Scoot, I left some 
      stuff under your pillow.  Just 
      don’t think of me when you use it, 
      and sorry if some of the pages are 
      stuck together. 


                                      66.

Scoot brightens.

             SCOOT
      You’re the man Izzy!

Ding!  The doors open.  Izzy thinks about Scoot’s remark, 
puzzled, as he hops on the elevator.  

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dan paces back and forth on his cell phone.  Holly does the 
same.  Meat and Butchie stare at each other not listening to 
the background CHATTER.

             MEAT
      I’m sorry, man.  I shouldn’t have-- 

             BUTCHIE
      Don’t sweat it.  You were right.  
      This one’s on me.  I’m sorry I 
      brought you into this.  

Dan walks to Butchie and puts a finger up, motioning him to 
be quiet as he tries to deal with the mess.

             DAN
        (into phone)
      Yeah, we’re looking for anyone who 
      can go in front of the cameras and 
      mitigate the damage done...
        (pause)
      Yeah, uh-huh.  No.  We already 
      tried them.  We tried Loeb, 
      Greenbaum, and Silver and we also 
      tried Stern, Wasser, Feldman.  

Butchie reacts to hearing the name “Feldman.”  Butchie gets 
up and walks out of the room.  

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - NIGHT 

Butchie runs through the ward, past the adoring children.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT  

The elevator doors open and Butchie runs out.  He spots Izzy 
standing with Lois at another bank of elevators.

             BUTCHIE
      Wait!  


                                      67.

Butchie runs up to Izzy.  Lois shakes her head, aghast.

             LOIS
      You’ve got some nerve y’know that?  
      I’m calling security.

Lois waddles off, SCREAMING for help.  

             BUTCHIE
      Shoshanna Feldman.

             IZZY
      What did you just say to me?

             BUTCHIE
      She’s the girl you like, right?  
      You can have her.

             IZZY
      A shandeh fur die goyem.
      How dare you bring up Shoshanna 
      Feldman to me.

             BUTCHIE
      Tonight’s that party, right? 

             IZZY
      ...I guess.  

             BUTCHIE
      You ‘guess’?  

             IZZY
      Leave me alone Butchie, seriously.  

             BUTCHIE
      But this is your--

             IZZY
      Fuck.  Off.  Go back to ruining 
      someone else’s life, like your 
      wife.  

Ouch.  Butchie’s hurt by this and walks away, seething, 
debating whether or not he should walk back to Izzy and punch 
the kid.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
        (to self)
      Great, now I’m the bad guy.

Izzy walks back towards the elevators, hoping to apologize.  


INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 

Dan and Holly are still on their phones.  Meat sits on the 
chair, glum.  Butchie re-enters, upset, but his expression 
changes to worry when he sees Meat and Dan.

                                      68.

             BUTCHIE
      What?

             DAN
        (into phone)
      Okay, he’s here now, yeah, I’ll let 
      him know.

Dan hangs up and turns to Izzy.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Commissioner’s office called.  
      You’re suspended two games.  It’s 
      on ESPN already.  The team wants to 
      have a sit-down with you.  This is 
      no good Butchie.

Butchie bangs his head against the wall.  

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - LATER 

Izzy hops off the elevator, looking for Butchie.  

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Hey loser.  

Izzy stops and turns to see Celeste, attached to an I.V. 

             CELESTE
      Your mom’s been whining up and down 
      the ward all day, so thanks for 
      that.  

Izzy keeps walking, not paying attention to Celeste.  

             CELESTE
	(CONT’D)
      Just thought I’d give you a 
      friendly reminder that this Sunday, 
      my future husband Tom Brady comes 
      to town, and guess what, it appears 
      Butchie’s been suspended for two 
      games so the Pats are now a two 
      touchdown favorite.  

Izzy stops and turns around, confused and angry.


                                      69.

             IZZY
      Two games? 

             CELESTE
      Just came through the wire.  It’s 
      really quite something.  All you 
      care about is the Jets, and you 
      personally go about ruining their 
      year.  To think, if not for you, we 
      might have only won by a touch--

             IZZY
      Y’know what Celeste, fuck Tom 
      Brady’s dimpled chin, and fuck his 
      stupid signal-stealing coach, and 
      fuck that faggot-ass hurry-up 
      offense they run.  And y’know what 
      else Celeste?  Fuck you.      

Izzy runs down the hall.  

             CELESTE
      Where are you going?

             IZZY
      To save the mother-fucking season!
        (screaming)
      BUTCHIE!  COME ON OUT!  I’m sorry!  
      Okay?  I didn’t mean it.  

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Butchie hears Izzy’s SCREAMS and runs outside.

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - CONTINUOUS

Butchie spots Izzy and walks to him.  They stand 10 feet 
apart a la “Sleepless in Seattle.”

             BUTCHIE
      Hey.  

             IZZY
      Hey.  I’m sorry.  I guess I’m as 
      much of an asshole as you are 
      sometimes.  And don’t worry about a 
      lawsuit, my mom’s just an 
      overprotective bitch.  I can talk 
      her out of it, I swear.  

             BUTCHIE
      Don’t worry about it.  


                                      70.

             IZZY
      No Butchie, I am worried about it.  
      I’m very worried because there is 
      no way we beat the Pats without 
      your offensive input.  I’m sorry.  

             BUTCHIE
      There’s worse things.

             IZZY
      For you maybe.  But you think I 
      want to go out knowing that the 
      last Jets memory I will ever have 
      is of the Patriots butt-fucking us?

             BUTCHIE
      You got a point.  

             IZZY
      You really think I can do it?  

             BUTCHIE
      What?

             IZZY
      Shoshanna Feldman?  She hasn’t even 
      seen me in years.  

             BUTCHIE
      So what?  Whatever happened to the 
      Izzy who grabbed me by the balls 
      and forced me to do all this shit 
      for him?  What about the Izzy who 
      called me a schvartze?  And by the 
      way, I know it means nigger.  

             IZZY
      Nigga’.  Remove the “er,” remove 
      the hate.  And that’s all well and 
      good, but in case you hadn’t 
      noticed, I’ve never done this 
      before.   

             BUTCHIE
      Big deal.  All you gotta do is 
      believe.  So, is you a down-to-fuck 
      pussyhound or isn’t you?

Butchie extends his hand.  

A beat.

             IZZY
      Yes.  I am.  I am a pussyhound.  


                                      71.

Izzy slaps Butchie’s palm.

             BUTCHIE
      Great.  Now the only problem is 
      getting past your mom.  I ain’t 
      getting pinned for your kidnapping. 

A beat.  Izzy smiles and raises up his iPhone.

             IZZY
      I think I can handle that.  

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT 

Lois roams, flanked by nurses and 2 security types. 

             LOIS
      Izzy!  Where the hell did he go?

A RABBI enters the hospital, prayer book in hand.  He passes 
Lois and the nurses, tipping his black hat as he passes. 

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - LATER 

Butchie, Izzy, and Meat stand in the hallway getting 
lambasted by Dan. 

             DAN
      This is totally irresponsible.  You 
      saw what that woman’s already 
      threatening and now it’s like 
      you’re rubbing her face in it.  I 
      can’t go back to selling insurance 
      for my father-in-law, he hates me 
      by the way.

             BUTCHIE
      I wonder why.

             DAN
      Very funny, but if the kid has 
      another freak-out or god forbid 
      nature takes its course--

             IZZY
      Shut the fuck up Dan.  

DING.  The doors open and the Rabbi exits the elevator.  


                                      72.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Rabbi.  So glad you could make it 
      on such short notice.  If you would 
      follow me please.

             RABBI
      I’m a little confused, I was told 
      that there’s a young man here who 
      needs spiritual guidance as his 
      hour draws near.  

             IZZY
      You’re looking at him.  

Izzy takes out his phone and dials.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
        (into phone)
      Lois.  Garage in three minutes.  Be 
      there or you’re going to miss it.

Izzy hangs up his phone.  Izzy, Butchie, Meat, and the Rabbi 
get back in the elevator.  

INT. PARKING GARAGE -- HOSPITAL - NIGHT 

Lois and Mel wait by their car when Izzy, Butchie, Meat, and 
the Rabbi run towards them.    

             IZZY
      You ready Butchie?  

             BUTCHIE
      No. 

             IZZY
      You’ll do great, just read it off 
      the screen.
        (chanting)
      Bar'chu et Adonai ham'vorach?

Butchie stares at his phone screen and reads with Meat.

             BUTCHIE
      Baruch Adonai ham'vorach...

             MEAT
      Vo-rachhhhh, more of a chhh, right?

             BUTCHIE
      Ham’vorachhhh l'olam va-ed.


                                      73.

             IZZY
      Baruch Adonai ham'vorach l'olam va-
      ed.  Baruch atah, Adonai Eloheinu, 
      Melech haolam, asher bachar banu 
      mikol haamim, v'natan lanu et 
      Torato. Baruch atah, Adonai, notein 
      haTorah.  Torahhh!  Bereishit bara 
      Elokim et hashamayim ve'et 
      ha'aretz.  Veha'aretz hayetah tohu 
      vavohu vechoshech al-penei tehom 
      veruach Elokim merachefet al-penei 
      hamayim.  Vayomer Elokim yehi-or 
      vayehi-or.  Vayar Elokim et-ha'or 
      ki-tov vayavdel Elokim bein ha'or 
      uvein hachoshech.  Vayikra Elokim 
      la-or yom velachoshevh kara lailah 
      vayehi-erev vayehi-voker yom echad.  
      Vayomer Elokim yehi rakia betoch 
      hamayim vihi mavdil bein mayim 
      lamayim.  Vaya'as Elokim et-harakia 
      vayavdel bein hamayim asher 
      mitachat larakia uvein hamayim 
      asher me'al larakia vayehi-chen.  
      Vayikra Elokim la-rakia shamayim 
      vayehi-erev vayehi-voker yom sheni.  
      Vayomer Elokim yikavu hamayim 
      mitachat hashamayim el-makom echad 
      vetera'eh hayabashah vayehi chen.   
      Vehayu li-meorot birekia hashamayim 
      leha'ir al-ha'aretz vayehi-chen.  
      Baruch atah, Adonai Eloheinu, 
      Melech haolam, asher natan lanu 
      Torat emet, v’chayei olam nata 
      b’tocheinu. Baruch atah, Adonai, 
      notein haTorah.  

Mel holds on to Lois who weeps tears of joy.    

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Today I am a man!  

             RABBI
      Actually Izzy, you’re only about 
      half-way--

             MEAT
      Tell him he’s a man.

             RABBI
      You are a man.

             MEAT
      Do what you gotta do to make this 
      legit.


                                      74.

             RABBI
      It doesn’t really work like--

             MEAT
      Do.  What.  You. Gotta.  Do.

The Rabbi thinks for a minute.  The Rabbi taps Izzy on both 
shoulders and on the head (like he’s being knighted).

             RABBI
      Isidore Schoenberg, by the power 
      vested in me, by the state of 
      Israel, I now pronounce you a bar-
      mitzvah.  You may now--

             IZZY
      Get my fuck on!  Thanks Rabbi.  

             RABBI
      You’re welcome?  

             IZZY
      Start the car, Meat.  Exit Forty-
      three A, Long Island Expressway.   

Meat heads for the Navigator.  Izzy follows, but stops when 
he sees Butchie approaching a teary-eyed Lois.  

             BUTCHIE
      Miss Schoenberg...Lois.  My wife 
      left me today, she took my daughter 
      with her, and I don’t think they’re 
      coming back.  Maybe I didn’t 
      realize it until now, but without 
      them, I’m nothing.  I can’t think 
      right, I can’t act right, I can’t 
      breathe.  I can’t even begin to 
      know what you and Mel are going 
      through, or what Izzy’s going 
      through, but I know what he wants 
      with the time he’s got left.  And 
      you can hate me and sue me all you 
      like, but no matter what, I’m gonna 
      help your son get what he wants, 
      and he wants to get some ass.

Lois’s lip trembles.  She holds Butchie’s face with her hands 
and kisses his forehead.

             LOIS
      Have a good time.


INT. CONVENIENCE MART - NIGHT 

Butchie, Izzy, and Meat meander through a pharmacy aisle 
perusing.  Izzy finds some flavored condoms. 

                                      75.

             IZZY
      Strawberry?  Think she’ll like 
      that?  

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t think it matters.  Just 
      pick one and let’s go.  

             IZZY
      What if she doesn’t like me?

             BUTCHIE
      You have to make her like you.  

             IZZY
      Alright, how do I do that? 

             BUTCHIE
      You just gotta be the same punk-ass 
      you were with me.

             IZZY
      Gross.

             BUTCHIE
      Confidence.  I believe your people 
      call it chutzpah.  You got it in 
      spades.

             IZZY
      Right.  Yeah.  I do.  Nice 
      pronunciation by the way.

             BUTCHIE
      You got this.  And, you got me and 
      Meat to serve as bodyguards.  

             IZZY
      Hey.  Raise the goal-posts.

             BUTCHIE
      What?

Izzy motions for Butchie to make goal-posts with his fingers.  
Butchie gets with the program and lifts his fingers up.

Izzy places the condom on a ledge.


                                      76.

             IZZY
      And the crowd of eighty thousand is 
      going nuts.  It’s all on the line 
      with this one kick to determine the 
      A.F.C. East.  Will he falter or 
      will he score.   

             BUTCHIE
      More like will he bang her, or 
      won’t he?  

             IZZY
      Schoenberg gets ready for the snap.

Meat storms into frame.

             MEAT
      Time-out ref!  

             IZZY
      Oooh, the opposing coach tries to 
      freeze the kicker one last time.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      You really think I can do this?

             BUTCHIE
      Only one way to find out.

Butchie raises his hands like goal-posts once again.  Meat 
gets in Izzy’s face and WHISPER/ROARS (for crowd noise).

             IZZY
      Schoenberg gets back in position 
      and lines up.  The crowd’s on the 
      edge of their seats.  This is the 
      moment of moments.  One shot, one 
      chance.  Here comes the snap.  The 
      kick is up...

Izzy flicks the condom.  It floats through the air and sails 
in between Butchie’s finger goal-posts.  

Izzy raises his arms in triumph.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s good!  Jets win!  The crowd 
      goes wild.  Schoenberg will 
      definitely fuck Shoshanna Feldman!  

Butchie lifts up Izzy and spins him around as Meat cheers.


                                      77.

EXT. LONG ISLAND EXPRESSWAY - NIGHT

HIGH ABOVE TRAFFIC

The Navigator winds down an off-ramp and into the suburbs.

             BUTCHIE
	(V.O. PRELAP)
      You ready for this?

INT/EXT. NAVIGATOR - NIGHT 

The Navigator pulls up in front of an upper-middle class 
suburban home.  Muffled Hip-hop emanates from inside.  

Izzy, Butchie, and Meat stare out the windows.  Izzy looks 
nervous.

             IZZY
      I’m having this weird feeling in 
      the pit of my stomach--

             BUTCHIE
      Butterflies.  I get em’ before 
      every game.  And when I first 
      started dating Tamika I...
        (saddened)
      If it’s right, you’ll know, and so 
      will she.  You ready?   

Izzy bobs his head and stretches his little limbs.

             IZZY
      Yeah.  Let’s fucking do this.  

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

The door opens to find a massive house party in action.  Over 
50 kids, many of them high school seniors mill about, red 
plastic cups in-hand.  

When Izzy walks through the door, the room fills with 
tension.  

The party’s host TYLER, 17, an ass, scrutinizes Izzy.

             TYLER
      Whoa.  Who are you? 

             IZZY
      I’m Izzy. 


                                      78.

             TYLER
      Kind of a private event Izzy.  

             IZZY
      Oh.  Right.  Okay, I’ll just be on 
      my way then.  Tah.  

Izzy walks out, mumbling the word “Tah” to himself like he’s 
an idiot for saying it.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 

Izzy stands on the front porch where Butchie and Meat wait.

             IZZY
      I think we have the wrong house. 

             BUTCHIE
        (peering in)
      Seriously?

             IZZY
      Yeah, I think the Facebook invite 
      was wrong, or--

             TYLER
	(O.S.)
        (muffled)
      Did you guys see that?  Some little 
      bald kid just tried to get in.

Butchie looks at Izzy.  

             BUTCHIE
      Ring the bell.  

             IZZY
      Butchie--

             BUTCHIE
      We didn’t come all this way for you 
      to pussy out now.  Ring.  The.  
      Bell.  

INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Tyler stands by the door talking to some cute girls.  

The door bell RINGS.  Tyler opens the door.  Surprised to see 
Izzy once again. 

             TYLER
      I thought I told you...


Butchie and Meat emerge from the other side of the stoop.  
Tyler’s eyes bulge out of his skull. 

                                      79.

             BUTCHIE
      Sup?  

             TYLER
      Holy mother of fuck.  Butchie 
      Jones?  

             BUTCHIE
      Mind if we come in with our friend? 

             TYLER
      The kid’s with you?  

             BUTCHIE
      Course.  You don’t know who he is?
        (to Meat)
      They don’t know who he is. 

             MEAT
        (appalled)
      Unbelievable. 

             BUTCHIE
      This dude right here is what gives 
      me my chi out on the field.  So, 
      you gonna let us in, or ain’t you? 

             TYLER
      Of course, please, right this way.  

Tyler leads the guys into the party.  The gravity of the 
party flows to Butchie like a magnet.    

             TYLER
	(CONT’D)
      Butchie Jones is at my house!  

Tyler bro-hugs Butchie and Meat and then Izzy.  A BRO 
scrutinizes Izzy.

             BRO
      Hey.  I know this kid.  

             TYLER
      You do?

             BRO
      Yeah, he was in the paper or 
      something.  Holy shit, that’s it.  
      You’re that kid who’s dying of 
      cancer.  


                                      80.

             IZZY
      Ta-dah. 

             BRO
      Whoa.  Are you okay?  

             IZZY
      Yeah.  Although I’d be a lot better 
      if one of you fagtards got me a 
      beer. 

Tyler and the Bro race to the keg to get Izzy a beer and hand 
him a cup.  

Izzy takes the beer and chugs.  Butchie gives him a stern 
look.

             BUTCHIE
      You sure that’s a good idea? 

             IZZY
      What’s it gonna do?  Kill me? 

Izzy gulps down the rest of the beer.  And then he sees 
her...

SHOSHANNA FELDMAN, 15 going on 25, she appears like a vision.  
Izzy stares at her slack-jawed.  Butchie notices. 

             BUTCHIE
      That’s her huh? 

             IZZY
      How’d you know? 

             BUTCHIE
      Just cause.

             MEAT
      Not to sound gross or nothing, but 
      I wish I was fifteen right about 
      now.

             BUTCHIE
      Mmmhmm.  Damn.  

             IZZY
      So...what do I do?  

             BUTCHIE
      Stay here, and try to look like you 
      already scored a touchdown.     


                                      81.

Butchie walks over to Shoshanna.  Every girl in the party 
wishes she was Shoshanna at that moment.  

IZZY 

Looks away, nervous.  He then turns back to see...

IZZY’S POV 

...Butchie and Shoshanna talking.  She’s smiling.  Butchie 
points in Izzy’s direction.  Shoshanna glances over. 

IZZY

Turns away, blushing.  Izzy chugs the rest of the beer. 

             IZZY
      Holy shit.  Holy motherfuck shit.  
      Oh fuck, oh fuck.  

Meat puts a massive paw on Izzy’s shoulder. 

             MEAT
      Relax.  Nobody ever got some by 
      being the most anxious person 
      around.   

             IZZY
      Tell that to Woody Allen.

             MEAT
      Who?

             IZZY
      Never mind.  I’ve got that feeling 
      in my stomach again.  

             MEAT
      It just means you’re alive. 

Izzy finishes his beer and bee-lines to the keg.  Izzy 
attempts pouring a beer but the keg needs to be tapped and 
Izzy is a neophyte in such things.

             IZZY
      Stupid frigging, god-damned...

Shoshanna approaches the keg and takes Izzy’s hand.  

             SHOSHANNA
      You need to pump it.  Like this.  

Shoshanna pulls the pump up and down, up and down.  The 
parallel’s are obvious.  Izzy gawks, transfixed. 


             IZZY
        (quietly)
      Thank you Moses. 

Shoshanna takes Izzy’s cup and pours Izzy a beer. 

                                      82.

             SHOSHANNA
      I guess you missed out on a lot of 
      things these past couple of years.  

             IZZY
      I can’t believe you remember me.

             SHOSHANNA
      Why wouldn’t I? 

             IZZY
      Because, I’m just a nobody, and 
      you’re this--sorry, I’ll stop now.

             SHOSHANNA
      You’re sweet.  And not that it 
      matters, but the whole town knows 
      who you are.  

             IZZY
        (vaudeville)
      Look it’s Izzy the incredible dying 
      boy.  Watch as his T-cells cowardly 
      combat the evil free-radicals 
      roaming throughout his body.

Shoshanna LAUGHS, then leans in and kisses Izzy.  Time stops.  
The biggest smile in the world curls onto Izzy’s lips.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Hehehehehehehe.  

Izzy realizes he’s blowing it and regains his composure. 

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry--damnit, I have to stop 
      apologizing.  

             SHOSHANNA
      Shhhh...

Shoshanna puts a finger to Izzy’s lips. 

             SHOSHANNA
	(CONT’D)
      Wanna go upstairs with me?  

             IZZY
      Wha-what’s upstairs?  


                                      83.

             SHOSHANNA
      A place where we can talk.  
      Follow me.  

Shoshanna takes Izzy by the hand and leads him towards the 
stairs.  He passes Meat and Butchie along the way.  Izzy 
gives them a big thumb’s up and Butchie motions for Izzy to 
stop it and be cool.  Izzy puts his hand down and follows 
Shoshanna upstairs.

Tyler and the Bro watch this happen, drunk and confused.

             TYLER
      You see that?  That little kid’s a 
      pimp.  

             BRO
      I know this is gonna sound crazy, 
      but what if that little cancer kid, 
      doesn’t have cancer and he’s really 
      one of those pickup artist 
      douchebags and he keeps his head 
      shaved liked that on purpose?  

             TYLER
      No fucking way.  

Meat overhears this and has to stifle laughter.  He walks 
over to Butchie, and puts a hand on Butchie’s shoulder.

             MEAT
      You did it man.  You really did it. 

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah.

             MEAT
      What’d you say to that girl?  

             BUTCHIE
      You don’t want to know.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

Izzy and Shoshanna kiss on a bed in a moonlit bedroom.

Izzy breaks free from the kiss. 

             IZZY
      Wow.  You’re just so perfect, what 
      is that, strawberry lip gloss?  


                                      84.

             SHOSHANNA
      I had no idea you were this funny 
      back in middle school. 

             IZZY
      Yeah, well, I didn’t really get the 
      chance to blossom.  

             SHOSHANNA
      What’s it like?

             IZZY
      What? 

             SHOSHANNA
      You know, having cancer?

A beat as Izzy tries to put it in the right context...

             IZZY
      It feels like every moment of my 
      life is fourth and goal from my own 
      one yard line, and Vince Wilfork’s 
      coming after me that fat sack 
      of...let’s not talk about it.

Izzy kisses Shoshanna passionately.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Butchie steps outside and dials numbers into his phone.

Beep.

             BUTCHIE
      C’mon baby, please pickup.  Please. 

             TAMIKA’S VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Hi.  You’ve reached Tamika, I’m 
      sorry I missed your call.  Go Jets!  

             BUTCHIE
        (into phone)
      Tamika.  It’s me.  I know it’s 
      late, and you don’t want to hear 
      from me, but this has been the most 
      fucked-up day of my life and I just-
      -I need your help.  I love you, 
      bye.  


                                      85.

INT. BEDROOM -- HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Shoshanna and Izzy intensify their make-out session, tumbling 
around the bed.  

             SHOSHANNA
      Do you have a condom?

Izzy fumbles around and looks for a condom.

             IZZY
      I thought I did.

             SHOSHANNA
      That’s okay.

Shoshanna and Izzy go back to making-out.  

             SHOSHANNA
	(CONT’D)
      I think I have some.  

RED FLAG.  Izzy pulls away from Shoshanna.

             IZZY
      ‘Some’?  How many are we talking 
      here?  

             SHOSHANNA
      I dunno, three or four.  Why?  Are 
      you okay?  You look like you’ve 
      seen a ghost.

             IZZY
      Nothing, it’s just...that’s a lot 
      of condoms. 

             SHOSHANNA
      Butchie gave them to me.  

             IZZY
      Butchie.

             SHOSHANNA
      Must be nice to have someone care 
      about you the way he does.  

             IZZY
      Yeah.  Y’know this whole time I’ve 
      been sick, I’ve been dreaming of 
      you, at least I thought I was, but 
      I’d bet your sweet tuchas that you 
      weren’t dreaming of me. 


                                      86.

             SHOSHANNA
      I haven’t seen you in two years 
      Izzy...And before that you were 
      just a boy in my class.  

Shoshanna stands up, not liking this conversation.

             SHOSHANNA
	(CONT’D)
      God, what’s your problem?  

             IZZY
      My problem is that I wanted this to 
      be special.  But it’s not if it’s a 
      job for you. 

             SHOSHANNA
      Are you calling me a hooker?

             IZZY
      You tell me?  What did he say to 
      you Shoshanna?  What did he give 
      you?  Please.  I need to know.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT 

Butchie stands in the cold, feeling low. 

Izzy walks outside and approaches Butchie.  They both stare 
off...

             BUTCHIE
      That was quicker than I thought.  

             IZZY
      I didn’t do it.

             BUTCHIE
      Aww Izzy.  The ball was on the one 
      yard line, all you had to do was 
      punch it in.  What happened?

             IZZY
      Are you taking her to prom?   

             BUTCHIE
      Yeah.  Only way I knew to sweeten 
      the deal.

A beat.

Izzy nods.


                                      87.

             IZZY
      So she’s a whore.  

             BUTCHIE
      So were the others.

             IZZY
      But I didn’t want this one to be.

Izzy and Butchie sit on the stoop.  

             BUTCHIE
      What’d you expect?  Some girl who 
      last saw you when you were both 
      twelve?  And now you show up out of 
      the blue and expect her to what?  
      Fall in-love with you?  She’s 
      probably never even had sex before.

Izzy’s practically in tears at this point.  He gets up and 
paces in front of Butchie.  

             IZZY
      God, for once I just wanted to be a 
      normal kid, and have an experience 
      I could hang my hat on.  Something 
      to be proud of.  

             BUTCHIE
      You already do Izzy.  You got death 
      staring you in the face and you 
      don’t give a fuck.  You fight 
      anyway.   

             IZZY
      I’m so sick of people telling me 
      how brave I am.  That’s what 
      happens when you’re dying.  No 
      matter how much of a pussy you 
      actually are, people say all these 
      nice things about you.  Fuck that.  
      Fuck their pity.  And fuck yours 
      too.

             BUTCHIE
      I get it.  You’re upset.  I would 
      be too.  


                                      88.

             IZZY
      You don’t know shit.  I thought 
      meeting you would be the highlight 
      of my life, but I realized 
      something in that elevator: you 
      were more pissed off with the world 
      then I was.  You’re like a Greek 
      god, and millions of people worship 
      you, and you’re famous, and you 
      have this beautiful family, and get 
      anything in the world you could 
      want, and someway, somehow, your 
      life is shittier than mine.  And 
      Shoshanna, she’s a little 
      miyeskayt.  She could be the 
      prettiest girl in the whole world, 
      but all she cares about is going to 
      the prom with a famous person.  She 
      doesn’t even know who you are, just 
      that you’re somebody, and that’s 
      shitty.  So if my hero hates his 
      life, and the girl I want to bang 
      doesn’t care about who bangs her so 
      long as she gets something out of 
      it, what’s the point?  

Izzy lets it hang there. 

Izzy’s phone BUZZES.  

Izzy looks down at his iPhone and winces.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      That fucking bitch.

             BUTCHIE
      Shoshanna?

             IZZY
      No.  Celeste.  Apparently Brady and 
      Belichick were talking trash about 
      you, saying they’d never pick you 
      off waivers, cause you don’t do 
      things the ‘patriot way.’

             BUTCHIE
      Oh well, fuck em.

             IZZY
      What I don’t get is how a girl from 
      Philadelphia can worship at the 
      altar of Brady and Belichick.  It’s 
      sports treason I tell you.


                                      89.

             BUTCHIE
      Philadelphia?

             IZZY
      Yeah, Philadelphia, cheese-steaks, 
      asshole Eagles fans, the Liberty 
      Bell.  Philadelphia.

Butchie smiles wide.

             BUTCHIE
      You ever been to Philadelphia?  

             IZZY
      Once for a wedding.  It sucks.
      Some of the meanest, ugliest people 
      in the whole wide world.

             BUTCHIE
      They’re hard-core about their 
      Eagles man.  

             IZZY
      So what?

Izzy wanders over to a corner of the front yard and pisses 
into the bushes.  He BURPS.  Butchie’s still held-up on 
something else, lost in thought.

             BUTCHIE
      So she likes you.  

             IZZY
      What?  

             BUTCHIE
      Celeste you idiot!  All that Pats 
      talk, it’s just to get under your 
      grill.  

             IZZY
      But that’s what little kids do.

             BUTCHIE
      And that shit never stops.  It 
      starts out as name-calling and 
      kicking in the shins, but as you 
      get older, it just takes on 
      different forms.    

             IZZY
      Seriously?  That’s retarded.   


                                      90.

             BUTCHIE
      Finish up man, we gotta go!  

Izzy looks down at his urine stream.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      This is your last chance Izzy.  You 
      want this or not?

             IZZY
      ...I can’t. 

Butchie notes the change in Izzy’s demeanor and approaches.  
Butchie looks at what Izzy stares at and grows concerned.

             BUTCHIE
      Whoa.  Izzy--

             IZZY
      I guess it wasn’t butterflies after 
      all. 

             BUTCHIE
        (frantic)
      What the fuck is that? 

             IZZY
      Renal failure.  

A beat.  Butchie paces, angry with himself.

             BUTCHIE
      I never should have let you drink 
      that beer. 

             IZZY
      Butchie, relax.  This is what’s 
      supposed to happen.  That’s why 
      it’s called terminal cancer.  

             BUTCHIE
      There has to be something-someone, 
      the team doctors, they’re good, the 
      best.

Butchie runs to the house and opens the door.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Meat, we gotta go now!

Butchie runs back to Izzy.  


                                      91.

             IZZY
      Butchie, stop.  Please.  Best-case 
      scenario is they’re able to 
      temporarily prop me up long enough 
      to say goodbye.  

Izzy keels over in obvious pain.  Butchie holds him.  

             BUTCHIE
      No.  As long as there’s time on the 
      clock you can always throw the hail-
      Mary.   

Meat exits the house and jogs to Butchie.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon Izzy, don’t you want to go 
      out with a bang?

Izzy smiles and removes Butchie’s hands from his shoulders.  

             IZZY
      Fuck it.
        (to Meat)
      Can you get us back to the city in 
      a half hour?  

             MEAT
      My foot’s got more lead in it than 
      my ass.  

             IZZY
      I was hoping you’d say something 
      like that.  

Meat hustles off and jumps into the parked Navigator.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      My name is Izzy Schoenberg, and 
      today I am a man...a man who’s 
      D...T...F.  
        (to Butchie)
      Now pick me up please.  

Butchie picks up Izzy in and runs to the Navigator.  The car 
burns rubber as it ROARS away.  

EXT. LONG ISLAND EXPRESSWAY - NIGHT 

High above traffic.  Cars look like ants from this height.  
One car seems to move faster than the others...


INT. NAVIGATOR - LATER 

Meat puts the pedal to the metal.  Butchie sits in back with 
Izzy, giving him water, attending to the poor kid..

                                      92.

             IZZY
      So what do I say this time 
      Casanova?

             BUTCHIE
      What do you normally say to Celeste 
      when you see her?

Izzy thinks.

             IZZY
      Normally I’d call her a cunt.    

             BUTCHIE
      I don’t think that’s gonna work.  

             IZZY
      Me neither.

             BUTCHIE
      So don’t say anything.  Just go up 
      to her with confidence, like she’s 
      a defensive back who’s trying to 
      block you at the line and just give 
      her that look.

             IZZY
      What look?

             BUTCHIE
      The death-stare.

Butchie demonstrates a death-stare.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      You telegraphing to the defender 
      that you’re running the nine-route, 
      and there ain’t shit he can do 
      about it, so don’t even try and 
      stop me.  Give em that up and under 
      at the line, and boom, explode up 
      the seem.  Touchdown baby.

             IZZY
      This is way too much of a mixed 
      metaphor for me to understand.


                                      93.

             BUTCHIE
      You just go up there, you look her 
      in the eye, not as some little boy 
      who messes with her, but as a man.  
      And you hold that stare, and you go 
      in for that kiss.  But don’t rush 
      it.  And whatever you do, don’t 
      start talking trash to her.  

             IZZY
      Got it.  I think.  

EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT 

The Navigator pulls up to the hospital entrance.  Butchie and 
Izzy get out.  Izzy needs help standing up.

Meat rolls down his window, face to face with the dying Izzy.

             MEAT
      Good luck.  

Meat sticks his hand out and rubs Izzy’s head. 

             IZZY
      Meat.  You’re the fucking man.  And 
      the next time this asshole gets out 
      of line, I want you to promise me 
      that you’ll sit on him.

             MEAT
      Deal.

The Navigator glides away -- Butchie looks hard at Izzy. 

             BUTCHIE
      You ready for this?  

             IZZY
      Ready as I’ll ever be.  

Izzy takes a step and almost falls over.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Shit.

             BUTCHIE
      Don’t worry, I got you.


                                      94.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Butchie enters carrying Izzy.  A NURSE, 40s, sees this and 
approaches.

             NURSE
      Sir, only patients and family 
      beyond this point after hours si--

Butchie walks past the Nurse.  

             NURSE
	(CONT’D)
      Sir?  Sir?  Sheila, call security.  

Butchie and Izzy enter the elevator.  The doors close.  

                                  CUT TO:

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD -- HOSPITAL - LATER 

The doors open...and Butchie walks out still holding Izzy.  

             IZZY
      Oh fuck.

REVERSE ANGLE

6 burly SECURITY GUARDS stand waiting to nab Butchie.

BUTCHIE

Smiles and looks at Izzy.

             BUTCHIE
      Hold on. 

SLO-MO

Butchie holds tightly onto Izzy as he surges towards the 
Guards.  He fakes out GUARD 1, blows past GUARD 2, does a 
spin-move on GUARD 3, and stiff-arm’s GUARD 4.  Butchie keeps 
running and side-steps GUARD 5...

...as GUARD 6 grabs Butchie by the waste and tries to bring 
him down.  

Butchie is strong, really strong and takes another labored 
step.  

IN THE DISTANCE

Scoot hears the commotion and peers out of his room. 


                                      95.

             IZZY
	(O.S.)
        (weakly)
      Scoot, help! 

Scoot appraises the situation, and charges the guard. 

             SCOOT
      IZZZZYYYYYYYY!!!

REAL TIME

Scoot crashes into GUARD 6, and derails him enough for 
Butchie (holding Izzy) to slip past.  Butchie winks at Scoot 
as he runs through and delivers Izzy to...

IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Butchie drops Izzy on the bed.  

             IZZY
      Room three-Fifteen, down the hall.

Butchie walks back to the door, unsure of how to say goodbye.  

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Wait.  Thank you.  For everything.  

Butchie turns around and hugs Izzy, holding for an extra 
beat.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay...a little gay.  Get off me 
      unless you want to be my first.   

Butchie rises.  

             BUTCHIE
      Hey Izzy, you my schvartze.  

Izzy smiles.  Butchie exits.

PEDIATRIC WARD - CONTINUOUS

Free of the 90 pound weight, Butchie really puts his skills 
to use and fends off the 6 Guards who have regrouped.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      CELESTE!  

Butchie hurdles over another Security Guard and makes his way 
to room 315.  

Butchie BANGS on the door.  


                                      96.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Celeste.  Izzy needs you.  His 
      room, now.  Celeste, please! 

Celeste opens the door, surprised to see football star 
Butchie Jones. 

             CELESTE
      What the hell is going on? 

             BUTCHIE
      Izzy needs your help.  Go.  

The 6 Guards tackle Butchie to the ground.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Now Celeste!  Please.  

Celeste hustles out of her room and saunters down the hall to 
Izzy’s room. 

Butchie smiles as she makes her way. 

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Y’all couldn’t catch a cold.  

One of the Guards hits Butchie in the face.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      And you hit like bitches!  
        (to Scoot)
      Scoot!  Good job little man.  Tell 
      the nurse to get Izzy’s parents 
      down here now.

SCOOT

Nods in the affirmative and runs off down the hall.  

IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Izzy lies in bed, when he hears a gentle KNOCK.  Celeste 
enters and crosses to Izzy.

             CELESTE
      What’s going on Izzy?  

Silence.  

             CELESTE
	(CONT’D)
      Is this another sick joke you have?  
      Let me guess, you came back so you 
      could call me a whore to my face 
      one more time?  


                                      97.

Silence.  Izzy looks at Celeste, fear in his eyes. 

             CELESTE
	(CONT’D)
      Say something damnit.  

Silence.  Celeste shakes her head.

             CELESTE
	(CONT’D)
      I should’ve known, you are such a 
      little--

             IZZY
      Wait...  

Izzy labors to get off the bed, but somehow finds all of his 
strength and walks to Celeste. 

Izzy looks Celeste hard in the eye for a tense beat.    

Both their chests heave.  

Izzy brings his hand to Celeste’s face and removes a strand 
of hair from her face. 

Izzy moves in and kisses her.  It’s a great kiss.  Sweet and 
tender, not rushed and clumsy like we’d expect from him.  He 
and Celeste hold the kiss for a moment, then break away.

             IZZY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m dying.  

             CELESTE
      Me too.  

             IZZY
      Cool.


And they pounce on each other.  

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - LATER

The guards drag a bleeding Butchie out of the elevator in 
riot-cuffs (ties) and sit him down on a bench.  The Nurse 
talks on the phone, while staring at Izzy.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Celeste climbs on-top of Izzy, she winces.   


                                      98.

             IZZY
      Sorry.  Are you okay? 

             CELESTE
      Yeah, I’ve just never...this is a 
      first for me.

             IZZY
      Oh.  Me too.

             CELESTE
      Good.  

Celeste kisses Izzy and they commence having actual sex.  

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - CONTINUOUS

Just outside Izzy’s room, Scoot keeps his ear to the door.  A 
big grin on his face.

Scoot scampers to the elevator. 

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - LATER 

Scoot exits the elevator and runs over to the seated Butchie.

             SCOOT
      It sounds like they’re having a lot 
      of fun.  

Butchie exhales, relieved.  

             BUTCHIE
      Good job Scoot.

             SCOOT
      Y’know Butchie, I’ve never been 
      with a woman either, and I was 
      wondering--

             BUTCHIE
      Scoot, you’re nine.  

             SCOOT
      I’m almost ten.  

Butchie shakes his head, laughing. 

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

QUICK CUTS


                                      99.

2 sets of feet, curling, flexing, and rubbing against each 
other.  

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT 

The POLICEMEN (from Butchie’s first arrest) arrive.  They 
confer with the Nurse and 6 Security Guards before walking 
over to Butchie wearing shit-eating grins.

             POLICEMAN 1
      Well, well, well, look who it is.  

             POLICEMAN 2
      I have to admit, when we heard this 
      come thru we just had to get in on 
      the action.  

             POLICEMAN 1
      Not surprised really.  

             POLICEMAN 2
      Not surprised at all.  

             POLICEMAN 1
      On the bright side, I have a leg-up 
      in fantasy now.  

             BUTCHIE
      You know what guys, you’re right.  
      You shouldn’t be surprised to see 
      me again.  I get that this must be 
      fun for you.  Highlight of your 
      week and shit.  And then it dawned 
      on me, the reason you guys are so 
      mean and angry...

             POLICEMAN 2
      What’s that? 

             BUTCHIE
      You don’t get laid enough.  

             POLICEMAN 2
      Alright, get up.  

The Policemen hoist Butchie from his seat and slam him 
against the wall. Policeman 2 frisks Butchie.

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Celeste rides Izzy in the throes of passion.  


                                     100.

             IZZY
      Oh wow, oh wow, oh wow.  

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - LATER 

Butchie’s riot cuffs are ripped off and replaced with real 
handcuffs.  

             POLICEMAN 1
      You have the right to remain 
      silent.  Anything you say or do may 
      be used against you in a court of 
      law.  You have the right to--

             LOIS
	(O.S.)
      Stop!  

Lois and Mel march towards the officers.  

             LOIS
	(CONT’D)
      What do you think you’re doing? 

             POLICEMAN 2
      Ma’am, please.

             LOIS
      Don’t you Ma’am me.  This man was 
      merely doing specifically what we 
      asked of him.  You can’t arrest him 
      for that.

             POLICEMAN 1
      The way the guards tell it, this 
      man assaulted hospital staff after 
      being told he was illegally 
      trespassing.  

             SCOOT
	(O.S.)
      Oh yeah?  

Everyone turns to see Scoot in the hallway.  Venom in his 
gaze as he approaches the Policemen.

             SCOOT
	(CONT’D)
      Well the way I see it, as a witness 
      and all, the guards were the ones 
      doing the beating...they even hit 
      me!

The Security Guards hold their heads in shame.

             BUTCHIE
      It’s true.  I saw it.


                                     101.

             POLICEMAN 1
      Shut-up.

             SCOOT
      So here’s what’s going to happen:  
      Butchie goes free right now, or 
      else I swear to God, I will tell 
      the whole world that you guys beat 
      up a cancer kid and you can kiss 
      your sorry jobs goodbye.

A beat. 

             POLICEMAN 2
        (to Guards)
      You still wanna press charges? 

The Guards shake their heads “no.”  

Policeman 2 shrugs.

             POLICEMAN 1
      Well, maybe we’ll see you tomorrow 
      Butchie.  

Policeman 1 cuts Butchie loose. 

             POLICEMAN 2
      Have a nice night.  

The Policemen leave.  The Nurse and Security Guards scatter.  
Lois, Mel, and Butchie stare at Scoot in awe.  

             SCOOT
      What?  

             BUTCHIE
      You’re the man Scoot.  

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Celeste sits on top of Izzy.  They’re almost at climax.  A 
shocked expression overtakes Izzy, it gives way to a smile. 

             IZZY
      Wow.

             CELESTE
      Yeah.

             IZZY
      Celeste...


             CELESTE
      What? 

All the air seemingly leaves Izzy’s body as he deflates.   

                                     102.

             CELESTE
	(CONT’D)
      Izzy?  IZZY!?

             IZZY
        (whisper)
      Touchdown.

And Izzy dies with a gigantic smile plastered on his face.

INT. PEDIATRIC WARD - NIGHT 

Celeste runs out of Izzy’s room in tears.  

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - LATER 

Butchie, Scoot, Mel, and Lois talk in the hallway.

             LOIS
      So is he...?

             BUTCHIE
      He’s happy.  

Lois hugs Mel.  

             LOIS
      Our little man is all grown up.

Celeste barrels into the main entrance in tears.  Everyone 
knows it’s over.  Mel cradles his wife.  Scoot chokes back 
tears.

Butchie runs down the hall.  

INT. IZZY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT 

CLOSE ON

Butchie, Lois, and Mel, all CRYING around Izzy’s dead body.  

             BUTCHIE
        (whispering)
      You did it.  

Scoot peers in the doorway, SNIFFLING.  He’s joined by Eddie 
and Celeste.  She puts a comforting arm around Scoot.   


Mel smiles wistfully at his son’s body, touching his face.

                                     103.

             LOIS
      I didn’t even get a chance to say 
      goodbye.  

             MEL
      Honey, look at look at him.  Have 
      you ever seen a smile that big?  

Lois smiles despite her grief.  

             LOIS
        (gesturing)
      We’re going to have to do something 
      about that.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL:

Under the blanket, Izzy’s sports a pup-tent erection.  

             MEL
      That’s my boy.  

Mel, Lois, and Butchie laugh through the pain.  

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY 

The RABBI (from before) stands before a large contingent of 
mourners finishing up a prayer.  The wooden box casket has 
already been lowered into the ground.  

             RABBI
      Yit-barach v'yish-tabach, v'yit-pa-
      ar v'yit-romam v'yit-nasay, v'yit-
      hadar v'yit-aleh v'yit-halal sh'may 
      d'koo-d'shah, b'rich hoo. 

PAN ACROSS THE MOURNERS: Meat, stands behind Eddie, Celeste, 
and Scoot, who holds Butchie’s right hand.  Clutching 
Butchie’s right arm is Lois, who clings to Mel on the other 
side of her.  

             RABBI
	(CONT’D)
      ...layla (ool-ayla) meen kol beer-
      chata v'she-rata, toosh-b'chata 
      v'nay-ch'mata, da-a meran b'alma, 
      ve'imru amen.
      Y'hay sh'lama raba meen sh'maya 
      v'cha-yim aleynu v'al kol Yisrael, 
      ve'imru amen.  O'seh shalom beem-
      romav, hoo ya'ah-seh shalom aleynu 
      v'al kol Yisrael, ve'imru amen.


The Rabbi closes his Haggadah and stands before the crowd.  

                                     104.

             RABBI
	(CONT’D)
      As we conclude today’s service, I 
      would say to Izzy’s loving parents 
      Melvin and Lois, may you be 
      comforted among all the mourners of 
      Zion and Jerusalem.  

Lois and Mel look at each other and smile.  They’re gonna be 
okay. 

             RABBI
	(CONT’D)
      I know it brought Lois and Mel 
      great comfort that Izzy achieved 
      his bar mitzvah shortly before his 
      death, and I am also told that his 
      final moments, were indeed 
      memorable.  I have been recently 
      informed by Izzy’s family that Izzy 
      wouldn’t want us to harp on the 
      melancholy aspects of what is no 
      doubt a sad occasion.  That was not 
      Izzy’s way.  And so, in following 
      Izzy’s final wish, I say this, go 
      Jets.

Butchie looks into the ground one last time.  Tears flow.  He 
smiles and tosses some dirt on the wooden box. 

INT. MEL AND LOIS’ HOME - DAY 

The mirrors have been scrubbed.  

Lois sits in front of Scoot acting like a mother once again.  
She holds a small knife in her hand.  

             LOIS
      So what we do is we make a little 
      tear on the right side of your 
      shirt and the left side of mine 
      because I’m the momma.  

Lois tears Scoot’s dress shirt, and then she tears her black 
dress.  Scoot runs off.  

A green jersey enters frame.  Lois looks up and sees Butchie, 
she takes the jersey and tears a small slit on the right 
front panel.  

             LOIS
	(CONT’D)
      This would make Izzy very happy.  


                                     105.

             BUTCHIE
      Commissioner’s office called.  
      Apparently some crazy woman 
      threatened to sue the league over 
      my alleged mistreatment.  Got my 
      suspension temporarily vacated 
      pending a review.   

             LOIS
        (coy)
      I wonder how that could have 
      happened?  

A beat.  Mel approaches.

             MEL
      Guess that means you can play 
      against New England today.  

             BUTCHIE
      I guess so.

             MEL
      There’s something for you in Izzy’s 
      room.  Top of the stairs.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY -- MEL AND LOIS’ HOME - DAY 

Butchie creeps up the stairs and opens a bedroom door into...

INT. IZZY’S ROOM -- MEL AND LOIS’ HOME - CONTINUOUS

Wall-to-wall posters of Butchie and other Jets paraphernalia, 
and one of the walls features posters of bikini-clad women.

ON THE BED

A wrapped box with Butchie’s name on a card.  Butchie opens 
the box.  Inside is...

...IZZY’S IPHONE.  There’s a sticky note on the phone that 
reads “PLAY ME.”  

Butchie switches on the phone and hits play.  

INSERT: IPHONE SCREEN 

Izzy’s face fills the screen.

             IZZY
	(ON SCREEN)
      Hey Asshole.  I hope you don’t 
      mind...



                                     106.

             IZZY
	(ON SCREEN)
	(CONT'D)
        (labored/wheezing)
      ...but I looked through your phone 
      and may have sent something to 
      Tamika...don’t worry, I made you 
      look good.  And if she cares about 
      you at all, she’ll know what you 
      did for me.  Anyway...
      I’m about...to nail Celeste.   
      Maybe I’ll...put it...in her 
      tuchas.  And Butchie, one more 
      thing...you’re not, an asshole.  At 
      least not, anymore.  J...E...T...S.  
      Jets.  Jets.  JETS!

BUTCHIE

Clutches the phone, not wanting the message to end.  He does 
not realize that standing right behind him is...

...TAMIKA.  

Butchie turns around, unsure of what to say.

Tamika lifts up her own iPhone and hits play.  We don’t see, 
only hear what plays.

             BUTCHIE’S VOICE
	(ON PHONE)
      My wife left me today, she took my 
      daughter with her, and I don’t 
      think they’re coming back.  Maybe I 
      didn’t realize it until now, but 
      without them, I’m nothing.  I can’t 
      think right, I can’t act right, I 
      can’t breathe.  

Tamika stops the video.   

             TAMIKA
      You’ve got quite a friend.  

Butchie takes Tamika by the hand. 

             BUTCHIE
      I know what I done was 
      unforgiveable, but I’m gonna 
      change, whether you’re with me or 
      not.  

             TAMIKA
      I believe you.

             BUTCHIE
      So you’re moving back in--


                                     107.

             TAMIKA
      Butchie it ain’t that--

             BUTCHIE
      Lemme finish.  You’re moving back 
      in, I’m moving out.  Give me six 
      months to prove to you that it’s 
      real, and maybe then, if you still 
      want me...you can have me.  Can you 
      do that for me, please?  

Tears well in Tamika’s eyes. 

             TAMIKA
      I don’t know. 

             BUTCHIE
      Look at this room Tamika.  This kid 
      worshipped me...and then he met me.  
      And he realized I wasn’t worthy of 
      any of it.  Football’s temporary. 
      My career could be over with the 
      next hit I take.  But being a 
      father, a husband, that’s forever.  
      Let me show you and Sunny that I 
      deserve to be on this wall.  Six 
      months.  Please.  Don’t take Sunny 
      away from me.  Not yet.  

Tamika bites her lip and considers for a long beat. 

             TAMIKA
      Okay.


Butchie hugs Tamika.  Standing in the doorway are Lois and 
Mel.  They give Butchie a thumb’s up.  

INT. MEL AND LOIS’ HOME - DAY 

Butchie walks downstairs with Tamika.  Butchie rubs a hand on 
Scoot and Eddie’s heads.  

             BUTCHIE
      You feel like coming to a football 
      game? 

Scoot and Eddie SCREAM.  

Butchie turns to Celeste. 

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      What about you?  Tom Brady’s gonna 
      be there.


             CELESTE
      Okay.

                                     108.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. TUNNEL -- METLIFE STADIUM - DAY 

Butchie holds Sunny in his arms, Tamika waits in the wings.  
He’s game-ready (jersey, pads, eye-black).  

             BUTCHIE
      How many touchdowns is Daddy going 
      to score today? 

             SUNNY
      Four.

             BUTCHIE
      Four?  Okay, just for you.  Gimme 
      your nose. 

Butchie and Sunny rub noses.  Sunny smiles.  Butchie hands 
Sunny to Tamika.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll see you after we win.  

             TAMIKA
      Okay Daddy.  And after the game--

             BUTCHIE
      Goldilox, I promise.    

Butchie kisses Sunny’s forehead and walks down the tunnel.

Meat, in uniform, helmet-in-hand, waits for Butchie.

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you Meat.  For everything.  

Meat and Butchie pounds fists.  The P.A. Announcer calls 
“Meat Ferguson,” and Meat runs out of the tunnel to the ROAR 
of the crowd.  

             BUTCHIE
	(CONT’D)
      You ready?  

REVEAL:

Scoot, Eddie, and Celeste all wear Butchie Jones jerseys.  
Scoot hands Butchie his helmet.  

Dan approaches out of breath.  


                                     109.

             DAN
      I’m begging you, don’t do this, 
      you’re on thin ice already.

             SCOOT
      Shut the fuck up Dan.  

Dan looks at Scoot bewildered.  Butchie shrugs.  

             BUTCHIE
      You heard him Dan, shut up.
        (to Eddie)
      Can I get a hand?

Butchie bends down and Eddie rips off the “Jones” nameplate 
on the back of Butchie’s jersey, REVEALING a nameplate that 
reads “IZZY”.  

The P.A. Announcer calls “Butchie Jones,” and Butchie runs 
out of the tunnel with Eddie, Scoot, and Celeste.  Each of 
their jerseys read “IZZY” on the nameplate.

EXT. FIELD -- METLIFE STADIUM - CONTINUOUS

Butchie jumps up and down along with the kids.  

             SCOOT
      Hey Brady!  Suck my mothafu--

THE END


