              MAN OF SORROW

                 by 

          Neville Gilchrist Kiser 

Page count: 111 
Draft date: 5.30.2013
nevillekiser@gmail.com
626.773.1801


FADE IN:

EXT. LONDON -- WEST END - NIGHT

SUPER: “Friday, April 5th, 1895 - London”  

Dusk.  

DESPERATE FOOTSTEPS scurry along cobblestone streets.  

SMOKE from steamboats drift across the burnt orange sky. 

Dozens of panicky ARISTOCRATIC MEN cross a bridge, SUITCASES 
in hand.   

Long lines form outside train and waterway ticket booths -- 
no women in sight. 

EXT. CURZON STREET - NIGHT

Fashionable area -- the Mayfair district in London. 

A HANDSOME ARISTOCRAT (31), prim and proper, like Sal from 
Mad Men, sprints with a small piece of LUGGAGE. 

In the distance, the English Channel -- the Handsome 
Aristocrat dashes toward it. 

EXT. TICKET BOOTH -- ENGLISH CHANNEL - NIGHT

The Handsome Aristocrat slides ONE SHILLING across the 
counter -- out of breath. 

             HANDSOME ARISTOCRAT
      Night ferry to Calais.  One, 
      please.   

The TICKET SALES CLERK (60), doesn’t pick up the shilling --

             TICKET SALES CLERK
      All sold out. 

             HANDSOME ARISTOCRAT
      There’s no more ships this evening? 

             TICKET SALES CLERK
      Not unless you want to swim there.  

He chuckles, then looks at the man -- eyes turn suspicious.


                                      2.

             HANDSOME ARISTOCRAT
      What about by train? 

The clerk recognizes him.  

             TICKET SALES CLERK
      You’s one of them.  Ain’t ya? 

The Handsome Aristocrat flees, leaving his shilling behind. 

The clerk picks it up, pockets it.  

EXT. DARK ALLEY - NIGHT

CLOSE UP on a black blur of RUNNING BOOTS -- and then, 

A WHACK! 

The Handsome Aristocrat tumbles down the stoney street. 

His FACE SKIDS AGAINST THE GROUND. 

Then, he hears the sound of footsteps --

A shadowy figure, 

Moves closer and closer to the Handsome Aristocrat -- 

A LANTERN OF LIGHT moves over his face, revealing -- 

A LARGE GASH across the Handsome Aristocrat’s cheek -- 

It slowly bleeds.

             MAN’S VOICE
	(O.C.)
      Weren’t trying to flee London now, 
      were you?  

The Handsome Aristocrat looks up, into the light --  

BLINDED BY IT -- as we hear, 

THE WHIPPING OF A HORSE -- SLAP! -- and the WHEELS OF A 
CARRIAGE, rolling.

EXT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - NIGHT

A horse and carriage pass by --

16 TITE STREET.  Chelsea, London. 

STARING OUT FROM A THIRD FLOOR WINDOW of the Wilde house is, 


                                      3.

OSCAR WILDE (41), stoic-looking and flamboyantly dressed in a 
PURPLE PIN-STRIPED SUIT.  His shoulder-length, chestnut hair, 
wavy and light.    

INT. OSCAR WILDE HOME -- NURSERY - NIGHT

Quaint bedroom nursery.  

Oscar bends his head away from the window -- and sees his two 
sons -- 

CYRIL WILDE (9) and VYVYAN WILDE (8), getting ready for bed -- 
taking their time as all boys do. 

             VYVYAN
      Why can’t we come to the theater 
      with you, father? 

             OSCAR
      Young Irishmen need their rest to 
      grow. 

Cyril climbs into bed -- 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      No matter how tall their father is. 

             VYVYAN
      When I grow up, I shall be taller 
      than you, father. 

             OSCAR
      With your confidence, no doubt you 
      shall. 

Oscar picks up Vyvyan, tosses him into bed -- COVERS HIM WITH 
A BLANKET -- he’s now hidden.

Vyvyan laughs.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Cyril, do you hear something? 

Oscar begins to tickle Vyvyan through the blankets. 

             VYVYAN
        (laughing)
      Father!  Father!  Enough, please! 

             OSCAR
      I must be going deaf because I 
      can’t hear a peep.  


                                      4.

             CYRIL
      The libel trial ended today.   

Oscar is caught off guard -- stops tickling Vyvyan. 

             OSCAR
      Who told you this?

             CYRIL
      I heard grandmother tell mother.  

             OSCAR
      Little pigs have big ears. 

Vyvyan pokes his head out from the covers -- his hair a mess. 

             CYRIL
      Is everything alright? 

             OSCAR
      Perfectly predictable, Cyril.   

Cyril isn’t satisfied -- his face, worrisome. 

A firstborn child, through and through.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Now.  How about a story before bed?

Oscar grabs a book of short stories -- 

Written by him.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      The Selfish Giant, perhaps? 

             VYVYAN
      Not that again. 

             OSCAR
      Does my writing no longer interest 
      you, Vyvyan? 

             VYVYAN
      That one is too sad.  

             OSCAR
      All great art is tragic.   

             VYVYAN
      Sing us a lullaby.

             OSCAR
      Cyril?


                                      5.

Cyril nods -- he wants that, too. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I suppose I’m outnumbered. 

Oscar puts the book down. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Very well.  What will it be this 
      evening? 

             VYVYAN
      Táimse im' chodhladh!

             OSCAR
      “I’m asleep.  Don’t wake me.” 
        (beat)
      Something I wish you both would 
      adhere to each morning you come 
      rushing into my bedroom. 

Oscar, grinning. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Now then. 

Oscar clears his throat -- begins to sing in Irish.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Tráthnóinín déanach i gcéin cois 
      leasa dom.  Táimse i m' chodhladh 
      is ná dúisigh mé. 

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Oscar’s singing continues, into the hallway -- 

It’s slow, soothing -- as if sung from the hills of Dublin to 
calm a raging sea. 

Coming up the stairs, holding a CANDLE is --

CONSTANCE WILDE (36), somber-looking and fair-skinned, her 
head covered with a navy blue bonnet. 

She inches closer to, 

THE CHILDREN’S NURSERY DOOR -- which is cracked open. 

Constance peers through -- sees Oscar singing to the boys. 

She takes in the peaceful moment. 


INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

A MAID (20s), finishes clearing the table of plates, dishes. 

Constance sits at the table now -- like a statue.  

                                      6.

Oscar ENTERS. 

             OSCAR
      Ready Constance?  

Constance eyes the Maid. 

The Maid quickly EXITS. 

             CONSTANCE
      I won’t be joining you this 
      evening. 

Her words sting.  

             OSCAR
      People will always believe lies, 
      Constance.  But you mustn’t. 

             CONSTANCE
      Doesn’t matter if I believe.  What 
      matters is the public opinion. 

             OSCAR
      By that logic, we should all keep 
      someone else’s diary.  

             CONSTANCE
      This is not a joke, Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      A fallacious scandal?  That’s the 
      biggest joke of all. 

             CONSTANCE
      You lost today, Oscar.  Don’t you 
      know what that implies?

             OSCAR
      It’s not true. 

             CONSTANCE
      And what about your reputation?  

             OSCAR
      There are people in London who want 
      only the ruin of me. 


                                      7.

Oscar takes her hand. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Please come.  I need you there 
      beside me, Constance.  

             CONSTANCE
      I’m sorry, Oscar.  

Constance slips her hand away from his.  

             CONSTANCE
	(CONT’D)
      I can’t. 

INT. QUEENSBERRY CARRIAGE - NIGHT

Two men in TOP HATS -- their heads wobble with the uneven, 
bumpy ride. 

One is JOHN SHOLTO DOUGLAS, 9TH MARQUESS OF QUEENSBERRY (50), 
thin, stoic with a dastardly twinkle in his eye. 

The other is EDWARD CARSON (38), pale-faced, hair slicked-
back and big open forehead. 

             QUEENSBERRY
      How quickly can we proceed? 

Carson, hesitates. 

             CARSON
      We must first draft a letter to the 
      Director of Public Prosecutions.  
      Then, the judge will issue--

             QUEENSBERRY
      Fine.  Draft it at once.  And send 
      over our witness statements.  No 
      doubt that will convince him.  

             CARSON
      Sir, perhaps we wait for--  

             QUEENSBERRY
      Wait? 

             CARSON
      These are grave charges.  

             QUEENSBERRY
      I’ll have no miscarriage of 
      justice. 


                                      8.

             CARSON
      But your son, Lord Douglas-- 

             QUEENSBERRY
      Is as good as dead to me.
        (beat)
      Draft the letter.  At once.   

EXT. HAYMARKET ROYAL THEATRE - NIGHT

A grand, lit up MARQUEE: 

“AN IDEAL HUSBAND by OSCAR WILDE”  

Dozens of TOWNSPEOPLE scurry in the streets outside the 
theatre -- a rich part of the city.  

At the theatre ticket booth, a small sign reads: 

“Tonight’s performance: Sold Out”  

O.S. LAUGHTER is heard as we go into --

INT. HAYMARKET ROYAL THEATRE - NIGHT

Oscar stands at stage center, in front of a lavish, red, 
CLOSED CURTAIN -- LAUGHTER coming from the sold out crowd.  

A SPOTLIGHT shines on Oscar.  He carries on, lustrously -- 

             OSCAR
      This is why I adore theatre.

TUXEDOS and GOWNS fill up the audience.   

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      One of the few places where you can 
      publicly mock the hypocrisy of 
      London’s high society. 

More LAUGHTER ensues. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I do hope the show delights you.  
      And do forgive the actors.  I’ve 
      watched this performance a dozen 
      times and still, they fail to 
      capture my waggish riposte. 

Oscar BOWS as the crowd APPLAUDS, with gusto. 

He EXITS stage left. 


                                      9.

INT. STAGE LEFT - NIGHT

APPLAUSE continues as Oscar watches the curtain open -- 

Then, lines of DIALOGUE -- Oscar’s written words -- spoken. 

His face lights up like a child. 

INT. HAYMARKET ROYAL THEATRE - NIGHT

The opening scene of An Ideal Husband.  

On stage, we see a brilliantly lit room full of GAUDY GUESTS. 

ACTRESSES playing the characters,

MRS. MARCHMONT (30s) and LADY BASILDON (30s), sway across the 
stage -- their gowns brushing against the floor. 

We enter in the middle of their conversation -- 

             MRS. MARCHMONT
      I come here to be educated. 

             LADY BASILDON
      Ah!  I hate being educated. 

             MRS. MARCHMONT
      So do I.  It puts one almost on a 
      level with the commercial class, 
      doesn’t it? 

CHUCKLES from the audience. 

             MRS. MARCHMONT
	(CONT’D)
      But dear Gertrude Chiltern is 
      always telling me that I should 
      have some serious purpose in life.
        (beat)
      So I come here to try to find one. 

INT. GREEN ROOM - NIGHT

Back stage -- some time later, 

Inside a dimly lit room with GREEN LAMPS and flowery-print 
sofas, we hear HEAVY PANTING --

Then faintly see, on the other side of the room, 

Oscar on the couch having sex with -- 


                                      10.

LORD ALFRED “BOSIE” DOUGLAS (19), strikingly handsome, 
youthful -- the most beautiful man in London. 

Oscar KISSES the back of Bosie’s neck as he lies behind him, 
thrusting. 

Fingers gripping his shoulder, until --  

LATER

After sex. 

Oscar buttons up his shirt -- pulls his SUIT JACKET over his 
shoulders -- 

             BOSIE
      No wonder you always speak of 
      pleasure. 

Speckles of sweat run down Bosie’s bare torso as he pulls up 
his trousers. 

             OSCAR
      Pleasure is the only thing worth 
      having a theory about. 

             BOSIE
      And me?  

Oscar LIGHTS A CIGARETTE -- puffs out his first drag. 

             BOSIE
	(CONT’D)
      Am I not worth a theory?

             OSCAR
      You deserve a whole philosophy.  In 
      the Greek school of Adonis.  I envy 
      the face God gave you.

Bosie takes the cigarette from Oscar -- blows a drag out.

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Wish I had the pleasure of gazing 
      at it every day. 

             BOSIE
      And if I granted your wish?  My 
      face for yours.  

             OSCAR
      I’d quite like that. 

They kiss. 


                                      11.

Slowly, tenderly this time.   

             BOSIE
      Let’s run away.  Tonight. 

             OSCAR
      Don’t be absurd, Bosie.  

From awestruck to anger -- Bosie’s beauty ends where his 
intellect begins.  

             BOSIE
      What’s so absurd about that?  

             OSCAR
      I will not continue to be the wedge 
      between you and your father.  

             BOSIE
      Don’t call him that. 

             OSCAR
      Fine.  Lord Queensberry. 

             BOSIE
      What do you care about him?  After 
      what he’s done to you.  

             OSCAR
      Promise me you won’t -- 

THE DOOR OPENS -- 

Revealing, 

ROBERT “ROBBIE” ROSS (25), cute, slightly chubby and a tad 
effeminate.  He sees Oscar and Bosie, gladly interrupts -- 

             ROBBIE
      It’s finished.  Come, Oscar. 

Bosie sneers at Robbie -- somebody’s jealous of someone here. 

             ROBBIE
	(CONT’D)
      Now, Oscar. 

INT. LOBBY -- HAYMARKET ROYAL THEATRE - NIGHT

Oscar greets two WOMEN PATRONS (50s) as they exit -- 

Robbie stands nearby.  


                                      12.

             WOMAN PATRON #1
      Really the most delightful time 
      I’ve had at the theatre in years. 

             OSCAR
      Abundantly appreciated, madame. 

             WOMAN PATRON #1
      I should know.  I’ve seen so many-- 

She pauses. 

             WOMAN PATRON #1
	(CONT’D)
      Dreadful plays in my lifetime. 

             OSCAR
      A very brief lifetime, indeed. 

The elder woman is flattered -- she coos. 

             WOMAN PATRON #2 
      Surely you’re becoming one of 
      London’s most accomplished writers. 

Another WOMAN’S VOICE from behind Oscar chimes in --

             WOMAN’S VOICE
      He is London’s greatest writer.    

The Woman Patrons look behind Oscar and see -- 

Oscar’s mother, LADY WILDE (73), dressed in a gaudy PINK 
GOWN, complete with a FEATHERED HAT.  Decadence, personified.  

             WOMAN PATRON #2
      Speranza!  How proud you must be.  

             LADY WILDE
      As proud as any mother can be. 

Oscar kisses his mother’s hand. 

             LADY WILDE
	(CONT’D)
      Ladies, will you excuse us? 

The two women CURTSEY, then walk away. 

Lady Wilde walks with Oscar -- Robbie trailing behind them. 

             OSCAR
      Anything to alter this evening, 
      mother?


                                      13.

             LADY WILDE
      That actress who plays Gertrude. 

             OSCAR
      You didn’t like her?

             LADY WILDE
      Positively dull.  Reciting your 
      poetry like an ill monkey. 

             OSCAR
      I rather adored her. 

             LADY WILDE
      You adore all actors.  Which is 
      dangerous.  We writers must never 
      fall in love with our actors.  

As if Lady Wilde is just as popular as a writer as her son -- 
clearly, she’s not. 

             OSCAR
      Perhaps you could write something 
      then?  

             LADY WILDE
      Oh, Oscar.  Don’t play games.  I ’m 
      merely looking out for your art.  
      You must understand that.  

             OSCAR
      Of course.  As you always do, 
      mother.  

             LADY WILDE
      I’ll speak to the director. 

Before he can tell her not to, she kisses him on the cheek. 

             LADY WILDE
	(CONT’D)
      Good night, son. 

INT. CARRIAGE - NIGHT

Oscar, calm, collected -- rides with Robbie -- who gazes out 
of the carriage window, a tad anxious.  

             OSCAR
      A true gentleman never looks out 
      the window while riding, Robbie.  

Robbie grins -- the grin that skirts the truth. 


                                      14.

EXT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - NIGHT

As Oscar steps down from his carriage, a swarm of JOURNALISTS 
flock to him -- shouting out questions, one after another -- 

Oscar cuts his way through the small crowd with Robbie --

             JOURNALIST #1
      A word about losing the libel suit?

             JOURNALIST #2
      Have you had any contact with Lord 
      Queensberry since the trial ended?

             JOURNALIST #3
      Do you love your wife? 

Now at his front door, he turns to respond --  

             OSCAR
        (to Journalist #1)
      Yes.  
        (to Journalist #2)
      No.
        (to Journalist #3)
      No.

Oscar smiles, proudly -- as if he enjoys the pestering.

INT. FOYER - NIGHT

Doors SLAM shut as Oscar and Robbie enter. 

ALFRED (40s), the butler, locks the doors behind them.

             OSCAR
      Put a fire on in the library, 
      Alfred. 

INT. LIBRARY - NIGHT

A decadently furnished room -- filled with shelves and 
shelves of BOOKS.  

A writer’s heaven. 

On the wall above Oscar’s WRITING DESK, hangs a replica of 

GUIDO RENI’S painting, “SAINT SEBASTIAN” 

The piece depicts a muscular, almost naked 26-year-old 
Sebastian, pierced by two arrows, and tied to a tree post. 


                                      15.

His arms raised above his head -- as well as his helpless 
gaze up to heaven -- accentuate his youthful-sex appeal. 

Oscar pours two glasses of WHISKEY.  

Hands one to Robbie, then takes a seat on a PLUSH COUCH. 

He runs his hands over the silky smooth fabric. 

             OSCAR
      Isn’t this lovely?  Imported from 
      Paris.  Finest silk available. 

Robbie, unimpressed. 

             ROBBIE
      I’ve spoken to Sir Edward Clarke. 

             OSCAR
      And? 

             ROBBIE
      He suggests you leave.  At once.  

             OSCAR
      I’m innocent.  Why should I leave? 

             ROBBIE
      Because.  The law desires it. 

             OSCAR
      The English have a miraculous power 
      of turning wine into water. 

Oscar stands -- goes to Reni’s painting.   

             ROBBIE
      Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      Saint Sebastian was shot with 
      arrows for proselytizing his faith. 
      But this wasn’t what killed him. 
      Did you know that?  

Robbie shakes his head.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      After surviving the arrows of 
      persecution, he publicly criticized 
      the pagan Roman emperor 
      Diocletian’s corrupt leadership.  
      This act, this undermining of 
      authority, cost him his life.  


                                      16.

Oscar focuses in on Sebastian’s wounds. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Wounds to the soul don’t heal as 
      easy as the flesh. 

He drinks the remaining whiskey left in his glass. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I’m not fleeing from London’s 
      corrupt authority.

             ROBBIE
      This impending criminal trial--  

             OSCAR
      Is unjust. 

             ROBBIE
      But it’s against you. 

             OSCAR
      And already, you speak as though 
      I’ve lost.  Have you no faith in 
      me? 

             ROBBIE
      Don’t twist my words. 

             OSCAR
      Then stop presuming to know my 
      fate. 

Robbie is startled.  

             ROBBIE
      I’m on your side, Oscar.  I’ve 
      known you for nearly ten years. 
      Have I not been a loyal friend?

             OSCAR
      The best friend, Robbie. 

             ROBBIE
      Then take heed.  That’s all I ask.  

INT. FOYER - NIGHT

Oscar sees Robbie off -- closes the front door behind him. 


                                      17.

INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Oscar trudges up the stairs -- Cyril stands in the hallway, 
waiting for him.  

             OSCAR
      Why are you still awake? 

             CYRIL
      You’re in trouble, aren’t you? 

Oscar walks up to him -- leans down to his eye level. 

             CYRIL
	(CONT’D)
      I’m not a child.  You can tell me. 

             OSCAR
      I’m fine, Cyril.  Just the price of 
      fame in this society.  

             CYRIL
      What do you mean? 

             OSCAR
      People adore living another man’s 
      life.  They see the lack of fame 
      and ingenuity in their own and they 
      wish theirs to be different.  
      Without every acting differently. 

             CYRIL
      But all those newspaper men --

             OSCAR
      Never mind them.  And if any one of 
      them come up to you, begging for a 
      word, you have my permission to 
      smack them swiftly in their gut. 

Cyril smiles -- feeling reassured. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I am so proud of you, son.

Oscar kisses his son’s forehead. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Now, off to bed. 

EXT. QUEENSBERRY HOME - NIGHT

Queensberry sits in a lounge chair -- fast asleep. 


A BANGING KNOCK AT THE DOOR! 

Startles him awake -- he rushes over to the door, opens it. 

                                      18.

It’s Bosie, his son. 

The two exchange harsh looks. 

LATER 

Bosie, fuming -- paces beside the FIREPLACE. 

Queensberry sits calmly in his lounge chair. 

             BOSIE
      This is not about justice. 

             QUEENSBERRY
      Of course it is.  And I intend to 
      do my public service. 

             BOSIE
      This coming from a man who’s been 
      divorced.  Twice.  Whose reputation 
      is met with snickering every time 
      he enters a room!  

Queensberry springs up from his chair -- 

Gets in Bosie’s face. 

             QUEENSBERRY
      Watch your tongue, boy. 

             BOSIE
      Or what?  What more can you do to 
      him?  

             QUEENSBERRY
      He’s tainted you.  I won’t stand 
      for it any longer.

Queensberry stands to leave the room. 

             BOSIE
      I’ll stand as his witness. 

This stops Queensberry. 

             BOSIE
	(CONT’D)
      Against you. 

             QUEENSBERRY
      Get out.  


                                      19.

Bosie grabs his coat, hat, and EXITS.  

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT 

The moonlight drifts through the window of Oscar and 
Constance’s bedroom, revealing -- 

Oscar and Constance in bed.  

Constance turns -- 

BLOWS OUT THE CANDLE on the night stand beside her. 

Then situates herself under the covers.  There’s a good 
distance between them. 

             CONSTANCE
      Do you find me attractive, Oscar?

             OSCAR
      What kind of silly question is 
      that?

             CONSTANCE
      I must know. 

She looks to him -- 

             CONSTANCE
	(CONT’D)
      Do you?

Oscar strokes her cheek with the back of his hand. 

             OSCAR
      You’re the most radiant woman in 
      all of London. 

LATER

Constance is asleep -- Oscar, still awake. 

Their backs turned to one another in bed, now.  

Distance still between them.  

Oscar looks to the nearby closet floor, sees a -- 

SMALL SUITCASE 

He could run away right now.  

He could leave whatever fate is or isn’t to come. 


                                      20.

His eyes wander around the walls of the bedroom --

Lit by the MOONLIGHT -- speckles of dust gently dance amidst 
the ray of light shooting into the room. 

Light illuminates the intimate space of the small bedroom. 

As his eyes travel into each corner -- he gets out of bed, 
then walks over to the window. 

His face now bathed in prisms of moonlight. 

OUTSIDE

He sees a DOCK WORKER (30s) near the English Channel, off in 
the distance. 

Just below the night horizon. 

The Dock Worker unties two large ROPES that are wrapped 
around two WOODEN BEAMS erected out of the water. 

Oscar watches the scene, intensely. 

The Dock Worker hops in the boat, picks up a WOODEN OAR, 
pushes himself and his boat away from the dock. 

Then begins to row --  

Further and further away from the shore. 

Oscar could flee right now -- but he doesn’t.  

EXT. STREET - DAY

Galloping HORSES POUND against the pavement -- swiftly moving 
through the streets. 

A BLACK CARRIAGE follows behind them. 

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Constance pours TEA for Oscar -- Lady Wilde sits with him. 

INT. NURSERY - DAY

Cyril hears the sound of the horse and carriage -- 

He sits up in bed -- Vyvyan still asleep. 

A POUNDING AT OSCAR’S FRONT DOOR. 


                                      21.

Cyril runs to leave the nursery -- 

His FOOTSTEPS make the WOODEN FLOOR CREAK. 

INT. STAIRWAY - DAY

Cyril dashes down the steps.  

Frantic. 

Blocking him at the bottom is Constance. 

             CYRIL
      Who’s here? 

             CONSTANCE
      Go back upstairs.

             CYRIL
      No!  What’s happening?

             CONSTANCE
      Cyril!

He struggles, shoves, pushes to get by his mother -- 

As Constance holds him tight. 

Alfred runs over to help her -- picks up Cyril --

             CYRIL
      No! 


INT. FOYER - DAY

TWO POLICEMEN stand in the foyer, by the door.  One of them 
begins to put handcuffs on Oscar. 

             LADY WILDE
      Is that really necessary? 

             OSCAR
      Just doing their job, mother. 

Oscar acts as if this is a play -- and he’s an actor.  

Playing the part of a man being arrested. 

A surreal moment. 

A LOCKING and SNAPPING of the HANDCUFFS. 


                                      22.

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Much heavier than they look. 

Lady Wilde -- cold but proud -- leans in to kiss her son. 

INT. OSCAR WILDE HOME -- NURSERY - DAY

Alfred stands by the door -- as Cyril runs over to the 
window, stands beside his brother Vyvyan.  

It’s similar to the opening shot of Oscar, only this time 
Cyril and Vyvyan stand at the window -- gazing out at,  

Oscar being forced into the rear of the POLICE CARRIAGE -- 

EXT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - DAY

As the POLICE CARRIAGE pulls away -- Oscar peers out the back 
window -- waves to Constance. 

Who stands in front of the steps of her home, alone. 

EXT. BOW STREET MAGISTRATES’ COURT - DAY

Oscar steps out of the prison carriage -- 

POLICEMEN escort him inside. 

INT. BOW STREET MAGISTRATES’ COURT - DAY

Oscar stands before a HIGH DESK, behind it, sits --

The MAGISTRATE (60s), in a white powdered wig and a large 
black robe.  

He reads the charges -- 

             MAGISTRATE
      Under section 11 of the Criminal 
      Law Amendment Act of 1885, Oscar 
      Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde, is 
      hereby arrested for charges of 
      gross indecency.  The trial date is 
      set for three weeks from today. 
      April 27, 1895.  Bail is set at 
      5,000 pounds. 

He bangs the gavel. 


Oscar’s lawyer, SIR EDWARD CLARKE (40s), in a full suit with 
a full beard, stands beside him -- whispers in his ear. 

             CLARKE
      Don’t worry.  We’ll make bail.  

                                      23.

Oscar is taken away.  

INT. HOLLOWAY PRISON - DAY

Oscar is put in a jail holding cell -- a small pile of PRISON 
CLOTHES, beside him.  

A GUARD opens the door -- Oscar steps out. 

INT. JAIL SHOWERS - DAY

NAKED PRISONERS shower next to Oscar -- they scoff at him. 

He tries to ignore them. 

Oscar turns on one SHOWER -- FREEZING WATER SPRAYS OUT. 

Hurriedly, he begins to scrub himself with soap as,  

He hears a LAUGH -- looks up, and sees, 

THE HANDSOME ARISTOCRAT 

Oscar knows this man. 

It is --

ALFRED TAYLOR (31), sly-looking, yet handsome.  He waves at 
Oscar.  

             OSCAR
      Taylor?

INT. HOLLOWAY PRISON - NIGHT

Oscar in his cell.  Still curious why Taylor is in prison.  

A NIGHT GUARD walks by, doing his rounds. 

Oscar jumps up -- goes to the bars, 

             OSCAR
      Excuse me, sir?


                                      24.

             NIGHT GUARD
      Quiet. 

             OSCAR
      There’s a man here.  Another 
      prisoner, Alfred Taylor --

Night Guard HITS THE IRON BARS WITH A BILLY CLUB --  

             NIGHT GUARD
      I said quiet!

INT. HOLLOWAY PRISON - DAY

Days later. 

Oscar wakes up -- stubble pushes through his cheeks. 

FOOTSTEPS approach Oscar’s cell, revealing --

The HEAD PRISON GUARD (50s), who knocks a CROWBAR against the 
iron bars, startling Oscar. 

             HEAD PRISON GUARD
      You made bail. 

EXT. HOLLOWAY PRISON - DAY

Oscar steps outside -- Clarke follows him.  

ROBBIE’S CARRIAGE, awaits. 

He opens the carriage door for Oscar -- 

             OSCAR
      Who came up with the money? 

             CLARKE
      Bosie.  

EXT. LAW OFFICE - DAY

A sign out front reads: 

“CLARK AND ASSOCIATES” 

Through the window, Oscar and Robbie sit, side-by-side. 

Clarke, behind his desk, filing through DOCUMENTS. 


                                      25.

INT. LAW OFFICE - DAY

Clarke hands over a DOCUMENT for Oscar to sign. 

             CLARKE
      I swore to the magistrate you 
      wouldn’t leave London until the 
      trial began. 

Oscar picks up a pen to sign it. 

             OSCAR
      First they want me gone.  Now they 
      demand I stay. 

             CLARKE
      We need to discuss your defense.

             OSCAR
      Not guilty. 

             CLARKE
      I know Bosie helped collect money 
      for your bail, but I must insist, 
      he can take no part in this trial. 

             OSCAR
      Nor do I want him to. 

             CLARKE
      Perhaps I should make myself more 
      clear. 

Robbie lowers his head.  

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      You saw how he damaged you in the 
      libel suit.  He’s irrational.  He 
      runs his mouth to the press.  We 
      can’t have any of that this time 
      around if we are to prove your 
      innocence to a jury. 

             OSCAR
      So what are you suggesting?  Bosie 
      leave London?  

Of course that’s what he wants.  

             CLARKE
      Not suggesting.  More imperative.  
      Before any groveling journalist 
      gets to him. 


                                      26.

             OSCAR
      And you wish me to tell him?

             ROBBIE
      He will only listen to you, Oscar.  

EXT. HAYMARKET ROYAL THEATRE - DAY

Oscar saunters by, and sees -- 

HIS NAME HAS BEEN REMOVED FROM THE THEATRE MARQUEE -- 

He also notices one more change: 

“AN IDEAL HUSBAND” by Oscar Wilde is, 

“CANCELLED”.  

EXT. WEST END APARTMENT - DAY

Oscar languidly approaches an -- 

ORNATE, BEAUTIFUL FOUR-STORY BUILDING. 

A bright light illuminates the entrance. 

He steps inside. 

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

A door swings OPEN -- revealing OSCAR.  

Bosie hugs him -- 

             BOSIE
      I’ve missed you, so! 

             OSCAR
      I shall repay you the bail money.

             BOSIE
      And I will not accept. 

Bosie’s infectious smile, glows. 

             BOSIE
	(CONT’D)
      A gift is a gift. 

             OSCAR
      I’ve missed your face. 


                                      27.

             BOSIE
      Weeks move slowly when you can’t 
      see the one you love. 

Bosie pours Oscar a glass of whiskey -- hands it over to him.  

             OSCAR
      Bosie.  We need to talk. 

Oscar doesn’t know how to transition -- 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Sir Edward Clarke thinks it best 
      for you not to be present for the 
      trial. 

             BOSIE
      But I’ve already told my father.  I 
      will take the stand.  Against him. 

             OSCAR
      You spoke to Lord Queensberry?

             BOSIE
      Of course.  To request he not press 
      charges against you. 

             OSCAR
      I specifically asked you not to, 
      Bosie. 

             BOSIE
      Don’t speak to me like some 
      penniless valet.  I just bailed you 
      out of prison.    

So much for a gift being a gift. 

             OSCAR
      And I appreciate that gesture.  But 
      perhaps it’s better if you leave 
      London until the trial has ended. 

             BOSIE
      If I take the stand my father will 
      surely lose.

             OSCAR
      Any testimony implying an improper 
      relationship with you will not be 
      seen as -- 


                                      28.

             BOSIE
      I bail you out of jail and you want 
      me gone?

             OSCAR
      It’s not what I want, it’s what’s 
      necessary.

             BOSIE
      Necessary?  You.  The great Oscar 
      Wilde.  Who lives for pleasure.  
      Can’t bear to see his precious 
      public think ill of him. 

             OSCAR
      I don’t care about the public.  I 
      care about us.

             BOSIE
      Then why wouldn’t you leave with 
      me?  Before your arrest last week?  
      I asked you then and you denied me.  
      Now you want me to go alone? 

             OSCAR
      Please understand. 

             BOSIE
      I understand.   

Bosie can’t even look at Oscar now. 

             OSCAR
      I do love you, Bosie. 

Oscar reaches out to touch his shoulder --

Bosie backs away from him.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll see you after the trial. 

Still no response. 

Oscar opens the door -- LEAVES. 

Immediately, Bosie begins to whimper -- already regretful. 

He grabs a SUITCASE -- begins to pack. 

Throwing clothes in it -- haphazardly. 


                                      29.

INT. NURSERY - DAY

The same scene with Oscar’s sons -- they pack, quickly. 

Racing against time. 

INT. OSCAR WILDE HOME -- KITCHEN - DAY

Oscar ENTERS to find a packing commotion.  

From the butler to the maid, everyone’s taking items out of 
cupboards, and placing them in LARGE TRUNKS. 

             OSCAR
      What’s going on?

             MAID
      Don’t you know, sir?

             OSCAR
      Of course not, that’s why I’m 
      bloody asking! 

Constance ENTERS. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Constance.  What’s happening? 

             CONSTANCE
      They’re holding an auction.  For 
      the house.  

             OSCAR
      Who is? 

             CONSTANCE
      The city.  Lord Queensberry’s 
      creditors are demanding payment and 
      all our accounts have been emptied.  

             OSCAR
      That’s impossible. 

             CONSTANCE
      I’ve already spoken with Mr. 
      George. 

             OSCAR
      Then I’ll speak with him.

Constance grabs a NEWSPAPER --  


                                      30.

             CONSTANCE
      This was posted in the Daily 
      Telegraph, this morning. 

THE AD READS: 

Auction for the property of Oscar Wilde.  16 Tite Street, 
Chelsea, London.  On Wed., April 24, 1895. 

             OSCAR
      But that’s tomorrow. 

             CONSTANCE
      I know.  Cyril, Vyvyan and I are 
      moving into my brother’s house. 

INT. OSCAR WILDE HOME -- NURSERY - DAY

The door opens, revealing Cyril and Vyvyan packing.

             VYVYAN
      Father!

Vyvyan runs over -- jumps into Oscar’s arms. 

             VYVYAN
	(CONT’D)
      Are you coming with us? 

             OSCAR
      Father won’t be able to right now. 

Cyril looks like he’s been betrayed. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I promise, Cyril.  After the trial.  
      We’ll get our life back. 

             VYVYAN
      Why must you go on trial, father? 

             OSCAR
      Because some bad men wish to 
      destroy me.  

             VYVYAN
      But why?

             OSCAR
      That doesn’t matter. 

             CYRIL
      Yes, it does! 


                                      31.

Cyril, a mess. 

             CYRIL
	(CONT’D)
      Boys at school are talking.  Saying 
      horrible things. 

Oscar comes to Cyril, kneels down beside him -- 

             OSCAR
      They want to hurt us, to steal our 
      happiness.  But they can’t if we 
      refuse to give it up. 

Oscar hugs both his sons -- together, at once. 

EXT. BANK OF ENGLAND - DAY

A bustling scene.  

PEDESTRIANS, CARRIAGES going in all sorts of directions.  

Well before traffic lanes.  You can’t tell which direction 
carriages, horses or people are going. 

At the corner of the square is the BANK OF ENGLAND.  TWO TALL 
PILLARS sit, side-by-side, next to the ENTRANCE. 

INT. BANK OF ENGLAND - DAY

High ceilings.  

Echoes of polite voices. 

And everyone dressed to the nines -- apropos of London.  

Oscar ENTERS -- 

Immediately, the mood changes. 

BANK PATRONS and EMPLOYEES behind counters look at him as if 
he’s already been convicted. 

They’ve all read the papers, no doubt. 

Oscar heads over to MR. GEORGE (40s), who sits behind a 
square-wooden desk. 

             MR. GEORGE 
      Mr. Wilde! 

             OSCAR
      What’s the meaning of this, George?


                                      32.

Oscar shoves the NEWSPAPER AD in his face --  

             MR. GEORGE
      Please lower your voice, Mr. Wilde. 

             OSCAR
      I will not! 

Oscar takes a seat. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      My house is being auctioned? 

             MR. GEORGE
      Your creditors have all backed 
      down.  Your funds have been 
      depleted. 

             OSCAR
      How is that possible?

             MR. GEORGE
      I warned you months ago.  Not to 
      trust the personal credit lines of 
      local businesses. 

Oscar remembers.  

             MR. GEORGE
	(CONT’D)
      Hotels.  Restaurants.  You and your 
      friends--

He says ‘friends’ as if they shouldn’t be called friends. 

             MR. GEORGE
	(CONT’D)
      Have been reckless. 

             OSCAR
      What about proceeds?  From the 
      play?  

             MR. GEORGE
      You forfeited your proceeds with 
      them the day you were arrested.  

             OSCAR
      There must be something I can do.    

             MR. GEORGE
      Are you listening to me, Mr. Wilde? 
      Your name carries no monetary 
      leverage anymore. 

Mr. George, quieting to a whisper -- leans in to him. 


                                      33.

             MR. GEORGE
	(CONT’D)
      You’re bankrupt. 

EXT. MEN’S TAILOR SHOP - NIGHT

The sun has just hidden itself behind London’s town square. 

Oscar stands outside a tailor shop, gazing at his reflection 
in the window. 

Through the window on display, is the same PURPLE PIN-STRIPED 
SUIT he was wearing in the opening. 

He looks down at the dark suit he’s in now -- vastly 
different from the suit he sees in his reflection.  

EXT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - NIGHT

Completely dark now.  STARS light up the night sky.  

INT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - NIGHT

In the foyer -- Oscar stands alone.  

Constance and his sons are gone.  

As are the butler and maid, and the rest of the servants.  

There’s a few things left behind. 

Oscar surveys the room -- goes into the STUDY. 

INT. STUDY - NIGHT

A large OIL PAINTING OF OSCAR WILDE hangs above the 
fireplace.  He looks like royalty in it. 

His eyes circle the painting -- taking in its scope. 

He goes to his WRITING TABLE -- takes a seat.  

Runs his hands along the desk -- 

There’s INK, PENS, and BLANK PAGES -- as if inviting him to 
write more. 

He goes over to a CUPBOARD nearby, pulls out a HIDDEN STASH 
OF LETTERS. 

He goes through the pile of letters, 


                                      34.

One after another, until he reaches an -- 

OLD FAMILY PHOTOGRAPH -- in black and white. 

We see parents and three children -- recognize Oscar as the 
middle child, only seven years old here. 

The resemblance is uncanny. 

Also in the photo is Oscar’s older brother Willie, and 
younger sister, Isola -- two people we have yet to meet. 

Nostalgically, he gazes at the photo -- then, 

Stuffs the photo in his suit jacket pocket -- as well as the 
hidden stash of letters. 

Goes upstairs. 

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Oscar packs a few clothes -- puts them in a small suitcase. 

EXT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - NIGHT

From outside, THROUGH A BLURRY WINDOW --  we see Oscar 
surveying the bedroom. 

Similar to the first time we saw him, in the opening scene, 
only now this isn’t home anymore.   

Then, the bedroom lights go out. 

EXT. LONDON -- WEST END - NIGHT

The NIGHT FERRY is about to leave the dock. 

Bosie is at the ticket booth, buying a ticket. 

He boards the ferry. 

Waves part as the vessel makes its way through the water. 

EXT. MIDLAND HOTEL - NIGHT

We see through the second floor window of the Midland Hotel, 
Oscar sitting on the bed, and Robbie standing nearby. 


                                      35.

INT. BEDROOM -- MIDLAND HOTEL - NIGHT

Robbie grabs his COAT, puts it on, ready to leave.  

             ROBBIE
      I’ve paid for the room for the next 
      week.  You can stay here during the 
      trial.  Hopefully the press won’t 
      bother you too much. 

Oscar, silent.

Deep in thought.  

             OSCAR
      Do you ever think God in creating 
      man, may have overestimated his 
      ability? 

Robbie smiles. 

             ROBBIE
      All the time. 

Robbie kisses Oscar on the cheek -- 

There’s a connection here -- a history between them. 

Robbie EXITS. 

Oscar looks around the room -- alone again. 

INT. HOTEL DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Later that evening -- a DINING ROOM HOST (30s), who is 
dressed in a tuxedo, stands behind a small wooden podium. 

Oscar approaches -- 

             OSCAR
      Still serving dinner? 

             DINING ROOM HOST
      Of course, sir. 

He looks at Oscar funny, recognizes him.  

He escorts Oscar to a table -- seats him.  

PIANO MUSIC is heard softly in the background, as we see --

The Dining Room Host whispers to the --


HOTEL MANAGER (50s), who sees Oscar, and makes his way 
inconspicuously to Oscar’s table. 

                                      36.

             HOTEL MANAGER
      You are Oscar Wilde, I believe? 

             OSCAR
      I am. 

             HOTEL MANAGER
      I do apologize sir, but you must 
      leave this hotel at once. 

             OSCAR
      But I’m a guest.  Room--

He reaches for his pocket -- 

             HOTEL MANAGER
      Let’s not cause a stir, Mr. Wilde.  

             OSCAR
      May I inquire as to why? 

The Hotel Manager doesn’t respond -- only looks around, to 
see if others are watching. 

Oscar picks up his GLASS OF WINE -- stands to leave. 

             HOTEL MANAGER
      What are you doing? 

             OSCAR
      I have yet to finish my wine. 

The Hotel Manager grabs the glass from him -- it SPILLS. 
Oscar picks up his NAPKIN, wipes his hands, and LEAVES. 

Every leering eye in the room turns to him. 

EXT. MIDLAND HOTEL - NIGHT

Oscar walks, suitcase in hand, to HOTEL CLEMENT -- this one, 
a little less upscale.  He hasn’t stayed here before. 

INT. HOTEL CLEMENT -- LOBBY - NIGHT

A DOORMAN lets Oscar in. 

Oscar walks up to the front desk.  Drops his suitcase. 

A HOTEL CLERK (20s) writes in a reservation book. 


                                      37.

             OSCAR
      Any available rooms, this evening? 

The Hotel Clerk still writing, hasn’t seen who it is yet. 

             HOTEL CLERK
      Yes, sir. 

Then he looks up, surprised -- not in a good way.

             OSCAR
      Since it’s nearly midnight, I 
      insist to pay only a partial night 
      rate. 

             HOTEL CLERK
      Mr. Wilde!  I--

             OSCAR
      You know my work?  Was beginning to 
      think all of London had forgot me. 

             HOTEL CLERK
      Sir, we cannot house you here. 

             OSCAR
      That’s preposterous, why not? 

             HOTEL CLERK
      On account of Lord Queensberry.  
      His men came in, and threatened to 
      ransack the hotel if you stayed 
      here.

Queensberry has gone to every hotel in London. 

             HOTEL CLERK
	(CONT’D)
      I am deeply sorry. 

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

THUNDER and RAIN now fall, as Oscar walks alone on the 
streets, suitcase in hand -- 

Nowhere to go. 

EXT. WILLIE’S FLAT - NIGHT 

Oscar knocks at the door -- a lone street lamp illuminating 
his shadow across the sidewalk. 

The door opens -- 


             OSCAR
      Hello, Willie. 

WILLIE WILDE (43), thin beard, burly, and shorter than Oscar, 
is stunned to see his younger brother.  

                                      38.

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Give me shelter, brother. 

Oscar is dripping wet.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Please. 

INT. SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

A much different scene from Oscar’s home. 

The home is meek-looking -- the sitting room is the living 
room is the dining room, sort of thing. 

Willie’s wife, LILY WILDE (40), in a night robe, kisses her 
husband, then leaves the two brothers alone.  

Oscar and Willie both warm their hands by the fire. 

The fire CRACKLES. 

             OSCAR
      How have you been, Willie? 

             WILLIE
      We manage. 

Code for poor. 

             WILLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Mom said you traveled to America.  
      What was it like?  

             OSCAR
      Impulsive people with blind 
      passion.
        (beat)
      I quite loved it. 

Willie snickers. 

Another long beat. 

             WILLIE
      Will you still write after all this 
      criticism?  


                                      39.

Oscar thinks for a moment. 

             OSCAR
      With my writing, I learned to 
      ignore criticism.  Any artist must, 
      if they truly want to express the 
      soul.  If one constantly stops to 
      take in all criticisms, one is 
      stifled.  The critic of my work 
      only concerns himself with what 
      makes sense in the mind.  Because 
      of this, they cannot see the soul -- 
      where all art lives, and thrives.

Willie, clearly not tracking. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Am I boring you? 

             WILLIE
      Not at all. 

             OSCAR
      You always were a terrible liar, 
      Willie. 

Willie grins -- Oscar’s right.

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Why has it been nearly two years 
      since we’ve seen each other? 

             WILLIE
      Your life is extraordinary.  Ours 
      is not. 

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

A low-ceiling room. 

Oscar bends his neck as to not hit his head -- he walks over 
to his bed, plops down. 

He pulls out a pen and letter. 

Begins writing -- 

             OSCAR
	(V.O.)
      My dear Bosie. I felt we parted on 
      undesirable terms, so I wanted to 
      make clear my feelings for you.  
      There are such wide abysses of 
      space and land between us now.  


             OSCAR
	(V.O.) (CONT'D)
      And as Friedrich Nietzsche once 
      wrote, “When you gaze long into an 
      abyss the abyss also gazes into 
      you.” 

                                      40.

EXT. PARIS CAFE - DAY

The sun shines down on Bosie, who reads Oscar’s letter at a 
small table outside a cafe.

             OSCAR
	(V.O.)
      But our love is not like this.  I 
      pray we both cling to this 
      knowledge.  That we love each 
      other, deeply.  I feel that it is 
      only with you that I can do 
      anything at all.  But until the 
      current storm passes, I pray you 
      understand my wishes.  Good night, 
      dear Bosie.  Ever yours, Oscar.  

EXT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - DAY

SUPER: “Wednesday, April 24, 1895 -- Three days before the 
trial.” 

The auction is about to begin -- a mad scene. 

Like modern day Paparazzi, CROWDS gather outside the home as 
POLICEMEN try to keep them under control.

Lots of angry SHOUTING and SHOVING. 

MR. BULLOCK (50s), the auctioneer, flips through an inventory 
list.  On the document, we see many items --

A MANUSCRIPT OF POEMS

AN AUTOGRAPHED COPY OF THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY

THE OSCAR WILDE LIFE PORTRAIT OIL PAINTING 

Mr. Bullock signals to a Policeman -- who BLOWS HIS WHISTLE. 

             MR. BULLOCK
        (reading)
      By order of the sheriff of the city 
      of London, it is hereby my duty, to 
      auction all the articles in this 
      house, 16 Tite Street, Chelsea. 

A loud BURST OF CHATTER and CHEER from the crowd as, 


                                      41.

Robbie arrives -- horrified. 

             MR. BULLOCK
	(CONT’D)
      First.  An oil painting.  Of Oscar 
      Wilde.  Do I hear seven pounds? 

One MALE BIDDER (30s) raises his hand -- while an ANGRY WOMAN 
hollers, interrupting. 

             ANGRY WOMAN 
      No one wants a painting of a 
      sodomite! 

             MALE BIDDER
      They do in Paris! 

Half the crowd LAUGHS. 

             MR. BULLOCK
      Do I hear eight pounds? 

Robbie fights his way into Oscar’s home. 

INT. OSCAR WILDE HOME - DAY

The scene inside is even worse. 

PEOPLE rummaging through desks, drawers, everything. 

An OLD MAN fights over some OLD PHOTOGRAPHS and LETTERS with 
another OLD WOMAN. 

A POLICEMAN tries to break them apart. 

             ROBBIE
      You can’t buy those!

             OLD MAN
      Everything’s for sale! 

             ROBBIE
        (to Policeman)
      The sale of private letters is 
      unlawful.  You must stop this! 

             POLICEMAN 
      Take it up with Bullock. 

RESUME OUTSIDE AUCTION

Mr. Bullock BANGS his auction gavel --


                                      42.

             MR. BULLOCK
      Sold!  Eleven pounds. 

The painting of Oscar -- taken away. 

             MR. BULLOCK
	(CONT’D)
      Next up.  A signed copy of The 
      Picture of Dorian Gray.  Do I hear 
      two pounds? 

No one bids. 

             MR. BULLOCK
	(CONT’D)
      One pound? 

Nothing, still. 

             MR. BULLOCK
	(CONT’D)
      Ten shillings. 

His autograph, his book, his name -- worth nothing now. 

EXT. OLD BAILEY COURTHOUSE - DAY

SUPER: “Saturday, April 27, 1895 - The Trial - Day One” 

A MOB OF JOURNALISTS and CROWDS OF PEOPLE, desperately try to 
get in -- everyone wants a seat to the trial of the century. 

A CARRIAGE pulls up -- police try to barricade people from 
storming it. 

Out comes Clarke, then Oscar -- 

Volume meter goes through the roof. 

EVERYONE SCREAMING OBSCENITIES, POINTING, SHOUTING, EVEN 
HITTING AT OSCAR. 

Oscar covers his head -- 

He rushes up the steps of Old Bailey Courthouse.  

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

A sea of WHITE-POWDERED WIGS and BLACK ROBES line the back 
wall. 

In front of them, a WITNESS BOX -- slightly raised, and 
almost in the center of the room. 


                                      43.

JUSTICE “JUDGE” CHARLES (60), who doesn’t look happy to be 
there, presides.  

Among the spectators seated in the balcony of the courtroom 
are Lady Wilde and Robbie. 

On the main floor -- Clarke sits with Oscar on the left. 

PROSECUTOR CHARLES GILL (45), clean-shaven and eyes that 
scowl, begins his opening statement -- on the right. 

Queensberry sits at Gill’s desk.   

             GILL
      My lord.  Gentlemen of the jury.  I 
      must beg you to dismiss from your 
      minds anything you may have heard 
      or read about the defendant, and to 
      abandon all prejudice towards 
      either side. 

Oscar leans in to Clarke -- 

             WILDE
      Forget a scandal?  In London?

             GILL
      And to approach this case with 
      absolutely open minds, carefully 
      and impartially.  On the counts 
      under section 11 of the Criminal 
      Law Amendment Act, 1885, it is the 
      prosecution’s intention to show 
      that these acts of gross indecency-- 

Interrupting --   

             JUDGE
      Proceed, Mr. Gill.  The court is 
      well aware of the charges. 

             GILL
      As your lordship pleases.  
      Gentlemen, I assure you that the 
      evidence I shall call will justify 
      you in finding Mr. Wilde, as well 
      as other prisoners brought to 
      testify, guilty on all accounts.

LATER ON

CHARLES PARKER (21), handsome and afraid, in the witness box.  

He looks like Bosie -- only slightly more effeminate.   


                                      44.

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
      State your name. 

             PARKER
      Charles Parker. 

             GILL
      And how did you come to know the 
      defendant? 

             PARKER
      As a valet.  Two years ago I was 
      out of employment and went with my 
      brother one evening to St. James’s 
      Restaurant. 

                              FLASHBACK TO:

INT. ST. JAMES’S RESTAURANT -- BAR - NIGHT

Parker sits at a bar with his brother WILLIAM PARKER (23), 
scruffy and not as attractive. 

Alfred Taylor -- the Handsome Aristocrat from the beginning, 

Walks over to Charles and William. 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      Mr. Taylor came up and spoke to us.  
      He passed the compliments of the 
      day, and asked us to have a drink.

Drinks are poured for the Parker brothers -- 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      We got into a conversation with 
      him.  He spoke about men.

The Parker brothers face turn -- as if not understanding. 

             GILL
	(V.O.)
      In what way?

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Parker, terrified now, resumes speaking. 

             PARKER
      He called attention to the 
      prostitutes who frequent Piccadilly 
      Circus. 


                                      45.

             GILL
      At that time, did you understand 
      what Mr. Taylor was suggesting?

             PARKER
      I understood what he alluded to. 

             GILL
      And what was your reply?

             PARKER
      I said that if any old gentleman 
      with money took a fancy to me, I 
      was agreeable. 

GASPS from the crowd. 

             GILL
      Did Mr. Taylor mention the 
      defendant, Mr. Wilde, at that time?

             PARKER
      He did. 

             GILL
      And when did you first meet him?

             PARKER
      The next day at a restaurant in 
      Rupert Street.  Solferino’s.

                              FLASHBACK TO:

INT. STAIRWAY -- SOLFERINO’S RESTAURANT - DAY

Parker and his brother make their way up the stairs -- 
following Taylor. 

A door swings open -- 

INT. PRIVATE ROOM - DAY

A nicely decorated dinner table for four is set.  No one is 
seated though. 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      We waited for Mr. Wilde there. 

Oscar steps into the room -- shakes hands with the brothers, 
and with Taylor. 


                                      46.

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      I remember the table was lit with 
      red-shaded candles. 

The candles reflect a devilish light across Wilde’s face.  

Wilde pours CHAMPAGNE for all three men. 

Parker sits beside Oscar. 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      We drank champagne and brandy and 
      coffee afterwards.  

Under the dinner table -- Parker makes the first move. 

His hand drifts over to Oscar -- caresses his thigh.

             GILL
	(V.O.)
      All of you partook?

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      Yes. 

Parker smiles at him -- perfectly fine with this sort of 
behavior. 

             GILL
	(V.O.)
      And who paid for the meal? 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      Mr. Wilde. 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Oscar makes eye contact with Parker -- shakes his head. 

That’s not how it went.  

             GILL
      Of what nature was the 
      conversation? 

             PARKER 
      General, at first.  But later, 
      Wilde said of me, “This is the boy 
      for me.”

Lady Wilde stares at Parker -- unflinching. 

             PARKER
	(CONT’D)
      Then he asked if I would go to the 
      Savoy Hotel with him.  


                                      47.

             PARKER
	(CONT’D)
      And I consented.  So Mr. Wilde 
      drove me to the hotel. 

             GILL
      Alone?

             PARKER
      Except for the jarvy. 

Slang for drivers.  

             PARKER
	(CONT’D)
      My brother and Mr. Taylor stayed 
      behind.

             GILL
      Did Mr. Wilde offer you more to 
      drink there? 

Clarke rises -- 

             CLARKE
      Objection, my lord!  This witness 
      has been coached! 

             GILL
      That’s absurd! 

Judge addresses Gill. 

             JUDGE
      Have you guided this witness in his 
      testimony, whatsoever Mr. Gill? 

             GILL
      I have not, my lord. 

             JUDGE
      Overruled, Mr. Clarke.
        (Clarke sits)
      Proceed. 

Gill steps in closer to Parker -- 

             GILL
      Did he offer you more to drink? 

             PARKER
      Yes.  We had liquor.  Then Wilde 
      asked me to go into his bedroom 
      with him. 

Lady Wilde drops her head -- pretends not to hear. 


                                      48.

             GILL
      I know how difficult it is for you, 
      Mr. Parker.  But will you let the 
      jury know what occurred there? 

                              FLASHBACK TO:

INT. BEDROOM -- SAVOY HOTEL - NIGHT

In the flashback, we see the opposite of Parker’s testimony. 

Oscar sits in a chair beside the bed -- drunk. 

Parker starts to undress -- removes his shirt. 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      I was drunk.  Sitting in the chair.  
      And Mr. Wilde approached me. 

Parker walks over to Oscar -- parts his knees, stands between 
them. 

He leans down -- KISSES Oscar’s neck. 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      He tried to kiss me.  I refused. 

Parker continues to kiss Oscar’s neck, lips -- clearly 
leading him on -- then pulls Oscar up, shuffles him over to 
the bed. 

Oscar falls face down on the bed -- 

             PARKER
	(V.O.)
      He then took me to bed.  And 
      committed the act of sodomy upon 
      me. 

Parker unbuttons his pants -- pulls them down. 

His naked buttocks, exposed -- 

As Parker climbs on top of Oscar.   

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Parker is sweating now -- the entire courtroom is in shock.  

             GILL
      With your consent? 


             PARKER 
      I couldn’t stop him. 

Oscar looks to his mother above -- who still can’t bear to 
lift her head. 

                                      49.

             GILL
      And did Mr. Wilde offer you 
      compensation?  After you left him?

             PARKER
      He did.  Five pounds. 

IN THE BALCONY OF THE COURTROOM 

Robbie turns to Lady Wilde, whispers -- 

             ROBBIE
      He’s been offered compensation to 
      say this, Lady Wilde.  There’s no 
      truth in it, I assure you.  

             LADY WILDE
      Doesn’t matter if it’s true or not. 
      Look at the jurymen. 

They look disgusted, sickened. 

BACK ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE COURTROOM

             GILL
      Apart from the money, did Mr. Wilde 
      ever give you any presents? 

             PARKER
      Yes.  He gave me a cigarette case 
      and a gold ring.  I don’t suppose 
      boys are different to girls in 
      acquiring presents from those who 
      are fond of them. 

             GILL
      And you pawned the cigarette case 
      and the ring? 

             PARKER
      Yes. 

             GILL
      When did you cease your occupation 
      with Mr. Taylor? 


                                      50.

             PARKER
      In August of last year.  I went 
      away into the country. 

             GILL
      Until you were acquainted with Mr. 
      Taylor, had you ever been mixed up 
      with men in the commission of 
      indecent acts? 

             PARKER
      No.  Never. 

             GILL
      Your witness, Mr. Clarke. 

Gill takes a seat. 

Clarke stands -- goes over to the witness box.

             CLARKE
      Mr. Parker, you say positively that 
      Mr. Wilde committed sodomy with you 
      at the Savoy hotel? 

             PARKER
      Yes. 

             CLARKE
      But you have been in the habit of 
      accusing other gentlemen of the 
      same offense. 

             PARKER
      Never.  Unless it has been done. 

             CLARKE
      I spoke with your employer, when 
      you were a valet.  He stated that 
      you had stolen some clothes from 
      him.  Is that true?

             PARKER
      They were not clothes.  They were 
      shirts and collars. 

             CLARKE
      I call them clothes. 

             PARKER
      I sent them back immediately once 
      he asked me to.


                                      51.

             CLARKE
      A man of great character. 

Stifled CHUCKLES echo throughout the room. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Tell me, Mr. Parker.  Was the door 
      locked during the time you 
      describe?

             PARKER
      Excuse me?

             CLARKE
      On the first visit to the Savoy 
      Hotel.  With Mr. Wilde.  

Parker, hesitating -- 

             PARKER
      I believe Mr. Wilde locked the 
      bedroom door, yes.  But I’m not 
      sure if he locked the adjacent door 
      to the sitting room. 

             CLARKE
      And there was no concealment about 
      your visit there?  You did not 
      attempt to avoid any of the 
      servants? 

             PARKER
      No. 

             CLARKE
      And what about at St. James’s 
      Place? 

Clarke, pauses. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Weren’t Mr. Wilde’s rooms on the 
      ground floor there? 

             PARKER
      Yes. 

             CLARKE
      And there were hotel servants 
      running about?  Calling on you 
      should you need anything?

             PARKER
      Yes, of course. 


                                      52.

             CLARKE
      Do you suggest that in rooms on the 
      ground floor, sometimes not locked, 
      with servants and staff all around, 
      and windows to the outside easily 
      visible -- it is here that this 
      kind of illegal conduct went on?  
      Again and again?

             PARKER
      Yes. 

Clarke picks up a STATEMENT -- reads it. 

             CLARKE
      You told the police there were 
      sometimes multiple men, too?  That 
      Mr. Wilde called upon? 

             PARKER
      Yes.  Many of them are witnesses in 
      this case. 

             CLARKE
      How fascinating.  What kind of man 
      would want to make no concealment 
      about his visit to a man who he 
      claims is paying him?  To commit 
      the most vile act against man? 

Parker doesn’t answer. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Nothing more, my lord. 

INT. COURTROOM HALLWAY - DAY

Clarke and Oscar walk together -- heading for a back door 
exit, to avoid the crowd on the steps. 

             CLARKE
      There’s too much corroboration with 
      Mr. Taylor, already.  And there 
      will be more witnesses like Parker 
      this afternoon, I’m afraid.

             OSCAR
      What if I were to pay a visit to 
      Taylor in prison?

Clarke understands what he wants to do -- 


                                      53.

             CLARKE
      As your lawyer, I cannot advise 
      such a thing. 

             OSCAR
      Who said you were advising me?  I 
      brought it up myself. 

INT. BOW STREET PRISON - DAY

A JAIL DOOR SLAMS SHUT -- Taylor, who is SHACKLED IN CHAINS, 
takes his seat -- opposite Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      Look quite different than the last 
      time I saw you.

In the shower, naked?  

Yeah -- clothes makes a difference. 

             TAYLOR
      What do you want, Oscar? 

             OSCAR
      These male escorts of yours are 
      making you look like some social 
      pervert. 

             TAYLOR
      So I’ve heard. 

             OSCAR
      I understand the prosecution is 
      calling you in to testify. 

             TAYLOR
      They are.

             OSCAR
      Do you intend to discuss our 
      arrangements?

             TAYLOR
      Is that what you call them? 
      Arrangements? 

A long beat.

             TAYLOR
	(CONT’D)
      Funny.  Secrets are perfectly 
      acceptable most of the time.  


                                      54.

             TAYLOR
	(CONT’D)
      But as soon as one gets out -- we 
      are appalled.  As if we’re not 
      guilty of keeping it. 

             OSCAR
      A jury does not look kindly on 
      gentlemen such as you and me. 

             TAYLOR
      Gentlemen.  Is that what we are? 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Everyone FLOODS back in -- GAVEL BANGING, commences. 

Oscar takes his seat. 

Across the courtroom -- Queensberry is speaking with Parker. 
Then, Parker leaves the court -- 

LATER

EDWARD SHELLEY (21), tall, slim and pale skin, sits in the 
witness box. 

Gill stands by.  

             GILL
      Mr. Shelley, you were formerly 
      employed as a clerk in the offices 
      of M.E.M. and John Lane publishers.

             SHELLEY 
      Yes.  Mr. Wilde was in business 
      with our firm.  We were in the 
      process of publishing his play, 
      Salome. 

             GILL
      Did your relationship extend beyond 
      this business?

             SHELLEY
      Mr. Wilde invited me to dine with 
      him at the Albemarle Hotel. 

             GILL
      And what happened there?


                                      55.

             SHELLEY
      We had dinner in a public room.  
      Mr. Wilde was very kind and 
      attentive, and then he pressed me 
      to drink. Champagne with dinner, 
      and after, whiskey and soda and 
      cigarettes, in Mr. Wilde’s sitting 
      room.  Then he asked me something 
      strange. 

             GILL
      What was it he asked you?

             SHELLEY
      He asked me to come into his 
      bedroom.
        (beat)
      I did not know what he meant.  I 
      had a lot of wine by then. 

                              FLASHBACK TO:

INT. ALBEMARLE HOTEL -- SITTING ROOM - DAY

Sitting room. 

Shelley sees a STACK OF POUNDS on the end table.  He counts 
the money to himself, pockets it. 

Then turns to see Oscar -- who looks longingly up at him. 

             GILL
	(V.O.)
      What happened next? 

Shelley eyes Oscar -- disgusted by him.  

             SHELLEY
	(V.O.)
      He put his arms around me, and 
      kissed me. 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Shelley eyes Oscar -- the same face of disgust as in the 
flashback.

             SHELLEY
      I felt degraded, insulted, and 
      objected.  Then Mr. Wilde 
      apologized, said he was drunk. 


                                      56.

             GILL
      Did you end your relationship with 
      Mr. Wilde after that night? 

             SHELLEY
      A few days later, yes.  I wrote Mr. 
      Wilde a letter which said I could 
      not have anything more to do with a 
      man of his morality. 

             GILL
      Thank you, Mr. Shelley. 

Clarke rises -- approaches the witness box. 

             CLARKE
      About two years ago, in 1893, did 
      you write a letter to Mr. Wilde?

             SHELLEY
      I do not recall.  

Clarke walks back to his table -- 

Oscar hands a LETTER to Clarke -- from his private stash -- 
the ones he grabbed the day before the auction. 

             CLARKE
      Allow me to refresh your memory. 
      And read from one such letter you 
      wrote to Mr. Wilde.
        (reading)
      “Dear Oscar, I can never forget 
      your kindness and am conscious that 
      I can never sufficiently express my 
      thankfulness to you.” 

Clarke stops reading. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Did you write this letter after the 
      alleged incident you claim to have 
      with Mr. Wilde at the Albemarle 
      Hotel? 

             SHELLEY
      Yes. 

             CLARKE
      If your testimony is true, then 
      what is it you were thankful for? 


                                      57.

             SHELLEY
      Mr. Wilde had sent me a gift.  A 
      signed copy of The Picture of 
      Dorian Gray. 

             CLARKE
      May we see this? 

             SHELLEY
      Why of course, but--

             CLARKE
      But what, Mr. Shelley?

             SHELLEY
      I tore out the pages that carried 
      the inscriptions. 

             CLARKE
      Why would you do such a thing if 
      you were so thankful for this gift?

             SHELLEY
      Because like Lord Queensberry, my 
      father objected to my friendship 
      with Mr. Wilde.

             CLARKE
      You testified that you broke off 
      your acquaintance with Mr. Wilde?

             SHELLEY
      I did--

             CLARKE
      Then you continue writing letters 
      of gratitude to him? 

Shelley is silent.  

There’s more -- and he knows it. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Mr. Shelley.  Two years after you 
      say you broke off your acquaintance 
      with Mr. Wilde.  In January, 1895. 
      You assaulted your father and were 
      locked up.  Isn’t that right?

             SHELLEY
      Yes. 


                                      58.

             CLARKE
      And who did you send for?  To bail 
      you out of jail?

No answer. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      A brother?  A sister?  A close 
      friend, perhaps? 

Everyone knows the answer. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Mr. Wilde bailed you out, did he 
      not? 

             SHELLEY
      Yes.  But I was not in my right 
      mind that day. 

             CLARKE
      Perhaps you are also not in your 
      right mind today.

EXT. OLD BAILEY COURTHOUSE - DAY

Just before dusk, and the PRESS is going wild. 

Oscar comes out with Mr. Clarke, and the journalists press 
him for a word -- 

             OSCAR
      It’s clear Lord Queensberry has 
      corrupted these witnesses. 

             JOURNALIST #1
      Do you believe he paid them?  For 
      their testimonies? 

             OSCAR
      I don’t believe it, I know it. 

INT. CARRIAGE - DAY

Oscar and Clarke ride together. 

They’re in the middle of a heated discussion. 

             OSCAR
      We’ve got to bring this to the 
      court’s attention. 


                                      59.

             CLARKE
      Absolutely not. 

             OSCAR
      Queensberry’s prosecution is all 
      money and intimidation.

             CLARKE
      This is not about you and 
      Queensberry, Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      Of course it is!  He’s funding the 
      prosecution’s case.

             CLARKE
      You mustn’t speak to the press, 
      again.  It comes off as bitterness 
      toward Queensberry regarding you 
      losing the libel trial. 

             OSCAR
      I am bitter.  He’s gotten me into 
      this mess.  Blackmailing old 
      friends in hopes of tarnishing my 
      name in court. 

             CLARKE
      Queensberry is not the defendant 
      this time around, you are. 

Oscar, livid. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      We cannot simply point fingers.  
      We’ve got to undermine every 
      potential witness waiting to 
      testify against you.  You’ve got to 
      focus, Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      I am focused. 

             CLARKE
      Frederick Atkins is on the witness 
      list, tomorrow.  Do you have any 
      letters from him? 

             OSCAR
      No. 


                                      60.

             CLARKE
      Something else then?  People to 
      corroborate his employment or lack 
      thereof? 

Oscar thinks for a moment.  

             OSCAR
      Send for Robbie.  Tell him to pay a 
      visit to the Tachbrook Street 
      Boarding House.  He knows what went 
      on there.  

INT. TACHBROOK ST. BOARDING HOUSE - NIGHT

A TALL, BROWN, THREE-STORY BUILDING.  Robbie BANGS on the 
front door -- 

It swings OPEN, revealing, 

MRS. MILLS (50s), weathered face and a hunch in her back.   

             ROBBIE
      I’m looking for the landlady of the 
      house, Mrs. Mills.  

             MRS. MILLS
      Yes.  What do you want?

INT. LAW OFFICE - NIGHT

A CANDLE burns on the desk, slowly. 

There, Clarke, Robbie and Oscar surround the frail Mrs. 
Mills, giving her deposition to them, albeit reluctantly. 

             OSCAR
      Please, Mrs. Mills.  We need you to 
      tell us exactly what you saw. 

             MRS. MILLS
      I’m sorry, Mr. Wilde.  But I’m a 
      Christian lady.  I can’t speak of 
      such things in public.  

             OSCAR
      Neither can you let one man’s sin 
      go unpunished, so it ruins another 
      man’s life. 

             ROBBIE
      Just tell them what you told me. 


                                      61.

             OSCAR
      We don’t want to put you on the 
      stand.  We just need your 
      testimony. 

Mrs. Mills, a worried mess. 

             CLARKE
      If you don’t cooperate, we’ll be 
      forced to send for the police. 

             MRS. MILLS
      You wouldn’t? 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

SUPER: “Sunday, April 28, 1895 - Day Two” 

We’re in the middle of Clarke’s cross-examination. 

The witness is,  

FREDERICK ATKINS (24), cute, clean-shaven.  

There’s a shameless sort of sexiness to his arrogance.  

             CLARKE
      When did you first meet Mr. Wilde?

             ATKINS
      A few years ago.

             CLARKE
      Can you be more specific? 

             ATKINS
      Certainly.  Two years ago. 

             CLARKE
      So on the night of June 10th, 1891, 
      you had not met Mr. Wilde? 

             ATKINS
      If that’s more than two years ago, 
      then no. 

Snobby prick. 

             CLARKE
      Do you recall being taken to the 
      police that evening? 


                                      62.

             ATKINS
      I do.

             CLARKE
      And what were you charged with?

             ATKINS
      Hitting a gentleman. 

             CLARKE
      In what place was it alleged you 
      had hit him? 

             ATKINS
      At a card table. 

             CLARKE
      In your room at Tachbrook?

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      James Burton was living there with 
      you, wasn’t he?

             ATKINS
      He was. 

             CLARKE
      Was he there to witness you hitting 
      this gentleman? 

             ATKINS
      Of course.  We always played cards. 
      One way to come up with rent money. 

Atkins’ lifts his eyes -- shrewd-like. 

             CLARKE
      Who is Mrs. Mills, Mr. Atkins?

             ATKINS
      The landlady.  At the Tachbrook 
      Street Boarding House.  

             CLARKE
      And is it true that on the night 
      before you were arrested, Mrs. 
      Mills came into your room? 

             ATKINS
      I don’t remember that she did. 


                                      63.

             CLARKE
      We have a sworn statement from Mrs. 
      Mills that she walked in on you and 
      Mr. Burton, with this gentleman you 
      ended up striking the next evening, 
      naked in bed together. 

Court goes crazy -- the Judge BANGS HIS GAVEL. 

             JUDGE
      Order!  Order in the court, I say! 

The crowd quiets down -- 

             ATKINS
      That’s not true. 

             CLARKE
      And what motive does a landlady 
      have to make up something so 
      appalling, Mr. Atkins?

             ATKINS
      I--

             CLARKE
      Mr. Atkins.  You swore under oath 
      with Mr. Gills not twenty minutes 
      ago, that you had never slept with 
      any other man before.  You claimed 
      Mr. Wilde introduced you to this 
      sordid life.   

             ATKINS
      He did.

             JUDGE
      Leave the witness box at once, Mr. 
      Atkins! 

INT. PUB - NIGHT

Robbie and Oscar sit in the back of a nearly EMPTY PUB. 

They toast a PINT OF BEER together -- DRINK UP. 

             OSCAR
      This place is ghastly, Robbie. 

             ROBBIE
      No journalist will find you here. 


                                      64.

             OSCAR
      This is quite good.  Reminds me of 
      Ireland. 

             ROBBIE
      Any desire to go back? 

             OSCAR
      Cyril and Vyvyan have never been.  
      It’d be nice to show them where 
      their father grew up.  

             ROBBIE
      Have you spoken to them?

             OSCAR
      Constance forbids me to. 

             ROBBIE
      Understandable. 

             OSCAR
      Keeping a father’s sons away from 
      him is -- understandable? 

             ROBBIE
      You were never that forthcoming 
      with her.  About your friendships 
      outside the home. 

             OSCAR
      And should I be? 

             ROBBIE
      I’m not suggesting you should.  I’m 
      just suggesting--

             OSCAR
      It’s the end of a century, and no 
      one sees the necessity of secrets.  
      They only think they’re betrayers 
      of truth.  But they’re not always.  

             ROBBIE
      Do you honestly believe that? 

             OSCAR
      Sometimes it’s better not to speak 
      the whole truth.

             ROBBIE
      The truth relieves a man, sets him 
      free. 


                                      65.

             OSCAR
      Yet when one is in love, one always 
      begins by deceiving one’s self.  On 
      the first day of meeting Constance, 
      I did not confess the wicked sins 
      of my past to her. 

             ROBBIE
      Nor should you. 

             OSCAR
      Precisely.  But rather, I deceived 
      her, as she did me.  We all do 
      this.  That’s what romance is in 
      its early stages.  I don’t think it 
      evil.  Quite the contrary.  I see 
      it as natural, necessary.  

             ROBBIE
      That’s not how I felt years ago 
      when I met you.

Robbie shakes his head -- frustrated.  

             ROBBIE
	(CONT’D)
      Love doesn’t always begin with 
      deceit, Oscar. 

INT. WILLIE’S FLAT - NIGHT

A door CREAKS open, as Oscar ENTERS -- a little tipsy. 

Willie sees him -- rushes over to help him stand, and make 
his way up the stairs. 

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

A LANTERN burns bright beside Oscar’s bed. 

An ENVELOPE sits on top of his night stand. 

Willie helps Oscar get undressed, as -- 

Lily enters with an EXTRA BLANKET. 

             LILY
      It’ll be cold this evening. 

             OSCAR
      Thank you, Lily. 

Lily looks at a drunken Oscar, pitiful. 


Then EXITS. 

Oscar sits on the bed -- stares at the BURNING FLAME. 

                                      66.

             WILLIE
      Still fascinated with fire? 

             OSCAR
      What?

             WILLIE
      In the nursery.  When we were 
      young.  We were taking a bath.  
      Don’t you remember?  The nurse 
      brought a lantern in.  When she 
      left the lantern caught your 
      trousers on fire. 

             OSCAR
      Ah, yes.  The flames were so big. 

             WILLIE
      You were over-joyed. 

             OSCAR
      And you went off screaming for 
      mother and father. 

             WILLIE
      And the nurse.  All the while, you 
      kept laughing.  I never understood 
      that. 

             OSCAR
      Something unexpected had happened.  
      It was exciting.  

             WILLIE
      And it could’ve killed us. 

Reminiscing the memory. 

             WILLIE
	(CONT’D)
      You always did love a spectacle. 

Willie’s memory turns from nostalgic to one of concern -- an 
elder brother, again. 

             WILLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Do you see this as some sort of 
      spectacle, too? 

Oscar doesn’t answer -- after his talk with Robbie, he’s 
uncertain.  


                                      67.

LATER ON

Oscar tosses and turns in bed -- still wondering about his 
brother’s question.  

And then, he sees the ENVELOPE -- from Paris. 

He opens it, begins to read the letter. 

             BOSIE
	(V.O.)
      My dear Oscar.  By now the trial 
      has begun.  And no doubt you are 
      under tremendous stress.  But do 
      know I think of you.  Every minute 
      of every day.  This world is 
      without charm, without romance, 
      when I’m far from you.  I wish you 
      would come to me to Paris. 

INT. BEDROOM -- PARIS - NIGHT

Bosie WRITES -- 

At a small OAK desk.  

             BOSIE
	(V.O.)
      Forget about the corrupt law of 
      London and let us be together.  
      Like you said we would be before.  
      Forever surely must begin when one 
      gives in to love, fully.  Yours 
      truly, Bosie. 

Bosie looks outside his window -- 

A beautiful night view of, 

THE SEINE RIVER

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

SUPER: “Monday, April 29, 1895 - Day Three” 

Oscar’s eyes shift to spot Taylor, who sits off to the side -- 
behind Queensberry. 

He stands, makes his way to the witness box.  

             GILL
      Mr. Taylor.  What is your current 
      occupation? 


                                      68.

             TAYLOR
      I have no occupation.  I’m in 
      prison.

             GILL
      And what was your occupation before 
      you were arrested? 

             TAYLOR
      I am the son of a cocoa 
      manufacturer, whose business is now 
      being carried on as a limited 
      liability company.  My father died 
      some time ago and he left me a 
      fortune, along with the company.  
      Since that time, I’ve had no 
      occupation and have lived a life of 
      pleasure.

             GILL
      How very fortunate of you.  But 
      have you not actually made a living 
      also, by procuring lads and young 
      men for rich gentlemen whom you 
      knew to be given to this vice?

Gill turns his back to Taylor -- looks to the crowd in court. 

             TAYLOR
      No. 

Surprised -- Gill turns around, unsure if Taylor heard right. 

             GILL
      Mr. Taylor.  I must remind you, 
      you’ve taken an oath. 

             TAYLOR
      I have not forgotten. 

             GILL
      Did you not introduce Charles 
      Parker to the defendant? 

             TAYLOR
      I did.  When one makes an 
      acquaintance, one likes to 
      introduce him to friends. 

             GILL
      Did you know Mr. Wilde so well?

             TAYLOR
      Yes. 


                                      69.

             GILL
      Did you tell certain lads like 
      Frederick Atkins that the defendant 
      was fond of young boys? 

             TAYLOR
      No.  Never! 

             GILL
      Did you know that he is? 

             TAYLOR
      I believe he is fond of young 
      people.  And interested in 
      contributing to their overall 
      welfare. 

             GILL
      Why were you in prison, Mr. Taylor? 

             TAYLOR
      A police raid at my place of 
      residence found a number of young 
      men living in my rooms and sleeping 
      in the same bed. 

             GILL
      Did the defendant know you were so 
      lowly of a person, Mr. Taylor? 

             TAYLOR
      I’m not sure.
        (calling out to Oscar)
      Oscar.  Did you know that? 

Balcony LAUGHTER. 

             JUDGE
      Silence!

He BANGS the gavel. 

             JUDGE
	(CONT’D)
      Order in the court! 

             GILL
      No more questions, my lord. 

LATER

The evidence for the prosecution continues.  

Three quick witnesses give their testimony. 


First, is --

ANTONIO MIGGE (28), well-built and olive-colored skin. 

                                      70.

             MIGGE
      I am a professor of massage, and I 
      attend the Savoy Hotel to massage 
      patients. 

             GILL
      Did the defendant ever call upon 
      you for a massage?

             MIGGE
      He did, indeed.  One morning on 
      going to the room, I entered after 
      knocking.  Then, saw someone in 
      bed.  At first, I thought it was a 
      young lady, as I saw only the head, 
      but afterwards, I saw it was a 
      young man.  Sixteen to eighteen in 
      age. 

             GILL
      Was Mr. Wilde in bed with him?

             MIGGE
      Not at that moment.  But he was in 
      the room, dressing himself. 

             GILL
      Did you perform a massage on him?

             MIGGE
      No.  Mr. Wilde told me he felt much 
      better that morning.  And that he 
      was busy, and could not stay to 
      have the treatment. 

AND THEN -- 

GEORGE FREDERICK CLARIDGE (55), a curmudgeon jeweler, is now 
in the witness box -- 

             CLARIDGE
      I am employed by Thornhill, Walter 
      and Company, jewellers and 
      silversmiths.  144 New Bond Street. 

             GILL
      Did the defendant frequent your 
      place of business?


                                      71.

             CLARIDGE
      Oh, yes.  I supplied him with 
      silver cigarette cases and other 
      articles.  All to be given to young 
      men for whom he had acquaintances 
      with. 

And then, another -- 

JANE COTTER (30s), homely dressed -- 

             COTTER
      I am employed as a chambermaid at 
      the Savoy Hotel. 

             GILL
      When did you first see the 
      defendant at your hotel? 

             COTTER
      He occupied one of the rooms.  Room 
      361, I believe.  And Lord Alfred 
      Douglas occupied room 362. 

             GILL
      Was there anything odd about the 
      room upon you entering to clean?

             COTTER
      Yes, indeed.  I found it necessary 
      to call the attention of the 
      manager regarding the condition of 
      Mr. Wilde’s bed. 

             GILL
      How do you mean?

             COTTER
      The sheets were stained in a 
      peculiar way. 

She hesitates. 

             COTTER
	(CONT’D)
      Then I saw Lord Douglas, naked.  
      Coming out of Mr. Wilde’s bathroom.  

GASPS from the court crowd. 

Lady Wilde RISES from her seat in the balcony -- storms out. 

Oscar looks up, sees his mother leaving. 

Then, a FLASH -- 


                                      72.

As if a photograph was taken. 

But it’s not a photograph, only a pencil newspaper drawing of 
Oscar in that pose, gazing up at his mother --

EXT. NEWSPAPER STAND - DAY

As we go to the front of a STACK OF NEWSPAPERS -- 

The PENCIL DRAWING OF OSCAR’S EXPRESSION FROM THE COURT, 

Is the front page image, with a HEADLINE, reading: 

“OSCAR WILDE AT THE OLD BAILEY -- After shocking evidence 
against him compels his mother Lady Wilde to flee the 
courtroom...” 

Newspapers are grabbed -- right and left -- until the stack 
dwindles down to NONE. 

INT. LADY WILDE’S HOME -- WEST END - NIGHT

Oscar and Lady Wilde at the dining room table. 

A NEWSPAPER COPY with the front page face up, sits on top. 

Oscar picks it up, flips it over -- 

             OSCAR
      You must stop coming to court, mum. 

             LADY WILDE
      How could you be so foolish? 

             OSCAR
      They were friends.  I trusted them. 

             LADY WILDE
      Friends you sleep with? 

             OSCAR
      It’s not as it appears.  

             LADY WILDE
      Oh, no?  Then why are chambermaids 
      testifying against you?    

Oscar doesn’t answer. 

             LADY WILDE
	(CONT’D)
      Appearance is everything.  How many 
      times have I told you?  


                                      73.

             OSCAR
      Too many. 

             LADY WILDE
      We live by different rules, Oscar, 
      because of our status.  Our 
      business is the public’s business. 

             OSCAR
      I know, mother.   

             LADY WILDE
      If you know, did you not think that 
      fraternizing with these peasant 
      boys-- 

             OSCAR
      Their social status is irrelevant. 

             LADY WILDE
      It’s not!  When one meddles with 
      the lowest members of society, one 
      is brought down to their level.  As 
      is one’s art.   

             OSCAR
      My art.  Is that all you care 
      about? 

             LADY WILDE
      Of course, not.  I care for you.

             OSCAR
      You care about success.  

A huge blow to Lady Wilde -- 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Your pathetic poetry.  Your 
      ridiculous short stories.  How hard 
      did you try to get published when I 
      was young? 

             LADY WILDE
      Get out. 

Oscar, doesn’t move.  

             LADY WILDE
	(CONT’D)
      Get out at once. 

Oscar EXITS. 


                                      74.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

It’s RAINING now.  

Oscar scurries down the dimly lit road. 

Very few people out and about. 

He RUNS through PUDDLES -- water splashing up, wetting his 
trousers. 

EXT. CONSTANCE’S BROTHER’S FLAT - NIGHT

Oscar KNOCKS at the door. 

An OLD BUTLER (60s) answers -- recognizes him, then goes to 
fetch Constance. 

Constance comes to the door -- 

             CONSTANCE
      I asked you not to come here. 

             OSCAR
      I love you, Constance.  And I love 
      my sons.  Please let me in. 

INT. DEN - NIGHT

By the fireplace, Constance wraps a blanket around Oscar. 

He sips TEA. 

She sits on the couch -- opposite him. 

The fire between them BURNS away. 

             OSCAR
      Are they asleep? 

Constance nods. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Can I see them? 

             CONSTANCE
      I want a separation.

Oscar takes that in. 

             CONSTANCE
	(CONT’D)
      I have filed initial paperwork.


                                      75.

             OSCAR
      You wish to go back to being a 
      Lloyd? 

Her maiden name. 

             CONSTANCE
      Yes.  The boys, too. 

             OSCAR
      They’re Wildes.  Always will be.  
      No document from London will ever 
      change that.   

             CONSTANCE
      Do you know what goes on at school?  
      For Cyril? 

Oscar doesn’t. 

             CONSTANCE
	(CONT’D)
      He’s laughed at everyday.  Winning 
      the trial or not, we can’t stay 
      here.  I’ve made arrangements to 
      move them.  To Geneva. 

             OSCAR
      No. 

             CONSTANCE
      They don’t have a life here 
      anymore, Oscar.  Don’t you want 
      them to have a life again? 

He does. 

But he’s still angry. 

Oscar pulls TWO LETTERS out from his coat --

             OSCAR
      Give these to them.  

Constance takes the letters. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      My desire was never to harm them. 
      Or you, Constance.

             CONSTANCE
      I wish I could go back, before all 
      this.  Before the lies were so easy 
      to live with.    


                                      76.

INT. WILLIE’S FLAT - NIGHT

Oscar steps through the front doors -- dripping wet. 

Willie sees him --

             WILLIE
      Everything alright?  

             OSCAR
      Constance is moving the boys to 
      Geneva.  She wants a divorce.    

Oscar hangs up his jacket. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I go on the stand tomorrow.  Better 
      get some rest.  

Oscar trudges up the steps, but Willie stops him -- 

             WILLIE
      I’m sorry for never coming to the 
      trial.  Lily preferred that I 
      didn’t. 

             OSCAR
      I understand. 

             WILLIE
      We pray for you though.  Every 
      night.  Lily and I.  

             OSCAR
      You really think God concerns 
      himself with me?

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

SUPER: “Tuesday, April 30, 1895 - Final Day of Trial” 

FOOTSTEPS walk slowly toward the witness box -- it is so 
quiet, you could hear a whisper. 

As we rise up, we see the footsteps belong to Oscar --  

Oscar steps up into the witness box. 

Takes his seat. 

A CLOCK IS SHOWN -- time passes. 

Clarke is in front of Oscar, now -- questioning him. 


                                      77.

             CLARKE
      Mr. Wilde.  Why did you take up 
      residence at St. James Place? 

             WILDE
      I was writing An Ideal Husband at 
      the time. 

             CLARKE
      Don’t most literary men work out of 
      their own house? 

             WILDE
      Perhaps.  But not I.  It is quieter 
      to write elsewhere for me. 

             CLARKE
      You have been living with your wife 
      since you were married in 1884, at 
      16 Tite Street, correct? 

             WILDE
      Yes.  Until last week.  When our 
      house was auctioned. 

             CLARKE
      Mr. Wilde.  Is there any truth in 
      any of the allegations made against 
      you in the evidence in this case?  

             WILDE
      No truth whatsoever.  

             CLARKE
      Was the evidence you gave in the 
      libel trial earlier this month in 
      all respects true? 

             WILDE
      Entirely true, yes. 

             CLARKE
      Thank you, my lord.

Gill rises -- 

             GILL
      Mr. Wilde. 

Walking over to Oscar --


                                      78.

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
      I wish to call your attention to 
      the style of your correspondence 
      with Lord Alfred Douglas.

             CLARKE
        (standing, objecting)
      My lord.  Any questions must be 
      confined to the specific charges 
      made here in this case.  Not the 
      prior libel trial. 

             GILL
      This relates very well to the 
      charges of this case, Mr. Clarke.  
      I assure you. 

             JUDGE
      I will allow it. 

Back to Oscar -- Gill’s looking over TWO LETTERS in hand. 

             GILL
      I refer to passages in two letters 
      in particular. 

             WILDE
      Kindly quote them.

             GILL
      In the first, you use the 
      expression “You slim gilt soul,” 
      and refer to Lord Alfred’s “red 
      rose-leaf lips.”  The second you 
      say, “You are the divine thing I 
      want,” and describe Lord Alfred’s 
      letter as being “delightful, red 
      and yellow wine to me.” 

There’s a long silence. 

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
      Do you think that an ordinarily 
      constituted being would address 
      such expressions to a younger man?

             WILDE
      I am not happily, I think, an 
      ordinarily constituted being. 

Crowd LAUGHS. 


                                      79.

             GILL
      It is agreeable to be able to agree 
      with you, Mr. Wilde. 

             WILDE
      There is nothing, I assure you, in 
      either letter of which I need be 
      ashamed.  The first letter is 
      really a prose poem, and the second 
      more of a literary answer to the 
      one Lord Alfred had sent me. 

             GILL
      In reference to the incidents 
      alleged against you at the Savoy 
      Hotel.  And what Lord Queensberry 
      brought up in the libel trial, for 
      the public benefit, that you were -- 
      I believe his words were, “a posing 
      Sodomite.”  

             WILDE
      That was his phrase of choice, yes. 

             GILL
      Which the court found not to be 
      libel, Mr. Wilde.  Suggesting Lord 
      Queensberry had merit for making 
      such an accusation.  In light of 
      this, I have one question: do you 
      see no impropriety in kissing a 
      young boy?  

Wilde waits a moment. 

             WILDE
      In kissing a young boy, of course 
      not; but I certainly do not think 
      that one should kiss a young man of 
      eighteen or more. 

             GILL
      Then why did you take up with these 
      youths?  Why parade around with 
      them all over London?

             WILDE
      I am a lover of youth, as Mr. 
      Taylor alluded to. 

             GILL
      You exalt youth as a sort of god?


                                      80.

             WILDE
      I like to study the young in 
      everything.  Youthfulness often 
      embodies truth in ways the elderly 
      cannot.   

             GILL
      So you would prefer puppies to 
      dogs, then too, I suppose?

             WILDE
      I think so.  I should enjoy, for 
      instance, the society of beardless, 
      briefless barrister quite as much, 
      if not more, than most of the wig-
      wearing men in this courtroom. 

THUNDEROUS LAUGHS from the balcony -- a real zinger. 

             GILL
      When did your acquaintance with 
      Lord Alfred Douglas begin? 

             WILDE
      In 1892. 

             GILL
      And when did his father, the 
      Marquess of Queensberry first 
      object?

             WILDE
      Just last year.  March of 1894, I 
      believe. 

             GILL
      Where is Lord Alfred Douglas now?

             WILDE
      He is abroad. 

             GILL
      Where, exactly?

             WILDE
      In Paris.  At the Hotel des Deux 
      Mondes.  

             GILL
      How long has he been there? 

Oscar knows where this is headed. 


                                      81.

             WILDE
      About three weeks.

             GILL
      The day you were arrested?

             WILDE
      Yes. 

             GILL
      But why should he flee if your 
      acquaintance with him is as 
      innocent as you say it is? 

Echoing Constance’ words. 

             WILDE
      Because the public opinion often 
      matters more than the truth. 

             GILL
      Had you asked him to leave London, 
      Mr. Wilde?

No answer. 

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
      Mr. Wilde.  Answer my question.  
      Did you ask Lord Alfred Douglas to 
      leave London, after he helped bail 
      you out of prison, three weeks ago?

Oscar waits to answer, then -- 

             WILDE
      Yes. 

             GILL
      Have you been in communication with 
      him since? 

             WILDE
      Of course.  He’s a dear friend.  
      These charges are founded on sand.  
      Our friendship is founded on a 
      rock.  There’s no need to cancel 
      the acquaintance. 

             GILL
      What did you do when you first 
      learned that the Marquess of 
      Queensberry objected to your 
      friendship with his son? 


                                      82.

             WILDE
      I said I was perfectly ready to 
      cease the acquaintance, if it would 
      make peace between him and his 
      father.  But Bosie preferred 
      otherwise. 

             GILL
      Bosie? 

             WILDE
      Lord Alfred Douglas.  That’s what I 
      call him.  As do all his friends. 

             GILL
      Do you think it is a decent way for 
      a man of your age to address a man 
      of his? 

             WILDE
      It is a beautiful way for an artist 
      to address a young man of culture 
      and charm.  Decency does not enter 
      into literary expression. 

             GILL
      Why yes.  Literary expression.  

Gill picks up Oscar’s novel -- 

Holds it up for all to see.  

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
      What is this?

             WILDE
      It’s my novel.  The Picture of 
      Dorian Gray.  

             GILL
      For those who are unfamiliar with 
      it, it’s the story of a painter who 
      paints a portrait of a much younger 
      man.  Lord Douglas’ age, yes? 

             WILDE
      I wrote the novel years before -- 

             GILL
      And this portrait of this young man 
      is so beautiful, even the painter 
      and his dear aristocratic friend 
      Lord Henry, are bedazzled by it.  
      Isn’t that so, Mr. Wilde? 


                                      83.

             WILDE
      Factually, yes.  But it reads 
      better than your banal synopsis. 

             GILL
      Do you factually believe in the 
      veracity of your story, Mr. Wilde? 

             WILDE
      I have no idea what you mean. 

             GILL
      Allow me to read a selection from 
      the novel.  The painter notes, 

He clears his throat. 

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
        (reading)
      “Every portrait that is painted 
      with feeling is a portrait of an 
      artist, not of the sitter.  The 
      sitter is merely the accident.  The 
      painter, on canvas, reveals 
      himself.” 

             WILDE
      Yes? 

             GILL
      I’m curious, Mr. Wilde.  Do you 
      believe the same is true for 
      writers?

             WILDE
      Perhaps.  If the writer is true to 
      himself.  To his art.  

             GILL
      It seems to be too strange a 
      coincidence to suggest that the 
      painter sounds very much like you, 
      Mr. Wilde. 

             WILDE
      That’s preposterous.  He’s just a 
      character.

             GILL
      That you created. 

             WILDE
      From my imagination. 


                                      84.

             GILL
      Does not imagination come from the 
      likeness and metaphors and 
      realities of our experience? 

Clarke rises, upset the Judge has yet to intervene. 

             CLARKE
      My lord!  This is outrageous.  Mr. 
      Gill is using fiction in a court of 
      law to --  

             JUDGE
      Take your seat, Mr. Clarke. 

             CLARKE
      But my lord!

             JUDGE
      Your seat! 

Clarke sits. 

             GILL
      Thank you for you testimony, Mr. 
      Wilde. 

             JUDGE
      This court will take a short 
      recess.  And resume with closing 
      arguments from the prosecution and 
      defense when we reconvene. 

He BANGS THE GAVEL -- COURT ADJOURNED. 

INT. WILLIE’S FLAT - DAY

Oscar finishes lunch -- Lily WASHES DISHES behind him. 

Willie sits at the table, observing Oscar -- who is quiet. 

Lily comes to pick up Oscar’s plate --  

             WILLIE
      Robbie came by this morning. 

             OSCAR
      Did he?

             WILLIE
      He brought you a painting. 

Willie goes to fetch it. 


                                      85.

Brings it back into the room -- 

GUIDO RENI’S “SAINT SEBASTIAN” 

Oscar’s favorite. 

             WILLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Said he bought it at your auction. 

Oscar stares at the piece -- haunted by its image now. 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Closing arguments, begin. 

Clarke goes first. 

Stands before the packed out crowd. 

             CLARKE
      May it please you, my lord, 
      gentlemen of the jury.  I appeal to 
      you to set aside prejudice and to 
      regard only the evidence which has 
      been laid before you. 

Clarke stands in front of the JURORS -- all men, all stoic. 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      In disentangling the evidence with 
      regards to the question of 
      literature and morality, I cannot 
      help expressing astonishment with 
      the prosecution’s arguments.  Mr. 
      Wilde is not an ordinary man.  He 
      is a man who has written poetry and 
      prose, brilliant dramas, charming 
      essays.  A man who writes letters 
      and is not ashamed or afraid to 
      produce these letters.  This is not 
      the cowardice of a man who is 
      guilty.  A man who has been tempted 
      into any sort of guilt would rather 
      give his whole fortune, rather 
      exile himself from his country than 
      allow these charges to be suggested 
      against him.  Yet, Mr. Wilde did 
      not flee.  He could have left 
      London.  To be spared all this.  
      But he didn’t.  Because he knew the 
      charges were false. 

Clarke walks over to Wilde -- a last pitch effort. 


                                      86.

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Gentlemen of the jury.  I trust the 
      result of your deliberations will 
      clear from this fearful imputation 
      one of our most renowned and 
      accomplished men of letters today.  
      And in clearing him, will clear 
      society from this stain. 

Half the courtroom APPLAUDS -- Robbie, the loudest. 

             OSCAR
        (shaking Clarke’s hand)
      Thank you, Edward. 

Clarke, looks hopeful again -- as, 

Gill stands -- pompous-like -- to give his closing remarks. 

             GILL
      My Lord.  Gentlemen of the jury.  
      It has been argued that no man 
      conscious of guilt would have dared 
      to set the criminal law in motion 
      against Lord Queensberry.  Sir 
      Edward Clarke has made a courageous 
      and brilliant defense of the 
      prisoner Wilde. 

He bows to Clarke. 

             GILL
	(CONT’D)
      But the letters from Mr. Wilde to 
      Lord Alfred Douglas breathe an 
      unholy passion.  If Sir Edward 
      Clarke’s defense is to be taken 
      true, then we are dealing with two 
      men here in this case.  First, the 
      Mr. Wilde who wrote the letters, 
      who fraternized with these youths, 
      gave gifts to them, and was seen at 
      the theatre and in hotels, spending 
      days and nights together.  And 
      second, the Mr. Wilde and his 
      eloquent words.  Which are we to 
      believe?  His actions?  Or his 
      words? 
      Mr. Wilde may be one of London’s 
      greatest writers, but that doesn’t 
      excuse his behavior.  Justice 
      exists to make immoral actions, 
      right.  So please -- I beg you, 
      gentlemen, to express a verdict 
      without fear or favor. 


                                      87.

EXT. PIER - DAY

A FERRY docks --

PEOPLE exit, one after another, until we see -- 

Bosie -- brown suit, green carnation, and top hat -- exiting.  

He walks along the dock, surveying London -- his former home. 

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

The JURYMEN file out of the courtroom -- one after the other -
- and into a PRIVATE DELIBERATION ROOM. 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

No judge. 

No jurors. 

But still, the place is packed. 

Oscar looks around the room -- surveying it --

In the balcony, his mother is no longer there. 

Neither is Robbie, at the moment.  

             CLARKE
      Come, Oscar. 

Clarke stands -- 

             CLARKE
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s have a smoke. 

INT. COURTHOUSE SECOND FLOOR ROOM - DAY

OSCAR’S POV out of a second story window -- 

A LARGE CROWD IS GATHERED OUTSIDE THE COURTHOUSE.  

He puffs on his cigarette -- blows the SMOKE at the closed 
window.  

The smoke hits the window -- disappears in front of his face.  

             CLARKE
      We have got them, Oscar.  Don’t 
      worry.  I saw it in their eyes. 


                                      88.

             OSCAR
      Whose?

             CLARKE
      The jurymen. 

Oscar continues to stare out the window -- then, he sees --  

BOSIE WALKING -- on the outskirts of the crowd. 

Not trying to break through. 

Bosie looks content to stay there -- not coming any closer. 

Fear colors Oscar’s face -- 

EXT. OLD BAILEY COURTHOUSE - DAY

Outside, amidst the crowd --

PEOPLE ARGUE WITH ONE ANOTHER, as if they decided the 
verdict. 

Back and forth, the banter continues. 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

All quiet in the court. 

The Judge takes his seat -- 

JURYMEN FILE INTO THE COURTROOM. 

Oscar faces his impending fate -- as, 

A MAN’S HAND GRABS HIS SHOULDER FROM BEHIND. 

In his chair, he turns around, and sees, 

HIS BROTHER WILLIE. 

             OSCAR
      You came!  How did you manage to 
      get in?  

             WILLIE
      Money. 

Oscar smiles. 

             OSCAR
      That’s the law of London for you. 


                                      89.

Willie grins back. 

Oscar turns around.  

             JUDGE
      Has the jury reached a verdict? 

FOREMAN OF THE JURY stands, speaks. 

             JURY FOREMAN
      We have, my lord. 

             JUDGE
      Will the defendant please stand? 

Oscar’s chest rises -- he STANDS. 

Clarke, too. 

This is it. 

EXT. OLD BAILEY COURTHOUSE - DAY

The CROWD, TOTALLY SILENT now -- waiting for the verdict to 
be read.  

Seconds pass. 

As they wait -- 

And wait. 

Until, 

THE DOORS SWING OPEN --

A COURT OFFICIAL (30s), screams the verdict, rejoicing. 

             COURT OFFICIAL
      Guilty!

LOUD CHEERS! 

It’s a mix of JOYFUL APPLAUSE and ANGRY HOLLERING -- as we 
hear fragments of sentences from them -- 

             CROWD
      JUSTICE! SHAME! PUT HIM IN JAIL! 
      NO! NOW! 

Then we go to BOSIE’S FACE -- 

About to burst into angry tears.  


                                      90.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

OSCAR is in utter shock -- 

His mouth agape with incredulity. 

The GAVEL BANGS. 

             JUDGE
      Gentlemen of the jury.  This case 
      has been a most difficult one.  I 
      would have rather tried the most 
      shocking murder case ever 
      committed, than to be engaged in a 
      case of this description.  People 
      who can do these things must be 
      dead to all sense of shame, and one 
      cannot hope to produce any effect 
      upon them.  You, Mr. Wilde, have 
      been the center of a circle of 
      extensive corruption of the most 
      hideous kind among young men.  The 
      sentence of the court is that you 
      be imprisoned and kept to hard 
      labor for two years.  

The judge BANGS his GAVEL, as CRIES from the CROWD --

             CROWD
      Oh!  No!  Shame! 

Oscar, still standing -- 

             OSCAR
      May I say nothing, my lord? 

The judge ignores his request, 

LEAVES THE BENCH. 

EXT. OLD BAILEY COURTHOUSE - DAY

It’s a mad scene -- the prosecution exits, Gill, Queensberry 
among many. 

Then, Bosie calls out from the crowd to his father -- 

             BOSIE
      Satisfied now? 

A hush. 

Queensberry sees his son -- approaches him. 


                                      91.

             QUEENSBERRY
      Don’t make a fool of yourself. 

Bosie lunges at his father, then SWINGS, 

PUNCHES HIM IN THE FACE --

Queensberry goes to the ground -- as POLICEMEN blow WHISTLES, 
RUNNING TO THEM TO TRY AND BREAK UP THE FIGHT. 

It’s CHAOS -- as the two continue to wrestle, throwing their 
FISTS right and left. 

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

JOURNALISTS SWARM IN -- trying to get a word from Oscar 
again. 

Willie, distraught. 

Robbie covers his mouth -- tears running down his cheeks. 

Clarke leans in to Oscar -- 

             CLARKE
      I’m so sorry, Oscar. 

He’s heartbroken -- Oscar feels it. 

Oscar takes a last look at his brother, Willie -- as the 
COURT POLICE put handcuffs on him -- 

And take him away. 

EXT. READING GAOL PRISON - DAY

SUPER: “Christmas Eve, 1895 -- 7 Months Later.” 

SNOW covers the GATES and GROUNDS -- 

PRISON GUARDS stand at the entrance.  

INT. MECHANICAL ROOM - DAY

Oscar is hideous now -- 

Bloody fingers, tangled hair, and sickly slim -- 

FORTY POUNDS LIGHTER THAN BEFORE.  

Unkept stubble pricks out from his face.  


A huge MACHINE turns -- as he and other PRISONERS’ step -- 
keeping it moving. 

Like a HUMAN HAMSTER on a WHEEL.  

                                      92.

Oscar sweats --  

Continues to, 

STEP, WALK, and PUSH. 

And STEP, WALK, and PUSH. 

The routine of hard labor lasts six hours each day.

INT. CAFETERIA - NIGHT

About a hundred PRISONERS fill long tables and benches. 

A DOZEN GUARDS stand by, keeping watch. 

Oscar sips a small cup of TEA -- along with one CRUSTY PIECE 
OF BREAD. 

This is his dinner. 

And then -- 

A BELL RINGS. 

TIME IS UP. 

His food, taken away from him -- as, 

ALL PRISONERS ARE FORCED TO RETURN TO THEIR CELLS. 

INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT

No windows. 

Oscar sits on the cold floor -- in isolation. 

POUNDING BOOTS hit the cement floor, louder and louder as, 

A PRISON GUARD, MITCHELL HARRIS (34), walks by Oscar’s cell.  

             MITCHELL
      Time for the service, Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      Must I?


                                      93.

             MITCHELL
      Warden rules.  It’s Christmas Eve. 

             OSCAR
      Does Jesus not grow tired of 
      celebrating himself?  

KEYS UNLOCK THE IRON BAR DOOR -- and it OPENS. 

Oscar walks out -- 

Mitchell follows him. 

INT. PRISON CHAPEL - NIGHT

CANDLES light up the SMALL, PLAIN, grey room. 

An ALTAR sits at the front -- a LARGE BRONZE CRUCIFIX hangs 
behind it. 

Behind the old wooden podium is PRIEST GARY (55), in a long 
BLACK ROBE, with a WHITE CLERICAL COLLAR. 

Oscar sits in the back row -- among a host of other PRISONERS 
looking just as bad as he. 

             PRIEST GARY
      A star.  That is what they were 
      drawn to.  Shining bright.  For all 
      the earth to see.  Like a radiant 
      guide telling them, “This is the 
      way, truth, life.”  

LATER

ORGAN MUSIC plays -- it’s the Christmas carol, “SILENT 
NIGHT”.  

One by one, prisoners come up to receive communion. 

Oscar is last in line. 

Unlike the rest, his hands are not open, not ready to take. 

             PRIEST GARY
	(CONT’D)
      Still resisting God, Mr. Wilde?

             OSCAR
      Not God.  Just you, Father. 

Priest Gary grins -- like they have an understanding -- then 
blesses Oscar with the SIGN OF THE CROSS. 


                                      94.

             PRIEST GARY
      Mind if I pay you a visit later? 

             OSCAR
      Do I have a choice? 

             PRIEST GARY
      Not really.  

INT. PRISON CELL - DAY

Mitchell opens the PRISON DOORS -- Priest Gary ENTERS, 
carrying a SMALL WOODEN CHAIR. 

He takes a seat. 

Oscar -- lying on his hard plank-of-a-bed, with no mattress, 
sits up. 

Mitchell closes the CELL DOOR -- stands nearby. 

             OSCAR
      So?  What do you think?

Referring to his cell -- as if he decorated the dull place. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I call it night bleakness.  Makes 
      it easier to see the stars.   

             PRIEST GARY
      Oscar.  How would you feel about 
      writing again?

Now he’s paying attention. 

             OSCAR
      That is all I have asked for since 
      I came here, Father.  

             PRIEST GARY
      The Warden has told me. 

             OSCAR
      Well? 

             PRIEST GARY
      You were baptized as a young boy, 
      yes? 

             OSCAR
      Yes.  In a small village.  Just 
      outside Dublin. 


Priest Gary sits back in his chair -- folds his arms. 

                                      95.

             PRIEST GARY
      I’ve convinced the warden to allow 
      writing materials into your cell. 
      On one condition. 

             OSCAR
      Anything. 

             PRIEST GARY
      Read the four gospels then meet 
      with me to discuss. 

             OSCAR
      What? 

Oscar considers the offer.  

A beat. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Is this what priests have resorted 
      to?  Blackmailing prisoners stuck 
      in cells to read the Bible? 

             PRIEST GARY
        (chuckles)
      Not everyone.  Just you. 

             OSCAR
      How many meetings? 

             PRIEST GARY
      No more than a few.  I simply want 
      to hear your thoughts.  No 
      exorcisms.  No extra conversions.  

             OSCAR
      Very well. 

Priest Gary pulls out a BIBLE from his pocket. 

Hands it over to Oscar. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      What about my writing utensils? 

             PRIEST GARY
        (standing to leave)
      After the book of Mark, Oscar. 

He’s at the cell doors. 


                                      96.

Waiting for Mitchell to unlock it. 

             PRIEST GARY
	(CONT’D)
      I trust you know with all your 
      classical education at Oxford that 
      although it is the second of the 
      four gospels, it is actually the 
      first one written.

Oscar is fluent in Greek -- the original language the New 
Testament was written in -- but it seems he didn’t know that. 

The cell doors OPEN -- 

             PRIEST GARY
	(CONT’D)
      Merry Christmas, Oscar. 

The doors SLAM shut. 

Oscar flips open the Bible to -- 

THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO SAINT MARK. 

He begins to read in his cell, on his bed -- 

INT. PRISON CAFETERIA - DAY

The next morning. 

Oscar, still reading at breakfast -- 

INT. MECHANICAL ROOM - DAY

Oscar even tries to read while doing hard labor --

An OLD PRISON GUARD on patrol walks by him -- takes the book 
away -- then looks down, sees it’s a Bible. 

He looks to Oscar, confused. 

Hands the Bible back to him. 

INT. PRISON CELL - DAY

Oscar, still reading -- this must be his fourth time through.

Mitchell walks up to his cell -- 

             MITCHELL
      Got a visitor, Mr. Wilde. 


                                      97.

Oscar looks up -- curious. 

INT. PRISON VISITOR’S QUARTERS - DAY

A barren table with two chairs. 

In one chair, is Lady Wilde -- waiting to speak to her son. 

Oscar ENTERS -- sees his mother. 

She stands -- aghast and heartbroken at the sight of him.   

THEY EMBRACE. 

             OSCAR
      I’m sorry for how I treated you.  
      The last time we spoke. 

             LADY WILDE
      It’s in the past, Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      The past can still hurt. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      How are Cyril and Vyvyan? 

             LADY WILDE
      Constance has moved them to 
      Switzerland.

A beat. 

Oscar turns angry now -- 

             OSCAR
      It isn’t right. 

She knows. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      All I used to want growing up was 
      to be a father.  

             LADY WILDE
      I remember.  You playing house.  
      With Isola.  Dressing up in your 
      father’s clothes.  How old were you 
      then?   

             OSCAR
      Nine.  Isola was six. 


Silence -- the silence that comes after someone deceased as 
just been brought up.

                                      98.

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I remember where I was when she 
      passed.  The headmaster came to my 
      classroom.  I thought he came to 
      congratulate me for scoring the 
      highest on the Greek examination.  
      But when I saw his face, I knew. 

He stops for a moment. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      That I could never go back to 
      before that moment.  That’s when I 
      wrote my first poem.   

             LADY WILDE
      For Isola.   

             OSCAR
      Requiescat. 

             LADY WILDE
      It was lovely.  You were only 
      twelve. 

             OSCAR
      Cyril will be twelve, soon. 

EXT. READING GAOL PRISON - DAY

Lady Wilde exits the grounds -- Willie waits for her beside 
her carriage. 

             WILLIE
      Did you tell him? 

Lady Wilde tries to remain calm, holds in tears. 

She doesn’t answer Willie. 

             WILLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Mum, did you? 

             LADY WILDE
      He looked so pitiful.  I couldn’t 
      bear to. 

We don’t know what their referring to -- but it isn’t good.  


                                      99.

INT. PRISON CAFETERIA - DAY

Oscar’s lunch, a SMALL BOWL OF SOUP -- stares back at him. 

He sips his soup -- reads the GOSPEL OF MARK. 

Again.  

Sitting down across from him is an -- 

OLD IRISH PRISONER (60s) even more hideous than Oscar.  His 
face, black with dirt, his hands decrepid.  Wrinkles and 
creases abound -- from ears to eyes.  

A mangled mess of flesh.

Oscar stares at the old prisoner.   

The only difference between them is,

Time.

INT. PRISON CHAPEL - DAY

The noon Christmas Day service is just ending. 

Oscar approaches the altar -- his SHACKLES, rattle.

Priest Gary, still standing behind the podium. 

             PRIEST GARY
      Ready to trade thoughts for some 
      paper, Mr. Wilde? 

             OSCAR
      Why did you ask me to read Mark 
      first? 

Innocent-like. 

             PRIEST GARY
      Because it’s short. 

             OSCAR
      If you were trying to console me, 
      you bloody well failed.  

             PRIEST GARY
      I was not trying to console you. 

Oscar, lost. 


                                     100.

             PRIEST GARY
	(CONT’D)
      How did you find Jesus?  According 
      to Mark’s point-of-view? 

             OSCAR
      Wholly frustrated. 

             PRIEST GARY
      Oh come now, Mr. Wilde.  Beyond the 
      words. 

             OSCAR
      Am I in school again, Father? 

             PRIEST GARY
      That is one way to see prison. 

             OSCAR
      He deluded himself into thinking 
      his disciples, friends, even his 
      mother was nuts. 

             PRIEST GARY
      So he was a loon?  Christ?  Our 
      Savior?   

             OSCAR
      I suppose so, unpleasant as it 
      sounds. 

             PRIEST GARY
      Good.

Priest Gary hands Oscar TWO PAGES, a PEN, and some INK. 

             OSCAR
      That’s all? 

He turns back -- looks to Oscar. 

             PRIEST GARY
      For now.  Yes. 

Priest Gary EXITS the chapel. 

Oscar is alone. 

He takes a seat on the first bench, just before the altar. 

CANDLE FLAMES flicker in front of his face -- splashing him 
with light and darkness, simultaneously. 


                                     101.

INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT

Oscar begins to write a letter to Bosie -- 

And then -- 

He hears the sound of SHACKLES --

Then FOOTSTEPS -- 

Then, a man’s FAINT SINGING. 

Oscar recognizes the song -- 

It’s the same lullaby he sang his sons in the beginning -- 
the heartbreaking, melodic ballad, 

“Táimse Im' Chodhladh” 

Oscar drops his pen -- 

He looks up -- sees the Old Irish Prisoner passing by.  

Shocked something so beautiful could come from someone in so 
much pain, enduring so much suffering. 

And then it hits him -- 

His sons. 

The loss of them. 

As if he is beginning to break down, grasp this, grieve it.  

TEARS well up in his eyes but he doesn’t cry here. 

Instead, he fights them -- stubbornly. 

He wipes his face -- proud. 

But who is he trying to impress, really? 

So he goes back to writing.

EXT. PRISON GROUNDS - DAY

A couple dozen PRISONERS scatter across the gated grounds -- 
Oscar, among them. 

Oscar overhears a conversation between TWO PRISONERS (30s). 

             PRISONER #1
      How long you been here? 


                                     102.

             PRISONER #2
      Ten days. 

             PRISONER #1
      Give up counting or you’ll grow 
      crazy.    

Oscar watches them both. 

             PRISONER #1
	(CONT’D)
      What’d you do? 

             PRISONER #2
      Nothin’.  I’m innocent. 

             PRISONER #1
      We’re all innocent.
        (laughs)
      What’d they say you did? 

             PRISONER #2
      Kill a man. 

Oscar interjects -- 

             OSCAR
      And you didn’t? 

The two prisoners look over to them. 

Prisoner #2 shakes his head, ‘no’. 

             PRISONER #1
      That’s Mr. Oscar Wilde.  Used to be 
      a famous writer.  Until he gave 
      into temptation of the loins.  

             OSCAR
      It takes courage to give in to 
      temptation. 

             PRISONER #1
      Bravo to you, then. 

He claps his hands together -- slowly. 

             PRISONER #1
	(CONT’D)
      Perhaps British royalty will give 
      you a medal, someday.  Medal of 
      courage and bravery for sodomizing 
      a bunch of young blokes. 

Oscar leaps up -- ATTACKS the Prisoner #1. 


                                     103.

THEY START THROWING PUNCHES. 

Other Prisoners HOLLER, cheer them both on. 

GUARDS RUSH ACROSS THE GROUNDS TO TRY AND STOP THEM. 

Oscar may be bigger, but the scrappy Prisoner #1 is 
definitely winning now. 

He takes Oscar to the ground, begins pounding on him. 

BLOOD SPRAYS from Oscar’s face. 

INT. SOLITARY CONFINEMENT CELL - DAY

Oscar, still bleeding -- sits on the floor. 

The only light comes from a small sliver underneath the door.  

DAYS TURN TO NIGHTS.  

Then back to days, again. 

Oscar is still in there. 

MORE TIME PASSES and then -- 

The door opens -- 

THE LIGHT NEARLY BLINDS OSCAR -- the weakest and most 
exhausted he’s ever looked.  

The WARDEN (50s), stands in the doorway. 

             WARDEN
      Ready to behave, Mr. Wilde? 

INT. PRISON CAFETERIA - DAY

Oscar shovels down his small bowl of SOUP -- he’s starving. 
The Prisoner #2, from the courtyard before, eyes Oscar, 

Passes Oscar his bowl of soup -- 

Oscar, grateful -- begins to work on his second bowl as,  

Mitchell WALKS UP -- 

             MITCHELL
      Come with me, Oscar. 


                                     104.

INT. PRISON VISITOR’S QUARTERS - DAY

A MAN IN HAT AND COAT -- his back facing Oscar’s vision, 
stands in the room. 

The DOORS open -- 

Oscar steps into the quarters, as the man turns around --

It’s Willie. 

His face red with sorrow --    

             OSCAR
      Willie.  What is it? 

Tears begin to fall. 

             WILLIE
      Mum’s gone. 

INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT

Alone in his cell, Oscar begins to sob in bed. 

His tears wet the LETTERS he’s spent so much time writing -- 

Ink runs from the pages from his tears. 

INT. PRISON CHAPEL - NIGHT

Priest Gary sits on a bench at the front of the altar, turns 
around -- sees Oscar and Mitchell. 

             PRIEST GARY
      Service doesn’t start for another 
      half an hour. 

Oscar looks as though he’s been crying for days. His eyes, 
puffy, with dark circles surrounding them. 

He trudges closer to the priest. 

Takes a seat beside him. 

Priest Gary nods at Mitchell -- excusing him from the room. 

Mitchell EXITS. 

             PRIEST GARY
	(CONT’D)
      What is it, Oscar? 


                                     105.

             OSCAR
      “My God, My God, why hath thou 
      forsaken me?”

Jesus’ last words from the book of Mark, before he dies.   

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Is that what you wanted me to see? 

Priest Gary remains still.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      Isolation.  Suffering. 

Silence. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      My mum’s dead. 

Priest Gary takes in a deep breath. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      And I am here.  Unable to pay my 
      respects.  At her funeral.  Can 
      there be anything more cruel for a 
      son than that?  To be dead to his 
      mum? 

             PRIEST GARY
      You’re not dead, Oscar. 

             OSCAR
      I am so tired of suffering, father.   

There’s a long beat.

             PRIEST GARY
      For more than ten years, I have 
      seen men suffer as Christ did.  And 
      yet most of us avoid suffering at 
      any cost.  We hide from it, hoping 
      it will disappear from our life.  
      But it never does.  Suffering must 
      be embraced, fully, no matter how 
      horrendous it is.  Only then can we 
      face who we really are.  

Oscar begins to weep, softly -- Priest Gary rests his arm on 
Oscar’s shoulder.  

             PRIEST GARY
	(CONT’D)
      To own one’s soul, Oscar.  To own 
      who you really are.  That is all 
      God begs of you.  Sinner or saint.    


INT. PRISON SHOWER - DAY

SHOWER WATER runs down Oscar’s face -- his eyes, open. 

                                     106.

He stands there, unmoved. 

Taking the words of the priest in. 

Realizing, slowly, that he’s right.

This isn’t just about religion. 

Or God. 

Or the Bible, even.   

It’s about who Oscar really is -- and he never would’ve come 
to this place without such sorrow.  

INT. PRISON CELL - DAY

Oscar writes, furiously. 

Letter after letter. 

To Robbie. 

To Constance. 

To Cyril, Vyvyan. 

Even Willie. 

He has so much to say now, it seems. 

INT. PRISON CHAPEL - DAY

Oscar is in the front row now -- 

Dozens of PRISONERS sit behind him. 

Priest Gary reads from the Book of Isaiah. 

             PRIEST GARY
      “He is despised.  And rejected of 
      men.  A man of sorrows.  And 
      acquainted with grief.  And we hid, 
      as it were, our faces from him.” 


                                     107.

INT. PRISON VISITOR’S QUARTERS - DAY

Another visitor -- Constance.  

Oscar sits across from her -- describing himself. 

             OSCAR
      I never saw myself as the one to 
      hide.  But in hearing the words of 
      the prophet Isaiah, I felt the 
      minister was describing my life. 
      With you, Constance.   

Constance looks as though he’s finally being honest with her. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I’m so very sorry.  In my heart, I 
      thought I deserved everything.  
      Believed no man or woman, not even 
      you should stand in my way.  

             CONSTANCE
      You were stubborn.  

             OSCAR
      Can you ever forgive me? 

She doesn’t respond.  

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I miss my sons, Constance.  May I 
      see them?  Upon my release?  

             CONSTANCE
      Perhaps.  

Pulling TWO LETTERS from under the table. 

             OSCAR
      Can you give these to them? 

Constance takes them from Oscar. 

             CONSTANCE
      Are you still writing to Bosie? 

             OSCAR
      I am. 

             CONSTANCE
      So you refuse to give up that life? 


                                     108.

             OSCAR
      I can’t change this part of me, 
      Constance.  

             CONSTANCE
      But it’s sin.  

             OSCAR
      No.  Sin is hiding.  

Constance looks away -- contemplative. 

             CONSTANCE
      Sometimes a mask tells us more than 
      a face, Oscar. 

A beat. 

             CONSTANCE
	(CONT’D)
      Isn’t that what you used to tell 
      me? 

             OSCAR
      I did.  But this isn’t a mask, 
      Constance.  It’s me. 

Constance stares into his eyes -- 

Unsure if she believes him. 

EXT. READING GAOL PRISON - DAY

Constance exits the prison doors -- looks down at the TWO 
LETTERS in her hands -- one for Cyril, one for Vyvyan. 

She thinks a moment. 

Then rips them up -- 

Tosses both letters in the RUBBISH. 

INT. MECHANICAL ROOM - DAY

Oscar, working hard -- sweating like always. 

The Warden walks up to him -- pulls him aside. 

             WARDEN
      How would you feel about working 
      out in the garden from now on? 


                                     109.

             OSCAR
      I would be most grateful, sir. 

EXT. PRISON COURTYARD - DAY

A bright shining SUN-filled afternoon. 

Oscar WORKS OUT IN A SMALL GARDEN -- with Prisoner #2. 
They’re pulling weeds. 

In the near distance -- Oscar spots, 

ROBBIE’S CARRIAGE

He stands -- ecstatic. 

Rushes over to the entrance at the gates. 

LATER

PRISON ENTRANCE -- BETWEEN THE GATES

Robbie exits his carriage. 

Walks over to Oscar. 

They converse between the IRON BARS of the gates that 
separate them.   

             ROBBIE
      Is this the hard labor you speak of 
      in your letters?  

             OSCAR
      Good behavior. 

             ROBBIE
      How are you, Oscar? 

             OSCAR
      Much better now.  In the sun every 
      other day.   

             ROBBIE
      You look well.  Better than when I 
      first saw you here. 

             OSCAR
      Prison makes one see the secret of 
      life, I suppose. 

             ROBBIE
      Which is what? 


                                     110.

             OSCAR
      Suffering.
        (beat)
      Hidden behind everything.  

Oscar looks around -- his words, contrast the beauty of the 
outside world. 

             OSCAR
	(CONT’D)
      I read in a newspaper that on the 
      night before my arrest, some six 
      hundred men fled London.  Men like 
      me. 

Over six hundred closeted homosexuals fled that night -- 

This was the opening scene. 

             ROBBIE
      You’re not like other men, Oscar.

             OSCAR
      Aren’t I? 

             ROBBIE
      Nothing is more rare in any man, 
      than an act of his own. 

Ralph Waldo Emerson.  

Oscar smiles -- one of his favorites. 

EXT. TICKET BOOTH -- ENGLISH CHANNEL - DAY

SUPER: “May 19, 1897” 

FOOTSTEPS and a CANE tap the wooden planks of the dock, as 
they glide along. 

Panning up, we see it is --

OSCAR -- who looks older now. 

He limps.   

Carrying a few pieces of LUGGAGE behind him is, 

ROBBIE -- anxious and excited. 

Oscar approaches the ticket booth. 

             TICKET SALES CLERK
      Where to, sir? 


             OSCAR
      One-way ticket to Paris.
        (beat)
      For two.  

Oscar exchanges glances with Robbie -- 

Who assures him with a look, 

The wait to flee was worth it.  

                                     111.

                                FADE OUT.

                               OVER BLACK:

EPILOGUE

“Oscar met up with Bosie in Paris after he was released from 
prison.  The two toured Italy and France, together.  Shortly 
after a year, they parted due to irreconcilable differences.” 

“Oscar Wilde died on November 30, 1900 of cerebral meningitis 
at the age of 46.  Robbie Ross was the only friend present by 
his side when he passed.” 

“Oscar is buried in Paris, at Père Lachaise Cemetery.  In 
1950, on the 50th anniversary of Wilde's death, Robbie Ross’ 
ashes were added to Wilde's tomb.  Where they now and forever 
will remain.”


