                NEBRASKA

               Written by
             Robert W. Nelson

              Revisions by
              Phil Johnston
                  And
             Alexander Payne

           Current Revisions by 
             Alexander Payne
             August 15, 2012

             New Revisions by
              Alexander Payne
               9/16/2012

            Newer Revisions by
             Alexander Payne
               10/15/2012
                 (blue)



EXT. BILLINGS, MONTANA - LAUREL ROAD - DAY

A MAN in his 70s walks along a narrow stretch of grass 
separating a busy road from a railroad yard.  

The man walks purposefully, despite the hesitant gait and 
clouded eyes of a longtime alcoholic.  

EXT. NEAR INTERSTATE 90 - DAY


Now a bit dazed and slowed by fatigue, the man walks past a 
sign reading BILLINGS CITY LIMITS.

A state patrol cruiser pulls up in front of him, and a 
TROOPER gets out.

EXT. DAVIDS APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

A modest structure set against a bluff.

INT. DAVIDS APARTMENT - DAY


DAVID GRANT - 40 - sits in a recliner in a sparsely-furnished 
living room.  He watches TV and drinks from a plastic bottle 
of Mountain Dew.  The doorbell rings.

He gets up and opens the door.  Its his recent ex-girlfriend 
NOL with two suitcases.

             DAVID
      Hi.

             NOL
      Hi.

             DAVID
      Wow.  Are you moving back in?

             NOL
      No, these are yours.  Im just 
      returning them.

             DAVID
      Right.  Thanks.  Do you want to 
      come in?

She thinks a moment before stepping inside and maintains a 
polite distance.  She notices a droopy plant.


             NOL      David, youre supposed to water 
      that plant.  Its a plant.

David goes to the kitchen to fill a container with water.

                                      2.

             DAVID
      Id like you to change your mind.

             NOL
      What does that mean?

             DAVID
      You know what it means.  I want you 
      to move back in.

             NOL
      I just moved out. 

             DAVID
      So two years, and were back to 
      dating.

             NOL
      I dont know yet.  Well see in a 
      while.

             DAVID
      Are we still having sex?

             NOL
      What do you think?

             DAVID
      I think we are.

             NOL
      And then what?

             DAVID
      Usually I fall asleep.

Not in the mood for a joke --

             NOL
      Ive got to go.

             DAVID
      Are you saying we cant be together 
      again unless we get married?


				3.

             NOL
      Get married, break up, I dont 
      know.  Lets do both.  Lets just 
      do something.


The phone rings.  David and Nol wait in silence as the 
machine eventually picks up.

             KATE
	(ON PHONE)
      Pick up or call me back right now.  
      Its your father -- hes gone 
      crazy.

             DAVID
      Oh, shit.

He runs to pick up the phone.  Nol starts for the door.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Hi, Mom.  Im here.

             KATE
	(ON PHONE)
      David, its your mother.

             DAVID
      Thats why I said, Hi, Mom.

             KATE
	(ON PHONE)
      I dont know what Im going to do 
      with him.  Im going to put him in 
      a goddamned nursing home is what 
      Im going to do.  Im too old for 
      this.

As Kate continues, David waves a weak goodbye to Nol.


INT. MONTANA SHERIFF STATION - DAY


WOODY GRANT sits on a folding chair in a cinder-block office.  
A SHERIFF leads David inside.



             DAVID
      Theres the man of the hour.

             WOODY
      The what?

             DAVID
      The man of the hour.

             WOODY
      I dont know.


				4.

In addition to general confusion, Woody is deaf in one ear.

             DAVID
      So you told the sheriff you were 
      walking to... Nebraska?

             WOODY
      Thats right.  To get my million 
      dollars.

             DAVID
      What million dollars?

             WOODY
      I won a million dollars.  

He pulls a crinkled letter from his jacket pocket, which he 
unfolds and labors to read.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      We are now authorized to pay one 
      million dollars to Mr. Woodrow T. 
      Grant of Billings, Montana.

             DAVID
      Let me see.

Woody hands David the letter.

             WOODY
      Your mother wont take me.

             DAVID
        (reading)
      Mega Sweepstakes Marketing.  Dad, 
      this is a total come-on.  Its one 
      of the oldest gimmicks in the book.  
      I didnt even know they did this 
      anymore.

             WOODY
      They cant say it if its not true.

             DAVID
      Theyre just trying to sell you 
      magazine subscriptions.

             WOODY
      It says I won.

             DAVID
      So lets mail it in.  Ill help 
      you.


				5.

             WOODY
      I dont trust the mail with a 
      million dollars.


EXT. WOODY AND KATES HOUSE - DAY

A modest home.

Woody and David get out of Davids car.  David pulls a very 
full laundry basket from his back seat.

They go inside the kitchen door. 

INT. WOODY AND KATES KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS


KATE GRANT awaits them wearing a faded floral housecoat.  The 
house has a tired, 70s-era dcor.  David puts his basket in 
the laundry room at one end of the kitchen.

             KATE
      You dumb cluck.  You pretty near 
      gave me a heart attack!

             WOODY
      Now just cool your jets.

             KATE
      This is the second time hes tried 
      to sneak out.  I never knew the son-
      of-a-bitch even wanted to be a 
      millionaire.  He should have 
      thought about that years ago and 
      worked for it.

             DAVID
      What would you do with a million 
      dollars anyway, Dad?

             WOODY
      Buy a new truck.

             DAVID
      You cant drive.

             WOODY
      Ill get my license back.

             DAVID
      Tell me when you do so I can stay 
      off the road.



					6.

             WOODY
      I need an air compressor too.

             KATE
Are you still harping on that?

             WOODY
      Ed Pegram still has mine.

             KATE
      Thats because hes a thief.

             WOODY
      Hes not a thief.  I lent it to 
      him.

             DAVID
      Whos Ed Pegram?

             WOODY
      Guy I knew back in Hawthorne.

             DAVID
      When did he borrow it?

             WOODY
      Seventy-four.

             DAVID
      Thats almost forty years.  He 
      lives two states away.  Id say he 
      stole it.

             WOODY
      Thats why I need a new one.

Woody heads down the hallway.

             KATE
      Where you off to now?

             WOODY
      Lyin down.

             KATE
      He even sleeps with that stupid 
      letter.  Hes memorized it word for 
      word.  I didnt think he could 
      memorize anything anymore.

             DAVID
        (opening the refrigerator)
      Hey, whats with this casserole?


				7.

             KATE
      Its lasagna.  Its still good.  
      Take it.  And take some bananas.  I 
      bought a whole lot of them 
      yesterday.  Your father makes me so 
      nervous.  You know what Id do with 
      a million dollars -- Id put him in 
      a home.


INT. HOME THEATERS PLUS! - DAY


David works with a YOUNG COUPLE inside a soundproof DEMO 
ROOM.  David and the man headbang to a rock anthem.  The 
woman looks bored.

Soon David leads them back into the showroom.

             DAVID
      Like I say, you basically just test-
      drove a Cadillac or Rolls Royce or 
      whatever.  Wasnt that awesome?

             MAN
      Totally.

             DAVID
      But thats not to say I cant set 
      you up with a whole lot more 
      reasonable speakers thatll still 
      blow your mind if youre worried 
      the Wilsons are going to set you 
      back too much.  The way they design 
      speakers anymore, you cant make a 
      mistake.

The woman tugs on her boyfriends arm.

             MAN
      Great.  I think, uh, I think we 
      just need to discuss this and get 
      back to you.

             DAVID
      Heres my card.  Give me a call 
      anytime if you have any more 
      questions.

             MAN
      Thanks a lot.

             DAVID
      Excellent, Mark, Janice.  Pleasure.


					8.

             JANICE
      Juh-neece.

             DAVID
      Juh-neece.  Sorry.

David watches them go.  They wont be back.

             OTHER EMPLOYEE
      David, your mothers on line one.


EXT. WOODY AND KATES HOUSE - DAY

David gets out of his car and finds his mother near the 
garage.

             DAVID
      Whered they find him this time?

             KATE
      Way the hell out on King Avenue by 
      the Albertsons.  I cant take it 
      anymore.  Ross is in there trying 
      to talk some sense into him.

David goes into the --

INT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS


-- where Davids brother ROSS watches Woody work on the 
engine of a very old Ford pickup.  Ross has a sportcoat, tie, 
and perfect haircut.

             ROSS
      Hi, Dave.

             DAVID
      Ross.  Whats going on, Dad?

             WOODY
      Talk to Ma and Ross.  They seem to 
      know it all.

             DAVID
      Im asking you.

             WOODY
      Cant get her to turn over.

             DAVID
      Thats because its been sitting 
      there for ten years.


					9.

             WOODY
      Ill get her runnin.

             ROSS
      He still thinks hes going to 
      Lincoln to get his money.

             WOODY
      Gotta get there by the 5th.

             ROSS
      Hey Dad, how come you didnt think 
      of fixing the truck first or take a 
      bus?  Whyd you just start walking? 

Woody looks up a moment, thinks about that, then gets back to 
work.  David leads his brother out of the garage.

             DAVID
      Dont pull his chain like that.  
      The poor guy doesnt know whats 
      going on half the time.

             ROSS
      I cut the solenoid wire and stuck 
      it back in.  Thatll slow him down.  
      And Moms right -- its time to 
      think about a home.  She cant 
      handle him anymore.  Its not fair 
      to her.

             DAVID
      He doesnt need a nursing home.  He 
      just...the guy just needs something 
      to live for.  Thats all this is 
      about.  

             ROSS
      Yeah, and its pathetic.  Seems 
      like drinking always gave him more 
      than enough to live for until now.

             DAVID
      Go easy on the man, okay?  Hell 
      probably forget all about this in a 
      day or two.

             ROSS
      And then itll be some other 
      demented crap, like the infomercial 
      stuff last year.  Mom and I are 
      looking at reality, and youd 
      better start too.  



                                      10.
             ROSS
	(CONT'D)
      A home would be in his best 
      interest -- which, lets face it -- 
      is more than he ever thought about 
      with us.  He never gave a shit 
      about you or me.

They peek inside the garage.  Woody remains focused.

             DAVID
      I saw you anchoring the other 
      night.  Nice job.

             ROSS
      Thanks.

             DAVID
      First time in the chair, right?

             ROSS
      Kelly Ann Castillo called in sick, 
      so I got to fill in, yeah.  And 
      apparently I didnt stink up the 
      place too much, so...

             DAVID
      Tom Brokaw.  The new Tom Brokaw of 
      Billings.

             ROSS
      I dont know about Tom Brokaw 
      exactly, but you know, yeah, its 
      looking pretty good.  Ive paid my 
      dues.  Plus, looks like Kelly Anns 
      got some kind of bad infection.

Then from inside the garage --

             KATE
      You put that heap of shit on the 
      road, I swear to God Ill call the 
      police!

INT. DAVIDS APARTMENT - DAY


David sits in his recliner drinking beer and watching a 
documentary about Tiger Woods.

             TV NARRATOR
      When Earl Woods died, friends say a 
      piece of Tiger died with him.


					11.

             TIGER WOODS
	(ON TV)
      My dad has always taught me these 
      words: care and share...

David notices the time and switches the channel. 

             ROSS
	(ON TV)
      Billings Chamber of Commerce 
      director Dee Pomerantz says a new 
      convention center could bring in 
      upwards of five million dollars to 
      the Magic City.  But opponents, led 
      by Councilman Reilly Tilden, claim 
      the plan is a Pie in the Big Sky 
      idea that will cost taxpayers more 
      than its worth.  The Council is 
      expected to debate the proposal in 
      Mondays session.  Coming up next, 
      is it time to pull out that old 
      umbrella?  Debbie Ontiveros has 
      your soggy work week forecast. 
      Then in Sports, Carter brings us 
      the story of a Hardin snowmobiler 
      who may have lost his legs, but not 
      his will to compete.  That and more 
      coming up after the break.  Stay 
      with us.

             DAVID
      Ross.

The phone rings.  David looks at the caller ID, drops his 
head and answers with dread.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Hello.

             KATE
	(ON PHONE)
      David, its your mother.


EXT. DOWNTOWN BILLINGS - DAY

Woody walks down the sidewalk toward the BUS STATION.  David 
pulls up alongside him in his car and rolls down the window.

             DAVID
      Dad.  Dad!

             WOODY
      Leave me alone. 

David guns the car ahead of Woody, stops and gets out.

             DAVID
      Come on.  Let me take you home.

             WOODY
      Im going to Lincoln if its the 
      last thing I do.  I dont care what 
      you people think.

             DAVID
      Listen to me.  You didnt win 
      anything.  Its a complete scam.  
      So youve got to stop this, okay?

Woody looks at David as though maybe his son is finally 
making sense.  Then he starts walking again.


					12.

             WOODY
      Im running out of time.

             DAVID
      You dont even have a suitcase.

             WOODY
      Im not stayin there.

             DAVID
      I cant let you go.

             WOODY
      Its none of your business.

             DAVID
      Yes, it is.  Im your son.

             WOODY
      Then why dont you take me?

             DAVID
      I cant just drop everything and 
      drive to Lincoln, Nebraska.

             WOODY
      What else you got goin on?

David blinks as he absorbs this.  Even a broken clock is 
right twice a day.


INT. WOODY AND KATES DRIVEWAY - DAY


As David puts an old suitcase of his fathers into the trunk 
of his car, Kate lays into him.  

             KATE
      What the hell are you doing?
      Theres no money!

             DAVID
      I realize that.

Woody sits in the passenger seat, seemingly oblivious to the 
discussion.

             KATE 
      Have you lost your marbles too?  
      Get your father out of your car 
      this goddamned instant.  You need 
      to help me.  

					13.

             KATE
	(CONT'D)
      Im the one who does all the work 
      around here.  Your father just sits 
      there.  Look at him.  Hes useless.  
      His mother spoiled him.

             DAVID
      Well just be gone a couple of 
      days.  Dont worry.  Well be back 
      before you know it.  Why dont you 
      just enjoy the time alone?  You 
      always complain about having him 
      around.  

             KATE
      What about your job?

David gets in the car.

             DAVID
      I told them I was sick.

             KATE
      Sick in the head.  Im going to 
      tell Ross to call you.  Hell back 
      me up.

             DAVID
      Sounds great.  Bye, Mom.  

David drives away.

             KATE
      Youre just like your father, 
      stubborn as a mule!  Couple of 
      lunatics!


EXT. INTERSTATE 90 - DAY

Davids Subaru heads southeast toward Wyoming.

INT. DAVIDS CAR - DAY

David and Woody drive in silence for a while before --

             WOODY
      When you get tired, you let me 
      know, and Ill drive.

             DAVID
      You cant drive.


                                      14.
             WOODY
      Why not?

             DAVID
      Because your license was suspended 
      for drinking.

             WOODY
      I dont drink.

             DAVID
      Is that right?

             WOODY
      Just a beer now and then.

             DAVID
      Thats true.  One continuous fifty-
      year beer.

             WOODY
        (pointing)
      I can sure as hell drive better 
      than that moron.

MONTAGE --

-- The car continues on Interstate 90 amid the wide-open 
spaces of Montana.

-- WELCOME TO WYOMING

-- A freight train travels alongside the highway.  Woody 
stares at it like a little kid.  David casts glances at his 
father.


EXT. BUFFALO LAKE STOP GAS STATION - DAY


While filling up the car, David stares into space taking 
mental stock of his strange situation.  Once he replaces the 
nozzle, he turns to find his father.

Davids eyes follow the direction of the passenger door left 
open, and he spots a SALOON.

             DAVID
      Oh, shit.


INT. BUFFALO LAKE STOP SALOON - DAY


David finds Woody seated comfortably amid a gaggle of 
weathered afternoon DRINKERS.  


					15.

             DAVID
      Jesus Christ, Dad, what are you 
      doing here?

             WOODY
      I was thirsty.

             DAVID
      Good to see youre not drinking.

             WOODY
      Beer aint drinking.
        (downing the rest of his 
         Coors)
      Lets go.


DRIVING MONTAGE --



-- The car passes through shifting landscapes and impressive, 
big cloudy skies.

-- WELCOME TO SOUTH DAKOTA: FOREVER WEST

-- A crew of BIKERS swarms and passes the car.

-- The car passes billboards, one advertising MOUNT RUSHMORE.



INT. DAVIDS CAR - DAY

David smiles.

             DAVID
      Hey, Dad.

             WOODY
      Yeah?

             DAVID
      How about we go see Mount Rushmore?

             WOODY
      We dont have time for that.

             DAVID
      Its just a half hour off the 
      interstate.  Were right here.

             WOODY
      Its just a bunch of rocks.

EXT. HIGHWAY NEAR MOUNT RUSHMORE - DAY

					16.


David and Woody have stopped their car at a PULL-OFF offering 
a good if slightly distant view of the presidents.

             DAVID
      So what do you think, Dad?

             WOODY
      Doesnt look finished to me.

             DAVID
      How do you mean?

             WOODY
      Looks like somebody got bored doin 
      it.  Washingtons the only one with 
      any clothes, and theyre just sort 
      of roughed in.  Lincoln doesnt 
      even have an ear.   

David takes a look -- his dads got a point.  Woody turns 
away.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      Okay, now we seen it. 

EXT. RAPID CITY MOTEL - NIGHT

Establishing.

INT. RAPID CITY MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT



Dark.  The door cracks open, and someone sneaks in before 
banging into a table and crashing to the floor.  

             DAVID
      Dad?

David turns on the light, jumps out of bed, and finds Woody 
face down and motionless.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Oh, Jesus.

He rolls Woody over and sees that hes bleeding from a nasty 
gash above the eye.  David runs to the bathroom and returns 
with a towel.

             WOODY
      Im all right.


David presses the towel onto Woodys forehead.


				17.

             DAVID
      Youve been drinking.

             WOODY
      No, I havent.  Im fine.  Go back 
      to bed.


INT. EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

David watches a DOCTOR finish dressing Woodys wound.  

             DOCTOR
      All righty, that ought to do it.  
      Give me a sec.

The doctor walks out of the office.

             NURSE
	(O.S.)
      Who you got in there?

             DOCTOR
	(O.S.)
      Just an old drunk who cut his head.  

             WOODY
      Wheres my teeth?

             DAVID
      You lost your teeth?

Woody answers with a grin -- he is missing four upper front 
teeth.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Did you leave them at the motel?

             WOODY
      No.

             DAVID
      The tavern?

             WOODY
      I wasnt in no tavern.

             DAVID
      Did you leave them at the place 
      where they serve alcohol that you 
      dont call a tavern?


					18.

             WOODY
      Must have been when I fell by the 
      tracks.

The doctor returns, speaks to David.

             DOCTOR
      Considering its a pretty bad head 
      wound, his age, and history of 
      drinking, I think we should keep 
      him in the hospital a day or so for 
      observation.

             WOODY
      I dont drink.

             DAVID
      You hear that, Dad?  We wont be 
      making Lincoln by Friday.  

             WOODY
      We got till Monday.

             DAVID
      Were going to take you back home.  

             WOODY
      Im not going home.

             DAVID
      I cant wait until Monday.  That 
      means I wouldnt be back at work 
      till Wednesday.

             WOODY
      Sellin record players.
        (to doctor)
      I won a million dollars.

             DOCTOR
      Congratulations.  Thatll just 
      about cover one day in the 
      hospital.


David offers a weak courtesy laugh.


INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY


Woody lies in bed like a corpse -- eyes closed, mouth slack.  
The TV is on.  David enters, shakes his father awake.



             DAVID
      I looked, but I couldnt find your 
      teeth anywhere.


					19.

             WOODY
      Theyre by the tracks.

             DAVID
      You have to be more specific than 
      railroad tracks that run from the 
      Atlantic to the Pacific.  Listen, 
      Mom talked to Uncle Ray and Aunt 
      Martha.  Theyre going to put us up 
      in Hawthorne over the weekend.

             WOODY
      I dont want to go to Hawthorne.  
      Why cant we just go direct to 
      Lincoln?

             DAVID
      Because theres no sense going to 
      Lincoln over the weekend.  Ill get 
      you there Monday morning.  Anyway, 
      Aunt Martha said shed invite all 
      your brothers over and have a 
      little get-together on Sunday.  
      Moms coming down on the bus, maybe 
      Ross and Marcie too.  Itll be 
      nice.

             WOODY
      I dont want to go to Hawthorne.


EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - EARLY MORNING


Overcast.

David and Woody search the ground along tracks separating a 
tavern from a small commercial area, including a motel.

             DAVID
      Do you remember where you fell?


					20.

They keep looking.  David brightens and picks something up.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Okay, Dad, I found it.  Here it is.  
        (running over)
      Oh, wait.  This isnt yours.

Woody nods and keeps looking.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      I was kidding.  Here.

Woody takes the teeth and brushes off them off.

             WOODY
      This aint mine.

             DAVID
      I was putting you on.  Its yours.

             WOODY
      No, its not.

             DAVID
      Whose else is it going to be? See 
      if it fits.

             WOODY
      These aint my teeth.

             DAVID
      They have to be.

             WOODY
      I should know my own teeth.

David looks at his father in disbelief and starts looking 
again.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      Of course theyre my teeth.  Dont 
      be a moron.


					21.

Woody inserts his teeth and grins.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      Come on.  Lets go.


DRIVING MONTAGE --

-- Davids car passes a massive windmill farm.

-- David and Woody pass a faded, pocked sign reading 
Nebraska, The Good Life.  Home of Arbor Day. 

-- Other TBD.


INT./EXT. DAVIDS CAR - DAY


A farm report is on the radio as David and Woody reach a 
RURAL CROSSROADS.

             FARM REPORT
	(ON RADIO)
      Barrows and gilts are 94 higher, 
      averaging 74.99...

             WOODY
      Say, turn up here.

             DAVID
      No, we should stay on 20.

             WOODY
      I want to show you something.

Woody directs David to turn onto a gravel COUNTRY ROAD.


EXT. RURAL INTERSECTION - DAY

Davids Subaru turns now from the gravel road back onto a 
PAVED COUNTRY ROAD.

EXT. LYONS, NEBRASKA ROAD - DAY


INSIDE THE CAR --

David is curious as Woody directs him down a desolate road.  



             WOODY
      There it is.  Pull in there.



EXT. ABANDONED MOTEL - DAY

David pulls into the driveway.  They get out.

             WOODY
      They used to have a big sign with a 
      great big cowboy on it.  Must have 
      been thirty foot tall.


David looks at the motel.  Trees grow out of the windows.
                                      22.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      When I was a boy, my brothers and I 
      always wanted to come by and see 
      the big cowboy.  Real big cowboy.

             DAVID
      Is that him?

David points to a rusted sign for the RUSTLER ROOST lying 
amid tall weeds.  The big cowboy with the buckshot-pummeled 
face is no more than ten feet tall.

             WOODY
      Seemed bigger then.

MONTAGE --

TBD.


EXT. HAWTHORNE, NEBRASKA - DAY


Davids car drives slowly into the business district, a wide 
street with head-in parking spots filled mainly with pickup 
trucks.  The buildings -- many boarded up -- pre-date 1960, 
with some clearly over a century old.


INT. DAVIDS CAR - CONTINUOUS

Woody twists around to take it all in.


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS HOUSE - DAY

David stops at an old two-story house with junk cars out 
front.  AUNT MARTHA, a lively 70, comes out to greet them.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Well, hello there, boys.

             DAVID
      Hi, Aunt Martha.

She hugs them both.

             WOODY
      Martha.

					23.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Look at you, Davey.  You couldnt 
have been more than 15 last time we 
saw you.

             DAVID
      Thats what I was saying to Dad.  
      Long time.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Well, what have you got to say for 
      yourself, Woody?

             WOODY
      Nothin.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Whatd you do to your head?

             WOODY
	Fell.

             AUNT MARTHA
      You Grant brothers sure are men of 
      few words.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS TV ROOM - DAY


Aunt Martha leads Woody and David through the house.  Seated 
in front of the TV are Woodys older brother RAY and Davids 
twin layabout cousins BART and COLE, too old to be living at 
home.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Look who I found hanging around out 
      front, Ray.  Your little brother 
      Woody.

             UNCLE RAY
      I can see that.  Whats up, Woody?

             WOODY
      Nothing.  How about you?

             UNCLE RAY
      Not much.  

             DAVID
      Hi, Uncle Ray.

Ray nods as if not entirely sure he knows who David is.  All 
stare at each other a few seconds in silence.


					24.

             AUNT MARTHA
      You boys remember your cousin 
      David.

             DAVID
        (shaking hands)
      Hey, Bart.  Cole.

             BART AND COLE
      Hi.  Hey.

             DAVID
	Man, its been a long time since we 
      all met as kids.  Whatre you guys 
      up to?

             COLE
      Not much.

             AUNT MARTHA
      This economy has just tore up 
      Hawthorne, Davey.  Things are hard 
      for young men.

             DAVID
      Yeah, Im in the home theater and 
      electronics business myself.  Rough 
      time, Ill tell you that.

             UNCLE RAY
      Cole here did some jail.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Dont bring that up.

             COLE
      Bitch lied through her teeth.

             AUNT MARTHA
      I will not allow that kind of 
      language in my house.

             COLE
      Sorry, Mom.

             AUNT MARTHA
        (to Woody and David)
      Now, boys, you sit down.  You must 
      be starving.  I made sandwiches. 

Woody and David sit as Martha heads to the kitchen.


					25.

             BART
      So how longd it take you to get 
      here?

             DAVID
      I dont know.  We got sort of 
      waylaid in Rapid City.  Thats 
      where Dad had his little accident.

             BART
      But how long total?

             DAVID
      Oh, couple of days, I guess.

             BART
      From Billings?  How fars that?

             DAVID
      Probably about 750 miles.

             COLE
      It took you two days to drive 750 
      miles?  What are you driving, a 
      dump truck or something?

             DAVID
      Its a Subaru.  Outback.

             BART
      Hell, I drove up from Dallas one 
      time.  Thats 850 miles.  I done 
      that in eight hours.

             DAVID
      Thats over 100 miles an hour.

             COLE
      Bart was movin.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Here you go, boys.  Dig in.

             BART
      Shit, two days from Montana.  
      Sombitch must have been drivin in 
      reverse.

             AUNT MARTHA
	(O.S.)
      Boys, language!

					26.

INT. RAY AND MARTHAS DINING ROOM - DAY

The reunited family sit silently in the parlor.  Then --

             AUNT MARTHA
      Rays foots beens bothering him, 
      aint that right?

             UNCLE RAY
      Its okay.  It just hurts.

David notices that Woodys been staring off into space.

             DAVID
      Did you get that, Dad?  Dad?

             WOODY
      What?

             DAVID
      Uncle Rays foot hurts.

             WOODY
      I know.

             DAVID
        (to Ray)
      Everything else good, though?

             UNCLE RAY
      Not really.

David takes a sip of the off-brand soda in his hand.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Kate says they got Ross on the news 
      out there.  Says hes doing real 
      good.

             DAVID
      Yep.  Yeah, hes doing great.  

             AUNT MARTHA
      Good for him.  He was always quite 
      a go-getter, wasnt he?

             DAVID
     Yep.

             BART
     Two goddamn days from Billings!

Bart and Cole laugh.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - DAY

					27.

As Woody walks David along the storefronts of his early life, 
he betrays not a shred of nostalgia.

             WOODY
      Rottles Clothing used to be here.
        (an antiques store)
      That was the bank.

             DAVID
      Mustve changed a lot since your day.

Woody doesnt answer.  They continue to walk in silence as 
David tries to imagine Woodys impressions.

Eventually Woody leads David across the street to --

EXT. SERVICE STATION - CONTINUOUS

Woody pokes his head into the service bay, where two MEXICAN 
MECHANICS work on a car.

             WOODY
      I used to own this garage.

             DAVID
      Own it?  I thought the air 
      compressor guy did.

             WOODY
      Ed Pegram.

             DAVID
      Yeah, I thought he owned it.

             WOODY
      We were partners.

             DAVID
      Huh.  What happened?

             WOODY
      I sold it to him.

             DAVID
      For how much?

             WOODY
      Eight hundred.


					28.

             DAVID
      You sold him half of a business for 
      eight hundred dollars?

             WOODY
      That was a lot of money back then.

             BIG MECHANIC
      You need something?

             DAVID
      My dad here used to own this place.

             BIG MECHANIC
      Oh yeah?

Woody and David enter.  Woody steps to the car theyre 
working on and peers under the hood.

             WOODY
      So what you fellas have going on 
      here?

             SMALL MECHANIC
      Oh, we just replacing the 
      transmission cooler lines.

             WOODY
      Do you know Ed Pegram?

             BIG MECHANIC
      Who?

             WOODY
      Ed Pegram.  Used to own this place 
      too.

They look at each other and shake their heads.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
        (to Small Mechanic)
      Glasses!  Youre using the wrong 
      wrench.

             DAVID
      Come on, Dad.  Lets get going.  
        (to the mechanics)
      Good talking to you.

The mechanics stare after David and Woody as they walk away.

             WOODY
      That moron was using the wrong 
      wrench.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - DAY

					29.

They continue their stroll until happening upon the SODBUSTER 
BAR.  Woody stops.

             WOODY
      Lets see if theres anyone I know.

INT. SODBUSTER SALOON - DAY


Inside, Woody makes a perfunctory scan for familiar faces, 
but its practically empty.  


             DAVID
      Pretty quiet in here.

David starts toward the door, but with automatic reflex Woody 
takes a seat at the bar.  David reluctantly follows -- what 
the hell?        

A perky, earthy FEMALE BARTENDER comes over.

             BARTENDER
      Hi, boys.  What can I get you 
      today?

             WOODY
      Beer.

             BARTENDER
      What kind of beer you want?

             WOODY
      Anythings fine.  Coors if you got 
      it.

             DAVID
      Ill have a Mountain Dew.

             BARTENDER
      Fresh out of Coors.  Dont come in 
      till Monday.  

             WOODY
      Bud then.

             BARTENDER
      Bud and a Dew.  

             WOODY
      Tom Varnik still own this place?






             BARTENDER
      Never heard of him.  Must be before 
      my time.

             WOODY
        (to David)
      I used to know everybody in here.



					30.

             DAVID
      Is this where you had your first 
      drink?

             WOODY
      No, Dad used to let me sip his 
      beer.

             DAVID
      So I guess you kept up that fine 
      family tradition with Ross and me.

             WOODY
      You liked it, as I recall.

             DAVID
      I was like six.

             WOODY
      A sip of beer isnt going to kill 
      you when youre only six.  I 
      thought you drank.  Come on, have a 
      beer with your old man.

             DAVID
      Ive been trying to give it up.

             WOODY
      What for?

             DAVID
      I was starting to... It just wasnt 
      helping.

             WOODY
      I suppose now youre okay.

The bartender sets the drinks down.

             DAVID
      Say, could I have a beer too?

             BARTENDER
      You betcha.

             DAVID
      Going to drink with my dad.

LATER - AT A BOOTH - DUSK

Empty bottles on the table, dimmer light from outside, and 
more PATRONS in the bar suggest time has passed.






					31.

Woody is about the same, but David is a little drunk.  He 
finishes a beer and has another on deck.  

             DAVID
      Did you and Mom used to come here?


             WOODY
      Sure.

             DAVID
      I didnt tell you that Nol and I 
      broke up.

             WOODY
      Hows that?

             DAVID
      Nol -- you know, the girl Ive 
      been living with for the past two 
      years.  She moved out.  We broke 
      up.

             WOODY
        (no idea)
      Oh.

             DAVID
      Maybe I should have asked her to 
      get married, I dont know.  I 
      just... I just never felt sure, you 
      know what I mean?  How are you 
      supposed to know when youre sure?  
      Were you sure?  

             WOODY
      Hows that?

             DAVID
      How did you and Mom end up getting 
      married?

             WOODY
      She wanted to.

             DAVID
      You didnt?


					32.

             WOODY
      I figured what the hell.

             DAVID
      Were you ever sorry you married 
      her?

             WOODY
      All the time.

David sips his beer, eager to take this in.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      It could have been worse.

             DAVID
      You must have been in love.  At 
      least at first.

             WOODY
      Never came up.

             DAVID
      Did you ever talk about having kids 
      -- how many you wanted, stuff like 
      that?

             WOODY
      Nope.

             DAVID
      Then why did you have us?

             WOODY
      I wanted to screw, and your 
      mothers Catholic, so you figure it 
      out.

             DAVID
      So you and Mom never actually 
      talked about whether you wanted 
      kids or not?

             WOODY
      I figured if we kept on screwin, 
      wed end up with a couple of you. 

David tries to keep from flinching.

             DAVID
      Did you ever think about leaving 
      her?





					33.

             WOODY
      Id just end up with somebody else 
      who give me shit all the time.

             DAVID
      Id say shes put up with your 
      drinking all these years.

             WOODY
      I dont drink that much.

             DAVID
      Youre an alcoholic.

             WOODY
      Bullshit.

             DAVID
      What do you mean, bullshit?  I knew 
      you had a problem when I was eight.  
      I used to watch you hide your booze 
      in the garage.  

             WOODY
      You stole it.  I figured it was 
      you.  You cost me a lot of money

             DAVID
      Yeah, I poured it out.  I was sick 
      of seeing you drunk all the time.

             WOODY
      Youd never catch your brother 
      sneaking around like that.  I 
      served my country, I pay my taxes.  
      Its my right to do whatever the 
      goddamn hell I want.

             DAVID
      So I guess you do drink.

             WOODY
      A little.

             DAVID
      A lot.

             WOODY
      All right, so I like to drink, 
      goddammit!  So what?  You do what 
      you want, and so do I.  Youd drink 
      too if you were married to your 
      mother.  


					34.

             WOODY
	(CONT'D)
      It aint your job to tell me what 
      to do, you little cocksucker!

Woody gets up and leaves the bar.  David blinks a few times 
at the outburst, slaps money on the table and runs out.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - TWILIGHT

David catches up to Woody, striding down the sidewalk.

             DAVID
      Dad?

             WOODY
      What?

Neither knows what to say for a moment, and they look away 
from each other. 

             DAVID
      Shall I take you back to Ray and 
      Marthas?

             WOODY
      I dont know.

They look down the street, where the only light is the 
flashing sign for the BLINKER TAVERN.

Woody starts toward the blinking light.  David follows.


INT. BLINKER TAVERN - NIGHT


They enter this bar, much more active than the Sodbuster.  
Woody spots none other than ED PEGRAM sitting with a couple 
of BUDDIES and heads over.

             WOODY
      Say, dont you owe me a couple of 
      bucks?

It takes Ed a couple of seconds to believe his eyes.

             ED PEGRAM
      Christ almighty, its Woody Grant!  
      How the hell are you?  Didnt think 
      Id ever see you back in Hawthorne.  
      Fellas, this is my old buddy Woody.  
      Slide over, will you?  Lets make 
      room.



					35.

Eds about 65 and is big and rough-looking.  Woody takes a 
seat, leaving David standing awkwardly.

             ED PEGRAM
	(CONTD)
      Jesus Christ, Woody.  How the hell 
      you been?

             WOODY
      Pretty good.

             ED PEGRAM
      Yeah, me too.  Cant complain.  
      Boy, long time, Woody.  Long time.

             WOODY
      Yeah.

             DAVID
      Hi, Im David.  Woodys son.  How 
      are you, Ed?

             ED PEGRAM
      Davey?  No shit.  Last time I seen 
      you, you was just a little shaver.  
      How you doing there, guy?  I used 
      to give you candy bars at the 
      garage when you was only about this 
      high.

             DAVID
      Thank you.  And apparently my Dad 
      used to give you air compressors.

             ED PEGRAM
      Hows that?

             DAVID
      Nothing.  Dad, Im going to the 
      bathroom.  
        (leaning over to whisper)
      For Gods sake, dont say anything 
      about the money.

Woody nods.


INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

As David goes about his business, he hears cheering.


INT. BLINKER TAVERN - NIGHT

David emerges from the bathroom to a boisterous tavern. 


					36.

             ED PEGRAM
      Goddamn, Woody Grants a 
      millionaire!  Who wouldve thought 
      it?  This rounds on Woody!  Hee 
      ha!

Woody beams.  David stares in disbelief.


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS HOUSE - NIGHT


Davids Suzuki arrives outside and parks.  

Woody is apparently so drunk that David has to go around and 
pull him out of the passenger side before guiding him by the 
shoulders into the house.

             DAVID
      Come on, Dad.  Thats it.

             WOODY
      Did you see the look on their 
      faces?

             DAVID
      Yes, I saw.

             WOODY
      I said, did you see the look on 
      those fellas faces?

They go inside and close the door behind them.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS SPARE BEDROOM - NIGHT


David lies awake on the trundle bed while Woody snores away 
on the bed above.


MONTAGE --

Of Hawthorne and its environs awakening to a new day -- 
images of rural beauty and small-town decay.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS KITCHEN - DAY


Hungover, David and Woody enter to find Ray, Bart and Cole 
seated at the table while Aunt Martha cooks breakfast.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Morning, boys.  Slept in a little 
      late, didnt you?


             DAVID
      Morning.

As they sit --


					37.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Hungry?

             DAVID
      Yeah, but itd be great if you have 
      some coffee.

He stops short as he notices that his uncle and cousins are 
staring at Woody and him with goofy grins.

             UNCLE RAY
      Got a call from Lowell Meyerson 
      this morning.

             AUNT MARTHA
      And Mary Jurak.  Woody heres the 
      talk of the town.

             DAVID
      Is that right?

             AUNT MARTHA
      Why didnt you tell us you was 
      rich, Woody?

             WOODY
      David said not to.

             DAVID
      Hes not rich.

             UNCLE RAY
      You could have told us the real 
      reason you were coming through 
      town. 

             AUNT MARTHA
      Were just tickled for you.

             BART
      You got it on you?

             COLE
      Yeah, Id like to see what a 
      million bucks looks like.

             DAVID
      Its not, see, its not like that 
      really.  

             COLE
      Whats it like then, really?





					38.

             WOODY
      We have to go to Lincoln to get it.

             BART
      Goddamn, you won the Powerball?

             COLE
      Show us the ticket.

Woody starts to reach into his pocket, but David stops him.

             DAVID
      Honestly, he didnt win anything.

             WOODY
      I didnt win anything.

             UNCLE RAY
      I dont blame you, Woody.  I 
      wouldnt broadcast it either, not 
      till I had it in the bank.  Dont 
      want to attract buzzards neither.

             COLE
      Hey, Bart and mell drive you.

             BART
      Sure, we could get you to Lincoln 
      in an hour.

             DAVID
      Lincolns over 200 miles.

             BART
      Okay, hour and a half.  What would 
      it take you?

             UNCLE RAY
      Must be nice winning that kind of 
      scratch.  Were real proud of you.  
      And I know Ma and Pa wouldve been 
      real proud too.

             COLE
      Shit yeah, must be nice.

David looks at his withered, unshaven father.

             DAVID
      Is it nice, Dad?






					39.

             WOODY
      Is what nice?

             DAVID
      Winning all that money.

Woody takes in all the faces looking at him.

             WOODY
      Yeah, its pretty nice.

MONTAGE --

-- Hawthornes lone stoplight blinks and blinks.


-- Wind rustles through the weeping willow trees at the 
Hawthorne cemetery.


EXT. HAWTHORNE BUS DEPOT - DAY

Its not much of a depot -- just a bench outside a post 
office.  David sits waiting with Woody.  

BERNIE BOWEN ambles up.

             BERNIE BOWEN
      Hey there, Woody.  Remember me?

Woody doesnt look too sure.

             BERNIE BOWEN
	(CONTD)
      Bernie Bowen.  How you doing? 

             WOODY
      Pretty good.

             BERNIE BOWEN
      Thats what I hear!  Everybodys 
      sayin how Woody Grants a 
      millionaire.  Why, thats the most 
      exciting news around here for ages.  

             WOODY
      Its no big deal.


					40.

             BERNIE BOWEN
      No big deal?  Sheesh, theres a guy 
      living the life of Reilly -- a 
      million here, a million there.  
      Why, the newspapers going to do a 
      big write-up on you!

             WOODY
      Ill get my picture in the paper?

             BERNIE BOWEN
      You bet you will!



David is beginning to realize that theres little use trying 
to stop this train.

A BUS turns onto the street and approaches the curb.

             DAVID
      Dad, heres the bus.

             BERNIE BOWEN
      Okay, well, good seein you there, 
      Woody.  Were all real happy for 
      you and real pleased you thought to 
      stop back home and share the big 
      news.

             WOODY
      Thanks, Bernie.

             BERNIE BOWEN
      Watch your wallet!

MOMENTS LATER --

Kate gets off the bus and examines Woodys bandaged forehead.

             KATE
      You both look like hell.

             WOODY
      Im fine.

             KATE
      Like hell you are.  You look like 
      an old drunk.  Youre lucky youre 
      not dead.

             WOODY
      I havent been drinking.


                                      41.
             KATE
      Thats what you said on our first 
      date.
        (to David)
      And you, have you gone bananas?  
      Almost getting your father killed 
      over some cockamamie pot of gold.

As the bus departs, David takes his mothers elbow and leads 
her a few steps away from Woody.

             DAVID
      Listen, go easy, okay?  You and I 
      both know its not about the money.  
      Its about...you know, how much 
      longer is he going to be around -- 
      at least semi-coherently?  Whats 
      the harm in letting him have his 
      little fantasy for a couple more 
      days?  

             KATE
      You and Ross always fretting over 
      your father.  What about me?  How 
      about taking me out to see my 
      sister in Eau Claire?  Your father 
      doesnt even know what the hells 
      going on around him half the time.  
        (turning)
      Do you, Woody?

             WOODY
      Do I what?

             KATE
      Know whats going on around you.

Woodys unsure how to answer -- he looks at her, looks around 
the depot area, then back at her.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
        (to David)
      You watch it, or thats what youre 
      going to turn into.  Now take me to 
      the cemetery.  I want to pay my 
      respects.

             DAVID
      Martha said shed have lunch ready.

             KATE
      Martha can wait.

Kate marches away.  David thinks better of arguing.



EXT. HAWTHORNE CEMETERY - DAY

					42.

Flowers in hand, Kate offers a running commentary as she 
leads Woody and David slowly past the headstones.

             KATE
      Thats Woodys mother Sara.  She 
      hated me because she wanted him to 
      marry someone whod milk the cows, 
      but I said I aint fiddlin with no 
      cow titties.  Im a city girl.
      The good lord did not do Sara any 
      favors in the looks department.  
      More a mans face than a womans, 
      really.  I was pretty, so she 
      resented me.  You knew your mother 
      was ugly, right, Woody?

Woody looks at Kate, then stares at his mothers grave.

             DAVID
      How did she die?

             KATE
      Saw herself in the mirror one day!  
      No, cancer. 
        (moving on)
      And theres the old Swede Tolf.  A 
      good man, your grandpa.  Never said 
      much.  That farm just ruined him.
        (to Woody)
      Youre lucky I took you away from 
      there.




Woody nods slightly as he looks at his fathers leaf-covered 
grave.


             KATE
	(CONTD)
      Thats Woodys brother David.  You 
      were named after him.  He died of 
      scarlet fever when he was only two.  
      Woody slept in the same bed with 
      him but never got it.

David contemplates the sight of his own name on a headstone. 

             KATE
	(CONTD)
      Heres Woodys little sister Rose.  
      She was only nineteen when she got 
      killed in a car wreck near Wausa.


					43.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
      What a whore.  I liked Rose, but my 
      God, she was a slut.

             DAVID
      Mom, come on.

             KATE
      Im just telling the truth.  She 
      was screwing guys in back of the 
      Hawthorne Creamery when she was 
      only... 
        (a whisper)
      ...fifteen.

             DAVID
      Wheres your family?

             KATE
      Theyre over at the Catholic 
      cemetery.  Well go there later.  
      Catholics wouldnt be caught dead 
      around all these damn Lutherans.  
      Now theres Delmer, Woodys cousin.  
      He was a drunk.  One time we were 
      wrastlin and he felt me up.  
      Grabbed a handful of boob, and 
      Woody was right there and didnt 
      have a clue, did you, Woody?

             DAVID
      Jesus, Mom.

             KATE
      My goodness, I didnt know Keith 
      White was here.  When did he die?  
      Keith White.  He wanted in my pants 
      too, but oh, he was so boring.




Hearing enough, Woody and David head toward the car.  Kate 
remains at Keiths grave and pulls her dress up.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
      See what you couldve had, Keith, 
      if you hadnt talked about wheat 
      all the time?


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS KITCHEN - DAY

Kate and Martha talk while Ray and Woody sit silent.


					44.

             KATE
      Peggy got knocked up again?  At her 
      age?  That old cow must be fifty.

             AUNT MARTHA
      She just looks fifty.  Thats what 
      pig farming will do to you.


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS PORCH - DAY


David sits with his cousins Cole and Bart.  No one speaks for 
a moment.  Then --

             BART
      You got any other cars?

             DAVID
      No, just that one.

             BART
      Whats the engine?

             DAVID
      Its, uh, a four-cylinder.

             BART
      Yeah, but what size?

             DAVID
      I dont really know.

             COLE
      Whats your brother drive?

             DAVID
      Who, Ross?

             COLE
      Yeah, whats he drive?

             DAVID
      He has a Kia Sedona, and Marcies 
      got a Nissan Pathfinder.  She carts 
      the kids around a lot.

             BART
      So you all got Jap cars?

             DAVID
      Actually, Kia is Korean.




					45.

This clarification is met with a hostile, blank stare.


Just then a HIGH SCHOOL KID with a camera pulls up on a 
bicycle.

             HIGH SCHOOL KID
      Hey, is this where I can find Mr. 
      Woody Grant?

             COLE
      Who wants to know?

             HIGH SCHOOL KID
      I was sent by Mrs. Nagy over at the 
      Hawthorne Republican to take his 
      picture. 

             COLE
      Come on in.  Hes right inside.

             HIGH SCHOOL KID
      And they want him to be sure to 
      come by the office for an 
      interview.

             BART
        (opening the screen door)
      Hey, Uncle Woody!  


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS FRONT YARD - DAY


CLOSE ON WOODY
looking directly into the camera with a grin on his face.

THE HIGH SCHOOL KID
focuses and shoots as the other Grants watch from the porch.

DAVID
looks concerned.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - DAY

David parks his car and heads inside of the --


INT. CEDAR COUNTY RECORD - CONTINUOUS


Its a small office.  Except for a few computers, it could be 
1960.  An older woman -- PEG NAGY -- types at a desk.

             DAVID
      Excuse me.  Mrs. Nagy?  

                                                                                                                                 

					46.

             PEG NAGY
      Yes?

             DAVID
      Im David Grant, Woodys son.

             PEG NAGY
Well, Im very pleased to meet you.  
      Your father is certainly quite the 
      celebrity around here.  Did Parker 
      show up to take his picture?

             DAVID
      Thats what I came to tell you 
	about.  Dad didnt win any lottery 
	or sweepstakes or anything.  Hes a 
      little confused about something he 
      got in the mail, and its gotten 
      way out of hand.

             PEG NAGY
      So he didnt win a million dollars?  

             DAVID
      No, maam.

             PEG NAGY
      Just goes to show you some things 
      never change.  He was always a 
      little confused. 

             DAVID
      You know my dad?

             PEG NAGY
      Its all ancient history, of 
      course, and I dont want to speak 
      out of turn, but Woody and I used 
      to go together.  

             DAVID
      You were his girlfriend?

             PEG NAGY
      Thats right.

             DAVID
      What happened?  

             PEG NAGY
      Your mother is what happened.  How 
      is Kate?


             DAVID
      Fine.  Shes here too.


                                      47.
             PEG NAGY
      You tell her Peg Bender says hello.

             DAVID
      She wont slap me, will she?

             PEG NAGY
      Why would she?  She won.

David looks at her.  She smiles wistfully.  

             PEG NAGY
	(CONTD)
      Water under the bridge.  Dont get 
      me wrong, I married a wonderful man 
      -- we ran this paper together until 
      he died -- had three children, 
      eight grandchildren.  Ive got no 
      complaints.

             DAVID
      Was he drinking back then?

             PEG NAGY
      Of course he was.  It happens early 
      around here.  There isnt much else 
      to do.  Nowadays, of course, its 
      not just booze but all that other 
      stuff.  For Woody it got bad after 
      Korea.  He had a hard time over 
      there.

             DAVID
      I thought he was just a mechanic.

             PEG NAGY
      Oh, he was, for the army planes.  
      But he was shot down while being 
      transferred.  You knew that, right?

David looks at her with a puzzled expression.

LATER --

Peg leafs through a bound newspaper archive from the 1950s.

             PEG NAGY
	(CONTD)
      Here it is.  Woody, Verne, and 
      Albert.

A HEADLINE reads Grant Boys Return from the Fight above 
photos of 20-year-old Woody and two of his brothers.

             DAVID
      They look like kids.


					48.

             PEG NAGY
      Your dad was never much of a 
      talker, and when he came back he 
      hardly said a word.  But always 
      very kind.  People took advantage 
      of him.  He couldnt turn down a 
      favor.

             DAVID
      Well, now that everyone thinks hes 
      a millionaire, hes a big hero 
      around here.

             PEG NAGY
      Im sorry I cant print that he is, 
      but I wont print that he isnt 
      either.  Ill just do a little 
      story on him and Kate stopping 
      through town.

             DAVID
      Hard to imagine you and my mother 
      fighting over the same man.

             PEG NAGY
      I knew I didnt have a chance 
      anyway.

             DAVID
      Yeah?

             PEG NAGY
      I wouldnt let him round the bases.



David takes in this woman, wonders for a moment what hed be 
like if this woman had been his mother.

EXT. STEAKHOUSE - NIGHT

Establishing.  Its Karaoke night.

INT. STEAKHOUSE - NIGHT

David and his parents sit at a table reading their menus.  
Someones singing at the little stage near the salad bar in 
the other room.

             KATE
      Whatre you having, old man?

             WOODY
      Meat loaf.


					49.

             KATE
      You been staring at the menu for 
      ten minutes.  Where does it say 
      meat loaf?

             WOODY
      They should have meat loaf.

             KATE
      Well, they dont, so pick something 
      else.

The WAITRESS appears.

             WAITRESS
      Are we ready to order?

             KATE
      I knew it.

             DAVID
      Dad, do you know what you want?

             WOODY
      Do you have meat loaf?

Kate rolls her eyes.

             WAITRESS
      No, Im sorry, we dont.  Thats 
      only on the lunch buffet.

             WOODY
      Chicken then.

             WAITRESS
      Did you want the fried chicken, or 
      the flame-broiled chicken breast?

             WOODY
      Fried.

             KATE
      Hell have the flame-broiled.  

             WAITRESS
      And you, maam?

             KATE
      I was thinking of having the roast 
      beef, but now Im not sure.  What 
      do you recommend?  Whats good 
      here?



					50.

             WAITRESS
      Well, its all good, but Im real 
      partial to the tilapia.

             KATE
      No, I want the roast beef.

             DAVID
      Ill have the tilapia.

             WAITRESS
      Dont forget to help yourselves to 
      the soup-and-salad bar.

She leaves.  Just then -- a new VOICE starts singing.

             KATE
      Oh my God, thats Ed Pegram 
      singing.

 They look over and see Ed.  Hes not great, but not bad.





             DAVID
      Maybe we should go ask for the 
      compressor.

             WOODY
      Hell give it back.

             KATE
      He always had a nice voice.  It was 
      the only nice thing about that 
      bastard.

             WOODY
      Hes all right.

             KATE
      All right?  Did you know he was 
      always trying to get in my 
      bloomers?

             DAVID
      Jesus, Mom, was the whole town 
      trying to seduce you?

             KATE
      These boys grow up staring at the 
      rear ends of cows and pigs.  Its 
      only natural that a real womans 
      going to get them chafing their 
      pants.


                                      51.
             DAVID
      Mom, please dont talk about that 
      kind of stuff right before we eat.

             KATE
        (softening)
      Oh, you were always such a 
      sensitive boy.  And such a 
      beautiful boy.  Why, when you were 
      a baby, people used to stop me on 
      the street and tell me how 
      beautiful you were.  A lot of them 
      thought you were a girl.  Isnt 
      that right, Woody -- people used to 
      stop me on the street to say how 
      beautiful David was?

             WOODY
      I dunno.

Ed Pegram pauses singing to make an announcement.

             ED PEGRAM
      Hey, everybody, weve got a 
      celebrity here -- my old friend and 
      the rich man youve all been 
      hearing about -- Woody Grant.  
      Woody, take a bow!

The other diners applaud.  Woody looks confused.

             DAVID
      Stand up, Dad.

             WOODY
      What?

             KATE
      Dont encourage this nonsense.

             DAVID
      Dad, stand up.  Its for you.

             KATE
      Just do it and get it over with.

Woody stands and realizes the growing applause is for him.  
He turns to look at everyone, enjoying this once-in-a-
lifetime experience.

             ED PEGRAM
      Roslyn, youll be getting a big tip 
      from that table tonight!


					52.

             KATE
      Okay, you ham, thats enough.

She tugs him back down into the booth.

             ED PEGRAM
      And Kate, I guess that makes you a 
      millionairess!  Why dont you take 
      a bow too, Katesy-Kate?

Kate rolls her eyes before getting up and going through the 
motions.  At first polite, she soon allows herself to bask.


INT. STEAKHOUSE BATHROOM - NIGHT

David is washing his hands when Ed Pegram enters.

             ED PEGRAM
      Hey there, little Davey.  I was 
      hoping to run into you.

             DAVID
      Yeah, big Ed.  What can I do for 
      you?

             ED PEGRAM
      I want you to know I think the 
      world of Woody.  Always a good man.  

             DAVID
      Thank you.

             ED PEGRAM
      Heart of gold.  No secret, though, 
      Woody drank quite a bit when we had 
      the garage.  Messed up a lot of 
      jobs and let a lot of money walk.  
      He was older than me, kind of like 
      a big brother, Korea vet, the whole 
      nine yards.  I wanted to show him 
      some respect, and I loaned him a 
      ton of dough I never saw again.  So 
      seeing as how hes come into some 
      cash lately, some no-foolin-around 
      cash he didnt even have to work 
      for, seems to me itd only be fair 
      to settle up.

             DAVID
      You want your $800 back?

             ED PEGRAM
      Woody owes me a lot more than that.




                                      53.
             DAVID
      Im sorry to break it to you, but 
      my dad didnt actually win 
      anything.  Its all a big 
      misunderstanding.  You know Woody.  
      You can understand that.

             ED PEGRAM 
      Right, so youre all headed to 
      Lincoln to visit the roller-skating 
      museum.  Look, Davey, I really 
      dont want to bring a lawyer in on 
      this.

             DAVID
      Lawyer?  Whats the statute of 
      limitations on bullshit?

Ed lays an arm on Davids shoulder.

             ED PEGRAM
      Im a man with a real strong sense 
      of right and wrong.  And if Woody 
      hit it rich and I dont see any of 
      it, well, thats wrong.  And I will 
      make it right.

             DAVID
      Are you threatening my family?

Ed withdraws his arm and grins.

             ED PEGRAM
      Threatening?  No, that would be 
      wrong.  Hey, Im the victim here.  
      Just food for thought.  Now, if 
      youll excuse me, I got to take a 
      leak real bad.  You know beer -- 
      you just rent the stuff.

Ed takes a stand at the ice-filled urinal.  David leaves.


INT. STEAKHOUSE LOUNGE - NIGHT


David returns to find his parents finishing a conversation 
with old friends DALE AND KATHY SLAASTED.

             DALE
      Great to see you again, Woody.  
      Were real happy for you.  Buy a 
      boat and go fishin -- thats what 
      Id do.


                                      54.
             WOODY
      I just might.

             KATE
      David, you probably dont remember 
      Kathy and Dale Slaasted.

             DAVID
      Hi, how are you?

             KATHY
      Oh, David Grant, I never would have 
      recognized you in a million years, 
      how youve grown.  You were such a 
      beautiful little boy.

             KATE
      I keep telling him.
        (to David)
      You see?

             KATHY
      Like a little prince made out of 
      porcelain.

             DAVID
      Thank you.

             KATHY
      Okay now.  You all take care.  
      Enjoy spending the loot.

The Slaasteds leave.  David sits.

             DAVID
      I just had an interesting 
      conversation with Ed Pegram in the 
      mens room.

             KATE
      What did he want?

             DAVID
      Some of Dads money.

             KATE
      Lord almighty, that mans brain 
      keeps getting smaller, and his 
      balls keep getting bigger.

             WOODY
      I can lend him a couple of bucks if 
      hes hard up.


					55.

             KATE
      Like hell you will.


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS HOUSE - NIGHT

Establishing.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS SPARE BEDROOM - NIGHT



David wakes up, needing a moment to realize where he is - on 
a trundle bed beneath the bed where his parents lie asleep.

He sits up and watches them, wondering who these people 
assigned to be his parents really are, and how absurd it is 
for a 40-year-old man to be sleeping next to his parents. 

He lies back down and closes his eyes.

THE NEXT MORNING --

Hair disheveled and face unshaven, Woody, looks into camera.

             WOODY
      Wake up.  Hey you, wake up.  Wake 
      up now.

David groggily comes to, coughing.

             DAVID
      Whats up, Dad?  Whats wrong?

             WOODY
      Are we going to Lincoln today?

             DAVID
      Tomorrow.

             WOODY
      Why not today?

             DAVID
      Todays Sunday.  Lincolns closed.  
      And all your brothers are coming 
      over today, remember?

             WOODY
      Some of them are dead.

             DAVID
      The dead ones wont be here.



					56.

             WOODY
      Oh.  But goddammit, if I dont get 
      to that money, theyll give it to 
      somebody else!


David crawls out of bed.

             DAVID
      Say, Dad, do you remember a gal you 
      used to go out with named Peg 
      Bender?

             WOODY
      When?

             DAVID
      Last week.  What do you mean when?  
      Years ago, before you were married.  
      Peg Bender.

             WOODY
      I dont know.  Why?

Woody looks at the ground, then turns to leave.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      That was a long time ago.  Whatre 
      you bringing that up for?


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS LIVING ROOM - DAY

A pro football game is on TV.

David sits among Woody and five of his BROTHERS -- Ray, 
VERNE, CARL, CECIL, and ALBERT, all in their 60s and 70s. 

A couple of other male COUSINS are there too -- one named 
RANDY -- but no Cole and Bart.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS KITCHEN - DAY


The kitchen is abuzz as the Grant wives prepare supper -- 
Kate, Aunt Martha, AUNT BETTY and AUNT FLO.  Maybe theres 
another middle-aged DAUGHTER OR TWO.

             AUNT BETTY
      I didnt see your boys out there, 
      Martha.  Where are Cole and Bart?


                                      57.
             AUNT MARTHA
      Oh, theyre out volunteering today.  
      Picking up trash out by the 
      highway.  

             AUNT BETTY
      Thats nice.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Theyll be back for supper.

             KATE
      Its community service.  On account 
      of Coles rape.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Sex assault.  Not rape. 

             KATE
      Whats the difference?

             AUNT MARTHA
      Theres a big difference.  Cole can 
      explain it better than I can.  And 
      Bart doesnt have to be there.  
      Hes volunteering.

             AUNT FLO
      Oh, thats nice.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS LIVING ROOM - DAY


The men continue sipping their beers in front of the TV.

             UNCLE RAY
      Verne, you still drive that Chevy?

             UNCLE VERNE
      The what?

             UNCLE RAY
      The Chevy.  That Impala you used to 
      have.

             UNCLE VERNE
      I never had an Impala.

             UNCLE RAY
      Hell, I dont know what it was 
      then.

Silence as they watch an incomplete pass.


                                      58.
             UNCLE VERNE
      I had a Buick.

             UNCLE RAY
      Thats what it was.  You still 
      driving that?

             UNCLE VERNE
      I havent had that for years. 

             UNCLE RAY
      I thought you still had it.

David blinks in disbelief at this conversation.

             UNCLE CECIL
      That was a 78, wasnt it?

             UNCLE VERNE
      79.

             UNCLE CECIL
      79.  Those were good cars.

             UNCLE VERNE
      It was okay.

             UNCLE RAY
      They dont make em like that 
      anymore.  Those carsll run 
      forever.  Whatever happened to it?

             UNCLE VERNE
      Stopped runnin.

             UNCLE RAY
      Well, theyll do that.

A knock on the front door.

             UNCLE RAY
	(CONTD)
      Come in.

Davids brother Ross enters.

             ROSS
      Hey, everybody.

             WOODY
      Hi, Ross.

The other uncles and cousins chime in with grunted hellos, 
although no one gets up.  Ross turns his attention to the TV.


					59.

             DAVID
      How about Marcie and the kids?

             ROSS
      Dance recital.  Whos playing?

             COUSIN RANDY
      Philadelphia-Miami.

             DAVID
      How long did it take you to drive?


All turn their heads to Ross, waiting for the answer.


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS KITCHEN - DAY


It continues.

             AUNT MARTHA 
      Sharons kids are always in 
      trouble.  And shes gotten really 
      big -- shes gotta be at least -- 
      no offense, Betty -- how much does 
      your Beverly weigh? 

             AUNT BETTY
      About one-ninety. 

             AUNT MARTHA 
      Well, I guess shes around that, 
      but you know she has a much smaller 
      frame so it really shows up on her. 

             KATE
      Youre not serious.

             AUNT MARTHA
      Oh, Im serious, you should see 
      her.  She is fat. 


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS DINING ROOM - DAY


The extended family eat elbow-to-elbow around the table.  
Cole and Bart have returned.

             COUSIN RANDY
      So Uncle Woody, you talk to the 
      newspaper yet?

             WOODY
      Not yet, but they had a kid come by 
      and take my picture.


					60.

             DAVID
      I went by the office, gave em the 
      lowdown.

             AUNT FLO
      Whats it like being a millionaire, 
      Woody?

             WOODY
      Its okay.

             AUNT FLO
      A million dollars.  Can you beat 
      that?

             UNCLE VERNE
      Lets all raise a glass to Woody 
      and Kate here.

They unceremoniously clink their glasses and beers together 
and resume eating.  Ross looks at Kate, who rolls her eyes, 
helpless to fight the tide.

             ROSS
      Not trying to be a spoil-sport 
      here, but you all know this is 
      bull, right?  My dad didnt win 
      anything.

             COLE
      Nice try, Ross.

             BART
      Were way beyond that.

             KATE
        (almost contrite)
      Ross is right.  He didnt.

             AUNT BETTY
      Trying to keep it quiet so 
      everybody dont come looking for a 
      handout, huh, Kate?  Good for you.

             UNCLE CECIL
      No, thats right.  Woodys not a 
      millionaire yet.  Lets all 
      remember that.  But tomorrows a 
      different story.




                                      61.
             AUNT FLO
      Whats the first thing youre going 
      to do with the money?  The very 
      first thing.

             WOODY
      Get a truck.  And a compressor.

             UNCLE VERNE
      What the hell you want with a 
      compressor?

             WOODY
      I need it to paint.

             AUNT BETTY
      Are you still working, Woody?

             WOODY
      No.

             DAVID
      He just needs to replace the 
      compressor Ed Pegram stole.

             UNCLE CECIL
      Why dont you just get it back from 
      him while youre here in town?

             ROSS
      You think he still has it?

             AUNT MARTHA 
      That fool never gets rid of 
      nothing.  Hes got a barn full of 
      junk.

             ROSS
      David.  Lets go get it.

             DAVID
      Dad, you want to get your old 
      compressor back?

             WOODY
      I dont care.

             KATE
      You boys will do no such thing.  
      Get yourselves shot for an old 
      piece of garbage.  Am I the only 
      sane one in this family?


                                      62.
             DAVID
      But hey, Ross, I was thinking we 
      could take a drive later to see 
      Dads old house, the old Grant 
      house.

             ROSS
      Is it still there?

             UNCLE RAY
      Dan Conway farms the place, but he 
      never tore it down.  Its still 
      sittin there.

             KATE
      Why would you want to waste your 
      time seeing that?  Must be filled 
      with rats.

             DAVID
      Dad, would you like to take a drive 
      later to see the old homestead?

             WOODY
      The what?

             ROSS
      David and I want to see where you 
      grew up.

             WOODY
      What for?


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS HOUSE - DAY


The relatives sit on the porch.  Albert sits in a chair near 
the street.  Ross and David wander out onto the front yard.

             ROSS
      Whats Uncle Albert doing?

             DAVID
      Watching cars go by.  

They look -- there are no cars.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Remember when they came up to visit 
      when we were kids, and hed take a 
      chair out in the front yard every 
      evening to watch the road?


					63.

Aunt Betty approaches with son RANDY.  Behind them Bart and 
Cole amble down the porch stairs but for the moment maintain 
a respectful distance.

             AUNT BETTY
      It sure is good to see you boys 
      again.  We really cant let so much 
      time pass again.

             DAVID
      Yeah.

             ROSS
      Thanks, Aunt Betty.  Great to see 
      you too.

             AUNT BETTY
      You know, theres something thats 
      hard to bring up, but we think it 
      deserves mentioning.

             DAVID
      Whats that?

Aunt Betty seems uncomfortable, so Randy takes the lead.

                                           
                                           
             COUSIN RANDY
	You may not know it, but Uncle 
      Woody used to have a lot of money 
      problems, and family members would 
      help him out from time to time.  So 
	in light of his good fortune, well, 
      we thought your family might want 
      to make things right.

             DAVID
        (glancing at Ross)
      Ive been hearing that a lot 
      lately.

             BART
      You know, Coles and my folks 
      wouldnt never say nothin if it 
      was just for them.  But theyre 
      gonna need in on this deal too.

             ROSS
      Are you saying you want money from 
      us?

             COUSIN RANDY
      We just figured that seein how the 
      family helped Woody out and all, 
      kind of kept him on his feet...


					64.

             AUNT BETTY
      Verne and I loaned Woody quite a 
      bit, and it wasnt like we was 
      rich.  But he was my brother-in-
      law, and we couldnt bear to see 
      your family suffer.

             ROSS
      Aunt Betty, guys, look.  Honestly, 
      for real.  Woody didnt win 
      anything.  Its a total sham.

             BART
      Youre a damn liar!

             COLE
      Dont feed us any of your bullshit, 
      Ross.

             ROSS
      You wanna go?

             COLE
      Lets do it!

Ross and Cole make at each other like roosters, pushing and 
shoving.  All the other relatives look, even Uncle Albert, 
now twisting around in his chair.

             ROSS
      Just watch the face, okay?  Im on 
      TV.

             KATE
        (rushing over)
      Whats going on?  Have you boys 
      lost your minds?

             DAVID
      Aunt Betty and her henchmen here 
      are asking for reparations.

             KATE
      For what?

             ROSS
      Theyre after Dads winnings.  
      They say he owes them money.

             BART
      See?  There is money.




                                      65.
             KATE
      Owes them money?  What on Earth are 
      you talking about, Betty?

             AUNT BETTY
      Now, Kate, you know we used to help 
      you and Woody out when he was 
      drinking up everything he earned.

             KATE
      You know as well as I do it was the 
      other way around.  You were always 
      having him work on your cars for 
      free, getting free gas --

             COUSIN RANDY
      Aunt Kate, were not asking for 
      much.  Just a token.

             KATE
      I kept records.  The money you gave 
      him didnt come close to what you 
      owed.  He couldnt say no to 
      anybody, and it ruined him.

             AUNT BETTY
      I think youre having a senior 
      moment here, Kate.  Where do you 
      think all that money come from when 
      you got a bee in your bonnet to 
      move to Billings and open a salon?

             KATE
      From my folks when they croaked, 
      thats where!  I cant believe the 
      nerve of you people.  Usually a 
      person has to die before the 
      vultures start circling.

             COUSIN RANDY
      Calm down, Aunt Katie.  We didnt 
      mean nothin by it.  We was just 
      doing you a courtesy before we talk 
      to Woody direct.

             KATE
      Dont you dare think about asking 
      that poor man for money.

             BART
      He aint poor.  Hes rich.


					66.

             KATE
      Even if he was, he wouldnt give 
      you a blessed penny.  Id put my 
      foot down.

             COLE
      Maybe it aint up to you, Aunt 
      Kate.

             KATE
      Thats enough!  You listen real 
      good!  You can all just...
        (leaning in)
      ...go fuck yourselves!  

A stunned silence.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
        (to Ross and David)
      Boys, get your dad.


EXT. ABANDONED FARMHOUSE - DAY


The late afternoon is overcast and windy.

Rosss car moves slowly up a dirt driveway toward a 
dilapidated two-story house on the verge of collapse.  All 
the windows are gone or broken.  Weeds and bushes grow tall 
around it. 

David, Kate and Ross get out.  Last to emerge is Woody, who 
remains next to the car looking at where he grew up.

They walk up the porch steps and, amid lots of flies, force 
open the door.


INT. ABANDONED FARMHOUSE - CONTINUOUS


The inside is a wreck.  Still, the floors are solid.

             DAVID
      What do you think, old man?

             WOODY
      Looks about the same.

             KATE
      Thats true.  This is about how 
      your mother kept it.

             WOODY
      My dad built it.


					67.

             DAVID
      Really?  You mean by himself?

             WOODY
Yeah.  Before I was born.  His 
brothers helped.

Woody walks to a bedroom and peers in from the doorway.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      This was my room.

             KATE
      Thats where Woodys brother David 
      died.

             DAVID
        (to Ross)
      Scarlet fever.  Dad slept with him 
      in the same bed.  
        (to Woody)
      Do you remember that, Dad?

             WOODY
	I was there.

             ROSS
      How old were you?

             WOODY
      Seven.

             ROSS
      Whyd they let him sleep with you?

             WOODY
      They didnt know what it was.

             DAVID
      You were lucky you never got it.

             WOODY
      I guess.  

Woody tests the wooden stairway, then walks --

UPSTAIRS -

The others follow.  The roof has holes, and the patchy 
floorboards are warped.  Woody enters --

A BEDROOM -


						68.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      This was my parents room.  Id get 
      whipped if they found me in here.
        (taking it in)
      Guess nobodys going to whip me 
      now.

He goes to a wall opens a closet and peers inside.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      My dad built all of this.

             KATE
      Tolf was good with his hands, all 
      right.  I wish our home was built 
      half as good.

Woody walks to a window and points outside.

             WOODY
      The barns still standing.


EXT. ABANDONED FARMHOUSE - DAY


Woody stands alone at the edge of a field, lost in thought.  
David approaches but stops just behind Woody, allowing his 
father a moment.  Then --

             DAVID
      Seen enough?

             WOODY
      I suppose.  Its just a bunch of 
      old wood and some weeds.

Neither moves.

             WOODY
	(CONTD)
      Over theres where I found the hail 
      adjusters knife.

             DAVID
      The what?

             WOODY
      The hail adjuster come out after a 
      storm.  Cecil and me and my dad 
      went over there with him and he cut 
      off some oats to check em for hail 
      damage.  But they were too damaged.  
      Said he wouldnt pay.


                                                                               

					69.

             DAVID
      Why not?

             WOODY
	Said it mustve been something 
	besides hail done that, but he just 
      didnt want to pay.

             DAVID
      How could he get away with that?

             WOODY
      Oh, they was all cheap, lyin 
      bastards.  So when we started back, 
      I saw his knife there, and I picked 
      it up and took it to him.  My dad 
      was ready to kill me.  Said the 
      moron didnt deserve to have his 
      knife back.

They look out across the field of corn stubble.

             DAVID
      Did you ever want to farm like your 
      dad?

             WOODY
      I dont remember.  It doesnt 
      matter.

             DAVID
      What happened when your parents 
      died?  Did you kids sell the place?

             WOODY
      Wasnt ours.

             DAVID
      Whose was it?

             WOODY
      Some banker owned it.  We just 
      rented.

             DAVID
      Your dad built a house on land he 
      didnt own?

             WOODY
      We had to sleep somewhere.


					70.

             DAVID
      If you could do it all over, would 
      you have stayed out here and 
      farmed?

Woody suddenly sets out toward the car.

             WOODY
      Cant do it all over.  Cant do 
      none of it over.


INT. ROSSS CAR - RURAL ROAD - DAY


Ross and David sit up front.  Headed back to town, they drive 
past more farms.  

             KATE
      Theres the OHare farm.  Shes 
      dead.  Hes in a nursing home in 
      Valentine.  One of their little 
      brats still lives there.  Oh, and 
      thats Ed Pegrams place on the 
      right.

Ross hits the brakes.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
      Whatre you doing?

Once the car stops, he and David look at the house and at 
each other.

             DAVID
      Lets do it.

             ROSS
      Were right here.

             KATE
      What are you boys up to now?

             ROSS
      Were just going to talk to him.

             KATE
      Youre asking for trouble.

             DAVID
      Hey, Dad, dont you want to see if 
      he still has your compressor?

Woody twists his head around, trying to figure out whats 
going on.  Ross reverses and then heads up the driveway.





EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

                                      71.

The car stops.  Ross and David emerge and walk up to the 
front door.  David knocks.

Moments later they walk to the BARN.  Woody and Kate watch 
from the backseat.

             KATE
      What in the hell are they doing?
        (yelling out the window)
      Will you two knock off this 
      foolishness?

David opens the barn door, and the two of them go inside.  
Moments later they come out lugging a rusty old air 
compressor.

Ross opens the back of the car.  They put the compressor 
inside, jump in the car, and Ross speeds away.


INT. ROSSS CAR - RURAL ROAD - DAY


Beaming and out of breath, David turns around to Woody.

             DAVID
      Dad, you finally got your 
      compressor back.

             WOODY
      Thats not my compressor.

             DAVID
      Sure it is.

             WOODY
      Mine didnt look anything like 
      that.

             DAVID
      It has to be yours.  Its an old 
      compressor we found in Ed Pegrams 
      barn.

             WOODY
      That wasnt Eds barn.

             ROSS
      What are you talking about?

             WOODY
      Thats the Westendorf place.


					72.

             KATE
      Oh, thats right.

Ross slows the car.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
      Right, the Pegrams live closer to 
      town.  I got confused.  Ed and his 
      wife Dorothy.  God, what a pig she 
      was.  

             DAVID
      Anything you want to say about the 
      Westendorfs?

             KATE
      No, theyre good folks.

Releasing a loud exhale, Ross looks at David and starts 
turning the car around.

             KATE
	(CONTD)
      They had some tough times.  Lost a 
      child.  Almost went broke, but they 
      worked hard and saved the farm.  
      Salt of the earth, the Westendorfs.  
      They really didnt deserve you boys 
      doing that to them.

             DAVID
        (to Woody)
      Why didnt you tell us that wasnt 
      Eds house?

             WOODY
      I didnt know what the hell you 
      were doing.

             ROSS
      Have you ever seen us steal 
      machinery before?

             WOODY
      I never know what you boys are up 
      to.

             ROSS
      Why didnt you say it wasnt yours?

             WOODY
      I thought you wanted it.




					73.

             ROSS
      Why would we want an old 
      compressor?

             WOODY
      Thats what I couldnt figure out.


EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY


Back in the driveway, David and Ross return the compressor 
into the barn.  


Meanwhile, another CAR comes up the driveway.  GEORGE AND 
JEAN WESTENDORF get out and approach Rosss car to find Woody 
and Kate in the back seat.

             KATE
      Hi, George.  Hi, Jean.  Remember 
      us?  Kate and Woody Grant?

             GEORGE WESTENDORF
      Oh, sure.  How you doin?

             KATE
      Just fine.  We were passing by, so 
      we thought wed stop in.  Havent 
      been in Hawthorne for a long time.

             JEAN WESTENDORF
      What are you doing in the back 
      seat?

             KATE
      Oh, we just thought wed rest back 
      here until you showed up.

             JEAN WESTENDORF
      Would you like to come in?

             KATE
      Sorry, but we just have time to say 
      hi and get going.

             GEORGE WESTENDORF
      Hi there, Woody.  Hows it goin?

             WOODY
      Fine.  Howre you, George?

             GEORGE WESTENDORF
      Getting by.  You still up there in 
      Montana?




					74.

             WOODY
      Yep.

             GEORGE WESTENDORF
      Billings, isnt it?

             WOODY
      Thats right.

             JEAN WESTENDORF
      Still doing hair out there, Kate?

             KATE
      No, I let that go.

They all stare at one another. 

             GEORGE WESTENDORF
        (slapping the car)
      Well, good to see you folks.

             KATE
      Id better get up front and drive 
      us back to town.


She gets out, says goodbye to the Westendorfs, and climbs in 
the front seat. 


INT. SMALL BARN - CONTINUOUS


Through cracks in the door, Ross and David watch the 
Westendorfs head inside the house as Kate sloppily maneuvers 
the car down the driveway.

EXT. WESTENDORF FARMHOUSE - CONTINUOUS


Just as the Westendorfs close their door, Ross and David come 
sprinting out of the barn.


EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY


The car rolls slowly down the gravel road.  Ross and David 
burst out of the bushes.  The car stops, and the boys climb 
inside.


INT. ROSSS CAR - RURAL ROAD - DAY


Ross sits next to Kate up front, David in the back with 
Woody.



						75.

             DAVID
      You were right, Mom.  The 
      Westendorfs look like real nice 
      people.

             KATE
      I tried to tell you.  What do you 
      want to do now, bust into a silo 
      and steal some corn?


EXT. BLINKER TAVERN - NIGHT

Establishing.


INT. BLINKER TAVERN - NIGHT


David and Woody sit across from each other in a booth.  Woody 
finishes a beer, David a Mountain Dew.

             WOODY
      What time we gettin on the road 
      tomorrow?

             DAVID
      I think eight sounds about right.


Woody nods.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      You want another beer?

             WOODY
      I suppose.

Suddenly a slightly drunk Ed Pegram shoves David over and 
takes a seat.

             ED PEGRAM
      Hey there, Davey-boy, make room.  
      Hows it going, cowboy?

             DAVID
      It was going fine.

             ED PEGRAM
      Woody.

             WOODY
      Ed.


					76.

             ED PEGRAM
      Well, enough of this chit-chat.  
      Time to get down to business.  
      Woody, I tried to tell your boy 
      here you wouldnt mind using some 
      of your winnings to even the score 
      with your old pal Ed.

Woody pulls out his wallet.

             WOODY
      How much do you need?  I got a 
      twenty.

             ED PEGRAM
      A twenty?  Oh, no, no, no, no.  I 
      was thinkin more along the lines 
      of, say, ten grand.

             DAVID
      Give him ten grand, Dad.

             WOODY
      I dont got it yet.

             ED PEGRAM
      Woody, I always thought we was 
      friends.  Remember, I was the one 
      who convinced you to stay with 
      Kate.

             ED PEGRAM
	(CONTD)
      Oh yeah, Davey.  Your old man was 
      thinking of getting a divorce 
      because he was screwing some half-
      breed from the reservation.  
      Thought he was in love.  Aint that 
      right, Woody?
	Huh?

Woody stares at the table.

             DAVID
      When was this?

             ED PEGRAM
      After Ross was born.  Before you.  
      Hell, if it wasnt for me, you 
      probably wouldnt be here.  Back 
      then divorce was a sin.  Now I 
      guess its okay.  God must have 
      changed his mind or something.  




					77.

             ED PEGRAM
	(CONT'D)
      Although I didnt really blame you, 
      Woody, considering Kates such a 
      bitch.

David glares at Ed as though he could hit him.

             DAVID
      Get the hell away from us.

             ED PEGRAM
      I want that money.

             DAVID
      Move.

             ED PEGRAM
      Okay, little Davey.  Have it your 
      way.  But this is the last time 
      Eddie-boy plays nice.  


Ed gets up and strolls out of the tavern as though making a 
little show of it.  David looks at Woody, who continues to 
stare at the table.


EXT. BLINKER TAVERN - NIGHT


Woody and David leave the tavern and head to the car.  

Suddenly TWO MEN WEARING HOODS run up from behind, grab Woody 
and David and shove them to the ground.  One of the men 
reaches into Woodys jacket and grabs the sweepstakes 
envelope before they run off into the dark.

             DAVID
      Are you all right?

             WOODY
      They took my letter.

David climbs to his feet to help his father.


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS HOUSE - NIGHT


David guides an unsteady Woody toward the house.

             DAVID
      Hold on a second.  Dont move.

David goes over and puts his hand on the hood of Cole and 
Barts pick-up.  Then he looks up at the light in their 
bedroom.



INT. RAY AND MARTHAS HOUSE UPSTAIRS - NIGHT

					78.

David knocks on a Coles door.  Bart opens it.  Cole watches 
pornography on his computer -- we can hear it.

             BART
      Oh, hey, David.

             DAVID
      Where is it?

             BART
      Wheres what?

             DAVID
      Just give it back.

             COLE
      Dont know what youre talking 
      about, buddy.  Bart, do you know?

             BART
      Course not.  

             DAVID
      Where is it?
	Finally --

             COLE
      We dont got it.

             BART
      Shut the hell up, Cole.

             COLE
      We tossed it when we saw how bogus 
      it was.  Millionaire.  What a joke.  
      You people are pathetic.

David nods slowly, turns and shuts the door behind him.

             BART
	(O.S.)	
      Fuck him.

             COLE
	(O.S.)
      Lying to us like were a bunch of 
      idiots. 


EXT. RAY AND MARTHAS LIVING ROOM AND DINING ROOM - NIGHT

David wanders through the first floor looking for his father.




             DAVID
      Dad?  Dad?

Finally David turns on the light inside the --


INT. RAY AND MARTHAS KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS


-- where he finds that Woody has been sitting in the dark at 
the kitchen table, utterly dejected, drinking a glass of 
milk. 

                               

					79.

		DAVID
      I wont mention any of this to Mom 
      or Ross.  Well just tell them you 
	came to your senses, and well head 
      back home.  Sound good?  Its okay -
      - at least weve had a little 
      change of scenery.  Im happy we 
      got this time together.  Arent 
      you?

Woody doesnt move.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Whats the matter?
        (off Woodys silence)
      You know they werent going to give 
      you that money, right?

Woody cant respond, cant move.  David looks at him, lets 
out a long sigh.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Maybe they dropped it.  Should we 
      go have a look?

Woody stands up, grabs his coat, and heads for the door.



EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - NIGHT

David and Woody search along the street and sidewalk.

             DAVID
      I think it was easier to find your 
      teeth.

He watches his father, tireless at his task.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Come on, lets take a break.


INT. BLINKER TAVERN - NIGHT


As David and Woody enter, Ed Pegram is standing by the bar 
reading the sweepstakes letter out loud for the benefit of 
other patrons.

             ED PEGRAM
      Congratulations, Woodrow T. Grant.  
      You may have won one million 
      dollars.

Big laughter.


                                      80.
             ED PEGRAM
	(CONTD)
      Just imagine what you could do 
      with one million dollars, Woodrow.  
      We know what the son of a bitch 
      would do -- buy a truck!

More laughter.  Woody remains impassive, but we can see 
humiliation in his eyes.

             ED PEGRAM
	(CONTD)
      All you need to do to collect your 
      prize is return this letter to our 
      office, along with your winning 
      prize number and a list of the 
      magazine subscriptions youd like 
      to --

The room has grown silent.  Ed looks up and joins the others 
staring at Woody and David.

             ED PEGRAM
	(CONTD)
      Oh, hey, Woody, I was just lookin 
      for you.  Somebody found your 
      precious sweepstakes notice out on 
      the street.

Woody slowly approaches to retrieve the letter.

             ED PEGRAM
	(CONTD)
      You should take better care of 
      that, buddy.  Wouldnt want to lose 
      it again.

Woody carefully folds the letter and puts it back in his 
pocket.  Then he walks slowly toward the door as David goes 
up to Ed.

After a few moments of staring at Ed, David turns away.  Then 
he stops, doubles back, and PUNCHES Ed in the face as hard as 
he can.

Ed falls onto a stool and hugs it as he falls to the floor.  
David walks out.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - NIGHT


As they walk toward Davids car, Woody seems dizzy.

             DAVID
      Are you okay?

             WOODY
      Yeah.


					81.

Woody starts walking again but soon stumbles, reaching out to  David for support.

             DAVID
      Dad, whats the matter?

             WOODY
      Just a little dizzy.

             DAVID
      Wed better get you to a doctor.

             WOODY
      Just get me back to the house.  
      Were going to Lincoln in the 
      morning.

             DAVID
      No, we arent.

             WOODY
      Yes, we are.

             DAVID
      No, this does it.  This is where it 
      stops.

             WOODY
      You promised.

             DAVID
      Your heads busted open, and now 
      you can barely stand up.

             WOODY
      Im still going.

             DAVID
      Goddammit!  You didnt win!  Cant 
      you get that through your head?  
      You did not win anything!  And 
      were not driving all the way to 
      Lincoln over a stupid fantasy!  
      Its my own damn fault for bringing 
      you this far!

Woody slumps against a building, looks away.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Youve got enough money to get by.  
      You cant drive.  Whats the point?

             WOODY
      I want a truck.


                                      82.
             DAVID
      Why do you need a truck so bad?

             WOODY
      Just to have it.  I always wanted a 
      brand new truck.

             DAVID
      What about the rest of the money?  
      You dont need a million dollars 
      for a damn pickup truck.

Woody is still turned away.

             WOODY
      That moneys for you boys.  I 
      wanted to leave you something.

             DAVID
      Were fine, Dad.  We dont need it.

             WOODY
      I just want to leave you something.

David approaches his father.  

             DAVID
      You know if there was any chance 
      you won, Id take you.  You know 
      that, right?

             WOODY
      I guess. 

             DAVID
      I wouldnt lie to you.

             WOODY
      I know.

             DAVID
      The only reason I agreed to take 
      you to Lincoln was to get out of 
      Billings for a while and maybe have 
      some time with you.  And to get you 
      to shut up.

             WOODY
      All right.

             DAVID
      All right what?


					83.

             WOODY
      Ill shut up.

             DAVID
      What about Lincoln?

A short pause before --

             WOODY
      We dont have to go.

David sees that Woody is shaking.

             DAVID
      Lets get you to a doctor.

             WOODY
      I aint going to another goddamn 
      hospital.

INT. DAVIDS CAR - NIGHT

Woody is collapsed against the passenger window as David 
rushes him to --

NORFOLK --

-- where a sign announces this town of 25,000 people.


INT. NORFOLK HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT



Woody is propped up on pillows, an IV in his arm.  Kate and 
Ross sit watching him sleep.  

David is in the hall finishing a conversation with a DOCTOR, 
then enters.

             DAVID
      They can keep him here until 
      tomorrow afternoon or so.  Then I 
      guess well just start driving 
      home.  Probably see you Tuesday 
      night.

             ROSS
      Okay.  Thanks, David.  Mom and I 
      will get an early start tomorrow 
      morning.  I got to get back.

             DAVID
      Yeah.



             KATE
      And Im going to have to listen to 
      him harp about losing out on his 
      fortune for the rest of his life.  
      Or my life.  Hes going to bury me 
      at this rate.

             DAVID
      You guys go ahead and get some 
      sleep.  Ill stay with him tonight.  


					84.

Ross and Kate stand up.  Kate approaches the bed, straightens 
Woodys wild hair, and kisses his cheek.

             KATE
      You big idiot.

Ross and Kate leave.

David sits in the big hospital chair and presses the TV 
remote at Woodys bedside.

                              DISSOLVE TO:


INT. NORFOLK HOSPITAL ROOM - EARLY MORNING


David wakes up and sees that Woodys bed is empty.

INT. DAVIDS CAR - OUTSKIRTS OF NORFOLK - EARLY MORNING


Overcast.

Through Davids windshield, we drive a short while before 
finding Woody -- hospital gown flapping beneath his jacket --  up ahead walking on the shoulder of a road.


EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF NORFOLK - CONTINUOUS


Woody walks along the shoulder, just like how we found him at 
the beginning of the film. 

Davids car passes Woody, pulls over and comes to a stop.  
David gets out and looks at his father.

             DAVID
      All right.  Lets go to Lincoln.

Woody walks to the passenger side and gets in.



INT. DAVIDS CAR - DAY



David drives while Woody sleeps.

LATER --

Woody rubs the sweepstakes letter slowly between his fingers.



EXT. ROADSIDE CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION - DAY



A crude SIGN outside reads LEECHES AND CRAWLERS.


					85.

David exits the store and hands Woody a tall-boy of beer in a 
paper bag.  

INT. DAVIDS CAR - DAY

Our heros pass a sign reading LINCOLN CITY LIMITS and 
exchange a look of satisfaction.



EXT. LINCOLN - DAY



The STATE CAPITOL BUILDING towers in the distance as the car 
crosses a viaduct into Lincoln.

LATER --

The car makes its way through busy DOWNTOWN LINCOLN.



EXT. INDUSTRIAL PARK - DAY



David stops the car in the lot of a low-rent industrial park 
of what seem like oversized garages.  

They get out and stand looking at their long-sought 
destination -- Mid-Plains Marketing Promotions.

David notices that Woody still has his hospital gown on, and 
he helps him take it off.


INT. MID-PLAINS MARKETING - DAY



They enter the no-nonsense front office and find a middle-
aged RECEPTIONIST.  An open door beyond her looks into a 
small warehouse/work area.

             RECEPTIONIST
      Hi.  Can I help you?

             DAVID
      My father is here to collect his 
      million dollars.

             RECEPTIONIST

      Excuse me?

             DAVID
      Show her your letter, Dad.


Woody extracts the tattered sacred document from his pocket 
and hands it over.  She looks at it and types quickly on her 
computer.


					86.

             RECEPTIONIST
      Im sorry, but your number wasnt 
      one of the winning numbers.

David looks at Woody, who doesnt seem to understand.

             DAVID
      Looks like you didnt win.

             WOODY
      But it says I won.

             RECEPTIONIST
      It says you won if your number is 
      the winning number.  Im afraid it 
      isnt.  

Woody looks at her blankly.

             RECEPTIONIST
	(CONTD)
      Im sorry, sir.  I hope you didnt 
      have to come too far.


             DAVID
      Montana.

             RECEPTIONIST
      Oh, my.

             DAVID
      Well, Dad, I guess thats it.

             RECEPTIONIST
      I can give you a free gift, like a 
      hat or a seat cushion.

             DAVID
      Do you want a hat or a seat 
      cushion?

             WOODY
      What?

             DAVID
      Do you want a hat or a seat 
      cushion?

             WOODY
      A hat.

             DAVID
      Hell take the hat.


					87.

The receptionist slides her chair out, goes to the corner 
behind her desk, and retrieves a hat out of one of two large 
boxes.  The hat reads, Prize Winner!

Woody puts it on, turns and walks out.

             DAVID
	(CONTD)
      Does this happen a lot?

             RECEPTIONIST
      Every once in a while.  Usually 
      older people like your father.  
      Does he have Alzheimers or some 
      other dementia?

             DAVID
      He just believes stuff that people 
      tell him.

             RECEPTIONIST
      Oh, thats too bad.

             DAVID
      Yeah.


EXT. INDUSTRIAL PARK - DAY



David gets in the drivers seat of his car and finds Woody, 
hat on, eyes closed, head tipped back.  He looks dead.

             DAVID
      Dad?   Dad?

             WOODY
      Im here.

             DAVID
      Were going back to Billings, okay?

             WOODY
      Okay.

Woody nods.  David has a thought.

             DAVID
      We might make a couple quick stops 
      first.



EXT. USED CAR LOT - DAY



David negotiates with a SALEWMAN while Woody, wearing his new  hat, waits outside. 


					88.

David eventually comes out.

             DAVID
      Okay, Dad, were all set.  Help me 
      get our stuff out of the car.

LATER --

David finishes putting their belongings inside the bed of a 
PICKUP TRUCK.

             WOODY
      I dont understand what happened to 
      your car.

             DAVID
      They made me a real good offer for 
      it.  

             WOODY
      Wasnt much of a car.

             DAVID
      Yeah, this trucks a real step up.  
      Only five years old.  Practically 
      brand new.  Oh, I hope you dont 
      mind -- I put your name on the 
      title. 

After a few seconds --

             WOODY
      The trucks in my name, you say?

             DAVID
      But youre going to have to let me 
      drive it.

             WOODY
      You work something out with those 
      prize people?

David takes a long look at his father, wondering how to 
respond.

             DAVID
      Yeah.  They were willing to go as 
      far as a truck.  


EXT. SEARS HOMEWTOWN STORE - DAY


This is a smaller Sears that specializes in appliances.



					89.

Woody watches as David and a CLERK hoist a box containing a 
NEW AIR COMPRESSOR into the back of the truck.



INT. PICKUP TRUCK - DAY

As David drives, Woody plays with all the new knobs and 
buttons on the dashboard.



EXT. HIGHWAY EXIT - DAY


David pulls off the highway and curiously heads back toward 
HAWTHORNE.

             WOODY
      Whatre we going back to Hawthorne 
      for?

             DAVID
      Just got one last quick thing to 
      do.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - DAY


Its the late afternoon, and the sun is low.  David brings 
the truck to a stop at the top of Main Street.


INT. PICKUP TRUCK - DAY

David turns to his father.


             DAVID
      Your turn to drive.

             WOODY
      You said I couldnt.

             DAVID
      Just drive it down Locust Street.  
      Its only a couple of blocks.  
      Theres no traffic.

Woody looks out the windshield at his old town, then back at 
David.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - DAY



David gets out and opens the passenger door for Woody.  Woody 
walks around to the drivers side.


INT. PICKUP TRUCK - DAY

                                      90.

Woody gets comfortable and sets the mirrors before shifting 
the transmission into Drive.

He takes his foot off the brake, and the truck starts to 
move.


EXT. DOWNTOWN HAWTHORNE - DAY



As the pickup cruises slowly down Main Street, Bernie Bowen 
from the bus station spots Woody and gives a big thumbs-up.

             BERNIE BOWEN
      Hey there, Woody!  Looking good!

             WOODY
        (to David)
      Get down.

             DAVID
      What?

             WOODY
      I said get down.

             DAVID
      Okay.

David obeys and ducks below the dashboard.

MOMENTS LATER -- 

Ed Pegram comes out of the Blinker Tavern, sporting a black 
eye.  He watches Woody pass.

MOMENTS LATER --

Peg Nagy comes out of the Cedar County Record office, keys in 
hand to lock up.  She looks over, and Woody and she lock eyes 
for a moment.



EXT. HAWTHORNE - DAY



Now beyond the business district, Woody passes a tiny house 
where an old man sits out front watching the traffic -- why, 
its Uncle Albert.  He lights up and waves.

             WOODY
      So long, Albert.


					91.

             UNCLE ALBERT
      So long, Woody.

David pops back up as the truck continues down the street and  toward the setting sun.  But before they continue on home, Woody stops the truck, and he and David exchange places.

             THE END

