                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               NICHOLAS 
                 by  
              Leo Sardarian 

                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   

 

 
 

Level 1 Entertainment, LLC 
310-777-7600 
 
APA 
Chris Ridenhour 
Adam Perry 
310-888-4200 
 

                                            

                          
                          
                         © 2013 
                         All Rights Reserved 


SUPER ON BLACK SCREEN:

      In the 3rd century A.D., civil wars 
      had ravaged Rome into a state of 
      crisis. Yet upon the ruins of a 
      fallen empire a new faith would 
      rise; and through the darkness a 
      new legend would be born.

The letters mold into FLICKERING FLAMES in an iron brazier. 
The fire is poked by an indiscernible MAN. Embers swim up. 

The firelight whips off stone walls articulating shadows of a 
FAMILY listening to him speak. He carries a subtle accent 
from Spain. 

             MAN FROM SPAIN
      For fifty years, Rome was ruled by 
      over 35 emperors. Claim to the 
      throne had fallen to the clutches 
      of the armies. Loyalties were thin, 
      honor was dead. The battle of the 
      Margus brought an end to the civil 
      wars with the reign of Diocletian. 
      But Rome had not yet found its way.

                               FADE IN TO:

EXT. NORTHERN ROMAN EMPIRE - DAY

WE SOAR over the mighty Danube River along the northern 
inland frontier of the Roman Empire. 

Stretching across lush green HIGHLANDS touched by shafts of 
sunlight lancing through a veil of CLOUDS... as the river 
bank slices through an expansive RIFT VALLEY...  

Revealing the battlegrounds for a bloody civil war between 
two ROMAN ARMIES. Fires smolder. Tens of thousands already 
lie dead. 

An eerie silence has pervaded the air as the siege is nearly 
over, victory is nigh. 

A BLUE-EYED SOLDIER is positioned. Broad shoulders. At odds 
with it all. His neighbor whispers a prayer, he glances over, 
looks back.  

Like the thousands of AUXILIARY TROOPS that surround him, he 
is caked in mud with an iron helmet fastened. 

All eyes fixed on the edge of an Alpine forest, where the 
battered OPPOSITION holds steady. Both sides awaiting orders. 


                                      2.

SUPER: BATTLE OF THE MARGUS - ROME - 285 A.D.

A faint WHISTLE sounds the air on the opposing side. Then... 
EVERY SOLDIER raises their shields over their heads. 

Many show a slight sign of relief.  

             NEIGHBOR SOLDIER
      Praise Mars, they’ve surrendered.

EXT. HILLTOP - DAY

HOOVES pound the grass as a silver rider in Lorica Segmentata 
armor -- CONSTANTINE (25) -- races uphill to an elite CAVALRY 
perched at a high hilltop overlooking the rift valley. 

The fully accoutred standards and vexillums of the eastern 
regiments skewer into the air with the gilded Roman EAGLE. 

He addresses the General -- DIOCLETIAN. 

             CONSTANTINE
      General... Carinus has surrendered. 
      His prefect agreed to our terms and 
      laid down his sword. 

Diocletian regards the storm clouds moving in and howling 
breeze. A dubious resolve about him.

             DIOCLETIAN
      The weather can be so fickle in the 
      north. Maximian...

He looks over to his loyal and savage centurion, MAXIMIAN, 
sitting at least a head taller who’s massive frame is devoid 
of a scratch yet his armor glistens crimson.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Send in all the reserves, Jupiter 
      has spoken. I shall reward him with 
      Carinus’ head. 

             CONSTANTINE
      But sir...

             MAXIMIAN
      General.

Maximian signals the regiment as they EXPLODE down the hill.

Diocletian flashes Constantine a reassuring look not bereft 
of warning -- do not ever question my judgement again. 


                                      3.

             DIOCLETIAN
      Come Constantine, let us take back 
      Rome. 

Diocletian urges his warhorse forward as Constantine lingers 
with a disapproving glance. 

THUNDER rumbles, raindrops start to fall, and Constantine 
surveys the heavens analytically... 

But maintaining fidelity, he looks back down and SPURS his 
horse...

THE VALLEY - AUXILIARY LINES

A MOUNTED CENTURION gallops across the auxiliary lines, blows 
a WHISTLE and to the chagrin of many --

             CENTURION
      Cohors alaria! Orders are for full 
      attack!

The centurion bats down the muffled complaints with an order -

             CENTURION
	(CONT’D)
      Gladium stringe!

A myriad of SWORDS are unsheathed. 

             RANDOM SOLDIER
      Shame to waste what’s already been 
      spoiled, I suppose. 

The blue-eyed soldier is among the last to begrudgingly draw. 

             CENTURION
      Percute! Percute! Percute!

The ranks fall into a heavy MARCH, it starts to pick up pace, 
becoming a full blitzkrieg into the unassuming enemy line. 

ANOTHER PART OF THE VALLEY

Maximian’s cavalry THUNDERS towards the forest line, where a 
smaller ROMAN BATTALION surrounds their respective General, 
who’s vexillums of the western regiments flap in the wind. 

The drizzle intensifies, pattering against their raised 
shields. 

But their horses paw the moistening grass nervously as the 
RUMBLING from the encroaching hooves grows. The soldiers 
exchange looks, shields wavering...


                                      4.

             SOLDIER
      General?

             GENERAL
	(CARINUS)
        (realizing)
      Diocletian does not offer clemency.

A sobering beat. The General accepts it. He unsheathes his 
sword.  

             GENERAL
	(CONT’D)
      Men, it was an honor. May the gods 
      save Rome. 

Facing imminent death, the soldiers lower their shields and 
draw steel. Falling into gallop straight ahead...

MAXIMIAN’S CAVALRY rips steel from leather scabbards and push 
in full-tilt as the two sides COLLIDE! 

SMASH! Maximian bulldozes a rider clean off his horse. 

The remaining cavalries battle it out. Steel rings on steel. 
Glinting and clanging. Horses rear up.  

AUXILIARY LINES

A ruthless exchange wages as Diocletian’s legions slaughter 
the enemies. 

Hacking, slicing, slashing with short swords in a grim 
display of ancient warfare. 

The enemies form a triangular PHALANX as a last stand. Seven-
foot SPEARS spike outwards like large thorns. 

The WHISTLE sounds the air again --

             CENTURION
      Phalanx formation! HALT!

The front line DIGS their shields into the ground and DUCK 
behind it as a WALL forms to hide what’s coming to them --

FIRE POTS. The remaining infantry rushes over terra cotta 
pots with torches and light them. 

We land on the blue-eyed soldier, who scoops one up with a 
bare hand and HEAVES it into the phalanx! Pitch SPLASHES over 
the soldiers! They’re set ABLAZE as the formation breaks and 
SCREAMS fill the air! 


                                      5.

The cohort RUSHES IN as he remains on his knee, frozen, 
watching the men burn alive... the conflagration dancing 
across his eyes... 

DIOCLETIAN’S CAVALRY 

Maximian’s men lay the enemies to waste. Constantine spins 
his horse and spots an ARCHER behind a tree -- bow creaking, 
arrow aimed at Diocletian... 

He SNAPS out another blade and SLICES it through the air as 
it CHEWS into the tree --  

Causing the archer to flinch just enough for the arrow to 
skirt Diocletian, who whips his head around nearly stunned. 

The archer takes off on foot. 

Diocletian offers a swift nod to Constantine both in thanks 
and permission to pursue. 

Constantine charges after the rider through the trees... 
coming up on him, raising his sword...

But KICKING him down instead. He dismounts and pins the 
soldier behind a tree, sword pointed at his neck. Panting, 
soaking, both scanning their same Roman armor. 

             SOLDIER
      So this is what it has come to... 

Constantine’s eyes fight back the embers, breath vaporing.

             SOLDIER
	(CONT’D)
      What summons you, soldier? 
      Donative? Loyalty?

             CONSTANTINE
      I fight for Rome. 

A fleeting grin --

             SOLDIER
      It will take a miracle to save 
      Rome. Not an army. 

Constantine presses the blade as the soldier closes his 
eyes... But is unable to do it. He slowly releases the 
soldier, who opens his eyes surprised.  

             CONSTANTINE
      Go.


                                      6.

The soldier tips a nod in thanks and slips away, leaving 
Constantine in cogitative silence. 

He hears CLAMORS and CHEERS... as he looks up past the tree 
to Diocletian ostentatiously hoisting up Carinus’ HEAD on a 
stake to the field of soldiers. 

AUXILIARY LINES

The cohorts hear the celebration as they CHASE DOWN the 
fleeing enemies. 

Our soldier still remains on his knees under the grim clouds, 
the abating rain trying to wash off the blood shrouding his 
armor.     

He divests his breast plate and stakes his sword into the 
mud. His blue eyes gaze west -- where the lands beyond the 
mountains are awash in golden sun-rays... 

The sublime beauty slightly breaching the darkness that’s 
clouded his eyes. He doesn’t move, doesn’t join the distant 
commotion, he just stays there... 

Searching for solace, for signs... As if beckoning him, like 
the moment light touches the petals of a bud... as it WASHES 
OUT the frame...

                              DISSOLVE TO:

A BUSTLE of Egyptian sailors and local Greek/Roman barterers 
at the sprawling GRANARY of the ANDRIAKE HARBOR. Filtering in 
and out of the cells of the granary, to and fro the merchant 
vessels, people of many varieties and all desperate to strike 
a deal for food. 

SUPER: MYRA, EASTERN ROME - 15 YEARS LATER

Storm clouds loom over the Mediterranean further out while 
NESTLED ATOP A HILL overlooking the harbor is the pagan 
temple of Artemis. 

From beyond the high ridge a figure in red appears pulling a 
mule laden with straw sacks. We push in through the brush to 
a familiar pair of blue eyes, at more peace than when we 
first met them... as NICHOLAS stops and surveys the bedlam 
below.  

In his 30s now, with a red liturgical stole cloaked over his 
broad shoulders indicating his title as the bishop of Myra. 

He CLICKS his mouth and the mule follows him down the hill... 


                                      7.

             SAILOR
	(V.O.)
      Not good enough, preacher... 

EXT. GRANARY, ANDRIAKE HARBOR - DAY

A sailor unloads bushels into the granary, denying the 
trinkets Nicholas has brought in his bags.

             SAILOR
      Now for that, we can work something 
      out -- 

He’s looking at Nicholas’ Ecclesiastical ring. Nicholas 
doesn’t hesitate to take it off, surprises the sailor. 

             NICHOLAS
      Let us work then. 

             SAILOR
      Four bushels of winter wheat sounds 
      fair. But I was expecting more of a 
      fight. 

             NICHOLAS
      I would rather my village eats. 
      Make it five. 

The sailor takes the ring, studies it.  

             SAILOR
      I will drink for an entire month in 
      Rome with this.

             NICHOLAS
      Then make it six. 

             SAILOR
      Five will do. 

They shake on it and exchange. Nicholas loads the bushels 
onto his mule. 

             SAILOR
	(CONT’D)
      Have you been to Rome, preacher?

             NICHOLAS
      No, sailor. The fairest of cities 
      is no place for fair men like me.

             SAILOR
      Fair men with valuable rings. 


                                      8.

             NICHOLAS
      Ironic world we live in I suppose. 

The sailor removes a wine bladder and toasts to that. After 
guzzling, he offers it to Nicholas who shakes his head. 

             SAILOR
      Where are you manners, preacher? We 
      drink to a successful bargain. 

Not wanting to disrupt the exchange, Nicholas takes the wine 
with his marred hand. 

             NICHOLAS
      I sold my ring and now I drink, 
      sounds like Rome is calling.  

He gulps one down and grabs the mule’s reins --

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      God bless. 

And he trots off without fanfare, the sailor watching 
peculiarly. 

             SAILOR
      I am not a Christian. 

             NICHOLAS
      Neither was I. 

EXT. DIRT ROAD, MYRA - DAY

Nicholas pulls his MULE through the dry dirt road winding 
through the hills, now laden with bushels of grains. 

Under the scant shade of a tree lies a frail OLD MAN. Tunic 
shredded, flesh abraded. Possessing only a water damaged 
leather SCABBARD. 

Nicholas reigns his mule to a halt and carries over a WATER 
GOURD. He moves the man’s arm that’s shielding his face and 
lifts his head, bringing the gourd to his mouth.   

The man shudders and drinks with trembling hands. His POV -- 
Nicholas’ silhouette shimmers against the hazy sun. 

Water beads roll down his scruffy face. Nicholas caps the 
gourd and glimpses at the long windy road ahead... 

Where two mounted ROMAN GUARDS approach. Nicholas not exactly 
thrilled at the company. 


The guards clip clop past. Watching the scene indifferently.  

                                      9.

             GUARD
      Daily dose of economics, less 
      mouths to feed -- 

             GUARD 2
      More for us.  

             GUARD
      Half-wit Christian. 

Nicholas lets them ride on and goes to help the man. Then --

             GUARD
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Hold on, what do we have here?

Nicholas pauses, hoping to have avoided this. He turns his 
head... as the guard opens a bushel and sees the grains. 

             GUARD
	(CONT’D)
      Taxed I presume? 

             NICHOLAS
      A private exchange is not held 
      under taxable decree, sir. 

             GUARD
      Decrees are up for interpretation. 

             NICHOLAS
      As I would be glad to discuss such 
      interpretations with the prefect. 

Threatening subtext not lost, the guard unsheathes his sword 
and trudges over. Pressing the blade against Nicholas’ chest. 

             GUARD
      I hear you’re quite the barterer, 
      preacher. So here is one for you... 
      Since you people enjoy dying for 
      your cause so much, how about I 
      kill you now and ride all of these 
      grains up to your pigs. Or... I 
      spare your worthless life and take 
      our proper share. 

The sword GLEAMS under the peeking sun as Nicholas battles 
this unseen moral code of martyrdom.

Another HAND grabs at his ankle -- he looks down to the old 
man strenuously shaking his head. 


                                      10.

Nicholas looks back up and complies. The guards gloatingly 
remove an entire bushel and shamble off. 

             GUARD
	(CONT’D)
      You may be smarter than the other 
      ones... or more stupid, hard to 
      tell. 

Nicholas divests his stole and wraps it around the man, his 
coarse undergarment tunic revealing trails of his past life.

He lifts the sick man, CLICKS his mouth and the mule falls 
into tow.   

EXT. NICHOLAS’ VILLAGE, MYRA - DUSK

Impoverished, bathed in vermillion. Overlooking the town and 
Mediterranean to the west. Home to a thatched CHURCH with a 
canopied pavilion, a dry crop field and thin livestock. 

NICHOLAS trudges uphill with the remains of his strength, 
CLERGYMEN run up and take the old man from his arms. 

             NICHOLAS
      Get him bread and water. Have the 
      sisters care for him inside. 

An old priest, FATHER AERIUS, approaches. Kind eyes offering 
a concerned look at the extra mouth needed to be fed.

             FATHER AERIUS
      The bread supply is nearly 
      depleted, bishop, and with the 
      growing season come and gone...

Nicholas simply RESTS his hands on his shoulders and gestures 
behind. Father Aerius looks passed his shoulder and sees the 
bushels, kindled with relief. 

EXT. PAVILION, VILLAGE - NIGHT

Braziers crackle with FIRES under the pavilion. Villagers 
huddle along the dinner tables. 

The old man is seated by the nuns. Bandaged, thankful yet 
abashed. We now notice the Germanic tattoos on his arms. 

The bustle quiets as Nicholas takes the floor, clad in his 
lay-brother brown robe now. Although less regal than his 
stole, this is a befitting look for him. 


                                      11.

             NICHOLAS
      Rather than saying our traditional 
      grace tonight, I would like to 
      welcome our new guest to our dinner 
      table. In all things I have shown 
      you that by working hard in this 
      way we must help the weak and 
      remember these simple words, “it is 
      more blessed to give than to 
      receive”.

The weathered faces are breached momentarily by comfort. But 
the old man keeps his gaze downwards, tentative... 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      You may speak freely here, brother.

             OLD MAN
        (Germanic accent)
      I am a pagan.

             NICHOLAS
      Do you think I was not aware when I 
      carried you up here?

He looks up as Nicholas gestures towards the bread, trying to 
grasp the unusual kindness these strangers are showing him. 
He takes a LOAF and his gnarled hands BREAK the bread --

INT. PANTHEON, ROME - NIGHT

Moonlight BEAMS through the oculus of the coffered rotunda 
and onto the STATUE OF JUPITER. This structural marvel is the 
temple of all gods -- Mars, Vesta, Isis, Apollo...  

Hooded PAGAN PRIESTS stand before Jupiter. Draped in the 
purest white, stoic faces glowing against the braziers. Hands 
DIPPING into a chalice of blood and raising as an offering.  

Behind them is a roman BISHOP on his knees, hands untied, but 
his eyes glimmering with resignation. 

A pagan priest turns towards him revealing an INFANT in his 
arms. Another carries over the bloody dagger and offers it. 

The bishop shows no response. Just mutters --

             BISHOP
      May God forgive you all.

The look the priests exchange suggests the futility of this 
request as FOOTFALLS echo from the anterooms. 


                                      12.

And from the veil of darkness beyond the colonnades... FOUR 
MEN appear. THREE of them 15 years older than when we first 
met them -- 

Emperor Diocletian, wearing his laurel wreath and elaborately 
draped in an ostentatious bejeweled robe and shoes -- moving 
away from the traditional purple toga... This man deifies 
himself. As the priests kneel and kiss the hem of his robe. 

             PRIESTS
      Dominus noster. (Lord and master)

The years have not been kind to him. A cynical and volatile 
look looms behind his grandiose facade. 

Maximian, chief commander of the Praetorian guard. The 
massive man is dressed in full armor. Helmet at his side. If 
not anything else, this brute is a sheer warning to anyone 
willing to oppose the emperor. 

The young legionnaire turned Tribune of the first order --
Constantine. Dressed in a stately white toga, who has aged 
very well... Physically at least, his eyes are conflicted, 
stemming from the start of the slow transformation we 
witnessed in the opening scene. 

And COUNCIL MASCIUS. A short corpulent man. The emperor’s 
trusted advisor. 

Diocletian looks at the priests, they shake their heads and 
he slowly circles the bishop. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Bishop Lucius... understand that I 
      extend only clemency and tolerance 
      to the Christians. 

Constantine remembers Diocletian’s notion of clemency. 

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Much like any other cult that has 
      come and gone through our city 
      walls. Yet... like these other 
      cults I do expect you to honor 
      Rome’s ancient traditions. 

The bishop doesn’t respond. This frustrates Diocletian. He 
takes the bloody blade and kneels in front of him.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Believe in any god that you want. 
      So as long as you also sacrifice to 
      Rome’s gods. That is all I ask.   


                                      13.

He holds the blade out, stares at the bishop... Nothing. 
Diocletian’s eyes become a shade darker. Mascius brings him a 
SCROLL, which grabs the bishop’s eye for a moment. 

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Make a sacrifice to me; son of 
      Jupiter, father of Rome, and I may 
      even consider your charter of 
      rights.  

Again... nothing. Diocletian SCREAMS inches from his face --

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Why do you condemn yourself?!

The bishop looks into his eyes, almost cripples him with a 
few simple words --

             BISHOP
      Because you are no god.

The coup de grace. Diocletian prepares to thrust the blade --

             CONSTANTINE
      Sire...
        (Diocletian looks up)
      Martyrdom is their strongest 
      political weapon... Maybe prison is 
      a more judicious approach. 

Maximian glares at Constantine. No love lost here. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      I would rather send a message to 
      the heart of their creed.

             CONSTANTINE
      You will be sending a recruiting 
      order, nothing else. Let history be 
      a lesson, caesar. When prefect 
      Almachius killed Saint Cecilia, 
      there were four hundred recruits in 
      one day. When Nero killed Saint 
      Paul, there were thousands. They 
      are a hundred thousand strong in 
      our city today, imagine what 
      killing him would do. 

             MAXIMIAN 
      You use their titles as if you were 
      one of them. 


                                      14.

             CONSTANTINE
      In politics, sense outweighs the 
      sword. Try and keep up.

Maximian smirks, hand moving over his hilt -- how about you 
say that to my sword? 

Diocletian looks over at Mascius. 

             MASCIUS
        (Italian accent)
      Tribune Constantine speaks the 
      truth, caesar. 

Diocletian rises, casting steely eyes down upon the bishop, 
not accepting it... not wanting to accept it... 

             DIOCLETIAN
      I am the emperor of Rome... Son of 
      Jupiter... 

With a hint of reluctance, he SNAPS his fingers and as if on 
cue -- Maximian steps up, raises his greatsword and SLICE! 

Constantine grimaces. THUMP and we hear the head roll. 
Diocletian relishes the moment before vanishing into the DARK 
HALLS...

And over black, the sun begins to rise...

As the whispers of dawn set the horizon outside Rome afire 
offering the first panoramic glimpse onto the Eternal City. 
The first to be touched by light are the Seven Hills of 
Rome... spreading out upon the Servian Wall, the Colosseum, 
the Field of Mars, and finally the massive Imperial Palace...

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, DIOCLETIAN’S BEDCHAMBER -- DAWN

The warm light peeks through the shutters and into the posh 
bedroom, where Diocletian sleeps next to his wife -- PRISCA, 
who is woken by the SOUNDS of mobilizing guards.

She rises and pads over to the balcony, opens the shutters 
and is taken aback by what she sees -- 

HUNDREDS of Christians have gathered in the courtyard in a 
vigil. Gazes cast up at the balustrades. Amongst the front 
line is a gray-haired PRIEST, whom we will see more of later.

The City Guards form a perimeter. Led by a mounted Maximian.  

             MAXIMIAN
      Guards, unsheathe your swords!


                                      15.

Blades are drawn, gleaming in the morning light.  

The PRIEST looks to his people and gives a nod -- as EVERYONE 
drops to their knees. Prepared to be martyred. Their 
conviction rattling the guards, creating hesitation. 

PRISCA uneasy by the sight, maybe more so by what her husband 
has done rather than the vigil itself. 

             PRISCA
      Husband...

Diocletian’s eyes flutter open, needled with consternation 
when he sees her. He rises, throws on his robe, and marches 
over. Doing his best to suppress his anger, he SCREAMS 
towards the door -- 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Mascius!!

A beat, the door is opened as Mascius slides in. Diocletian 
turns and through gritted teeth -- 

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Handle this...

Mascius bows and slides back out...

EXT. IMPERIAL PALACE - PRIVATE COURTYARD - MORNING

Mascius walks with three members of the Christian 
ecclesiastical assembly -- The priest from the protest, 
FATHER LIVIUS, and two high deacons -- Brother MARCUS and 
Brother CASSIUS. 

             MASCIUS
      I speak to you on behalf of the 
      emperor, gentlemen. Reprimands are 
      in order for those responsible for 
      Lucius’ death.

             MARCUS
      And what of a replacement? 

             MASCIUS
      Rest assured a replacement has been 
      arranged.  

             LIVIUS
      Without the acclamation of our 
      clergy?  


                                      16.

             MASCIUS
      There are... formalities that must 
      be considered as this is a delicate 
      matter.  

             CASSIUS
      Then let us discuss it with the 
      emperor. Surely he may be amenable 
      to our charter at this delicate 
      time. 

             MASCIUS
      The emperor will only speak to your 
      high priest... 
        (off their looks)
      Excuse me... your bishop. 

They reach the end of the courtyard, Mascius stops and before 
he takes his leave --

             MASCIUS
	(CONT’D)
      Gentlemen, we must learn to 
      coexist. You wish many liberties 
      from Rome without offering the same 
      tolerance to her in return. I 
      implore you to understand. Salvete.

Mascius tips a bow and exits. The clergy remains with doubts.

EXT. IMPERIAL PALACE - PRIVATE COURTYARD/GARDENS - DAY

Diocletian’s toga billows as he walks with his courtiers, 
servants, and guards. Mascius keeps up, holding paperwork. 

Among them is EMMELIA (20s), a servant girl carrying a 
platter of wine. Comely face, tender brown eyes beyond her 
years. Maximian LEERS at her as he marches.  

             DIOCLETIAN
      Twenty six??  

             MASCIUS
      Yes, sire. Twenty of whom have 
      claims over a diocese. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Too much liability. I want a 
      peasant who will help me cultivate 
      the evisceration of their network 
      once and for all, one who will bend 
      under the will of Rome.  


                                      17.

             MASCIUS
      Surely, the six bishops overseeing 
      mere communes are suitable 
      candidates. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Precisely...

Diocletian turns into the GARDEN and abruptly STOPS -- 
Emmelia BUMPS into him and spills wine onto his toga. 
Everyone freezes, she catches on a breath, bows her head as 
he GRABS her BRUISED arm. Incensed --  

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Leave.

She scoops the gourd and chalice and dares to glimpse up at 
the lascivious Maximian before treading off. 

Diocletian looks back over to what made him stop -- a STATUE 
of himself being carved by stonemasons. Admiring himself...

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Mascius... which of these six 
      buffoons is worthy of such a title?  

EXT. MYRA - DAY

HOOVES kick dust, an OUTRIDER gallops across town. Past 
temples and the amphitheater, cresting the hills...

EXT. VILLAGE, MYRA - DAY

The rider slows his horse, approaching Father Aerius outside 
of the church. Nicholas walks out, tossing on his robe. 

             RIDER
      Bishop Nicholas of Myra?

             NICHOLAS
      Who asks? 

             RIDER
      The emperor of Rome. 

Nicholas is rendered speechless. 

             RIDER
	(CONT’D)
      He’s ordered your transfer. 

Off Nicholas’ rattled look, he removes a wax-sealed letter. 


                                      18.

             RIDER
	(CONT’D)
      You are to resume your position as 
      bishop in the imperial city. Your 
      escort will arrive in two days 
      time. 

Nicholas takes the letter and rips it open. He reads it, 
validating the message... 

             NICHOLAS
      Impossible... 
        (beat)
      Why would I be elected by 
      acclamation of the assembly? 

The rider’s lip curls smugly at the naivety.

             RIDER
      Assembly? You may want to 
      reevaluate your image of Rome, sir. 
      Good day. 

The rider gallops off as Nicholas lingers. Father Aerius 
takes the letter and reads it, incredulous... 

             FATHER AERIUS
      The Episcopal See of the imperial 
      city... 
        (off Nicholas’ look)
      this is God’s will, Nicholas...

             NICHOLAS
      I don’t think God is too interested 
      in Rome, Father.

Nicholas gazes out over the Mediterranean, a STREAK of 
sunlight shimmers across it as far west as the eye can see.   

INT. NICHOLAS’ BEDROOM - NIGHT

Moonlight spills in, a CANDLE burns near the bed. Nicholas 
sits, staring at the letter adorning the seal of the emperor. 

Still letting it sink in. He places the letter down, turns 
and BLOWS out the candle.

OVER BLACK... specks of white fade in... becoming SNOWFLAKES. 
A white forest EMERGES... And we’re in a DREAM SEQUENCE... 

A twig SNAPS, snow CRUNCHES, a pair of BOOTS come into frame 
as we pull up to reveal Nicholas. Clad in heavy fur, breath 
vaporing, surveying the quiet snow-covered forest. He hears 
children’s laughter... haunting, ethereal...  


                                      19.

He follows the voices, wades through the snow, shuffles 
through the forest... the laughter grows louder... 

As a group of CHILDREN appear standing before a solitary HUT. 
They beckon him, he advances, they disappear into the hut.  

Nicholas arrives, takes a step into the pitch black and is 
struck by a FLASH IMAGE of bloody warfare!   

Nicholas SNAPS AWAKE, gripped in the terror of the dream. He 
takes a moment to catch his breath before rising from bed...

INT. NICHOLAS’ HOME - NIGHT

Nicholas tosses a log into the crackling hearth, unable to 
sleep. A pot of herbal posca boils over the flames, he POURS 
himself a cup. Eyes landing on the old Dutch man’s leather 
scabbard resting near the wood pile before taking a seat. 

Steam rises, he stares at the fire, pensive. Then FOOTFALLS 
echo with the THUMPING of a walking stick. From the shadows, 
the old Dutch man appears, in a fresh tunic, still bandaged. 

             OLD MAN
      Couldn’t sleep? Nor I.

Nicholas rises and pours him a cup of posca. The old man 
notices his sword before taking a seat. 

             OLD MAN
	(CONT’D)
      I never thanked you properly. 

Nicholas brings over the drink, hands it over.  

             NICHOLAS
      No need. 

Both sit in silence for a few beats. Staring at the fire. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I’m to go to Rome. 

The old man strangely shows little reaction, as if these are 
words he had already heard in another life. 

             OLD MAN
      I’m sorry. 

Nicholas bats him an uneasy glance.

             OLD MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Your duties?


Nicholas ruminates over the details but who is he kidding...

                                      20.

             NICHOLAS
      To kiss the emperor’s ass until our 
      people are granted equality before 
      the law. 

             OLD MAN
      Good luck. 

They share a hint of a grin, sip on their drinks.

             NICHOLAS
      How does one find order from chaos?

             OLD MAN
      Become a friend of the chaos. 

Words Nicholas had been expecting. He notices the tattoos.

             NICHOLAS
      You’re from Germania.

             OLD MAN
      I was a sailor. 

             NICHOLAS
      Family? 

             OLD MAN
      Dead. From the wars. Killed by 
      Romans while I was out at sea. 

             NICHOLAS
      I will pray for them. How did you 
      end up here?

             OLD MAN
      Pirates raided our last ship... 
      days later I woke up on these 
      shores with nothing but that sword. 
      Robbed of my dignity, family, 
      hope... So thank you for your 
      kindness, Nicholas.

Nicholas humbled. Then the old man almost smiles to himself. 
Sad eyes finding some peace as he reminisces about something.

             OLD MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Nicholas... That was my son’s name. 
      A great soldier... brave, strong...


Nicholas offers a condoling look. The old man notices the 
scars under his tunic, knows better than to ask. He looks 
back at the fire, almost as if he is putting closure to it -- 

                                      21.

             OLD MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Klaas. 
        (off Nicholas’ look)
      Where I come from... it is Klaas. 
      That was his name, my son’s. 

He finishes his drink and rises, looks at Nicholas with 
solemnity. 

             OLD MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you Klaas. 

Nicholas watches the old man recede back into the darkness 
before picking up the scabbard. He pulls the sword out and 
sees the engraved name on the blade -- KLAAS.               

He gazes fixedly... then slams it back into its scabbard. 

EXT. ANDRIAKE HARBOR, MYRA - MORNING

Two wooden swords CLACK as two boys swordplay near the 
harbor. They stop after noticing the imposing IMPERIAL GALLEY 
approaching the port -- a ship using both sails and oars. 

INT. NICHOLAS’ BEDROOM - MORNING

Nicholas, cloaked in his brown paenula, loads his satchel 
with books in Latin and Greek and hangs on to his bible. He 
lifts his straw sack over his shoulder and sweeps his eyes 
across his humble abode one last time before walking out. 

EXT. ANDRIAKE HARBOR, MYRA - MORNING

The GALLEY docks as Maximian surveys the landscape from the 
foredeck. Surrounded by the twelve foot high golden STANDARDS 
bearing the symbols of Rome and images of caesar. A sacrifice 
of incense burns under the statue of NEPTUNE, god of the sea.

INT. NICHOLAS’ HOME - MORNING

Nicholas walks past the wood pile and MOVES ASIDE a partition 
curtain in the main room... to find that the old man is no 
longer there. The only thing that remains of him is the 
scabbard. 

His stupor is lured away by the cacophonous SOUNDS of horses.


                                      22.

EXT. NICHOLAS’ HOME - MORNING

Nicholas walks out to see Maximian’s detachment arrive into 
the village with their shining armor and stately wagon, 
holding aloft the golden standards in all their glory.

Villagers watch, uneasy. Nicholas is joined by Father Aerius. 

             MAXIMIAN
      Nicholas of Myra.

Nicholas steps forward, studying the brute.

             MAXIMIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Marcus Valerius Maximianus, 
      commander of the Praetorian Guard. 
      I am ordered by the emperor to 
      provide you safe transport to Rome. 

A GUARD opens the wagon door. Nicholas, without ceremony, 
turns to Father Aerius and rests a hand on his shoulder. 

             NICHOLAS
      Take good care of the people, 
      Father. And the children... 

             FATHER AERIUS
      The children will be fine. You just 
      take care of yourself, son.  

Villagers mutter their farewells, some grow emotional... as 
Nicholas turns and crosses towards the wagon.

A village ORPHAN releases a nun’s hand and runs to him... 
tugging on his cloak. He kneels and meets her gaze. 

             ORPHAN
      Will you be coming back?

             NICHOLAS
      I don’t know. 
        (beat)
      But remember what I taught you? 
      That regardless of where we are...

             ORPHAN
        (points to her heart)
      That the home resides here. 

             NICHOLAS
      That’s right. Now take care of your 
      little brothers and sisters while 
      I’m gone, you hear?


                                      23.

She HUGS him, nodding while nestled in his large shoulder. He 
fills with a vulnerability we have not seen in him before. 

Maximian takes careful note before growing impatient. 

             MAXIMIAN
      Plenty of children in Rome that 
      need saving, let’s go. 

Nicholas not humored, realizing this will be a long trip. He 
climbs into the wagon. Maximian spurs his horse and the 
detachment begins their clamorous exodus. 

INSIDE WAGON, Nicholas pulls aside the curtain and watches 
his village fade into memory...

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, BATH CHAMBER -- NIGHT

Candles glow in the steam and illuminate ivory tiles as 
SERVANTS tend to Prisca. Her hair brushed, jewelry removed, 
and the one washing her feet is EMMELIA. 

She keeps her eyes on Emmelia’s bruises.

             PRISCA
      Emmelia. 

             EMMELIA
      Yes domina...

             PRISCA
      Does my husband give you those 
      bruises?

Emmelia carefully considers her response... she wells with 
buried emotion.  

             EMMELIA
      No domina. 

Prisca knows she is lying, has a concerned gaze. Emmelia 
dries her feet and curtsies to leave before having to answer 
any more dicey questions... but Prisca GRABS her hand.

Emmelia catches on a breath... as Prisca silently reaches 
into her own gown and pulls out something that surprises 
us... a rosary... And she gently places it in Emmelia’s palm. 

             PRISCA
      Women have a voice in their world. 
      Keep yours quiet in this one... for 
      now.


                                      24.

Emmelia not sure what to make of it...

             EMMELIA
      Domina... I am not one for 
      religious...

             PRISCA
      Go.

Emmelia consents. Takes the rosary and leaves the room. 

INT. ROMAN GALLEY - OUT AT SEA - NIGHT

Nicholas sits in his cabin chamber, nestled in the bowels of 
the ship. Candles illuminate his books and parchments.

He is interrupted by the heavy FOOTSTEPS of Maximian, who 
approaches and doesn’t take a seat immediately. Rather, he 
removes his dirk and stakes it into the table. He divests his 
breast plate and sets that down along with his greatsword. 

Stripped of his entitlements, he takes a seat near Nicholas. 
Both husky men not ones for small talk or intimidation.  

Maximian’s eyes rove down to Nicholas’ sleeveless shoulder, 
where we now see his mutilated SPQR tattoo. A severe offense 
to a loyal career soldier like Maximian.

             MAXIMIAN
      I knew you weren’t the religious 
      sort. Your blood runs with Rome.  

             NICHOLAS
      My blood runs red like yours.

             MAXIMIAN
        (leaning in)
      Mark my words, Christian... the 
      emperor’s leniency will not last. 
      And the fate of your people will 
      rest solely on your decisions. Any 
      rebellion and I will not hesitate 
      to flog and decapitate each and 
      every one of you. 

Nicholas just holds his gaze, not doing him the favor of 
exposing how disturbed he is by him. Maximian rises, collects 
his belongings and marches out.

EXT. MEDITERRANEAN SEA - DAWN

The sun rises. Igniting the sky over the sea in crimson as 
the GALLEY emerges from the distance...


                                      25.

EXT. GALLEY - DAWN

Nicholas climbs up from the cabins and steps onto the 
foredeck. Trying to take in the image before him... ROME.    
A fire burns atop a LIGHTHOUSE at the mouth of the River 
Tiber, where the large Ostia harbor comes into view...

EXT. OSTIA HARBOR - ROME - MORNING

The harbor of Rome is a jungle of MASTS, capable of docking 
over 1200 merchant vessels. Most docked and out of business 
as a wild bustle of SAILORS and desperate BARTERERS blares.

Most sailors loiter and wait for work. Others try to maneuver 
their goods around the bartering citizens and slaves. 
Tensions grow, fights nearly ensue, guards try to keep order. 

Maximian’s galley docks. The harbor is a city -- Buildings, 
forums, trade posts surround every inch of the port. 

Nicholas is dazed by the kaleidoscope of sights and sounds. 
Maximian steps up. Hands over a wax-sealed parchment.  

             MAXIMIAN
      My men will show you to your 
      quarters within the city walls. 
      The emperor expects you at the 
      imperial palace tonight. You will 
      address him as Dominus Noster. 

Maximian marches off. Praetorians wait to escort Nicholas. 

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, BANQUET HALL - NIGHT

A red veil slices the air with a seductive WHOOSH -- 
Revealing a profligate banquet teeming with glitzy courtiers 
and tables of delicacies spread along detailed tapestries. 

Starkly contrasted from the plight of the average people we 
saw earlier. 

The dancer gyrates with the hypnotic drum beat. TWO 
GLADIATORS fight to the death for a small crowd.

Diocletian and his court lay stretched out on lavish 
couches... including Tetrarchs, patricians, some senators, 
Mascius and Prisca. His drunken gaze follows the dancer. 
Constantine mingles as he must with the plebs and patricians. 

Maximian consorts with his brutish Praetorians, drinking 
wine, admiring women. 


                                      26.

His eyes burst with infatuation for EMMELIA, who carries a 
platter of fruit across the room, avoiding eye contact.  

Nicholas enters the hall, dressed in a simple tunic. Sticking 
out, uncomfortable. A SENTRY greets him, whispers in his ear, 
and he wills himself towards the royal court with the sentry. 

Many quiet down and glance up at Nicholas... Diocletian waits 
with a drunken smirk... The sentry nudges Nicholas...

             NICHOLAS
      Caesar...

The sentry grimaces, everyone looks stunned. 

             SENATOR
      Your impudence will earn you an 
      early grave, Christian. Address the 
      emperor properly.  

Nicholas looks around him... repulsed more than he lets show, 
knows he has to play their politics... learning quick --

             NICHOLAS
      I beg your pardon... Dominus 
      Noster.

Constantine watches, impressed, Nicholas notices. Diocletian 
swells with a sense of victory, secretly relieved -- 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Ladies and gentlemen, Rome’s 
      bishop! A wise choice, Mascius! 

He SLAPS Mascius on the back, who spills his wine. Prisca 
rolls her eyes. Nicholas surveys the drunken haze...

             PRISCA
      Nicholas, I am Prisca. Welcome to 
      our home. 

             NICHOLAS
      Madam. 

             PRISCA
      Please, help yourself to anything 
      you’d like here. 

             PATRICIAN
      No human flesh to eat though I’m 
      afraid!


                                      27.

             PATRICIAN 2
      Yes yes, how do you miscreants 
      say... 
        (picking up the bread and 
         wine)
      The body and blood of Christ?

             PATRICIAN 3
      Quite vile, cannibal dogs. 

They share drunk laughter, scoffing away. Motioning to 
another section --

             DIOCLETIAN
      Bishop, I’ve arranged a seat for 
      you amongst your cohorts. 

             NICHOLAS
      My cohorts?

             DIOCLETIAN
      Other leaders, chieftains, tribal 
      heads... Rome is full of various 
      creeds, my friend. Undoubtedly, 
      everyone wants a piece of her.

The patricians and senators laugh. 

Nicholas acknowledges Prisca’s kindness and shares a brief 
look with Constantine before sauntering off to another 
section of couches and entertainment -- Accompanied by a 
party of colorful and outlandishly adorned GUESTS. 

Slaves fan and feed them. Nicholas sticks out even more now, 
he breaks bread, surveys the circus almost amusingly...

             NICHOLAS
      It seems I’ve come under-dressed...

He receives steely gazes, expectantly, and shifts his gaze 
over to the party, wanting nothing to do with them. 

A senator, SCIPIO, leans in to Diocletian --

             SCIPIO - SENATOR
      No other bishop in their right mind 
      would ever attend this, much less 
      stand there. Well played, sire. 

Diocletian gloats prematurely. NICHOLAS’ eyes land on...

EMMELIA, in the distance, cleaning up ravaged platters. An 
imposing SHADOW is cast upon her as she looks up to... 
Maximian. She drops her gaze. The wine inspires his lust...


                                      28.

             MAXIMIAN
      How much is a girl like you worth 
      to the emperor? Just so you’re 
      apprised my dear, I intend to 
      relieve you from this madness 
      someday... As a freed slave... 

He lifts her chin, her timid eyes meeting his nefarious ones.

             MAXIMIAN
	(CONT’D)
      ...Of course not without consenting 
      to my marriage.

She stifles her fear, grabbing her last dish and BANG -- runs 
into another guard and DROPS everything onto the tiles. 

The men LAUGH, SCORN. She tries to clean up hastily, looking 
up at the alcohol coursing through their veins... she looks 
back down and shuts her eyes for a moment... when --

             NICHOLAS
	(O.S.)
      Are you alright?

She opens her eyes, soothed by such simple words she’s too 
often denied... as she glances up at Nicholas, unsure of this 
stranger’s motive. 

Nicholas understanding her hesitation, starts to scoop up the 
broken ceramic and places it on the platter. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Be careful not to cut your hands. 

Although abashed, a sense of comfort settles in her as they 
wordlessly clean the broken pieces.

Constantine watches from afar. Maximian GLARES at this sight. 
Not just a madman now but a jealous madman.

Nicholas rises with the platter, hands it over to her. 

             EMMELIA
      Thank you.

She slides away, luring his gaze with her. He turns back to a 
human wall -- Maximian. More guards encircle him... 

Then a HAND grabs Nicholas’ shoulder as the guards ease up. 
That hand belonging to Constantine.

             CONSTANTINE
      Bishop. Let’s get some fresh air, 
      shall we?


                                      29.

Nicholas abides and walks off with the Tribune. Stealing a 
glance in the direction Emmelia went off to.

Maximian’s hatred for Constantine only intensifies, eyes set 
on both of them receding. 

The gladiators GROAN, one BREAKS the other’s neck only to a 
light applause as the people have diverted their attention. 
DIOCLETIAN takes note, irked --

             DIOCLETIAN
      The plebs are bored so easily these 
      days.

             SENATOR
      A common hazard, sire... Seems the 
      mob has seen everything we can 
      throw at them.

His wheels spin, eyes landing on Nicholas receding...

             DIOCLETIAN
      Not everything... 

EXT. STREETS IN ROME - NIGHT

HOOVES clatter along stone as Nicholas and Constantine softly 
ride. The hush combated by the lurid sounds of the distant 
Forum -- where the towering STATUES of the gods rise above 
the buildings atop their columns. Emerging in and out of the 
shadows are whores being “courted” by drunken plebs.  

             NICHOLAS
      My first day in Rome and I’ve 
      already made enemies. 

             CONSTANTINE
      I would deem you mad if it were any 
      other way. 

             NICHOLAS
      A Tribune should be the most 
      mentally-sound man here, then.  

Constantine shows a slight grin, surveys the moonlit city...

             CONSTANTINE
      I am a wishful thinker, Nicholas. 

             NICHOLAS
        (pointedly)
      As I.
        (off Constantine’s look)


             NICHOLAS
	(CONT'D)
      I wish to hold council with the 
      emperor regarding our taxes, 
      Constantine.  

Constantine may have underestimated Nicholas’ grit. 

                                      30.

             CONSTANTINE
      Rome was not built in one day, 
      Nicholas, and you certainly can not 
      change it in one neither. 

             NICHOLAS
      If I wanted to do that, I would 
      petition explicitly for the 
      charter. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Until you are settled, my 
      suggestion is to do as you see 
      done. For your own neck. 

             NICHOLAS
      And how settled was Bishop Lucius 
      before he lost his?

Constantine knows it’s too soon to share his common disdain. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I may not be as strident as the 
      others, Constantine, but I do wish 
      the same liberties for my people. 

They arrive at a fork. Constantine considers the sentiment.  

             CONSTANTINE
      I will speak with him in the coming 
      weeks. You have my word.  

Nicholas nods in thanks but remains wary of Constantine. 
Before parting ways --

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      And Nicholas... her name is Emmelia 
      in case your holiness was 
      wondering. She lives near the 
      Aventine but, she does come with a 
      warning... as you noticed. Welcome 
      to Rome.  

Constantine spurs his horse and rides off. Nicholas 
watches... eyes reflecting the pearly moonlight...

                              DISSOLVE TO:


                                      31.

EXT. ESTATE, OUTSKIRTS OF CITY - ESTABLISHING - MORNING

The sun rises over an ESTATE along the valleys outside of the 
city and inside the defensive Aurelian/Servian walls. The 
valleys are host to several other estates and villas. 

INT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - CONTINUOUS

The estate serves as a makeshift church and meeting place. 
Nicholas is officially consecrated by Father Livius and the 
pulpit before a large CROWD cramped into the atrium. Rows of 
large votive CANDLES illuminate the room.

The holy phrases are intoned and the ceremony carried out as 
a new Ecclesiastical ring is slid onto his finger. Livius 
genuflects as the crowd follows in his wake. 

Nicholas takes the chalice from Livius’ hands and has a 
drink... as he surveys the kneeling crowd and his new life. 

EXT. IMPOVERISHED DISTRICT - SUBURRA - DAY

Nicholas and Father Livius shuffle through the cramped 
Suburra. Crowds are gathered near the inadequate public 
latrines and fountains. 

Many acknowledge Nicholas as he passes by -- offering 
salutations such as “Grace to you, bishop...” 

             FATHER LIVIUS
      ...Churches are illegal in Rome, 
      Nicholas. We gather where we can. 

They enter a hodgepodge of apartment buildings and INSIDE -- 
A maze of corridors leads them to another DOOR -- 

             FATHER LIVIUS
	(CONT’D)
      But the real nerve-center is 
      actually below Rome. 

He opens the door to a staircase and descends UNDERGROUND. 

INT. CATACOMBS OF ROME - DAY

Upon reaching the bottom, the old priest removes a TORCH from 
the sconce and crosses the darkness, flame GLOWING along the 
walls. VOICES carry through the thick air, proliferating... 

And from the infinity of darkness the catacombs EMERGE... a 
massive labyrinth aglow in the luminance of torches and 
candles. 


Carved from the volcanic tuff rock with some tunnels rising 
four floors high. Utilized as a burial site and a safe haven 
for worship. Nicholas is floored by what he sees. 

                                      32.

             NICHOLAS
      My God...

             FATHER LIVIUS 
      Welcome to our church, our 
      cemetery... our asylum from Rome.  

Nicholas glides past the throngs praying, gathering, even 
PAINTING pictorials along the walls to be remembered by. 

The tunnel leads into just one of many SANCTUARIES. A 
makeshift alter hosts candles under a fresco of Christ in 
thorns, many pray. Nicholas rather than angered by the plight 
of his people is humbled and inspired by their fortitude. His 
duty to fight for them deepening. 

EXT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - NICHOLAS’ OFFICE - DAY

Nicholas sits at his desk, haggard, pouring through towers of 
parchments. DEACONS drop more paperwork on his desk --  

             CASSIUS
      Petitions, complaints, requests, 
      baptisms, funerals...  

Nicholas drops his reed pen, studies the bulk, as another 
DEACON rushes in -- 

             DEACON
      Bishop Nicholas! Brother Cassius! 
      Trouble in the Suburra! 

Nicholas springs out of his seat and rushes out with Cassius. 

EXT. IMPOVERISHED DISTRICT - SUBURRA - DAY

A looming RIOT has erupted in the lower-class market place.  
Christians are mobbed around city GUARDS arresting a large 
group of CITIZENS including elders and young children. 

Brother Marcus and Father Livius try calming the rioters. 
Nicholas rushes into the fray to see the prisoners being 
dragged away. A wall of GUARDS stand before the crowds, 
denying them access, stopping Nicholas.  

             NICHOLAS
      What is their crime?!


                                      33.

             GUARD
      Thieves is all they are! Now move 
      back! Step back!!

There is nothing Nicholas can do as he watches, eyes landing 
on a mounted Maximian, staring back at him with gloating 
eyes. He spins his horse and trots off with the escort.  

INT. MAGISTRATE’S COURT - ROMAN FORUM - DAY

A court diary is recorded by a SECRETARY as we pull out to a 
courthouse veneered in marble. A MAGISTRATE sits in his ivory 
curule seat. Armed city guards and attendants are present.  

Standing before the Magistrate is Nicholas and the group of 
chained PRISONERS facing sentence. 

             MAGISTRATE
      Have you anything to say before the 
      verdict is pronounced?

             NICHOLAS
      This is blasphemy, sir! To deny 
      these people a proper defense is 
      unconstitutional -- 

             MAGISTRATE
      Your creed gave up their 
      constitutional rights when they 
      chose to disassociate themselves 
      with Rome, bishop. 

             NICHOLAS
      This will create outrage, sir...

             MAGISTRATE
      You are fundamentally at odds with 
      everything we have stood for for a 
      thousand years. The only outrage 
      here is your own insolence. How 
      dare you? I pronounce the accused 
      guilty of theft as well as sedition 
      against the emperor! The penalty is 
      death in the arena! 

Nicholas loses a breath, utterly helpless as the guards drag 
the despondent prisoners away. 

EXT. STREETS OF ROME - NIGHT

The alleyways glow with torches. Nicholas walks with 
Constantine, speaking quietly. 


                                      34.

             CONSTANTINE
      My veto powers only lie with 
      matters concerning the plebs, 
      Nicholas. I wish there was 
      something I can do, I really do.

             NICHOLAS
      The city is enforcing taxes and 
      refusing them jobs! What else would 
      you have them do to put food into 
      their mouths?!

Constantine stops and turns to him --

             CONSTANTINE
      How about learning to bend your own 
      principles a little, Nicholas?? 

He almost regrets the words the moment they left his mouth as 
Nicholas resigns. 

             NICHOLAS
      Foolish of me to think I can change 
      Rome in a day. Tribune...

He tips a nod and disappears, leaving Constantine contrite. 

EXT. IMPERIAL PALACE - DAWN

A gray sky shrouds the city, denying light from the rising 
sun. Nicholas’ red cloak is striking in the bleak morning, he 
means business, as he scales the Imperial Palace steps and is 
stopped by a flock of GUARDS.   

             NICHOLAS
      I request an audience with the 
      emperor. Please, it is urgent. 

Then, from behind the dark colonnades, Maximian steps forth. 
Nicholas is not surprised, he suppresses his anger. 

             MAXIMIAN
      I warned you, preacher. Rebellion 
      will not end well for you. 

Nicholas knows there is no reasoning to be had, he casts a 
stern gaze and marches off. Maximian’s lip curls as he turns 
back and crosses the columns... revealing Diocletian coolly 
leaning against one. Feeling the rush of power.   


                                      35.

EXT. STREETS IN ROME - CLOUDY MORNING

The drone of the morning buzz has begun. Some merchants open 
shop, some don’t. The poor litter the streets. Nicholas walks 
through, crestfallen, surveying the landscape. The hem of his 
red cloak dragging along the puddled street, lifeless. 

He spots VANDALS scrawling on the walls, depicting their 
plight... murder, hunger, burning the city. Nicholas is 
intrigued, sees citizens responding to them as they stream 
past, realizing their political power. He approaches a group -

             NICHOLAS
      Can they change the mind of a city? 
      An emperor? 

             VANDAL
      The paintings never lie, Christian. 

But the sounds of MARCHING guards rattle the vandals, who 
make haste and clear out. Nicholas deflates... looks down at 
his red reflection in the black puddle he is standing over... 

INT. ARENA PIT - MORNING

PITCH BLACK, muffled sounds of moans and prayers. From above, 
a steel HATCH is opened as hazy sunlight pours in. The 
ARRESTED CHRISTIANS squint upwards, caked in dirt, as they’re 
dragged out by the guards. 

EXT. ARENA - CLOUDY MORNING

Raucous PLEBEIAN SPECTATORS fill the amphitheater veiled with 
decorative tarps and flags. Wooden crossbeams and columns 
surround the sandy arena floor and connect to holding cells. 

Hundreds more gather around the fringe spewing the same 
malign excitement. Amongst them are a hooded Nicholas, 
Cassius, and Marcus. Blending, inconspicuous.  

Constantine watches with some senators from the corner seats. 

TRUMPETS blast. The spectators look over to the royal court 
being escorted to a designated imperial box by Maximian, 
Praetorian archers and heavily armored Centurions. 

The plebs are surprised the emperor is in attendance --

             PLEBS
      Must be a juicy match if the caesar 
      dragged his royal ass here. 


                                      36.

Diocletian and Prisca are seated. Emmelia and two other 
servants carry a platter of viands and wine. 

Diocletian is surrounded like a fortress by his militia, he 
is untouchable. He raises his hand in greeting but from the 
corner knows he sees Nicholas in the surrounding crowd. 

GUARDS drag the chained Christians onto the arena floor. 
Nicholas struggles to take his eyes off of the five children 
amongst them. 

ARENA, their chains are undone and weapons are tossed before 
them. The elders just take a seat. 

The holding cells open as three unnerving GLADIATORS exit, 
with their barbaric weapons and fear-inducing faceplates.  

NICHOLAS tries remaining firm. The Christians pray, others 
hold the children close. 

             GLADIATORS 
      Pick up the weapons! 
        (no response)
      They just want a show, pick up your 
      damn weapons and just run around!

No answer. A gladiator DRAGS a woman off a child by her hair. 
A MALE prisoner tries to intervene but a gladiator CLUTCHES 
his throat and SMASHES his helmet into his face.   

The man DROPS as the gladiator raises his spear and SLICE! 
The crowd cheers! An elder picks up a sword and attacks --

             ELDER
      Damn you to hell! 

SLICE! A gladiator runs him through, removes the blood-
drenched sword. The women shield the children’s eyes.

NICHOLAS’ eyes glaze over, cringing his jaw in raw anger.  

MAXIMIAN whispers to Diocletian -- A gladiator looks up -- 
Diocletian offers a subtle nod and glimpses towards Nicholas.

As the gladiators move in on the children. Screams and cries 
are batted away, the children are raised into the air...

Prisca looks away. Daggers are removed by the gladiators.

NICHOLAS quivers... forcing his eyes away... glimpsing at a 
sconce on the column he is leaning against, the FLAMES from 
the torch dance across his eyes... 


                                      37.

The sounds of the CRIES blare in his ear... like echoes from 
his past, resurfacing, the screams of the burning soldiers, 
taunting him.

He roves his eyes back down... and in a momentous decision, 
he throws off his hooded robe and marches into the arena. 

             MARCUS
      Nicholas! 

             CASSIUS
      Dear God...

Nicholas snatches a MACE and makes short work of the two 
gladiators holding the children -- BASHING one across the 
knees and DRILLING the other in the gut before knocking him 
out with a BLOW to the face! 

SLASH! He’s CUT by the third gladiator and SMASHED across the 
face! He falls on all fours and takes a KICK to the gut. The 
gladiator raises his SWORD and ARCS it down but the bloodied 
Nicholas BATS the gladiator’s arm away with the mace and 
deftly STRIKES him in the throat.  

As the gladiator doubles over, Nicholas snatches his own 
dagger and drives it through his hand into a post, nailing 
him to it as he SCREAMS under a completely SILENCED crowd.  

Nicholas breathes heavily, still registering what he just did 
as DIOCLETIAN grins under his skin. Emmelia stops pouring 
wine midway, incredulous.

Constantine can not believe what he just witnessed. As the 
crowds ERUPT with applause and chant towards the imperial box 
-- “Dominus Noster!” “Dominus Noster!” “Dominus Noster!”

Nicholas looks at the prisoners and the children, then sweeps 
his eyes across the ruckus around him.

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, THRONE ROOM - DAY

Diocletian is poised in his ivory curule seat, set on a 
platform on the throne room floor, draped in a grandiose 
toga. Mascius sits below, recording. Guards are stationed. 

A bruised and beaten Nicholas stands before Diocletian. 
Constantine is off to the side watching.  

             DIOCLETIAN
      Now... as for your complete 
      disregard for our laws... I should 
      have you imprisoned and those 
      prisoners beheaded immediately. 


                                      38.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT'D)
      Yet, you come here with the 
      audacity of requesting legal and 
      social justice... 

             NICHOLAS
      My request is for the civil rights 
      of Roman citizens... 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Roman citizens who disgrace Rome 
      itself! 

Diocletian calms himself and delivers his calculated plan...

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Alas, the gift of freedom for the 
      prisoners is one I am willing to 
      grant. Yet... as reprimand for your 
      impetuous behavior, a tribute tax 
      of two antoniniani shall be 
      enforced upon the Christian sect. 
        (looks at Mascius)
      Make it known... that any who wish 
      to abandon their faith shall be 
      pardoned from the tax and given 
      their legitimate... civil rights. 

Nicholas angered at the card he has allowed Diocletian to 
play, simply tips a bow --

             NICHOLAS
      Sire...

He turns and is escorted out by guards, glancing over at 
Constantine before leaving the room.  

INT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - ATRIUM - NIGHT

Church members SHOUT amongst each other, at Livius and the 
pulpit. Confused, angry. A member tosses down his rosary --

             MEMBER
      That man, our bishop, has made us 
      look like those barbaric Romans! 

IN AN ADJACENT ROOM, Nicholas sits against his bed. 
Struggling to dress the gash on his arm. Hearing the voices. 

ATRIUM

             ANOTHER MEMBER
      His actions have only inflamed an 
      already oppressive tax load!


Cheers and opposition ring out! But the voices are breached 
by a METAL CLANG! All eyes land on a set of SHACKLES on the 
floor... where the freed PRISONERS stand with Brother Marcus 
beside EMMELIA and the five CHILDREN. Holding votive candles. 

                                      39.

             EMMELIA
      Please... by all means, chain 
      yourselves. Because that is 
      precisely what they wish to happen. 
      Fight amongst yourselves and be 
      quick to condemn the man who’s 
      actions saved the lives of these 
      people... these children. I am not 
      a member of your church nor have I 
      been one to uphold any of Rome’s 
      silly religions but I know if ever 
      there were a time for you to 
      coalesce, it is now. Stand behind 
      him, he needs you. 
        (re: children)
      They need you. 

It resonates clearly. She carries on towards Nicholas’ room. 

NICHOLAS’ ROOM, the door opens as he looks up to see Emmelia 
enter with the children, rendering him slightly surprised. 

             EMMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      How are you feeling? 

             NICHOLAS
      How do I look?

             EMMELIA
      Ghastly.

He figured as much. He tries getting up but he aches. 

             EMMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      You should sit.

He plops back down as she slides in and preps a wet cloth and 
wooden stitching awl. Nicholas beckons the children to come.

             NICHOLAS
      What are your names? 

They patter over, timid, muttering their names individually --

             CHILDREN
      Clement, Junius, Flavius, Alba, 
      Cassia. 


                                      40.

             NICHOLAS
      Never again set your hearts on 
      stealing no matter how strong the 
      temptation, you hear?  

They nod. He studies their dirty nails and tattered sandals. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Do any of you have parents? 

The shake their heads. Nicholas remains firm with them. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Well... this shall be your new home 
      then. A shared bedroom will be 
      arranged and meals will be provided 
      accordingly. 

This alleviates their fear a bit. Father Livius appears at  
the door and Nicholas leans in to the children, softly --

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      And you can pull on Father Livius’ 
      beard when he is sleeping. He makes 
      funny noises when you do that.  

They giggle and glance back at Father Livius. A smile etches 
Nicholas’ bruised face. 

             FATHER LIVIUS
      Laughing at my expense, are we? 
      Come children... come. 

Livius ushers them out. Emmelia soaks a cloth and cleans 
Nicholas’ wound.  

             NICHOLAS
      How angry are they? 

             EMMELIA
      Frankly? Those children may be the 
      only friends you have left. 

             NICHOLAS
      Should I be worried about that awl 
      in your hand then?  

She starts stitching the gash, lets show a slight grin. He 
winces, studies her. 

             EMMELIA
      You’re concerned about a woman with 
      a pointy stick after I watched you 
      immobilize three gladiators?  


                                      41.

Out of shame, he declines a response. 

             EMMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      Where did you even learn to fight 
      like that? 

             NICHOLAS
      In another life. 

She respects his reservations, refrains from further inquiry.

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I apologize you had to see that. 

             EMMELIA
      Stay in Rome long enough and you’ll 
      have seen it all. Makes you start 
      to wonder about yourself. 

             NICHOLAS
      No temptation has overtaken you 
      that is not common to all man. I am 
      quite particular about that verse.  

             EMMELIA
      What does it mean?

             NICHOLAS
      It means you are not alone. 

This hits a nerve. He studies her.  

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      How long have you been in bondage, 
      Emmelia? 

             EMMELIA
      Since my parents died. At a very 
      young age. 

He doesn’t press on. But can not take his eyes off of her. 
She finishes stitching, looks up and catches his gaze... a 
charged moment... he gathers himself, abashed.

             NICHOLAS
      Uh, thank you... 

She smiles to herself and cuts the thread. Chagrined at where 
she must return to now... he rises with her.

             EMMELIA
      Nicholas, you should lay down...


                                      42.

             NICHOLAS
      The least I can do is walk you out. 

He saunters alongside her with an aching step, she slides her 
arm around his waist in assistance...

EXT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - NIGHT

Thin clouds glide under a bejeweled sky, the valleys are 
awash in milky starlight across from the flickering flames of 
the city. Emmelia covers herself in a veil and gives Nicholas 
one last look; he returns it, not wanting her to go, as she 
turns and slides away... silhouetted against the night...   

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE - CORRIDORS - LATER THAT NIGHT

Constantine has retired for the evening. Weary and pensive, 
he walks with some senators who chatter up politics. 

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE - COURTYARD - NIGHT

Emmelia walks briskly, crossing through the moonlit 
courtyards, avoiding eye contact with guards. She turns a 
quiet corner and comes to an abrupt HALT as Maximian appears. 

             MAXIMIAN
      And where was my lady at this hour? 

Fearful, she tries walking past --

             EMMELIA
      Matters with the empress. 

But he GRIPS her arm. Her reaction suggests she knows her 
fate, as he FORCES her against the wall, gushing with lust. 

His large hand slides across her face and down her body as we 
hear her undergarment rip. He unfastens his belt and undoes 
his armor plate as she tries to remain tough. He shushes her.

COURTYARD, Constantine bids a good night to the senators but 
stops to meet his REFLECTION in the fountain, unsure he likes 
what he sees. But his stupor is interrupted by distant SOUNDS 
of struggle. Curious, he walks towards that direction.  

QUIET CORNER, Emmelia makes an effort to move but Maximian 
pins her still and prepares to rape her just as --

             CONSTANTINE
	(O.S.)
      Maximian!


He turns... glares at Constantine in a manner that would 
scare most men off but Constantine stands stern. The brute 
fastens up and steps over to him...

                                      43.

             MAXIMIAN
      I should gut you right here like 
      they did your whore mother.  

             CONSTANTINE
      You can try... and if you succeed, 
      the Plebeian council will have you 
      hung for violating my sacrosanct. 
      Emperor’s monkey or not. 

Maximian bristles... SHOULDERS past him. Constantine looks 
over at Emmelia with concerned eyes.

INT. SENATE HOUSE - NIGHT

Constantine TOSSES a chalice -- CLANG! It clatters against 
the stone floor. He drinks from a wine gourd, red-rimmed eyes 
sweeping the empty senate house in dismal silence. A senator 
we recognize enters the hall, slides next to him. 

             LEPIDUS
      Something troubles you, 
      Constantine.

             CONSTANTINE
      Everything Lepidus, everything 
      troubles me. 
        (points at the empty 
         curule seat)
      That man troubles me... marching 
      around with his pompous fineries 
      and spineless cronies. Our city 
      falls apart while he occupies 
      himself, excuse me he OBSESSES 
      himself with this one creed. 
      Meanwhile, the Imperial treasury is 
      damn near dry since he’s 
      militarized the entire empire, 
      medical care is not even a second 
      thought, and more than half of the 
      grain ships are coming in short 
      from Alexandria... 
        (sighs)
      This is not the Rome my father 
      would have wanted to see, Lepidus. 

             LEPIDUS
      The Republic is long dead, son, and 
      the empire has spun out of control. 


                                      44.

             LEPIDUS
	(CONT'D)
      Alas, I suggest you reserve your 
      antipathy to yourself, young 
      tribune. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Until Rome, as we know it, has 
      faded into the ashes of history...

             LEPIDUS
      Everything has its end, son. Even 
      Rome. Maybe it is simply her time. 

Lepidus rests a hand on his shoulder and slides out. 
Constantine is left in brooding thought...  

EXT. ROME, WINTER - MORNING

Smoke rises from the city. Winter has arrived and brought 
with it a cold rain. The streets barren. Merchants closed. 

The poor huddle around fires under inadequate shelter, 
fighting for space. Others fight for food, one bites into a 
dead rat. A beggar with one eye chants to a pagan deity in a 
smoke ritual, sounds of brothels and fighting are heard. 

The massive Ostia harbor sits in silence, crowded with empty 
merchant vessels see-sawing in the growing waves. 

EXT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - MORNING

Nicholas, Livius, Marcus, and Cassius stand outside surveying  
the dreary weather and landscape. 

             LIVIUS
      The winter is here. Our grains are 
      short. Our shelter is inadequate. 

             MARCUS
      What do we do, Nicholas? 

Nicholas MUST maintain fortitude over growing concern...

             NICHOLAS
      Our strength is not in numbers but 
      in how well we can unify against 
      the forces trying to dismantle us.  

Slowly thinking, eyes flickering with an idea... 


                                      45.

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Have every member sell any 
      dispensable belonging, retain only 
      the essentials and donate the funds 
      to the church. I will assign the 
      three of you to overlook and 
      allocate those funds accordingly... 
      half a loaf of bread and two 
      amphoras of drink per family each 
      day. We live efficiently, we live 
      meager, we survive. And the same 
      goes for all of the funds allotted 
      to the missionaries...

             CASSIUS
      The missionaries?? 

             MARCUS
      Nicholas, that is sacrilege. The 
      gospels must be preached --

             NICHOLAS
      Their preaching can wait, Marcus. 
      Half of the church’s money is 
      frozen in their endeavors. What 
      good is their blathering if we fail 
      to stand up for ourselves in Rome??

Marcus and Cassius acquiesce. Again, Nicholas illustrates how 
he distinguishes himself from any previous bishop.

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Cut off the funds, all of them. And 
      bring the men back. Our fortitude 
      will be a message to the Romans. 
      That we are here to stay. As equal 
      men. 

Livius simply rests a hand on his shoulder approvingly.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT./EXT. ESTATE/ROME - DAY & NIGHT - WINTER SEASON

- coins of all denominations are tossed into collection 
baskets by various hands...

- Nicholas helps and directs the building of a PAVILION next 
to the estate, similar to the one in Myra.

- porridge is stirred in a large pot, we PULL OUT to reveal 
ROWS of them aligned under the pavilion being stirred by the 
women and nuns...


                                      46.

- snow flurries drift across the valley as a FOOD LINE has 
formed along the pavilion serving nearly a hundred people.

- from the distance a hooded Prisca watches, admiring, she 
notices Emmelia is one of the porridge servers...

- Constantine trots across the valley in the light snow, 
seeing the food line that has grown in size, astonished.

- At the Ostia harbor, hungry pagans ransack the merchant 
vessels in search of food. They rebel and cast TORCHES onto 
some of them. Setting the ships AFIRE!

- In the streets of the city, light snow blows past corpses 
dead from hunger, disease and quarrel...

- Inside the estate/house church -- the elderly and sick are 
attended to... orderly, harmonious, Nicholas directing 
everyone -- the five orphans are his assistants. 

- more coins are collected, baskets held by the orphans...

- the food line has grown to thousands, more porridge pots 
are stationed under tents next to the pavilion.

- in the food line now are the pagans who were ransacking the 
ships and the poor who were clamoring for food/shelter... 
they arrive to the servers, abashed, shaking from the cold -- 
Nicholas orders for them to be served... as one falls to his 
knees and kisses Nicholas’ feet tearfully, he then kisses the 
cross in Nicholas’ hand...

- from afar Constantine sees this... galvanized.

- secret meeting at night -- Constantine holds court with a 
group of senators and centurions.

- And an orb of glowing orange rises over the horizon in the 
arrival of spring...

- In the city streets, while still dark, VANDALS paint and 
scrawl on the walls... a BLOCK of sunlight begins to slide up 
the wall with the dawn... as it reaches the vandals... 
casting early morning upon them... they DISPERSE... and we’re 
left staring at the colorful fresco of -- 

Bishop Nicholas blessing the kneeling Romans with the five 
orphans taking refuge at his side. 

Inscribed with the words -- Abbas de Roma (Father of Rome)


                                      47.

EXT. ROMAN FORUM - SPRING DAY

A SWORD DANCE snakes through the Forum by the SALII DANCERS -- 
twelve patrician youths dressed as archaic warriors gripping 
bronze shields and white sticks. Beating a shackled MAN on a 
goat with calculated technique atop provocative ritual music.

Diocletian rides in a chariot behind the procession, a wreath 
is held above his head to deify him. Prisca next to him, not 
as enthusiastic as he. Praetorians surrounding him. 

The public ceremony is devoid of its typical energy. Few 
perform street sacrifices. Many scurry off before bowing down 
to the chariot. Faces weathered from the rough winter. 

In the shadows are Nicholas and Constantine, both hooded and 
inconspicuous, watching the lurid procession with disdain. 

             CONSTANTINE
      The Salii, also known as the 
      leaping priests of Mars. 
      Celebrating the military might of 
      Rome with the arrival of the 
      season. 

             NICHOLAS
      Why do they beat that man?

             CONSTANTINE
      As a sacrifice to the gods. In 
      return for better fortune in the 
      new year. 
        (tense beat)
      Nicholas, I must speak with you 
      privately.  

Nicholas acquiesces and slides away. Constantine follows. 

DIOCLETIAN glowers at those refusing to partake in the 
ceremony and recognize his divinity. 

The guards notice the street paintings -- all akin to the 
fresco we saw earlier. Prisca grows worried as Diocletian’s 
eyes sweep the listless atmosphere and land on a fresco --

             DIOCLETIAN
      HALT!!

The guards STOP in formation, the chariot halts. The dancers 
carry on, not noticing, the sounds of the ritual fading.  

Diocletian steps down and ambles up to the fresco, eyes mixed 
with disbelief and genuine affliction. 


                                      48.

Many surrounding citizens fall prostrate. He surveys around, 
noticing those who don’t... Trying to slip away... 

He GRABS a woman with her child and meets her terrified eyes. 
He signals Maximian, who steps forth and STRIPS her down to 
her undergarment, she stifles her cries, holds her child. 

             PRISCA
      Stop this!

             DIOCLETIAN
      SILENCE!!

And from her ripped cloak, Maximian digs out a ROSARY... 
Diocletian inflamed at the sight and the weight it carries. 

INT. CATACOMBS - DAY

Nicholas and Constantine wade through the swarms of people -- 
the placid milieu contrasting the raucous ceremony above. 
They step into the quiet corner of a sanctuary. Nicholas 
removes his hood, studies Constantine. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Nicholas, you and I both know this 
      depravity cannot continue. 

Nicholas agrees more than he lets show. 

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      If our city falls into chaos, 
      neither you nor I will have a place 
      to call home. With or without 
      faith.  

             NICHOLAS
      Our home has raped and murdered my 
      people for three hundred years, 
      which home do you speak of?

             CONSTANTINE
      I rest my case then.  

             NICHOLAS
      I will not call to arms if that’s 
      what you are asking, Constantine. I 
      can not condone bloodshed.

             CONSTANTINE
      Sometimes it is blood alone that 
      moves the courses of history, 
      brother. 



                                      49.

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT'D)
      I still command the loyalty of the 
      eastern legions under my father’s 
      name... and an alliance with the 
      dioceses will give us the proper 
      numbers to stand against 
      Diocletian.   

             NICHOLAS
      The dioceses do not command proper 
      legions. 

             CONSTANTINE
      But the kingdom of Armenia does. 
      King Tiridates and his royal court 
      have been baptized, Nicholas. By 
      the man whose teachings you have 
      strictly followed since this --

Constantine moves aside Nicholas’ tunic to reveal the 
mutilated SPQR tattoo on his shoulder. 

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Patron Gregory the Illuminator has 
      converted the kingdom, the first 
      Christian state the world has ever 
      seen. Your numbers are growing 
      quick, that is without a doubt. 
      Align us and I promise your pleads 
      for the charter will wash away into 
      history. If declared emperor, I 
      will grant Peace of the Church and 
      formally legalize your religion, 
      Nicholas. I only ask for your 
      backing in this effort. 

Nicholas hangs on these words, pondering painfully.  

             NICHOLAS
      You speak with fortitude and 
      eloquence, my friend. A trait 
      innate to most great politicians. 

Constantine sinks a notch. Nicholas knows he may regret these 
next words -- 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      But too many lives have been lost 
      at the cheap price of rhetoric. I 
      will not ask followers of my faith 
      to spill blood. Much less in the 
      name of a man who himself is not a 
      believer. 


                                      50.

             CONSTANTINE
      Reason, Nicholas...

             NICHOLAS
      The risk is too great, Constantine. 
      I am sorry. 

Nicholas leaves, Constantine lingers. A GNARLED FACE cloaked 
under a hood who was spying disappears into the shadows. 

INT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - ORPHANAGE - NIGHT

Braziers light the modest room. The bunk beds are occupied by 
the five ORPHANS. Raptly listening to Nicholas tell a story.

             NICHOLAS
      ...And then the shepherds saw a 
      bright light in the sky, where an 
      angel told them not to be afraid 
      anymore because he had some good 
      news. He said the Son of God had 
      been born and they would find him 
      in Bethlehem. And when they arrived 
      at the stable, they were filled 
      with joy at seeing Jesus lying in 
      the manger.

His tired face manages a grin at their captivated faces. 
Father Livius enters the room. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      And that, my children, is our cue. 
      Time to rest now. 

Nicholas rises and tucks them in with Father Livius. 

             CLEMENT
      Do you think those soldiers will 
      come back for us, bishop?

             NICHOLAS
      As long as I bear the breath of 
      life, I will protect you, do you 
      understand? 

The children nod, feeling secure.

             FATHER LIVIUS
      Go Nicholas, get some rest. I will 
      finish tucking them in.

Nicholas sweeps their faces once more, stifling his concern, 
and marches out. 


                                      51.

EXT. TEMPLE OF THE ORACLES - NIGHT

The sky is pregnant with storms, WINDS whistle, LIGHTNING 
shrieks across the dark heavens. Diocletian climbs a summit 
and stands before a rounded SHRINE with a pitch black ingress 
beyond its colonnade. Toga flailing, he enters. 

INT. TEMPLE OF THE ORACLES - NIGHT

Four SYBILS (oracles of antiquity) with red veils draped over 
their heads down to their toes stand at the four “corners” of 
the rotunda. Facing out towards the tiny flickering flames of 
the city. Their veils flailing like the fires they look upon.  

A platform holds a chained LAMB. Diocletian enters, although 
his presence not unbeknownst, the sybils do not turn.

             SYBIL 1
      What brings you to our sanctorium, 
      caesar? 

             DIOCLETIAN
      I come to seek council. 

             SYBIL 2
      You are tardy. 

The sybils turn and glide towards the lamb. Unlike the young 
beautiful women of myth, these are gypsy mystics. Old women 
with leathery skin and sunken eyes. One of whom we recognize 
as the spy from the catacombs. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      What do the gods favor me to do, 
      sybils? My plan has failed to stop 
      this disease. The people love that 
      Christian more than their own 
      emperor and killing him will only 
      make matters worse... 

The sybils start to CHANT in a strange guttural tongue. One 
of them removes an ATHAME -- a ceremonial dagger with a 
double-edged blade and a black handle.

The lamb starts to wail, sensing its fate, as the blade is 
lifted towards it... and THRUST into its belly. 

Diocletian’s EYES grow red like the bloody ceremony before 
him. WE HEAR the sounds of the lamb’s organs being removed.

A SYBIL lifts the lamb’s liver high into the air... 


                                      52.

             SYBIL
      They tell us the tribune schemes, 
      caesar. He must die if you wish 
      your sovereignty protected. You 
      know of whom we speak. Yet they 
      urge caution with the one who calls 
      himself the bishop. A proper 
      arrangement can deny his martyrdom 
      and earn back the hearts of the mob 
      once again.  

Diocletian’s mind starts to swim with sinister schemes. 

INT. CATACOMBS - NIGHT

Nicholas kneels before a fresco of Christ in a sanctuary. He 
prays, seeking answers, looking more lost than ever...

             NICHOLAS
      ...And although he is a decent man, 
      I cannot justify his endeavors by 
      advocating any form of war. Yet... 
      he offers something I can not help 
      but want very deeply. 
        (beat)
      I find myself confused. And I am 
      not asking, Lord, that you take 
      this trial away. Only to be guided 
      in the right path with your 
      supporting hand.

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Through a slat in a cracked-open door, Emmelia eavesdrops on 
Diocletian and Maximian. Their voices are faintly heard. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      ...I have larger issues at hand 
      than your sexual appetite --  

             MAXIMIAN
      This is different. I’m asking for 
      your blessing to wed her, sire. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Are you in danger of becoming 
      civilized, Maximian? 

Maximian is not humored, Diocletian is... but shifts to a 
menacing tone without missing a beat --


                                      53.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Then do me a task... 

He leans in and whispers words we can not hear... But EMMELIA 
does... as she turns and runs off. 

INT. CONSTANTINE’S ESTATE, BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

Constantine sleeps. A shadow is cast over him as a HAND 
reaches in... and taps him. He wakes -- SNATCHING a dagger 
from under his sheets and pointing it at -- Emmelia. 

Breathing heavily, he lowers his blade, eyes inquiring... 

             EMMELIA
      You have to leave... as soon as 
      possible. 

EXT. CONSTANTINE’S ESTATE, STABLES - NIGHT

Awash under a full moon, Constantine quickly and quietly 
loads a carriage with bags for a one-way trip. Emmelia is 
there as well, staring out onto the valleys. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Don’t be foolish, Emmelia. You’re 
      no longer safe here either.    

She knows this but doesn’t respond. 

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Emmelia... Emmelia!
        (she turns)
      There’s no time! I’ll have a 
      message delivered to Nicholas 
      after...

A SOUND stops him, he scans the surrounding darkness, reaches 
for his sword... when suddenly TWO CITY GUARDS pop out from 
the shadows.  

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Move!

He yanks out his sword and pushes Emmelia aside, managing to 
DEFLECT the first blow and CUT the guard down! Moving like 
liquid, he snatches the second sword, parries with the other 
guard and RUNS HIM THROUGH. 

Only to turn around to another guard CHARGING in with Emmelia 
in the line of fire -- then through the air -- WHOOSH -- a 
dagger slices past and STRIKES the guard’s neck.  


                                      54.

They turn around stunned to see Maximian appear from the 
darkness. 

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Quick, on the horse! 

She hops onto a horse as Constantine SLAPS a torch and sends 
the embers into Maximian’s face. The brute GROANS and scrapes 
his face as Constantine CUTS the carriage ropes, SLINGS his 
leg over and WHIPS the reins! HYAH! 

They BARREL out of the stables as the torch sets the hay 
ABLAZE! 

The horse races off through the valleys as Emmelia glances 
back at the burning stables, the estates, the city flames... 
all diminishing... and bleeding into DARKNESS. 

OVER BLACK... a twig SNAPS... as specks of white fade in... 
transpiring into SNOW FLAKES in a tranquil FOREST... as we’re 
back in Nicholas’ dream...

Clad in heavy fur, surveying the snowy forest, breath 
vaporing. He hears children’s laughter and chases the voices.

Wading through the snow, crossing the woods and coming up on 
a solitary HUT with a group of CHILDREN standing before it. 
The children beckon him to come and disappear into the hut.

Nicholas approaches and takes a step into the pitch black... 
Rather than just being hit with a FLASH IMAGE of bloody 
warfare, he finds himself standing in it now.  

Amidst a RAGING BATTLE ACROSS A VAST FIELD. Smoke rises. 
Trees burn. Soldiers die. The children nowhere to be seen.  

Nicholas spots a SWORD. He REACHES for it but an unseen force 
prevents him from picking it up. 

As he looks up to a dark HORSEMAN thundering towards him. 
Nostrils steaming from the heavily armored horse. Its rider 
raising his sword and SLASHING DOWN onto Nicholas --

INT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - NICHOLAS’ BEDROOM - MORNING

Nicholas SNAPS AWAKE as Father Livius BURSTS into the room --

             FATHER LIVIUS
      Nicholas! Nicholas wake up!

             NICHOLAS
      Livius... what’s happened?


                                      55.

             FATHER LIVIUS
      The children are gone!

Nicholas leaps out of bed, snatches his robe and marches out. 

INT. ORPHANAGE - CONTINUOUS

Nicholas barges in to see the five beds empty, sheets 
dislodged in signs of struggle. He scans the room in a heated 
panic... Searching for any indications of perpetrators... 

Marcus rushes into the room --

             MARCUS
      Nicholas, we found one of these 
      near the atrium!

He holds up a brass navigational CHART-DIVIDER with a strange 
seal on it. Nicholas’ complexion drops a hue.  

             FATHER LIVIUS
      Dear God.

Nicholas takes it, studies it. All sharing the same 
suspicions as he finally SNAPS! HEAVING a bunk bed over and 
slogging out of there. Father Livius watches with concern. 

             FATHER LIVIUS
	(CONT’D)
      Nicholas, consider your actions!

             NICHOLAS
      I made a promise to those children, 
      Livius! I will not abandon them!

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE - PORTICO/CORRIDORS - MORNING

A pack of GUARDS escort Nicholas through the high-ceilinged 
portico. FLAMES shimmer in massive sconces. PAGAN PRIESTS 
crane their heads and cast steely gazes as he marches by. 

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE - CORRIDORS - MORNING

The escort ARRIVES to the throne room door, Maximian waits 
with a freshly marred face. He flicks his head, the guards 
clear out leaving the two men in loaded silence. Nicholas 
notes his blemished face, looking more threatening than ever. 

             MAXIMIAN
      Where is she?

It’s a lie to say Nicholas is not confused by the question.


                                      56.

             MAXIMIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Do not toy with me, preacher. 

A hint of worry flashes across his eyes as his wheels spin. 
But not wanting to play this game with him --  

             NICHOLAS
      Excuse me.

But the brute plants a HAND on his chest before he can move.

             MAXIMIAN
      Once she is mine, I swear on 
      Jupiter’s stone I will kill you if 
      you so much as breath next to her. 

             NICHOLAS
      Subjugate us all you want, 
      Maximian, our choices are our own. 
      The difference between us, though, 
      is that my God does not uphold 
      oaths of murder. In due time, whom 
      do you think Rome will embrace?  

Maximian boils, hand unwittingly moving over his HILT. 
Nicholas registering it with calm resolve. Then --

BLAM! He BACKHANDS Nicholas. Sending his head jerking 
sideways. Nicholas takes the heavy hand as well as one could. 
Feels the rivulet of blood around his mouth, suggesting a 
future reunion will not be so one-sided. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (slight bow)
      Sir.

Maximian finally opens the door and Nicholas steps past. 

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE - THRONE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Nicholas enters to see Diocletian gazing out over the 
balustrades. Draped in traditional purple, toned down from 
his usual garishness, seemingly more... relatable. He turns, 
feigning concern --

             DIOCLETIAN
      Bishop, my condolences. I just 
      received news. 

Nicholas tries to study him over the blaring distractions - 
statues, golden trinkets, Maximian behind him at the door.


                                      57.

             NICHOLAS
      Rather quick for something so 
      miniscule for you. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      You underestimate my resources, 
      Nicholas.

Nicholas removes the navigational chart divider. 

             NICHOLAS
      This was found on the property. 

Diocletian examines the chart-divider, quite the actor. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Our children should never have to 
      be subjected to such vile creatures 
      like pirates. 

Nicholas’ suspicions confirmed, he tries to remain firm. 

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Alas it is not uncommon for Roman 
      children to fall victim to the 
      slave trade in Crete.

Diocletian slides his arm around Nicholas’ shoulder and 
gently ushers him towards the balcony. 

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      I know relations have not always 
      been without strife but we’re not 
      flawless now, are we? 

Strange coming from a man who deifies himself. Nicholas 
continues to study him but is needled with desperation as 
they arrive onto the balcony, where hundreds of CITIZENS 
streaming through the courtyards start to notice them. 

Diocletian waits for it...

             NICHOLAS
      Caesar, then I humbly ask for your 
      resources. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Of course. 

BUT -- Diocletian raises his hand towards his face and 
Nicholas now understands why the swiftness...  


                                      58.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      The finest cohort will escort you 
      to the Golden Sea to retrieve your 
      children, Nicholas; rest assured a 
      moneybag will be provided to ensure 
      a peaceful exchange. 

The CITIZENS WATCH as Nicholas broodingly acquiesces and 
KISSES the emperor’s hand. The citizens marvel. The ones with 
rosaries seem perplexed.   

Diocletian’s eyes are drunk with power.

                              SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. MEDITERRANEAN SEA - NIGHT

A VIOLENT WAVE SLAMS into a GALLEY! Steering through the 
rough seas and rampant STORM. A wave carries us aboard and 
SMASHES into the sailors, sends them sliding across deck.  

The captain, PONTIUS, grips the paddle.

             PONTIUS
      We will not last through the night!

             SAILOR 1
      We have angered Neptune for aiding 
      this preacher!

They see Nicholas hugging a mast in the harsh winds.

             NICHOLAS
      The seas do not have their own 
      separate God you fools! 

             SAILOR 3
      You are right! Out here there is no 
      God!

             NICHOLAS
      Where is your damn faith, man?!

Nicholas trundles across deck towards the men, clawing at 
anything to stay on his feet, he grips their tunics --   

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Are you worthy to live? Are-you-
      worthy-to live??

             SAILOR
      Yes! Yes! You’ve gone mad at sea!


                                      59.

             NICHOLAS
        (not convinced)
      Are you WORTHY?!

In the face of death -- confessions come out.  

             SAILOR 2
      No! Not I! I am a drunk and a 
      thief, preacher! Let the sea or God 
      or Neptune or whichever God is up 
      there take me! I am not worthy!

             NICHOLAS
      Rest assured you will not be going 
      up there! 

He actually stirs laughter. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      But the Lord does not forsake an 
      honest man! Ask for his mercy! For 
      all our sakes! Do it!!

The sailor shakes his head... acquiescing... as Pontius 
watches. He looks up at the dark heavens, ready to give in --

When a BURST OF LIGHT slams the sea! A wave DEVOURS the ship 
and washes us into oblivion... as everything goes BLACK. 

After a long silent beat, sounds of a ROCKING ship and 
distant SHORES begin to trickle in...

EXT. SHIP - MORNING

A golden SUN beats down on the splayed sailors. They slowly 
come to, the last patches of wet drying on the decks. Pontius 
and a sailor open their eyes, glancing around in disbelief --

             SAILOR 1
      Hades?

             PONTIUS
      No. We are still alive. 

They chortle in disbelief. The others awaken groggily and 
spot Nicholas hugging a mast, unconscious, and share a 
collective gaze in slight awe. 

Rising, they gaze out to what can only be described as Rome’s 
Tortuga. 

             PONTIUS
	(CONT’D)
      Preacher!


                                      60.

Nicholas slowly comes to. Donning a layer of light facial 
stub now. He glances up, squints --

             PONTIUS
	(CONT’D)
      Welcome to Crete!

EXT. CRETE - MARKET PLACE - DAY

Resembling a SOUQ, this filthy scene is teeming with slave 
auctions, gold exchanges, prostitution rings, pirate jeering.  

Nicholas, clad in his brown robe, tightens his grip on the 
moneybag he holds. He treks through, the crew trails him... 
They spot a CART carrying sold children and recognize the 
pirate insignia that matches the chart-divider, they follow.

EXT. PIRATE VILLAGE - DAY

Along the shore sits a putrid town and encampment. Ships and 
boats see-saw along the docks. Fires burn, slaves whipped, 
gold brought in. Nicholas and the crew enter the TOWN. 

LATER, they spot the one place pirates would go after a 
successful heist -- A PUB. They exchange a look and enter. 

INT. PUB - CONTINUOUS

Oozing with degenerates and eroded candles. Gazes shift 
towards Nicholas as he crosses through to the bar and holds 
out the chart-divider. 

             NICHOLAS
      This seal, do you recognize it? 

The bartender’s eyes move passed Nicholas’ shoulder --

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      I was looking for that piece. 

Nicholas turns around to a foul, repulsive PIRATE with dark 
Mediterranean complexions. 

             NICHOLAS
      Sir, I will make this very simple. 
      My name is Nicholas of Myra, bishop 
      of Rome. I am here to negotiate the 
      release of five children you have 
      recently abducted. 


                                      61.

             PIRATE
      I like simple, Nicholas of Myra... 
      My name is Baldassare, captain of 
      this here pub. And I’m here to 
      negotiate my deal with the devil. 
      Is there anything else or can I 
      kill you now?

This stops Nicholas a moment, Baldassare knows why --

             BALDASSARE
      Is that not what you people call 
      it? Devil? I am a seafaring brute, 
      preacher... walked every corner of 
      this wretched world...
        (looks around for God)
      And have yet to find your man. 
      That’s why my sermon is ‘long live 
      mutiny’! I am bound by nothing!

             NICHOLAS
      We are all bound by something, 
      Baldassare. God, war, revenge, 
      family... 

A PIRATE in the posse appears vulnerable to that statement. 

             BALDASSARE
        (re: the bag)
      ...Gold. 

             NICHOLAS
      Not until I see the children. 

Baldassare laughs. Pontius comes up to Nicholas, whispers -- 

             PONTIUS
      Give me the gold. 
        (off Nicholas’ look)
      I’ve been around men like this, I 
      know how to talk to them. Let me 
      see the bag. 

Nicholas ponders before tentatively handing the bag over. But 
Pontius looks doubtful in his forthcoming decision...

             PONTIUS
	(CONT’D)
        (softly)
      Forgive me.

-- As he hands the bag over to Baldasarre. 

             PONTIUS
	(CONT’D)
      For your hard work.


                                      62.

Nicholas fossilizes. The pirates swarm him, restraining his 
arms.

             PONTIUS
	(CONT’D)
        (slightly remorseful)
      Did you really think Caesar would 
      help you?

The betrayal sinking in, his eyes imbued with spite. 
Baldassare taunts --

             BALDASSARE
      Ahh yes... we are all bound by 
      something, preacher. But I sense 
      your loyalties may have just 
      deceived you. 

He scans Nicholas’ eyes, breath steaming over his face --

             BALDASSARE
	(CONT’D)
      Your trust fades and your hate 
      grows. I see it. I smell it... 
      Fresh off your self-righteous 
      breath! Pity you won’t get to 
      satisfy that appetite though... 

Drawing his SCIMITAR and putting it to Nicholas’ face --

             BALDASSARE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh preacher, if only you had the 
      pleasure of tasting it... the sweet 
      sweet taste of your blade thrust 
      through your enemies heart...

A storm begins to brew behind Nicholas’ eyes. 

             NICHOLAS
      Tell Diocletian he better pray. To 
      whomever God he prays to... That I 
      don’t escape this wretched place. 

They start to DRAG Nicholas away as the sailors watch, almost 
contrite, afraid they may have just condemned a holy man.  

             BALDASSARE
      Have a drink on me, boys. 

Pontius grabs Baldassare’s arm --

             PONTIUS
      Baldassare... do us a favor. Do 
      yourselves a favor, just... don’t 
      kill him. 


                                      63.

Baldassare grins, with a flaunting gesture --

             BALDASSARE
      I see he has whispered his tales 
      into your hearts, Romans! Let him 
      whisper all he wants here, no one 
      will listen!

He laughs, marches out leaving the sailors in rueful silence. 

INT. DUNGEON CELL - DUSK

Nicholas is TOSSED into a grungy cell. The blood of previous 
inmates smeared along the walls, glowing in the torchlight. 

Baldassare trudges in, rolls up his sleeves, removes a whip. 

Two GUARD PIRATES follow him in -- one whom we recognize from 
the pub, who showed his cards for a moment after Nicholas’ 
words. His name is AMADO -- Spanish complexion.  

             BALDASSARE
      Now that I’ve promised not to kill 
      you, I’m going to make use of you. 
      And I’m going to beat the God out 
      of you, preacher.

He motions his men. They shackle Nicholas to the wall and 
remove his robe. Baldassare winds up and... 

CRACK! Snaps the hide across Nicholas’ back. Leaving a fresh 
gash on his flesh. Nicholas cringes. 

CRACK! Nicholas winces... CRACK! Nicholas groans... CRACK! 
CRACK! Nicholas bellows in pain!

His SCREAMS carry through the antechambers... past the filthy 
cells of other slaves... and finally to a cell where we see --

The FIVE ORPHANS. Clement, Cassia and the others. Huddled. 
Hearing the screams, fear-ridden, faces caked in dirt. They 
flinch with each resounding scream. Over and over...

Nicholas curled up in the corner of his cell. Quivering in 
limbo. Long streaks of dry blood painted across his back. 

FOOTFALLS echo. His eyes flutter and through a blurry POV -- 
Amado saunters past, gazing in. The blur INTENSIFIES...

                              DISSOLVE TO:

                              DISSOLVE TO:


                                      64.

EXT. PIRATE VILLAGE - SHORES - DAY

The SUN beats down over the village. Nicholas is in chains, 
chisel and hammer gripped, breaking stones. His beard grows. 
He stops for a moment to gaze into the distance where the 
ORPHANS are forced to carry the cut stones, also chained up.

CRACK! A pirate whips him! He winces, returns to the chisel.  
Glancing up to see Baldasarre biting into a juicy peach, 
seated under an umbrella. He shakes his finger at Nicholas. 

INT. DUNGEON - NICHOLAS’ CELL - NIGHT

Nicholas crouches, lips dried, a bowl of water is tossed in 
by Baldassare -- it flips over and spills onto the stone. 

Nicholas scurries over, trying to salvage it. Face to the 
stone, lips pursed, inhaling droplets...  

INT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - ROME - NIGHT

PONTIUS rests a hand on Father Livius’ shoulder, having just 
broken the “bad news” to him. The old priest is crestfallen.

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, THRONE ROOM - DAY

Diocletian hands moneybags over to Praetorians. Mascius 
records it in his financial books. Maximian watches. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Stray dogs is what they are now. We 
      strike while the iron is hot, have 
      the Aventine gangs pay them some 
      visits. Nothing too obvious but 
      tell them to have fun, that the 
      guards will look the other way. 

The Praetorians salute and take the bags. 

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      And now on to the next issue at 
      hand...

Diocletian calmly steps over to Maximian, stares him in the 
eyes and BACKHANDS him! The brute froths but is disciplined 
enough to swallow it down.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      That is for allowing Constantine to 
      flee. Now... 


                                      65.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      to deal with your blunder, I will 
      need you to alert the northern 
      legions, call in the reinforcements 
      from the west and prepare the navy 
      to land at the shores of the Margus 
      in five months time. I am going to 
      send that insolent deserter into 
      the bowels of Hades. 

EXT. FORTIFIED WAR CAMP - BYZANTIUM - DUSK

SUPER: BYZANTIUM - FORMER CONSTANTINOPLE

Hundreds of TENTS are staked and lifted along this massive 
camp. Lit braziers flicker in the encroaching evening wind. 

High TOWERS rise along the corners as lookout posts. A frenzy 
of activity builds. Legions have come and are arriving. 

Constantine treks through with his officers, appraising the 
progress. He spots Emmelia at one of the tents, stirring 
porridge, and approaches her. She gazes up in anticipation...

             CONSTANTINE
      Emmelia, I’ve just received... some 
      unfortunate news... 

She remains unhinged, just her eyes dropping.

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry. I think it’s time you go 
      east, you will be well taken care 
      of at my cousin Marcus’. This is no 
      place for a woman to be.

A beat.

             EMMELIA
      How?

             CONSTANTINE
      The children... they were abducted. 
      He sailed to the golden sea to 
      bring them back. Never returned. 

An inkling of hope stews somewhere in her though.

             EMMELIA
      We don’t know for certain if he’s 
      dead yet...

             CONSTANTINE
      Emmelia, Crete is an unforgiving --


                                      66.

But he stops, sees the soft determination in her eyes...

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll have a quarter set up for you 
      then. 

She’s thankful. He carries on with his men.

EXT. PIRATE VILLAGE - SHORES - DAY

The sun SHIMMERS over the sea. The metronome of slave labor 
echoes as Nicholas breaks stone, breathes dust, face scruffy. 

INT. DUNGEON - NICHOLAS’ CELL - NIGHT

Nicholas sits detached from the world. FOOTFALLS echo, chains 
CLANG. He looks up, innervated at the sight of the ORPHANS 
ushered over by Amado. He carries a subtle accent from Spain. 

             AMADO
      I convinced Baldasarre to allow 
      visitation. 

He opens the bars as the children pour in and hug Nicholas. 
All of them weeping. Nicholas pulls back and regards their 
dirty, teary-eyed faces. Acknowledging them individually -- 

             NICHOLAS
      Clement, Junius, Alba, Cassia, 
      Flavius... Thank God...

He wipes their tears, streaking the dirt across their faces.  
Hugging them. Amado watches quietly from outside. 

INT. CATACOMBS - ROME - NIGHT

Father Livius, Marcus, Cassius and other members mark six 
grave stones... just as people start RUNNING and SCREAMING as 
GANG MEMBERS ransack the tunnels gripping clubs and chains...

EXT. PIRATE VILLAGE - SHORES - DAY

A hazy ring shrouds the sun. Cloaking the slave camp with 
shimmering heat waves. Nicholas’ beard grows as he hits his 
chisel and the children look thinner as they carry stones. 

             NICHOLAS
      At least give them some more bread 
      to eat!


                                      67.

CRACK! A whip snaps. He looks back to Baldassare and glares.

             BALDASSARE
      There... that’s the look I want to 
      see, preacher. 

INT. DUNGEON - NICHOLAS’ CELL - NIGHT

Nicholas tries reading to them from his bible but they are 
cold and weak as a chilly Mediterranean wind blows through 
the dungeon. He crawls to the bars where Amado is stationed. 

             NICHOLAS
      Amado, could you spare us some 
      wood?

Amado offers a slightly commiserative look.   

LATER, the children all pitch in to pile the sticks atop one 
another. Diverting their dejection for a moment. 

Nicholas gazes at his bible. Painfully pondering something. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
      Forgive me.

He opens the book and TEARS OUT PAGES... Crumpling them and 
wedging them into the wood. 

LATER, a FIRE crackles. The children are huddled, asleep. 
Nicholas watches, then regards his bible with the torn pages 
burning. 

             AMADO
	(O.S.)
      We do what we must for our 
      children. 

Nicholas looks over, slightly surprised, enervated.  

             AMADO
	(CONT’D)
      I have three daughters of my own. 
      All I have left in this life is 
      them, preacher. That is what I am 
      bound by. 

             NICHOLAS
      What brings you to this cursed life 
      then?


                                      68.

             AMADO
      A fool who squandered his money and 
      dignity at the price of their 
      future. If my daughters do not find 
      husbands soon, they will end up sex 
      slaves to men like Baldassare. 

             NICHOLAS
        (realizing)
      You’re here trying to make up for 
      lost time. Earn their dowry money.

             AMADO
      This cursed life pays, preacher. 
      And if your hell is real then I am 
      bound for it. I am content with 
      this because then your God must be 
      real too. And I would be obliged if 
      you prayed to him for my daughters. 

             NICHOLAS
      I read in a book once... He that 
      gives to the poor shall not lack: 
      but he that hides his eyes shall 
      have many a curse. 
        (beat)
      Amado, our choices echo in this 
      life and ripple across time. You 
      cannot expect deliverance while you 
      live a life of obstructing that 
      very thing from others.

             AMADO
      Then how do I help my daughters? 
      How do I earn that money without 
      this life?

             NICHOLAS
      Mysterious ways, Amado. He works in 
      mysterious ways...

Nicholas rests his head against the wall and closes his eyes, 
leaving Amado to mull over this philosophy that is foreign 
yet intriguing to him. 

INT. DUNGEON - NICHOLAS’ CELL - ANOTHER NIGHT

The small fire crackles. Nicholas adds yet another tally to 
the wall with his rock.  

             CLEMENT
      Do you think we will ever leave 
      here, sir?


                                      69.

Nicholas finds himself unable to answer the question. It 
pains him. Tally stopping midway, he broodingly glances over, 
eyes landing on his bible as he tries another approach...

             NICHOLAS
      Clement, have I ever asked you what 
      your favorite animal is?

Clement shakes his head at the strange question. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      You would rather me guess?

             CLEMENT
      It’s a bird. Because then I could 
      fly away from here. 

Nicholas admires the clever response. The children grow 
slightly curious. 

             NICHOLAS
      Alba... you like the garden we had 
      at the church, right?

Alba nods her head as Nicholas picks up his bible and 
releases himself. Surrendering to the natural order of things 
as he opens it up and starts TEARING MORE PAGES OUT. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Where I come from in the east, the 
      orientals had passed on the art of 
      paper folding. Only a handful knew 
      about it. Here let me show you.

Nicholas starts folding a page, noting the children’s 
distraction from the moans and horrors of this place. 

Amado watches from outside. Admiring this. 

Nicholas finishes and presents an origami bird to Clement.  

He beams with a look of wonderment, the others huddle around 
to hold it, pulling the tail-end making the wings flap.

             JUNIUS
      I want one, sir Nicholas!

             FLAVIUS
      Me too!

             CASSIA
      Can you make a pony??


                                      70.

             ALBA
      I want a flower, sir Nicholas! Can 
      you make me a flower??

A weathered smile intrudes his face as Amado watches, moved 
by his ability to lift the children’s spirits. Nicholas folds 
another page and presents Alba with a flower, she beams. 

             CASSIA
      Me me!

             JUNIUS
      I was next!

             NICHOLAS
      You will each get one, no need to 
      fight children. But...

He gently takes Clement’s bird and hands it over to Junius --

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      The importance of this is not the 
      gift itself... but the act of 
      sharing it. 

Shifting his gaze to Alba, she offers her flower to Cassia. 
Nicholas gives quiet approval. Amado watches, inspired... 

As the crackling fire and the joyous voices of the children 
echo through the chambers... 

DISSOLVING INTO...

A soft sun rising over the sea, lancing through large clouds 
marking the closure of summer. An Autumn wind sweeps through, 
the buzz of arriving boats and pirate banter takes us to...

EXT. PIRATE VILLAGE - SHORES - DAY

Nicholas, chained up, carries a chest of gold coins off of 
Baldassare’s freshly docked ship along with other slaves.

Baldassare pushes slave girls off, laughing, lurid, drinking. 
Nicholas glares as Baldassare approaches, removing a cross...  

             BALDASSARE
      Preacher! I’ve returned bearing a 
      gift for you as well!
        (puts it around his neck)
      He prayed to your God just before I 
      killed him. 

He laughs. Slaps Nicholas across his scarred back. 


                                      71.

             BALDASSARE
	(CONT’D)
      Your wounds are healing, preacher!

Nicholas’ eyes burn with hate as he’s shoved off the ship... 
Amado watches from the distance.

INT. DUNGEON - NICHOLAS’ CELL - NIGHT

Nicholas and the children sleep in the quiet darkness with 
their origami toys held close by. A faint JINGLE is heard as 
a flickering GLOW is cast across Nicholas’ face. He shifts. 

A PEBBLE hits him in the face. His eyes flutter open and look 
around... landing on a TORCH inside the cell’s sconce that’s 
been empty this entire time -- and from the sconce’s peg 
HANGS A PAIR OF BOOTS.  

Curious, Nicholas rises and crawls over. Spotting the CELL 
KEYS tucked inside. Shocked, he looks around but no Amado.

He rushes over to the children. Waking them, shushing them. 

             NICHOLAS
        (whispering)
      Don’t make any noise. We’re getting 
      out of here.

The children arise as Nicholas gingerly unlocks the cell door 
and ushers them out... moving around the anterooms and 
arriving at the OPENING. 

He motions the children against the wall, finger to his 
mouth. As he quietly peeks around the corner to a GUARD 
PIRATE sitting outside silhouetted under the moonlight. 

Quietly scanning the inert pirate, Nicholas notices BLOOD 
dripping from his hand... dead. Sword still strapped. 

He motions the children. They amble out as he removes the 
sword. The shoreline is right there. Ships rocking gently.

Nicholas scans around -- eyes landing on the wooden pirate 
housing section. He kneels before Clement.

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Take the children to that boat. Be 
      very quiet and wait for me inside, 
      can you do that?

             CLEMENT
        (nods)
      But where are you going?


                                      72.

             NICHOLAS
      I’ll be right back. Now, go. 

Clement ushers the others to the boats as Nicholas grips his 
sword and takes quick and quiet strides towards the houses.

EXT. HOUSING SECTIONS - MOMENTS LATER

They resemble ancient barracks composed of stone foundations 
and wooden roofs with stone hearths rising out of them. 

Nicholas spots a GUARD and sneaks around the side. He scales 
the large haystacks and climbs onto the roofs.

Quietly, he glides across the rooftops. Causing a CREAK here 
and there. 

He stops at a hearth -- offering an opening into one of the 
chambers. Sword in hand, he climbs down the hole and...

INT. PIRATE CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

He appears through the stone shaft. Dodging the hanging pots 
as he looks across to make sure -- BALDASSARE is sleeping. 
Bags of gold lay next to his bed. 

His sword TAPS a pot -- a deafening CLANG. On edge, Nicholas 
looks up as Baldassare groans and shifts. 

Sweat beads form, Nicholas quietly pads over to the gold. 
Just as he reaches to grab them -- BALDASSARE OPENS HIS EYES. 

Nicholas CUPS his mouth as he tries to scream! Doing 
everything he can to restrain him... 

But the pirate tries to slip out. His hand reaching for his 
scimitar, his fingers skimming it, GRASPING it... just as --

SLICE! Nicholas is forced to shove his sword through him. 

His eyes widen. Nicholas catches on his breath as Baldassare 
thrashes in throes before dying.  

Hit with a rush of shock, Nicholas tries wiping the blood 
from his hands... smearing it... he looks at Baldassare and 
crosses himself. 

Sheathing his sword, he grabs two bags of gold and      
tosses them over his shoulder...

As he climbs back through the hearth and patters across the 
roof again...


                                      73.

INT. ANOTHER PIRATE CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

A brazier glows, the shadow belongs to Amado. In bed, awake, 
worried.  

His roof CREAKS with faint footsteps. He furrows his brows, 
surveys the ceiling and reaches for his scimitar. Just then --

CLANG. A bag of gold falls through the hearth. 

Startling him, he slowly rises and slides over to it... 

EXT. BOAT - MOMENTS LATER

Nicholas arrives to the boat to see the children anxiously 
waiting for him. He unties the ropes and lets the boat gently 
float off before releasing its sail...

INT. AMADO’S CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

He opens the bag to reveal gold coins. Incredulous, he smiles 
to himself and glances out of his window to the moonlit sea, 
where amongst the large ships, a small boat rides off... 

INT. BOAT - CONTINUOUS

ON Nicholas. Bathed in milky starlight. Blue eyes shimmering 
with new mettle. KNUCKLING the hilt of his sword... 

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - ROME - NIGHT

Father Livius sleeps, a HAND moves over his mouth and keeps 
him quiet as he wakes in a fright... Nicholas shushes him.

             FATHER LIVIUS
        (incredulous)
      Nicholas... But how...

             NICHOLAS
      No matter, Livius... Right now I 
      need you to leave this place and 
      sail east with the children. 

             FATHER LIVIUS
      The children?? They’re safe??


                                      74.

             NICHOLAS
      Yes. Go take refuge at 
      Constantine’s camp in Byzantium. I 
      will be a few day’s ride behind 
      you. 

             FATHER LIVIUS
      How far has the word spread?

             NICHOLAS
      To every corner of the empire. 
      Where have some of the members 
      gone?

             FATHER LIVIUS
      They’ve left. The Aventine gangs 
      are attacking our cells without 
      reprimands from the guards. 
      Diocletian has been driving us out   
      now that you’ve been gone. 

             NICHOLAS
      Then I should cherish the look on 
      his face even more tomorrow. Do me 
      a favor and have Marcus and Cassius 
      meet me at the stables in the early 
      dawn. 

Father Livius flashing him a concerned look while rising. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      And one last thing... Emmelia... 
      have you any word?

             FATHER LIVIUS
      I do. And she is safe, Nicholas. 
      She’s refused to leave 
      Constantine’s camp. 

Momentarily rejuvenated, Nicholas turns and marches out. The 
old priest just notices the SWORD suspended from his belt...   

             FATHER LIVIUS
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t do anything foolish, 
      Nicholas...

But he’s already gone... and the darkness BLEEDS INTO...

Shots of streets vandalized through the night. All in the 
theme of caesar offering gold to those holding crosses... 

And the same picture is drawn on a PARCHMENT, in the hands of 
a citizen trudging through a --


                                      75.

EXT. ROMAN FORUM - DAY

A MASSIVE CROWD swarmed near the senate house. Glancing at 
the portico of the senate house. Rosaries are palmed. 

A HOODED HORSEMAN tows a wooden carriage full of HAY through 
them. From under the hood, we can make out Nicholas. Two 
other HOODS walk alongside the wagon -- Marcus and Cassius. 

From the senate building, trumpets BLAST their strident 
martial anthem as Diocletian bounds out onto the steps with a 
large flock of CITY MILITIA and CENTURIONS, led by Maximian. 

More GUARDS form perimeters around the courtyard but leave 
large gaps due to the size of the square. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      What is this? 

Maximian steps forth, thoroughly about to enjoy this --

             MAXIMIAN
      Looks like we have our first 
      riot...

Diocletian is piqued, wheels spinning. Mascius steps forward 
with a PARCHMENT depicting the same picture we saw earlier. 

             MASCIUS
      The word has spread quick through 
      the night. Someone has paid the 
      vandals. 

Diocletian, almost sensing it, surveys the sea of people... 
Nicholas’ carriage is lost in there...

NICHOLAS nods to Marcus, who circles the carriage and removes 
flint and steel. He raises the blade and SMACKS it across the 
flint -- showering the hay with SPARKS -- igniting, crackling 
with embers, white SMOKE begins to billow...

DIOCLETIAN sees the plume of SMOKE rising from the crowd... 
And NICHOLAS removes his hood as Diocletian’s eyes narrow... 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Impossible...

Maximian knits his brow, not believing it either... Some of 
the crowd members recognize him...

             CROWD
      It’s the bishop! He lives! Nicholas 
      lives!!


NICHOLAS removes a parchment from his robe and lifts it high 
for everyone to see... it’s the Charter of Rights...

He cranes his arm back and sets it AFIRE over the blazing 
thicket --

                                      76.

             NICHOLAS
      Condemn us no more...
        (Bellows)
      Brothers, sisters! Rome will 
      condemn us no more! 

Random SHOUTS of agreement chime out as black ashes swim 
upwards and Nicholas releases the burning charter. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Dark times have not spared 
      themselves in our city! During 
      which our church has ministered to 
      all those in need... Christians AND 
      Pagans alike... Yet this is how the 
      emperor repays us! Mark my words, a 
      day will come when that man no 
      longer worships himself! Yet holds 
      himself committed to the laws and 
      grace of the one true God for the 
      greater good of his city! 

An initial shock prevents reaction... but the MOB has been 
awoken... as their voices want to be heard... igniting an 
EXPLOSION of energy and cheers that spread like wildfire...

Eyes murderous -- 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Bring me his heart. 

Maximian SIGNALS his garrison. Steel is drawn with the 
menacing crunch of boots, the city guards STORM the forum. 

Nicholas DROPS the carriage, SNAPS THE REINS and THUNDERS 
towards the metropolis! Marcus and Cassius have vanished.  

Maximian mounts a horse and gives chase with his cavalry. 
Trampling bystanders. Cutting a swath through the mobs. 
Pandemonium! Guards nock arrows and TWANG! TWANG! Fire off! 

Nicholas’ horse swerves, arrows brush him, CLATTERING against 
stone, piercing bystanders. In his line of sight -- Marcus 
appears from behind a column and tosses him a BAG of coins. 
Nicholas snatches it midair and BURSTS onto a market street!

Citizens pour out onto balconies and windows to see this 
rider towing a tidal wave of citizens and guards in his wake. 


                                      77.

Pedestrians leap over, beggars watch indifferently. Maximian 
and his guards BARREL onto the street! Hooves THUNDERING! 
Nicholas in full-tilt, ROARING past, LEAPING over carts.

But the guards close in, spring out from alleys. Arrows rain 
down as Nicholas rips a SMALL HOLE in the bag and raises it 
over his head as a deluge of GOLD COINS cascades out of it!

RAINING DOWN onto the busy market street -- Causing a 
cacophony of JINGLES as metal splashes onto stone.

CHAOS ERUPTS! Everybody RUSHES IN to collect! Creating a 
human blockade as horses rear-up! Guards fly off! Maximian 
reigns to a grinding halt, horse clawing at the air, watching 
Nicholas recede. He whips his horse and reroutes.

Nicholas forms a river of gold as people sound off screams of 
support, even those that don’t know him, Vive la revolution!

Directly in front -- guards heave two large carts into the 
street and with an unflinching gait, Nicholas’ horse climbs a 
stack of crates and SPRINGS OFF its hind legs... 

SAILING OVER the blockade with the last coin falling out. 
Everyone cranes their heads with the flying horse...

As he makes the landing and charges towards the impoverished 
districts. Guards not too far off his tail. 

EXT. IMPOVERISHED DISTRICT - MOMENTS LATER

Nicholas dismounts and BURSTS into a jumble of buildings. 
Maximian and his guards close in from all sides. 

INSIDE BUILDING, Nicholas winds through a maze of corridors 
and barrels down a flight of stairs... darkness approaches... 
he SNATCHES a torch and disappears into the shadows --

CATACOMBS, Nicholas charges through the labyrinth with 
memorized tact, vanishing into the bowels of the underworld.

As Maximian and his men storm the catacombs, GRIND to a halt,  
and survey the multitude of tunnels. The brute PUNCHES a 
wall, chiseling off stone and drawing BLOOD. He stomps out.

             MAXIMIAN
      Send outriders! Find him!


                                      78.

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE, DIOCLETIAN’S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

Diocletian’s eyes swim with venom, staring out over his 
balustrades. Hearing pockets of rebellion, fleeting screams. 
A women’s HAND slides over his shoulder...

             PRISCA
      You musn’t react irrationally... 
      please...

He meets her gaze -- completely unhinged and working to 
contain his temper. She drops her eyes as he MARCHES past... 

INT. TEMPLE OF THE ORACLES - NIGHT

The sybils are BATHED in the mutilated lamb’s blood, 
CHANTING, eyes rolled back. The ceremony culminating...

Diocletian paces, awaiting a verdict as the chanting grows 
LOUDER. Then their eyes SNAP BACK, they fall silent -- As one 
of them delivers the sentence with three chilling words -- 

             SYBIL    
      Kill them all.

Diocletian looks up. Overcome by complete darkness -- as a 
thousand raucous voices leaks in atop his howling speech...

             DIOCLETIAN
	(V.O.)
      You have suffered as I have 
      suffered!

EXT. ROMAN FORUM - DAY

Large gray skies hang over the Imperial City. Diocletian 
stands atop the steps of the imposing Temple of Vesta to an 
enormous crowd, in full propaganda tenor --

             DIOCLETIAN
      A reign burdened with a failed 
      Tetrarchy, a collapsed economy, and 
      a dying city!! Why you ask?? Why 
      have the gods forsaken us?? My 
      children, I have inquired and I 
      have heard! We have brought it upon 
      ourselves by choosing to forsake 
      them first!

People’s faces are injected with fear.


                                      79.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      For too long have we expelled them 
      from our homes and invited the 
      Christians into our hearts! For too 
      long have we allowed them to deny 
      our gods and wreak havoc upon our 
      once great city! 

Angry voices begin to murmur.

             DIOCLETIAN
	(CONT’D)
      It is time, my children! It is time 
      we offer the gods a sacrifice they 
      will cherish with everlasting 
      gratitude! So I say to you...
      Let the games begin! 

Bellicose VOICES wail! As we PULL UP over their heads, rise 
above the Forum and find ourselves SOARING into the COLISEUM!  
And the CHEERING proliferates into twenty thousand spectators 
roaring at the savagery about to unfold in the arena --

CHRISTIANS -- men, women, children. Scrambling. Holding 
children up as a mercy plea. None is shown. 

DIOCLETIAN sits in his Imperial Box fifteen feet above the 
arena floor. Maximian and Praetorian archers flanking him. 

A terrified GROUP kneels around a standing PRIEST. Uselessly 
shielding children as METAL DOORS in the ground slide open 
and the LIONS spring out. The crowd goes wild. The growling 
beasts spot the fresh meat and charge towards the humans --

WE CUT to the spectators convulse with CHEERS! The menacing 
voices haunting the face of...

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE, ROME - DAY

NICHOLAS. As if he can hear them from a thousand furlongs 
away. He, Marcus, and Cassius have a band of villagers in 
tow. Receding from their abandoned village in the distance. 

In a carriage, a MOTHER comforts her children by singing a 
soft tune that hauntingly reverberates through our montage... 
As we SOAR back and the images of destruction burn in... 

Of villages being laid to ruin by MILITIAS. Heavy cavalries 
slicing down STEEL, dragging screaming women into tents. 
Thatched huts BURN wildly, SMOKE surges into the air, corpses 
are being MOUNDED into piles... flies buzzing overhead...


                                      80.

Another village lay SMOLDERING... corpses impaled on spikes, 
crows peck at their eyes... The human skewers silhouetted 
against the crimson sky... 

EXT. ESTATE, HOUSE CHURCH - ROME - DAY

Under a fiery sky, MOBS ransack the estate. Crucifixes and 
scriptures are BURNED. A clergyman is beaten to a pulp. While 
mounted GUARDS grip torches and on Maximian’s signal -- they 
ARC them through the air and set the estate ABLAZE.  

And the bloodshed continues... as Diocletian signs additional 
edicts to continue the GREAT PERSECUTION across the empire...

... While Prisca cries in her bedroom and charges the door to 
leave, but the stationed GUARDS restrain her...

... Christians are hung in the courtyards, others slain in 
gladiatorial arenas... 

As the MOTHER’S SINGING dies out and the colors bleed into...

INT. IMPERIAL PALACE - PRIVATE COURTYARDS/GARDENS - NIGHT

Diocletian’s eyes, casting a ghostly gaze upon his own 
statue, overlooking a darkened Rome in a state of disarray. 
Maximian stands nearby. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      I defeated the Sarmatians and 
      Carpi. Sacked Ctesiphon and 
      negotiated a lasting peace with the 
      Sassanid Persians... But what will 
      I be remembered by? This. The Great 
      Diocletianic Persecution as they 
      have so humbly named it. This is to 
      be my legacy, Maximian.  

             MAXIMIAN
      History is written by the victor, 
      caesar. Our legacy will be written 
      by the Rome we salvaged. 
        (off Diocletian’s look)
      Now, let us not leave this matter 
      to the hands of lousy scribes. 

The emperor’s eyes harden into obsidian glass, set on 
finishing what he started. 


                                      81.

EXT. FORTIFIED WAR CAMP - BYZANTIUM - DUSK

LOOKOUT TOWERS sit high under a scarlet sky. Stationed GUARDS 
spot a herd of villagers trudging towards camp pulling mules, 
led by a horseman. They shout down below -- 

             GUARDS
      Outrider approaching!

MOMENTS LATER, Constantine and his officers march out with 
Emmelia and Father Livius. Their eyes imbued with weathered 
glee at the sight of Nicholas, leading the villagers ahorse.  

Emmelia runs out and throws her arms around him. At closer 
look -- his eyes lay in agony. He wraps his arms around her 
tightly, holding in one hand parchments depicting the 
persecution: coliseum victims, hanging men, ravaged villages. 

She pulls back and notices the parchments, having already 
heard, looks back into his eyes.

             EMMELIA
      Do not blame yourself, Nicholas. 
      You can not blame yourself.  

The words drift past him as she holds his face and meets his 
gaze... breaking her heart... she leans in and softly kisses 
him. His reaction is reserved, his grief slightly pacified.    

Constantine steps up, offers his hand. Nicholas looks up and 
considers the gravity of this handshake, an official call to 
arms. But he TAKES his forearm and Constantine pulls him in --

             CONSTANTINE
      I will kill him. I promise you. 

Nicholas still not too thrilled at the prospect. 

             NICHOLAS
      The west was hit the worst. We 
      reached some villages before the 
      battalions arrived.  

Constantine looks past his shoulder to the hungry, desperate 
villagers. Marcus and Cassius are amongst them.

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      These people need food and 
      protection, Constantine. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Of course. They are not the first 
      ones to have come. 


                                      82.

Constantine motions, his men usher the villagers into camp. 

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Meet me in my tent when you are 
      rested, Nicholas.  

Constantine leaves with his officers. Father Livius 
approaches. 

             NICHOLAS
      Livius... are the children safe? 

The priest rests a hand on his shoulder, happy to see him, 
assuring him they are.

INT. SMALL COMMUNE IN THE CAMP - NIGHT

Host to other villagers who have taken refuge here. Fires 
dance in braziers with the night wind. Meager tents are 
scattered, porridge is heated and stirred atop camp flames.  
Children frolic about, amongst them are the five ORPHANS. 

From the distance, Nicholas, Father Livius, and Emmelia 
approach the commune and into the orange glow of the fires... 

Upon spotting Nicholas, the orphans’ eyes light up! They RUN 
over, swarm him, jump into his arms, yell his name. His angst 
is breached for a moment as Nicholas laughs delightfully.

             NICHOLAS
      My children... let me see your 
      faces...
        (he kneels)
      You look healthy and strong again. 
      Are you eating well?

They nod. He feels Junius’ muscles...

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I’d like to see those pirates try 
      and take you again!

             CLEMENT
      Feel my arms, sir Nicholas!! 

             ALBA
      No mine!

Nicholas feels their muscles, feigns marvel and laughs as the 
OTHER CHILDREN slowly approach and watch reverently. Nicholas 
notices. Clement pulls out an origami bird -- 


             CLEMENT
      Look, Nicholas! I made it! By 
      myself! 

He pulls the tail-end to assure it works as the wings flap. 

                                      83.

             NICHOLAS
      I see you have been practicing your 
      skill. 
        (off Clement’s proud look)
      But have you been practicing the 
      other part I taught you?

Unsure of the reference, he follows Nicholas’ eyes to the 
other children and realizes. He offers a nod though, fibbing.  

Off Nicholas’ look, Father Livius gives a shake of the head. 
Nicholas looks back at Clement, who knows he’s been caught. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I will always know who’s been 
      practicing their good deeds... 
        (surveys all the children)
      That goes for all of you now... you 
      hear?

They nod -- sheepish, excited. Nicholas looks at Clement, who 
turns back and hands his toy over to another boy. Nicholas 
musses his hair, scoops up two of the children into his large 
arms and walks towards the camp fires and porridge pots. 

Emmelia watches, falling ever more in love with him. Father 
Livius catches her as she tries to curb her blush. 

INT. IMPERIAL TENT - CAMP - NIGHT

Flickering braziers provide the only light in the enormous 
tent. Heavy beams support the canopy and they creak like the 
timbers of a ship as the tent sways slightly in the wind.

Constantine leans over a large WAR MAP, ambitious and 
tactical. Centurions and advisors accompany him. 

Nicholas enters. Constantine looks up, pleased, but Nicholas 
still disconnected from it all, from the looming war.  

             CONSTANTINE
      Nicholas... meet my first spear 
      centurions -- Flavius Castus, 
      Petronius, and Alexander of 
      Bythnia. Centurions, this is 
      Nicholas of Myra. 


Stern nods are exchanged. 

                                      84.

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      My friend, we’ve amassed our five 
      legions. Now, the fate of this war 
      rests on the alliance with the 
      Armenian Kingdom. 

             PETRONIUS
      Sir, King Tiridates fought with my 
      father against the Sassanid 
      Persians, allow me to coordinate an 
      alliance council...

             CONSTANTINE
      Futile Petronius; although the mad 
      king would want nothing more than 
      to decapitate Diocletian, HE no 
      longer commands their armies.  
      As a Christian state, supreme power 
      now lies with the official head of 
      their church -- patron Gregory the 
      Illuminator.  

Constantine allows the magnitude of this to sink in with 
everyone. He looks back at Nicholas as a cue... 

             NICHOLAS
        (to the men)
      He was my teacher. 

The centurions concerned. Constantine approaches Nicholas.

             CONSTANTINE
      Unite us, Nicholas. Let us bring a 
      new age to Rome. Let us make 
      history together.

Nicholas holds Constantine’s gaze -- his contemplative blue 
eyes still studying Constantine, still wary. Tormented by the 
declaration of war resting on his shoulders. 

             NICHOLAS
      I already have. 

Constantine left speechless. The centurions as well. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      I dispatched a messenger to Gregory 
      when I left Rome. You will have 
      your war, Constantine. 

Constantine rests his hands on Nicholas’ shoulders in thanks. 


                                      85.

              CONSTANTINE
      We will have our war, Nicholas. 
      Thank you. 

Nicholas tries to reciprocate the enthusiasm but falls short 
as he turns and makes his exit. Leaving Constantine slightly 
dampened over his doubts.  

EXT. FORTIFIED CAMP - NIGHT

Around the tents, scattered camp fires send embers swimming 
up into the night sky. Music and dancing can be heard as 
Nicholas and Emmelia walk together.  

             EMMELIA
      There is hope amongst them again.

Nicholas softly nods, gazing at the distant festivities. She 
appraises his pensive eyes. 

             EMMELIA
	(CONT’D)
      You’re doing the right thing, you 
      know. Offering Constantine a chance 
      to bring real change to Rome. 

             NICHOLAS
      I trust your judgement. 

             EMMELIA
      And I thought you priests were 
      supposed to be the prudent ones...

             NICHOLAS
      A priest maybe. A bishop...

A subtle grin pinches at his ears, hers too. A crisp breeze 
sends a shiver through her as he removes his cloak and lays 
it across her shoulders. Leaving him in a sleeveless tunic. 
She looks at his mutilated SPQR tattoo. 

             EMMELIA
      We can not always outrun the echoes 
      of our past, Nicholas.  

He looks over as they walk, her eyes inviting him in. The 
grim memories come back to him...

             NICHOLAS
      The civil wars spared no man or boy 
      capable of fighting. We saw what 
      they did to those who wouldn’t, the 
      Christians. The garrisons took us 
      and thousands died in that siege. 


                                      86.

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT'D)
      But when the smoke cleared... 
      better I had died too. 
      Insubordination landed the 
      prisoners on the chopping block but 
      not all were lucky enough to have a 
      quick death. It was against the law 
      to strike a fourth time if the 
      first three were unsuccessful. My 
      disapproval of the gratuitous 
      orders landed me in prison as well, 
      earning me the duty of putting 
      those poor men out of their misery.      

Nicholas becomes increasingly vulnerable, he is sharing the 
deepest part of himself. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      A misery I was prepared to relieve 
      myself of... until a complete 
      stranger managed to change that. He 
      was a missionary named Gregory, a 
      man so altruistic he was willing to 
      give his life at the helm of those 
      soldiers just to spare mine. It was 
      the most profound thing I had ever 
      seen. He taught me the word of his 
      faith, offered me a second chance 
      and I embraced his teachings in 
      full earnest from there on. Knowing 
      someday... that this faith is 
      precisely what will give Rome its 
      second chance.   

They arrive at a tent. Emmelia slides the cloak back around 
his shoulders. She looks up into his eyes with reverence and 
takes his face into her hands.

             EMMELIA
      Nicholas of Myra. Your life will 
      bare many stories. Inspiring tales 
      for those in need of something as 
      simple as hope.  

She looks inwards a moment, remembering she too was there. 

He takes her hands into his large palms. She looks up. They 
hold each other’s gaze in a manner that embodies everything 
that is pure about love.  

She wants to kiss him again but respects his binding 
covenant, he shares the feeling as he gazes down at her hand. 
Eyes roving over her ring finger... 


As he reaches up and snags a piece of lint off his cloak -- 
and ties it around her finger. She glows.  

                                      87.

             MARCUS/CASSIUS
	(O.S.)
      Nicholas! Emmelia! Come have a 
      little fun you two! 
        (they look over)
      It’s not good to tell stories just 
      before a war! You tell them after!

Invited over to the festivities, Nicholas takes her hand and 
they join the others dancing around the blazing camp fires. 

EXT. MYRA - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT

We’re back in Myra on this cloudy night, on the shores of the 
Mediterranean. A Roman Galley docks quietly at the harbor. 

Roman soldiers cross down the plank, torches WHOOSHING, 
trailed by the heavy footsteps of MAXIMIAN.  

EXT. MYRA, NICHOLAS’ VILLAGE - NIGHT

The village folk are gathered under the same pavilion for 
dinner and socializing. FATHER AERIUS, the old priest from 
the beginning sits at the head of the table. 

Then from beyond the hill -- TORCHES appear with the 
silhouettes of a Roman battalion and the chilling SOUNDS of 
heavy armor clanging with the canter of their horses.

Father Aerius perks up in fear. The remaining villagers turn 
their heads as a state of panic starts to course through.

MAXIMIAN sits high on his horse, Praetorian helmet fastened. 

             MAXIMIAN
      Burn it. Bring me the priest. 

An ugly scene unfolds as the soldiers mercilessly attack the 
defenseless villagers. SCREAMS short-lived, children taken, 
fleeing villagers chased down. The soldiers toss their 
torches onto the pavilion setting it AFIRE. 

They drag Father Aerius to Maximian and stand him up. 

             FATHER AERIUS
      Please... have mercy on the 
      children... I beg of you...

Maximian relishes the next two words he’s been waiting to 
deliver --


                                      88.

             MAXIMIAN
      Crucify him. 

The soldiers DRAG him away as another cohort brings over a 
terrified teenage BOY. Maximian dismounts and grabs the reins 
of another horse; Pulls it over, towering over him -- 

             MAXIMIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Can you ride, boy?
        (boy nods)
      Ride north to Byzantium and find 
      Bishop Nicholas. He’ll be cowering 
      at the fortified camps of Flavius 
      Aurelius Constantinus. Tell him his 
      village burns to ashes.  
        (boy too scared to move)
      NOW!!!

Everyone flinches. Maximian HEAVES the boy atop the horse, 
SLAPS its rump and it plunges into the distant darkness.  

EXT. FORTIFIED WAR CAMP - BYZANTIUM - MORNING

It rains lightly over the camp, thunderclaps peal across the 
gray skies, mud puddles form. An OUTRIDER approaches the 
lookout towers... the boy from Myra.

INT. NICHOLAS’ TENT - MORNING

Raindrops patter against the tent as Nicholas sleeps. Eyes 
roving under his lids, troubled. Maybe in the same dream.

His tent flap is pulled aside to reveal a GUARD and the 
soaked Boy. He tentatively approaches.

             BOY
      Sir Nicholas...

Nicholas opens his eyes and tries REACHING for a sword in a 
rattled stupor (similar to the futile attempts at grabbing 
the sword in his dream). 

             BOY
	(CONT’D)
      Sir Nicholas, I come from Myra...

Nicholas braces himself, looks at the boy --

             BOY
	(CONT’D)
      They’ve sacked the village, sir.

He is instantly on his feet and storms out of the tent. 


                                      89.

OUTSIDE, Constantine approaches with a few officers, throwing 
on his robe and clasping on his wrist cuffs. 

             CONSTANTINE
      I just heard. I’m coming with you. 

Nicholas walks past him towards the distant stables. 

             NICHOLAS
      Don’t always sound so pleased with 
      yourself, Constantine. 

             CONSTANTINE
      This is just your hate speaking, 
      Nicholas!  
        (Nicholas ignores)
      This is no time to be cavalier!

Nicholas whips around. 

             NICHOLAS
      I have asked thousands to spill 
      blood in YOUR name and yet you find 
      the audacity to label ME cavalier?! 

             CONSTANTINE
      We have all spilled blood, 
      Nicholas...

             NICHOLAS
      No! You will NEVER understand the 
      suffering we’ve endured under the 
      hands of Romans, Constantine! 
      Never!

People have stepped out of their tents due to the ruckus. 
They stand stunned, never having seen Nicholas lose his 
temper and poise in such fashion. Emmelia is amongst them. 

             CONSTANTINE
      My father was killed before my own 
      eyes by one, Nicholas. I do know. 
      And my mother was martyred by them 
      as well.   
        (this stops Nicholas)
      Helen of Bythnia. She was a 
      Christian, Nicholas. Slain by the 
      same people whom I wish to drive 
      out of this wretched empire once 
      and for all.  

Nicholas studies Constantine as he always has, finally coming 
out with it --


                                      90.

             NICHOLAS
      What are you, Constantine? A 
      politician? A soldier? A secret 
      Christian? A pagan? What sort of 
      solidarity are you to bring to 
      Rome?? I am sorry but you are just 
      as lost as every other soul here. 

This crushes Emmelia. Nicholas sees it, hating himself. And 
maybe he was just speaking about himself. 

             CONSTANTINE
      And you are not the only righteous 
      man left in this world, bishop. Go 
      tend to your village but you ARE 
      under my command if you wish your 
      people here to be protected. So... 
      you will take my men with you for 
      protection and you WILL march back 
      with the army you have promised me. 

Nicholas marches off, too ashamed to speak to Emmelia as he 
passes her. Constantine signals some soldiers to go with him.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - ASIA MINOR - DAY 

Nicholas and a battalion race through the rolling countryside 
now moistened by the torrent of rain. 

EXT. MYRA, NICHOLAS’ VILLAGE - DAY

Nicholas and the battalion trot into a charred and smoking 
ruin that was once his village. 

He surveys the detritus left by Diocletian’s men. The church, 
the pavilion, the homes... destroyed. Buzzards circle. Bodies 
left out in the rain, blood washing into the mud. We see the 
young female orphan from the beginning amongst them. 

Nicholas is overcome with unspeakable grief. Then his face 
turns to stone when his eyes land on the pair of outstretched 
arms tied at the elbows and nailed to a crossbar -- belonging 
to Father Aerius, who has been savagely crucified.         

His world implodes --

             NICHOLAS
      No. God no...

He dismounts and plods over. Thunder echoing across the gray 
skies... He arrives at the cross and looks up at the old 
priest. The rain pelting his anguished face.


                                      91.

As he tilts his head further up and in a hauntingly aching 
tone that can only suggest he’s losing his grip on hope --

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Why have you abandoned me?? 

A silent response. And a different sensation begins to stew 
within him... atop the austere sounds of the rain storm... 
and the devastation on his face says it all. Realizing it’s 
done. It is complete. He has lost his faith. 

The sobering feeling courses through his bones as he grips 
his cross and YANKS it off. Allowing it to slide out of his 
palm and settle into the mud. Sinking with the washing rain. 

Then, atop the drumming rain shower... THWANG! THWANG! Sharp 
shrill sounds pierce the air as Nicholas turns his head to 
see ARROWS whizzing directly at the battalion soldiers! 
Soldiers start to die as the rest draw their blades --

             SOLDIER
      Prepare to fight! 

Then from every charred hut and behind every tree Maximian’s 
SOLDIERS storm the battalion. A bloody fight ensues. The 
outnumbered battalion does their best to hold their ground. 

Nicholas’ red-rimmed eyes only fill with more fury as he 
SNATCHES a fallen sword. 

Using his size, he PLOWS through soldiers who attack him. His 
swings, punches, screams coming from the darkest of places. 
The enemies blood splattering across this broken man’s face. 

IN THE DISTANCE, Maximian watches. He snatches up his large 
shield and marches towards the fray.  

The battalion is slaughtered as Nicholas continues to swing 
away, surrounded, desperate, inviting them to kill him...

             NICHOLAS
      Come on! What are you waiting for?! 

He spins around with heaving lungs and wild eyes... And 
eventually meets Maximian’s SHIELD -- CLOBBER HIM across his 
face. Flooring him. Rendering him unconscious... Going BLACK.

...And we fade back into his dream. BURNING IN AND OUT of 
real images taking place with the fluttering of his eyes...

...Dream... Nicholas follows the children into the hut and 
finds himself on the battlefield again, where he spots the 
sword and the encroaching dark horseman.


                                      92.

...Real... Nicholas is carried onto Maximian’s galley.

...Dream... Nicholas is able to pick up the sword this time.

...Real... Maximian YELLS orders as their ship is attacked.

...Dream... Nicholas DEFLECTS the horseman’s sword.

...Real... Swords clash on Maximian’s galley between his 
soldiers and a band of eclectically dressed men -- pirates.

...Dream... Nicholas cuts down the horseman and fights his 
way through the battlefield, where a WHITE LIGHT glimmers in 
the distance.

...Real... Maximian’s soldiers are overrun by the 
outnumbering pirates.

...Dream... Nicholas runs through the fray towards the 
distant light... where he spots the children again.

...Real... Maximian and his officers are held at knife-point.

...Dream... The white light grows BRIGHTER as Nicholas gets 
closer... the children waiting for him.

...Real... Nicholas is carried off the galley by the pirates.

...Dream... Nicholas drops his sword when he arrives at the 
radiant light as his anguished eyes are invaded by 
serenity... He walks into the light with the children.

...Real... A gourd of water is brought to Nicholas’ mouth... 
he drinks, coughs, opens his eyes... looking up at the face 
of a man silhouetted against the sky... recognizing him...

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Amado?

             AMADO
      My friend, it is good to see you 
      again. 

We hear soft waves, his ship gently rocks. Amado helps 
Nicholas sit up, surrounded by a throng of pirates watching. 

             NICHOLAS
      What’s happened? How did you...

             AMADO
      Let us just say you are lucky we 
      are masters of the sea. Or then 
      again, maybe it was not luck. 


                                      93.

             NICHOLAS
        (trying to remember)
      I was taken... on a ship... 
      Maximian’s ship...

             AMADO
      The Romans are long gone now. We 
      offered a truce, we spare their 
      lives in exchange for yours. But 
      you will meet them again, do not 
      worry.

             NICHOLAS
        (in disbelief)
      How did you even find me?

Amado looks back as a veiled woman comes forward... she 
removes her veil to reveal PRISCA. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Empress...

             PRISCA
      Hello Nicholas. 

Nicholas rises to his feet, still incredulous, she studies 
his eyes. Speaks with poise and grace.  

             PRISCA
	(CONT’D)
      Do not lose your faith, Nicholas. I 
      have witnessed what you are capable 
      of and I implore you... do not lose 
      your faith in Rome either. Armies 
      have waged endless battles and 
      emperors have come and gone but 
      true change will to have to start 
      here... 

She exposes the rosary in her hand...

             PRISCA
	(CONT’D)
      So I ask you to raise you sword one 
      last time and fight for it. Fight 
      for the future Rome rightfully 
      deserves.   

He looks down for a moment... reinforced with glimmers of 
hope... as he meets her gaze and offers a nod. 

His eyes look out to sea, where land appears at the 
intersection of sea and sky. He steps across the deck...

             NICHOLAS
      Myra?


                                      94.

Amado appears at his side, silently reassuring him it is and 
gazing out with him. 

Nicholas’ hope becoming fully restored, he glances over at 
Amado and almost believes him to be his guardian angel. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Thank you, Amado. 

Amado simply smiles, PATS him on the back and saunters off. 
Nicholas looks back towards Myra...

EXT. MYRA, NICHOLAS’ VILLAGE - DAY

Nicholas and his friends trek through the destroyed village. 
The pirates help carry bodies towards the cemetery. He 
approaches his old stone house with a purposeful gait, lying 
in half ruin, and enters...

INT. NICHOLAS’ HOME - CONTINUOUS

Nicholas walks over to the hearth. Starts rummaging through 
the charred rubble... as a GLINT peaks through.

He scrapes aside the rest to reveal a sword HILT, still 
sheathed in its scabbard. It’s the old Dutch man’s sword. 

He picks it up and rises. Sentiments rushing through him as 
he unsheathes the sword and sees his image in the polished 
metal over the same engraving we saw before... KLAAS. 

             NICHOLAS
	(V.O.)
      Father of all, we pray for those 
      whom we love but see no longer...

EXT. MYRA, NICHOLAS’ VILLAGE - CEMETERY - DAY

Amado, Prisca, and some of the pirate band stand over the 
multitude of burial mounds as Nicholas offers prayer. 

             NICHOLAS
      ...Grant them your peace and let 
      light perpetually shine upon them. 
      In nomine Patris, et Filii, et 
      Spiritus Sancti. Amen. 

                              DISSOLVE TO:


                                      95.

EXT. SHORES OF MYRA - DAY

Post rainstorm HUES brush the sky and a soft sea surf washes 
onto the sandy shores. Mist wafts through the golden air as a 
pack of impressive HORSES are carried off the pirate ship 
onto shore. 

In the distance -- Prisca steps onto a wagon and before 
climbing in, she exchanges one last look with Nicholas. 

AMADO brings over a noble white stallion to Nicholas. 

             AMADO
      The finest horses in all of Rome, 
      my friend. The Spanish stallions of 
      Andalusians de Mythos. I named this 
      one Preacher. 

Amado grins at his own quip. Nicholas takes the reins and 
pets the steed on its neck. 

             NICHOLAS
      A preacher that does not speak...   

             AMADO
      Fascinating, no?

Nicholas laughs. 

             NICHOLAS
      Yes, I am sure the Romans would 
      love him. 

Nicholas mounts Preacher. Amado mounts his stallion. 

             AMADO
      We ride north?

             NICHOLAS
      Northeast. To intercept a friend... 
      I have a promise to keep.

             AMADO
      Your friend can you meet you in 
      Byzantium. We will never catch him 
      in time, even with these horses. 

             NICHOLAS
      He is marching three legions 
      strong. We have plenty of time. 

Amado’s face nearly drops. Nicholas’ lip curls, PATS Amado on 
the back and SPURS his horse. Kicking up the moist sand as he 
rides off along the shoreline. 


                                      96.

Amado shakes his head, sounds a strange WHISTLE and his 
stallion takes off after Nicholas. The two horses dashing 
across the beach PROLIFERATE INTO...

EXT. FORTIFIED WAR CAMP - BYZANTIUM - DAY

A heavy CAVALRY trotting across the vast field with TWELVE 
THOUSAND SOLDIERS in tow. 

In the front lines are Nicholas, Amado and KING TIRIDATES 
III. A large regal man with a feral overgrowth on his face 
and a gilded CROWN resting atop his head. 

A stately WAGON is pulled directly behind them.  

EXT. IMPERIAL TENT - CAMP - DAY

The FOOTPATH leading into the large network of tents is bound 
in hardened mud. Glittering in the sunshine. Soldiers are 
lined up watching Nicholas and the caravan arrive. 

A silent air pervades as Constantine walks out of the massive 
tent to receive them. His burdened face offered the first 
signs of solace. His officers stand behind him.  

Nicholas, Amado, and Tiridates dismount. The wagon door is 
opened by an officer and out steps GREGORY THE ILLUMINATOR. A 
sage-like man in his fifties with a long silver beard. Draped 
in a golden stole, a brocade emblazoned with crosses, and a 
tall golden mitre (bishop’s hat). 

The four men approach Constantine. Nicholas is first to step 
forward, silent amends are offered.

             CONSTANTINE
      Quite the entrance. 

Nicholas GRASPS his forearm. 

             NICHOLAS
      Your men were ambushed, stood no 
      chance. They died bravely. 

             CONSTANTINE
      I suppose you slid by with more 
      than just chance then.

             NICHOLAS
      A pirate actually. 
        (gesturing back)
      And a dear friend -- Amado.


                                      97.

             AMADO
      Sir. 

             CONSTANTINE
      I offer you my gratitude, Amado. 

             NICHOLAS
      Constantine... the king of Armenia 
      Tiridates the third. 

Tiridates steps forth. 

             CONSTANTINE
      King Tiridates. Your presence is 
      much welcome. 

             TIRIDATES
      If my presence means Diocletian’s 
      head on a stake, then I will drink 
      to it now! Right here!

Constantine signals, men rush over wine. Gregory shakes his 
head at his king and Tiridates frowns, almost child-like. 

             NICHOLAS
      And it is my utmost pleasure to 
      introduce to you Patriarch Gregory 
      the Illuminator. 

Gregory steps forward. 

             GREGORY
      So you are to be the next emperor 
      of Rome? Your ambition earns my 
      blessing, son.
        (beat)
      But we must remember... that it is 
      in the darkest of hours that we 
      begin to listen, Constantine. And 
      if we listen hard enough we begin 
      to hear... we begin to hear 
      something that ambition cannot 
      exist without... faith. And it is 
      only then that our actions emulate 
      our conscience. Rome is listening, 
      son. Make it hear. Save your empire 
      before it is too late.  

             CONSTANTINE
      Archbishop Gregory, my entire life 
      I have listened. And my entire life 
      I have failed to hear the faith you 
      speak of. 



                                      98.

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT'D)
      I have only known Rome, I have only 
      cared for its political glory. Yet 
      if I am to be Rome, it is only 
      proper that I truly understand the 
      darkness that has consumed it. I 
      thought I did... 
        (gazes over at Nicholas)
      But I realized I am just as 
      confused and divided as the empire 
      itself. 

Gregory’s old eyes look pleased.

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Nicholas... by the hands of your 
      grace baptize me. Baptize me and I 
      shall march onto that battlefield 
      with every shield and standard 
      marked with the monogram of Christ. 
      No longer will our legions carry 
      high the idolatrous standards 
      worshipping the man whom they die 
      for. But rather a Standard of the 
      Cross, fighting under the one and 
      only God whom I now hear. 
      Nicholas... not only will I offer 
      Peace of the Church and legalize 
      your faith... but I will march into 
      Rome as its first Christian 
      emperor. 

The magnitude riddles through the tent city, his soldiers 
stand slack-jawed, Nicholas takes a moment to register this. 

In the midst of his thought he sees Emmelia wading through 
the amassed soldiers. She stops, holds his gaze... stirring a 
tender moment, wordlessly conveying that she forgives him. 

He recognizes it, sees the lint still on her finger and 
cherishes her face... before looking back to Constantine and 
offering a nod that will change history...

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. IMPERIAL TENT - DAY

Constantine kneels amongst a select audience including King 
Tiridates, Gregory, Father Livius, and his officers. 
Shirtless and head hung as --


                                      99.

Nicholas, clad in his red stole once again, brings over a 
golden chalice and ceremoniously pours the water over his 
head three times. Wording the phrases, administering the holy 
sacrament...

EXT. IMPERIAL TENT - DAY

The tent flap is pulled aside as Constantine WALKS OUT... and 
the soldiers lined up along the footpath RAISE THEIR SWORDS --

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. OLIVE GROVE, OUTSKIRTS OF THE CAMP - DUSK

Strands of green ivy sway from one of the old robust trees 
common in these lands of Ancient Greece. Its gnarled trunk 
bringing its own sense of natural beauty to the wedding 
ceremony, accompanied by a private audience --

The orphans hold wreaths of white carnations and lilies 
alongside Father Livius. Constantine stands as witness. 

Emmelia is draped in a white one-piece woven tunic. Her hand 
lifted towards Gregory and bound to Nicholas’ by a woven 
strip of cloth as the archbishop intones the holy phrases... 

And the sun begins to sink as the moon moves over the scarlet 
sky. Bathing milky starlight over Nicholas and Emmelia, now 
alone, hand in hand, under the olive tree.  

             NICHOLAS
      If I die, I want to die knowing...

She leans in and KISSES HIM. Not letting him finish. And in 
the shelter of the grove is where they make love and spend 
their honeymoon... embraced in each other’s arms. 

And the sun rises beyond the horizon. Casting LONG SHADOWS 
off the slew of gnarled branches... as the hundreds of 
shadows become those of men...

EXT. VALLEY OF THE MARGUS RIVER - DAWN

Thousands... tens of thousands... as we RISE over a sea of 
ROMAN SOLDIERS marching in formation. Shaking the earth 
beneath their feet. Every single shield emblazoned with a  
Chi-Rho (superimposed X and P) symbol on it. 

Cresting the large hill towards the valleys. Tall LABARUMS 
(flag suspended from cross bar) also with the Chi-Rho are 
held high in place of the traditional Roman standards.   


In the front line on horseback is Nicholas, Constantine, 
Tiridates, Gregory and the centurions. Our Bishop donning 
full Roman soldier regalia now. Hair long, beard grown out. 
Mounted atop Preacher, his white stallion.

                                     100.

             CONSTANTINE
        (to Nicholas)
      --You’re certain your friend can be 
      trusted?

             NICHOLAS
      For the third time, yes. 

Nicholas takes friendly enjoyment from Constantine’s anxious 
face. Gregory and Tiridates glance at each other confusedly. 
Constantine registers Nicholas’ look. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Don’t look too jolly, Nicholas... 
      Or I may just leave his holiness 
      alone out there with those hungry 
      Romans.  

             NICHOLAS
      I see that holy water I poured over 
      your head had no effect on your 
      hubris. 

Constantine laughs. Nicholas can’t help but shake his head 
with a good-for-nothing smile. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Next thing you know, you change the 
      capital city to your name... city 
      of Constantine.

Constantine actually ponders this...

             CONSTANTINE
      Constantinople... sounds rather 
      silly actually. 

They finally crest the hill, which opens up a view onto the 
expansive valley along the river Margus... and we see what 
Constantine was worried about... 

A FLEET OF THIRTY GALLEYS of the Imperial Navy approach from 
the distance. 

They look across the vast field to an ARMY of equal size. 

Vexillums flapping in the wind. Golden standards bearing 
Diocletian’s face raised alongside the Eagle. Heavy cavalry. 
Horses pawing the ground, ready to charge. 


                                     101.

DIOCLETIAN AND MAXIMIAN in the front lines with their 
respective centurions and generals. Diocletian looks at the 
distant ships and back to Constantine’s army. He huffs --

             DIOCLETIAN
      I was actually hoping for a decent 
      fight. 

TIRIDATES regards the opposing army then the ships...

             TIRIDATES
      I must have not spared myself any 
      of the wine last night! Things 
      appear more than they are!!

He laughs like a madman, Gregory shakes his head as the 
others join the laughter. Unlike the SOLDIERS though, who 
seem daunted when they notice their disadvantage in numbers. 

The army arrives to a HALT. Silence. A whistling breeze. The 
emerging sun forming a brilliant sea of GLEAMING armor. 
Constantine registers their faces, glances back to Nicholas. 

             CONSTANTINE
      A few words, bishop?

Nicholas rides forward and trots along the front lines. 
Surveying their doubtful faces.   

             SOLDIER
      You would think Constantine would 
      have accounted for the navy. 

             SOLDIER 2
      If those ships land, there will be 
      no battle. Only bloodbath.

Flags flap gently. Horses paw. Shuffling armor. 

             NICHOLAS
      I know you are all wondering what I 
      can possibly say to you right now 
      to assure you that our fate is not 
      doomed. Well, soldiers... I am done 
      preaching. 
        (off soldiers’ looks)
      It is said we live by faith and not 
      by sight. Brothers, this once I 
      invite you to behold the contrary. 

The soldiers look confused as Nicholas gestures towards the 
sea. WE SOAR along the wave of heads turning...


                                     102.

Continue across the valley... over the sea... onto a GALLEY 
in the front lines of the fleet... sweeping over the main 
deck of soldiers and into the bowels of the ship...

INT. BOWELS OF THE GALLEY - CONTINUOUS

WE MOVE with the back of a SOLDIER marching past the 120 
bodies propelling the vessel with the tempo of a drummer. 

The soldier enters the SUPPLY ROOM -- removes flint and steel 
and WHOOSH! Sparks a FLAME, sets the room ablaze, and marches 
out revealing Amado’s grinning face.  

A SERIES OF SHOTS shows the same act performed on other front 
line galleys by Amado’s pirate band disguised as soldiers...

EXT. VALLEY OF THE MARGUS RIVER - MORNING

WE SWEEP across the soldiers watching with disbelief... the 
sounds of roaring BLAZES and SCREAMING filters in... and WE 
REVERSE on -- ten of the front line galleys are SCORCHED! 

Flames SWIRL up masts, they come CRASHING down! Soldiers jump 
ship as they begin to CAPSIZE! Causing a pile up in the sea 
and blocking the other ships from reaching shore.

THE SOLDIERS are thunderstruck. Looking back at Nicholas like 
he just performed a miracle. 

NICHOLAS AND CONSTANTINE nod to one another knowingly -- your 
turn. Constantine charges forward and starts firing off 
commands to the restored soldiers.

DIOCLETIAN AND MAXIMIAN can’t believe their eyes either. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Destroy them. 

Maximian ROARS out with his horse shouting orders as massive 
ONAGERS or Roman catapults are wheeled forward and loaded up 
with enormous rounded terra cotta FIRE POTS. 

CONSTANTINE yells to his elite centuria --  

             CONSTANTINE
      Prepare the scorpions! Make them 
      redirect their onagers! 

The artillery battery is wheeled out revealing large 
SCORPIONS. Six-foot, wheeled crossbows, capable of punching 
through stone. FIFTY of them are rolled out and pointed at 
the enemies cavalry lines. Giant bowstrings CREAK.


                                     103.

MAXIMIAN narrows his eyes --

             MAXIMIAN
      Set alight the stones! Fire the 
      second wave at the artillery!!  

             CENTURION
      Fire the onagers!! 

The mighty catapults are released! Hell swallows the skies as 
a murderous barrage of fireballs LAUNCH INTO THE AIR and arc 
down onto the opposing reserves. Fire pots SHATTER -- pitch 
SPLASHES everywhere -- the conflagration sending shimmering 
heat waves into the sky amongst the screaming forces!  

             MAXIMIAN
      For Rome!! 

Maximian and Diocletian lead the cavalry in a full on charge!

             CONSTANTINE
      Fire the scorpions!!

CLANG! CLANG! CLANG! Down the line, firing pins are released-- 
As fifty spear-sized bolts TORPEDO through the air...

MAXIMIAN’S CAVALRY

They hear the whistling of the bolts as death rains down on 
them and SLICE! SLICE! SLICE! Riders are dislodged! Launched 
twenty feet back! Skewered, impaled, horses crashing...

More fire pots EXPLODE over sections of the scorpions!

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Brothers! For Rome!! 

Steel is RIPPED from scabbards. Nicholas unsheathes -- 
flashing a glimpse of the KLAAS engraving.

Constantine, Tiridates, and Nicholas spur their mounts 
forward and BARREL AHEAD with the calvary! The infantry 
storms the field!

HOOVES THUNDER THE EARTH. Roman cavalry versus Roman cavalry. 
Chi-Rho versus The Eagle. The INFANTRIES roaring behind them 
like two tsunamis.

Maximian WAILS. Constantine holds out two swords, samurai 
style. 

Full tilt. Accelerating. And -- CLASH!!! The two forces 
COLLIDE! The battle begins. 


                                     104.

Maximian FLATTENS anything in his way. Like rock cutting 
through surf. CRACKING armor plates. Bones CRUNCHING. 

CONSTANTINE slices through two at a time. His death blows 
nearly imperceptible as enemies just seem to fall around him. 
He locks eyes with Maximian, they CHARGE at one another.

Nicholas uses brute strength as he HEAVES his sword, 
launching soldiers off their saddles. He sees Constantine and 
Maximian honing in on each other. HYAH! He reroutes!

Maximian sits a foot higher than Constantine as they close 
in. But Constantine times it and HEAVES his sword causing the 
massive man to have to duck -- giving him a window to... 

SLICE! But Maximian stabs the horse and VROOM! Sends 
Constantine flying off and CRASHING into a bloody heap.

Maximian grinds his horse to a halt and regards the slice 
across his stomach. He scowls and spots Constantine on all 
fours. He trots over and RAISES HIS GREATSWORD -- but... 

Nicholas intercepts them and LAUNCHES out of his saddle --
CLOBBERING Maximian clean off his horse as they go crashing 
with their swords flying astray. 

Both clamber up, caked with blood and dirt. Maximian looks 
murderous as he SLUGS Nicholas and Nicholas HURLS back with 
both hands CLASPED, two fists across one face -- SMASH!  

Setting off a hardy exchange! Maximian CLAMPS his throat -- 
Nicholas manages to yank off his cross and SLASH his face! 

Maximian bellows as Nicholas scurries, breathless, trying to 
find his sword. He grabs a SHIELD instead as Maximian 
snatches his sword and PUMMELS it! Tossing Nicholas aside. 

Maximian strides forward like a bloodied madman and PUNISHES 
the shield. Hacking it into metal scrap as Nicholas is hurled 
into the fray of fighting soldiers. 

Trampled, wading through on all fours... as Maximian cleaves 
a path to get to him. Nicholas spots HIS SWORD and can’t grab 
it in time as the greatsword arcs like a falling battle-axe! 

But CLANG! The momentum is stopped by CONSTANTINE’S BLADES! 
Maximian FREES his sword as Constantine falls back -- 
Gripping one sword and one dirk. Studying Maximian’s moves...

As the towering brute steps in and SWINGS -- Constantine 
rolls and JAMS the dirk through his thigh. Maximian growls.   


                                     105.

             MAXIMIAN
      You fight like a damn woman, 
      Constantine! 

Maximian DRAGS the dirk out of his own leg and tosses the 
bloody blade aside.

He ROARS and rains down blows as Constantine parries and 
twirls. Putting on a show of raw offense versus impenetrable 
defense. GLINTS showering. Steel on steel. 

Maximian closes distance and CLOBBERS Constantine! He falls 
back as Maximian lifts his sword to finish him off but 
catches a glimpse of NICHOLAS’ FACE in his mirrored blade.

He spins around and DEFLECTS Nicholas’ massive SWING! The man 
is impossible to kill! But his sword goes FLYING!

Without a weapon, he DRILLS HIS SHOULDER into Nicholas and 
drives him back like a Roman linebacker... both ROARING... As 
Maximian BURIES Nicholas into the ground and Nicholas WILTS, 
GASPS like his lungs collapsed.

But Maximian SAGS with a last rush of breath as Nicholas 
looks down to see HIS SWORD protruding through Maximian’s 
back. A sigh of relief, he fights for air, cloaked in blood. 

Nicholas HEAVES Maximian off and registers the arterial red 
shrouding him, the bloodshed occurring all over... Struggling 
to endure the horrors of war and his contribution to it.  

He connects eyes with Constantine in the distance...

             SOLDIER
	(O.S.)
      Maximian is dead!

They look over to a DETACHMENT falling back -- Escorting the 
EMPEROR back towards infantry lines. 

Constantine gets a crazed look in his eye as he springs up 
and SLICES DOWN a mounted soldier. He throws his leg over and 
spurs the horse -- CHARGING AFTER Diocletian.

             NICHOLAS
      Constantine!!

Nicholas rises and finds Tiridates pummeling soldiers with 
his broadsword. He spots Nicholas --  

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Constantine! He went by himself!

He acknowledges -- both snatch straggling horses. The duo 
mounts up and RIDES after Constantine. 


                                     106.

CONSTANTINE rides with a focused fury towards the detachment 
escorting Diocletian. Fellow soldiers see him ROARING by --

             CONSTANTINE
      Sword!!

A sword is tossed, he SNATCHES it midair, twirls both blades 
as TWO detachment soldiers spin around and CHARGE HIM -- he 
screams -- closes in -- SLICE! SLICE! -- EXPLODES out from 
between them and looks back to them wilt and topple over. 

HYAH! No relent! NICHOLAS and TIRIDATES catch up, riding 
hard. The detachment looks back, they’re on their tail. 

             CONSTANTINE
	(CONT’D)
      Caesar!! Face me like a man!!

Then, Diocletian RAISES HIS HAND. The cavalry slows, spinning 
their horses to face Constantine, Nicholas, and Tiridates. 

Diocletian dismounts. Constantine follows. 

             DIOCLETIAN
      You’re a traitor to your own kind, 
      Constantine! 

             CONSTANTINE
      I betrayed a coward’s greed, 
      nothing more! 

             DIOCLETIAN
      Few will ever understand the burden 
      I carried for Rome!

             CONSTANTINE
      Yet thousands bore your burden in 
      cold blood! 

             DIOCLETIAN’S SOLDIER
      Our numbers are greater, sire, we 
      can crush them.

Tiridates HUFFS and trots forth.

             TIRIDATES
      I have drank from the skulls of men 
      who used to have foolish brains 
      like yours, boy!

His lunacy noted, they dismount and slowly form a segregated 
circle for Diocletian and Constantine to face off in.


                                     107.

The surrounding forces slowly stop their attack once they 
realize what is occurring. Some of Constantine’s centurions 
also arrive. A gradual hush falls over the fields.  

Constantine knuckles two swords. Diocletian unsheathes his 
sword and snatches a shield. A decorated soldier himself. 

They circle one another. Constantine’s eyes glisten with rage 
and vengeance rather than a sense of honor. 

Nicholas notices. 

Constantine takes the first stride forward, raising his 
blades and CLASH! Meeting shield and sword. The wager of 
battle begins. 

Diocletian RAINS DOWN his sword -- steel rings on steel. 

And SWINGS his heavy shield deftly to CRUSH Constantine’s 
face. But Constantine moves like liquid, WHIRLS aside and --

SNAPS BACK like a python, THRUSTING his sword forward, 
spinning around and SLASHING with his other sword --

As Diocletian barely parries the blows and catches a CUT 
across his arm. He staggers sideways and leans over -- first 
blood. All goes quiet. Every soldier watches apprehensively. 

Constantine POUNCES but Diocletian was feigning the severity 
as he SWINGS his shield and SLAMS Constantine backwards. His 
SWORD skimming flesh as he hacks away and KNOCKS one of 
Constantine’s swords out. 

Constantine uses his free hand to CATCH Diocletian’s wrist -- 
stopping the momentum of his sword as they both wince, 
struggle for dominance, face to face... 

Constantine HEADBUTTS Diocletian, sending him stumbling back 
as he drives forward with an onslaught of blows. KNOCKING 
Diocletian’s sword out and sending him to his knees...

And without fanfare or hesitation he spins to deliver the 
FINAL BLOW as the emperor shuts his eyes just when --

CLANG! His sword is STOPPED! Constantine looks up wild-eyed 
and shocked to see -- NICHOLAS. Gripping his sword. Both men 
gazing at one another in a lost stupor. 

Everyone around them shocked. 

             NICHOLAS
      You’ve won, Constantine. The battle 
      is yours... 


                                     108.

             CONSTANTINE
      What are you doing, Nicholas??

             NICHOLAS
      You’ve won. Surrender your hate. 
      The change must begin with you.

Everyone watches, some incredulous, some inspired. 
Constantine fights back the ire that had clouded his eyes as 
he slowly... Withdraws his sword. The battle is over.

Soldiers close in to arrest Diocletian. 

Constantine and Nicholas acknowledge one another, panting. 
Surveying the carnage around them. Coming to terms with 
what’s happened and what must be done. 

Nicholas looks down at the sword resting in his bloody palms. 
The blood smeared across the steel, leaving the engraved 
letters etched out in red... KLAAS... 

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. STABLES - VALLEY OF THE RIVER TIBER, ROME - DAY

A RED STOLE folded and stuffed into a straw sack. Nicholas 
ties the mouth of the bag and sets it onto a large carriage -- 
tied to his white stallion, Preacher, and three other horses.  

He helps Emmelia with her bags, stuffing the carriage full of 
bulging bags. Dusting his hands, he approves of his work and 
he looks over to his friends staring at him peculiarly -- 

             CONSTANTINE
      Are you certain you don’t want to 
      borrow one of my fifty chariots? 

             NICHOLAS
      I prefer traveling without 
      suspicion, your excellency. 

Nicholas smiles, GRIPS Constantine’s forearm. A silent beat, 
charged with gratitude.  

Constantine is draped in a stately purple toga, wearing a 
laurel wreath. Beside him are Father Livius, Amado and the 
orphans. City Guards stand outside of the stables. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Don’t go growing all fat on me. 
      I’ll need you back here in shape 
      and ready to work. 


                                     109.

             NICHOLAS
      With Emmelia’s cooking... I 
      wouldn’t be too concerned.  

She shoots him a look -- Is that so? 

             EMMELIA
      Don’t believe it, he’ll be larger 
      than a musk-ox in no time, the way 
      he eats. 

Nicholas considers this... realizes she is probably right.  
He steps over to Father Livius, rests a hand on his shoulder 
and before he can speak --

             FATHER LIVIUS
      The children will be fine, 
      Nicholas. 

Nicholas swallows back his words, nods appreciatively and 
kneels down to the five orphans. Crestfallen, all of them. 

             ALBA
      Why do you have to leave?

             NICHOLAS
      Well, you see... there are other 
      children out there who still need 
      our help. Not just in Rome but 
      everywhere. 
        (looks at all of them)
      Now all of you promise you’ll be on 
      your best behavior and help Father 
      Livius with the orphanage, right?

The children all nod. Nicholas looks specifically at Clement, 
who tried to get away with the fib last time. But Clement 
struggles to nod, his eyes just well up with tears... As he 
steps in and HUGS Nicholas. Nicholas’ eyes glaze over. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Alright... there, there... tell you 
      what...

Nicholas rises and goes to his bags. He unstrings one and 
pulls out a WOODEN BOX. He goes back over to Clement and 
opens the box to reveal little wooden figurines inside. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Now, I’m leaving you in charge 
      since you’re the oldest, alright? 

             CLEMENT
      What do we do with them?


                                     110.

             NICHOLAS
      Well... in a couple of months when 
      Constantine’s big church is 
      finished, you will be celebrating 
      the first holy mass there. 

This already seems to stir some excitement in the children. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      And what I want you to do is 
      distribute one of these to each of 
      the other children who you think 
      could use one, alright? Just like 
      how I taught you.

Nods all around. Clement takes the box as they study the 
figurines. Nicholas musses his hair and rises to face Amado. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      Something tells me we’ll meet 
      again. I don’t know how to thank 
      you, Amado...

Amado unclasps three rounded bronze BELLS from his eclectic 
belt and hands them over to Nicholas. 

             NICHOLAS
	(CONT’D)
      What am I to do with these?

             AMADO
      From each one of my daughters. To 
      remind you that it is I who is in 
      gratitude, preacher. 

Nothing else needs to be said. They HUG.  

Nicholas turns and walks over to the carriage, climbing into 
the rider’s box, stifling his emotions. Emmelia joins him. 

He offers one last farewell nod and whips the reins as 
Preacher and the horses fall into motion, towing the carriage 
out of the stables... 

The group watches them ride down the long road towards the 
distant Milvian Bridge, which crosses over the river Tiber.

With his back to the group, Nicholas raises the bells and 
gives them a light JINGLE. 

The children smile as Nicholas peeks back and winks. He turns 
around and simply carries on...


                                     111.

             MAN FROM SPAIN
	(V.O.)
      And with that, Nicholas’ legend was 
      born. Spreading across the empire 
      one village at a time and capturing 
      the imaginations of children from 
      all over. The man who sailed across 
      the Mediterranean to The Golden Sea 
      and brought back the kidnapped 
      orphans...

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

The iron brazier from the opening scene casts its orange glow 
upon the huddled FAMILY, listening to the Man From Spain... 

             MAN FROM SPAIN
      ...Who climbed the rooftops and 
      tossed a bag of gold down a 
      stranger’s chimney to save his 
      daughters from slavery...

He turns to reveal none other than AMADO, sharing the story 
with his three daughters who have children of their own now. 

EXT. VALLEY OF THE RIVER TIBER - MILVIAN BRIDGE - DUSK

The sun starts to dip as a crisp wind blows through. Emmelia 
covers herself with a cloak as they ride across the exquisite 
bridge revealing a view onto the big church Nicholas was 
referring to...

The massive rotunda of ST.PETER’S -- under construction with 
its large crucifix atop it as a beacon for a new Rome, 
silhouetted against the crimson sky. 

             AMADO
	(V.O.)
      And the man who helped bring Rome’s 
      first Christian emperor to power.  
      Constantine held up to his promise 
      and began construction on the first 
      Basilica of St.Peter... And 
      throughout the course of time he 
      was bestowed with the title, 
      Constantine the Great. And yes... 
      he did eventually move the capital 
      only to have it named 
      Constantinople. 


                                     112.

INT. AMADO’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Amado surveys the beatific eyes of his grandchildren 
illuminated in the firelight. 

             GRANDCHILD
      Where is Nicholas now, grandpapa?

Amado turns to the fire, smiles to himself. 

             AMADO
      They were a long ways north the 
      last I heard from them. Past Rome’s 
      dividing line, beyond the great 
      river...

He pokes the fire, jarring embers to swim upwards that 
dissolve into... SNOW... somewhere in the north...

EXT. LARGE SNOWY TOWN -- DAY

SUPER: NORTH OF THE DANUBE 

Nicholas’ carriage rides into the edge of a snowy town framed 
with an almost antique Baltic facade, sitting at the base of 
a hill where a massive CASTLE lies.   

Strewn with blemished stone buildings that seem to be given 
new life with its recent centerpiece -- a CHURCH. So 
beautiful it’s almost mythical.   

Nicholas and Emmelia are covered in thick furs. His beard is 
graying and the extra weight accentuates his cheekbones as he 
surveys the town and hears children’s laughter... 

His eyes follow the voices and he spots a group of children 
frolicking in the snow... all of it eerily similar to his 
dream.

They stop and look up at him for a moment, then the church 
bell TOLLS as they run off... not into any mysterious hut but 
rather into the church.

Nicholas’ blue eyes glisten with a smile, knowing he may be 
home. As he whips the reins and takes Emmelia’s hand, pushing 
ahead towards the unknown town in the north...

                                FADE OUT.


