         OZ THE GREAT AND POWERFUL

                 by
             Mitchell Kapner

      Based on the Books of L. Frank Baum

ROTH FILMS                            First Rewrite
WALT DISNEY CO.                          9.07.10

                OZ THE GREAT AND POWERFUL

THE SOUND OF THE WIND -- whistling -- as we --

                                 FADE IN:

EXT. KANSAS PRAIRIE - EARLY EVENING

A gray land under a gray sky -- everything flat, drab, 
dreary.  A ramshackle farmhouse -- a creaky weather vane -- a 
dirt road stretches to nowhere -- but then we see, up ahead, 
looming over the horizon:  A LARGE LIGHTER-THAN-AIR BALLOON -- 
below which we find:

EXT. THE BAUM & BARLEY BROS. CIRCUS

Not exactly the Greatest Show On Earth, but still a pretty 
big deal around here.  People have come from far and wide -- 
their modes of transport and their styles of dress telling us 
we’re in the very early 1900s.

Townsfolk and farmers stroll the midway... barkers shout 
their come-ons... a Bearded Lady preens... the crowd oohs and 
aahs at the Daring Young Men On The Flying Trapeze... there’s 
a Mangy Menagerie of elephants and monkeys and a lion and a 
tiger and a bear (oh my)... then we come to:

EXT. OZ’S EXHIBITION TENT

A stooped, crab-walking monkey of a man named FRANK comes out 
the back of the tent, toddles over to a wagon-wheeled wooden 
trailer, raps on the side of it.

             FRANK
      Ready, Oz?  They’re waiting for 
      you.  Oz?

INT. OZ’S TRAILER

From behind we see:  A man hunched in front of a mirror, 
putting on the last dabs of stage paint.  At his elbow:  a 
bottle of liquor with a label that reads:  ‘H.O.M.E.’  The 
man helps himself to a shot, gives a full-body shudder -- and 
with a theatrical little flourish says to his reflection:

             OZ
      Magic Time.

                                      2.

And he rises:  OSCAR ZOROASTER PHADRIG ISAAC NORMAN HENKLE 
EMMANUEL AMBROISE DIGGS... a.k.a. OZ... 

INT. OZ’S EXHIBITION TENT - MOMENTS LATER

The audience is straight out of a Grant Wood painting, gazing 
listlessly at the stage, as Oz shows them his open palm and --

             OZ
      I have in my hand here a flea.  Can 
      everyone see that?  You in the 
      back? 
        (of course they can’t; 
         there is no flea)
      Now, this is no common, ordinary 
      flea -- no, this is a flea with 
      dreams, who dreams of someday 
      becoming a shining white dove.

He deftly passes one hand over the other -- and now he’s 
holding a LARGE WHITE EGG.  He places it in a SMALL, BARRED 
CAGE, covers it with a cloth, raises it up, snaps off the 
cloth, and... there’s now a LITTLE WHITE BUNNY RABBIT inside  
-- and Oz appears perplexed...

             OZ
      But... that’s not a dove.  Let’s 
      try this again.  

He covers the cage once more, holds it high -- then SNIFFLES. 

             OZ
      Sorry.  I’m allergic to rabbits.

Then suddenly he SNEEZES -- such a tremendous ah-choo that he 
lets go of the cage and doubles over in two -- and the cage 
somehow, magically, stays right where it is -- just hovering 
in mid-air -- a pretty neat trick, actually -- then Oz 
straightens up and, with a flourish, he snaps the cloth off 
the cage to reveal:  a SNOWY WHITE DOVE.  Oz opens the cage 
door, the dove flies out, Oz takes a bow -- 

And only two people clap -- A LITTLE GIRL IN A WHEELCHAIR 
right in front of the stage and one well-dressed, VERY 
ATTRACTIVE WOMAN sitting towards the back, whose HUSBAND, a 
stern-looking character with a waxed mustache and a bowler 
hat, silences her with a scowl.  

Disappointment flickers across Oz’s face -- an artist 
unappreciated... his shoulders slump, his head droops... then 
he forces a smile --

                                      3.

             OZ
      Heh-heh, yes, well -- please, no 
      need to applaud -- your awestruck 
      expressions of amazement are 
      approbation enough.
        (mutters under his breath)
      Hayseeds.
        (then)
      And now, ladies and gentlemen, 
      prepare to not only be astonished, 
      but transcendentally transported, 
      as I perform an illusion so 
      illustrious, an act of wizardry so 
      wondrous that I guarantee it will 
      leave you all with mouths agape, 
      and eyes agog.  

He gives a quick nod to Frank -- who’s standing at a console 
back behind the crowd -- then Oz flings his arms wide and --

             OZ
      Witness and observe!

Frank pulls a switch, setting off AN EXPLOSION OF SMOKE AND 
CARBON-ARC FIRE FROM BOTH SIDES OF THE STAGE.  The crowd 
gasps -- Oz yanks on a rope, a curtain drops mid-stage, and --

             OZ
      From the deepest darkest jungles of 
      the Dark Continent itself, I 
      present to you:  Pachydermous 
      Excelsior, Elephant Extraordinaire!

Frank hits another switch -- and there, on the stage, through 
the smoke, crudely projected on the curtain we see:

A ZOETROPE IMAGE OF AN ELEPHANT BALANCING ON A BALL

And this time the audience is impressed -- yes, with mouths 
agape and eyes agog -- that Little Girl in the Wheelchair 
claps her hands and laughs in absolute delight -- and Oz 
himself is positively beaming -- Triumphant!  Victorious!  He 
wowed ‘em! -- but then... 

The PROJECTOR starts to sputter... the spinning cylinder 
stops... the image of the elephant seems to just melt, 
leaving nothing on the curtain but harsh white light -- and 
as Frank furiously tries to fix the thing, Oz steps into the 
glare, says through gritted teeth --

             OZ
      No-no, leave it alone, you ape.  
        (gestures towards Frank)

                                      4.

             OZ
	(cont'd)
      My esteemed assistant, ladies and 
      gentlemen -- and don’t be fooled -- 
      he may look like a baboon but I 
      assure you, he has the brains of a 
      chimpanzee.  

Then a VOICE IN THE CROWD calls out --

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      I want my money back.

             OZ
      Your money back?  No -- that’s not 
      what you want --

             TWO VOICES
	(O.S.)
      Yes I do... me too!

             OZ
      No, I’ll tell you what you want, 
      and it isn’t doves or dancing 
      elephants, and it isn’t money, it 
      isn’t magic... 

He starts striding the stage like a barnstorming preacher --

             OZ
      What you want, Brothers and 
      Sisters, in these most difficult 
      times, is something that will 
      soothe your tortured spirits and 
      ease your troubled minds.  And I am 
      here to tell you good people... 
        (hands in prayer)
      ... I might have just the thing.

He drags a TALL MAGICIAN’S WARDROBE CHEST to the front of the 
stage, flings open its double doors to reveal:  BOTTLES AND 
BOTTLES OF HIGH-OCTANE H.O.M.E. HOOCH.

             OZ
      Behold, my friends, a very special 
      batch of my very own Homeopathic 
      Ontological Miracle Elixir -- 
      H.O.M.E. or “Home” I call it, and 
      believe me, there’s no better place 
      or product anywhere on this green 
      earth -- a hundred and eighty proof 
      and only fifty cents a bottle!

And that’s just what the crowd’s been waiting for.  They 
surge towards the stage, waving their money in the air.

                                      5.

             OZ
      Easy now!  Easy!  There’s plenty 
      for everyone!
        (as he’s raking it in)
      Mr. Morgan, good to see you again!  
      Mr. Gulch, how’s the banking biz?  
      Mr. Hamilton, you’re looking well -- 
      and your lovely wife?  Oh there she 
      is! -- glad you both could make it.  

MR. HAMILTON’s the man who scowled his pretty wife silent 
before -- MRS. HAMILTON’s still standing towards the back -- 
Oz sends her a smile, then sees:

THE LITTLE GIRL IN THE WHEELCHAIR -- about to down a capful 
of the elixir her parents just handed her, but --

             OZ
      No -- wait! -- don’t!

The Little Girl freezes -- eyes fixed on Oz -- and without 
looking away from him she hands the cap to her mother, says --

             LITTLE GIRL
      It’s okay, Mama, I don’t need it.

And she reaches out a hand towards Oz.  The crowd goes quiet.  
Oz, puzzled, frowning, steps forward, takes her hand in his.  

             LITTLE GIRL
      I want to walk again.

Oz blinks, blanches, snatches his hand away.  

             OZ
      But I, I’m sorry, I can’t help you. 

She just smiles, beatifically -- nods:  Yes you can.  Oz 
sadly shakes his head, wants her to understand --  

             OZ
      I perform magic, not miracles.

             LITTLE GIRL
        (with that same smile)
      Take my hand.

Hesitantly -- the crowd watching, waiting -- Oz takes the 
Little Girl’s hand -- and with her eyes locked on his, she 
starts to pull herself, will herself to her feet... and her 
mother claps both hands over her mouth -- can’t believe it -- 
and Dad’s just staring in open-mouthed shock.  The Little 
Girl sways upright for a moment, then tumbles into Oz’s arms, 
laughing giddily, whispers in his ear --

                                      6.

             LITTLE GIRL
      See?  You’ve just got to believe.

Oz looks at her, then past her -- at Frank, who gestures:  
What gives?  Oz shrugs back:  Haven’t a clue.  He helps the 
Little Girl back into her wheelchair --

And the crowd crowds around him again -- hands pulling him 
back towards the stage so they can buy more booze -- and Oz 
gets back to business -- but can’t help stealing glances at 
the Little Girl and her parents, the three of them hugging 
each other and crying, while --

MRS. HAMILTON watches as her husband slinks off with his 
drinking buddies -- then she turns a very warm and inviting 
smile towards the stage... 

INT. OZ’S TRAILER - LATER

Oz is sitting -- edge of the bed -- staring -- shirt collar 
open, a thin sheen of sweat on his face.

             OZ
      Did you see the look in that little 
      girl’s eyes?  The poor kid -- it 
      was like... like she could actually 
      see something... good in me.

He marvels at the thought of it -- as Mrs. Hamilton comes 
into frame, gives him a kiss that could melt rock.  

             MRS. HAMILTON
      Yes, well, personally I prefer the 
      bad in you.

             OZ
      Margaret, you are an enchantress.

They’re both putting their clothes back on, basking in the 
afterglow -- comfortable, familiar.  She turns so he can 
button the back of her dress.  

             MRS. HAMILTON
      Am I?  Then why can’t I ever cast a 
      spell that would get you to stay? 

             OZ
      Stay?  You mean, here?  In Kansas?  
      I could never do that.

             MRS. HAMILTON
      Why not?  I’m in Kansas.

                                      7.

             OZ
      Yes, and you’re the only glimmer of 
      color in this gray land.

             MRS. HAMILTON
        (laughs)
      The only glimmer?  And those other 
      women of yours --?

             OZ
      Are mere baubles.  You, my dear, 
      are the one true jewel.  
        (that earns him another 
         kiss, then)
      You know I can’t stay.
        (she nods, she knows)
      All this endless, empty sky -- I’m 
      telling you it’s crushing me!  I 
      watched this land grind my Daddy to 
      dust -- and I’m not going to let 
      that happen to me!  There’s a 
      whirlwind inside me, Margaret, and 
      I don’t know where it’s going to 
      take me -- I just know there’s 
      another world out there somewhere, 
      a better world, a world of color 
      and light and beauty, where Fortune 
      and Glory are waiting for me!  I’ve 
      got diamonds in my future, I just 
      know it!

He said all that with considerable feeling.  He says this 
with considerably less:

             OZ
      You could come with me.

             MRS. HAMILTON
      That’s very sweet.  But we both 
      know you don’t mean it.  Besides, 
      you know what they say:  “East is 
      East, West is West, Home Is Best.”

             OZ
      You sound like a pillow in the 
      parlor.

             MRS. HAMILTON
      And I’m soft in all the right 
      places, too.

             OZ
      Yes, you are... 

                                      8.

Another kiss -- a long one -- as we go --

INT. OZ’S EXHIBITION TENT - MOMENTS LATER

The tent’s empty except for Frank, who’s sweeping up.  Mr. 
Hamilton and his pals come staggering in, drunk.

             MR. HAMILTON
      Wanna buy some more of that snake 
      oil -- where’d that shyster go?

Frank gulps -- uh-oh -- gestures he doesn’t know -- 

             SECOND MAN 
      Let’s try his trailer.  

Mr. Hamilton nods -- good idea -- they all shuffle out the 
back -- and Frank scoots off in the other direction, knowing 
trouble’s on the way... 

EXT. OZ’S TRAILER 

Mr. Hamilton climbs the steps, is about to give a knock when 
from inside he hears:  A feminine gasp and giggle.  Mr. 
Hamilton angrily wrenches the door open, rips back the 
curtain and finds --

INT. OZ’S TRAILER

Oz and Mrs. Hamilton -- intertwined.  Oz pulls away.

             OZ
      I can explain.

Off Hamilton’s incredulous glare, Oz’s shoulders slump.

             OZ
      You’re right, I can’t -- and I’m 
      sorry -- you weren’t supposed to 
      see this...
        (as Hamilton advances, 
         fists clenched --)
      Which means, sir, you’re in luck!

Hamilton stops, confused -- as Oz WHISKS a purple tablecloth 
off the table without upsetting a single piece of crockery -- 

             OZ
      ‘Cause right now, today, absolutely 
      free of charge, you get to watch 
      me... disappear.  

                                      9.

He holds the cloth up in front of himself, then snaps it down 
and -- he’s gone! -- disappeared!-- leaving just that purple 
cloth on the floor.  Hamilton snatches it up and we see:

A TRAP DOOR IN THE TRAILER FLOOR -- Oz’s escape hatch.  Mrs. 
Hamilton pseudo-swoons into her husband’s arms, giving Oz 
extra time to make his getaway.  Mr. Hamilton flings his wife 
aside, storms out --

EXT. OZ’S TRAILER

-- and sees Oz, scramming --

             MR. HAMILTON
      After him!

And we launch into:

A FURIOUS CIRCUS CHASE -- OZ RUNNING FOR HIS LIFE

DOWN THE MIDWAY... PAST THE MENAGERIE... THROUGH FREAK SHOW 
ROW -- the freaks and roustabouts doing what they can to help 
Oz out (and it seems this isn’t the first time an irate 
husband’s been after Oz), then Oz ducks under a canvas into: 

THE BIG TOP -- where he scuttles under the bleachers, sprints 
across Center Ring -- only to find the exit blocked by Mr. 
Hamilton and his posse.  Oz turns on a dime, swiftly scales 
the AERIALISTS’ LADDER -- and Hamilton’s right up after him, 
hot on Oz’s heels -- Oz then teeter-totters his way across a 
TIGHT-ROPE, then GRABS THE TRAPEZE -- AND SWINGS OUT... 
centrifugal force soon swings him back -- Hamilton nearly 
grabs him -- then when Oz pendulums back the other way again 
HE LETS GO OF THE TRAPEZE -- free-falls down into the 
TRAMPOLINE NET, then CATAPULTS right off it and SOMERSAULTS 
OVER THE HEADS OF HAMILTON’S MEN and zooms out the exit --

FROM THE LIGHTER-THAN-AIR BALLOON:  We see Oz racing towards 
us -- he starts SHIMMYING UP THE MOORING ROPE -- fast enough 
that an exuberant ON-LOOKER exclaims:

             ON-LOOKER
      Look at him go!  He’s faster than a 
      flying monkey!

And we now see:  THE BALLOON HAS THE WORD “OZ” EMBLAZONED ON 
ITS SIDE.  Oz heaves himself into the balloon’s hanging 
basket -- just as Hamilton and his boys run up, grab hold of 
the mooring rope, start hauling the balloon back down to 
earth -- then Frank comes running up with a SATCHEL --

                                      10.

             FRANK
      Oz!  Here you go!

And he hurls the satchel up to Oz -- Oz catches it, tips his 
hat in thanks, then casts off the mooring rope and --

THE BALLOON LIFTS SKYWARD -- out of harm’s and Hamilton’s 
reach -- up and up and up, Oz waving goodbye to everyone -- 
laughing -- that was fun -- but then he notices:  Only Mrs. 
Hamilton and Frank are waving back at him... everyone else is 
stopped and turned towards the west... Oz himself looks and --

             OZ
      Sweet Jumpin’ Jiminy.

SEEING:  A MASSIVE STORM FRONT -- angry black clouds, closing 
in fast.  Everyone on the ground suddenly breaks and scatters 
for cover.  Oz gulps --

             OZ
      Looks like we might be in for a bit 
      of a gale.

As if on cue:  A vicious gust of wind kicks up, nearly throws 
Oz out of the basket -- a TSUNAMI OF DUST SWEEPS OVER THE 
CIRCUS, vanishes it from view -- then, to the west, a LONG 
BLACK SWIRLING FUNNEL starts its malevolent descent from the 
clouds... Oz braces himself, then it hits:

THE STORM OF THE MILLENNIUM

Plunging us into deepest darkness -- howling, hurricane-force 
winds -- crashes of lightning -- torrents of rain -- and Oz 
is caught right in the worst of it -- it’s a HELLACIOUS DEATH 
RIDE -- he’s getting whipped and whirled, bashed and battered 
-- then AIRBORNE DEBRIS starts whizzing and zipping all 
around him -- a picket fence; a weather vane; a chicken coop; 
an ox cart; then Oz has to duck as:

A BROKEN TREE BRANCH comes shooting at his head like a guided 
missile -- just misses -- but then --  

A BIG TIN ROOF COMES PIN-WHEELING OUT OF NOWHERE -- Oz hits 
the deck -- and the razor-sharp eaves SLICE right through one 
of the ropes tying the basket to the balloon -- one corner of 
the of the basket abruptly drops -- CATAPULTING OZ RIGHT OUT 
OF THE BASKET! -- and he just barely manages to grab hold of 
a rope to keep from plummeting to certain doom -- hauls 
himself back in, bellowing defiance a la Lear --

                                      11.

             OZ
      Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks!  
      Rage!  Blow!  You think I’m afraid?  
      Ha!  I SPIT IN YOUR EYE!

The heavens respond with A DEAFENING THUNDERCLAP -- so close 
and so loud that Oz drops to the basket’s canted floor --

             OZ
      Alright-alright-alright, I’m sorry, 
      I didn’t mean it, I... 

He catches his breath, looks up, rain pelting his face, 
mutters with resignation --

             OZ
      Fine, then, take me -- doesn’t 
      matter -- what difference would it 
      make if there was one less man like 
      me in the world?  
        (lacerates himself)
      You were never anything more than 
      the illusion of a human being.  
      Whatever you touched you corrupted  
      -- your every promise was a lie -- 
      your every blessing you befouled... 
      And all for what?  For what?

And then... he sees, on his chest, over his heart... a 
prismatic light -- A RAINBOW OF COLOR... he pulls himself up, 
peers over the rim of the basket and sees -- 

A RAINBOW -- and, behind it, SUNLIGHT... a break in the 
clouds -- salvation... Oz throws back his head and crows --

             OZ
      Yes!  Yes!  YES!

OVER THE RAINBOW we go -- Oz gaping down at the ROYGBIV 
stream of colors -- but then he sees --

DEAD AHEAD:  A TOWERING RANGE OF MOUNTAINS 

Huge, Himalayan -- jagged snow-capped peaks soaring into the 
clouds -- which seem to be coming at us at incredible speed -- 
Oz springs into action -- feverishly tries to get the balloon 
to stop or change course -- but nothing doing -- get ready 
for impact, and --

WHAM! -- THE BALLOON SLAMS INTO THE MOUNTAIN -- then starts 
bashing and bamming its way up the rocky slope -- Oz is 
hanging on for dear life, as the basket smashes again and 
again and again into solid rock, and --

                                      12.

THE BASKET STARTS TO BREAK APART -- first a seam opens up 
beneath Oz’s feet -- another crash and half the basket falls 
away -- the engine and the propeller are next to go, spinning 
into the void -- then the basket arcs away, and swings back 
towards the rocks faster than ever -- and Oz grabs hold of 
his satchel and one of the balloon ropes and this time when 
it hits THE BASKET FALLS APART COMPLETELY, smashed to 
smithereens, and --

OZ DANGLES -- desperately -- hanging from the rope, hanging 
onto the satchel -- as another gust of wind lifts him and the 
balloon UP AND OVER THE TOP OF THE MOUNTAIN --

INTO DENSE CLOUD -- a world of white -- a silent, snowy 
white... no more wind... the balloon just drifts... snow-
flakes on Oz’s face... then the world gets brighter and 
brighter until finally the clouds part -- and there it is:

THE LAND OF OZ

A riot of color and light and beauty -- an acid fantasy come 
to life -- so gorgeous it almost hurts the eyes...

             OZ
      I don’t know where on Earth this 
      is, but I’ve got a feeling I’m not 
      in Kansas anymore.

Snow-flurries swirl around him in 3D... the balloon floats 
on, starts to descend... the landscape below becoming even 
more magnificent -- Oz staring awestruck... as the balloon 
gracefully continues downward, straight towards:

A RIVER -- sparkling in the sun.  Then, spiralling up out of 
the water in a fabulous flapping funnel-cloud:

FLYING FISH -- dazzlingly colored, with butterfly wings --  
they fly just like hummingbirds -- flutter up and flitter all 
around him -- he’s never seen anything like it...

             OZ
      If I’m dreaming don’t wake me.

But then:  look out! -- THE BALLOON CRASH-LANDS IN THE RIVER  
-- and Oz -- no swimmer -- freaks out -- floundering, 
thrashing, splashing, trying to keep hold of the rope and his 
satchel, crying out for help, but then... he stops, frowns --  
felt something with his foot... 

And he STANDS UP -- the water’s no more than three feet deep  
-- Oz feeling both foolish and relieved -- and then he sees, 
reflected on the calm surface of the water... 

                                      13.

FACES... and Oz raises his eyes to see --

PEOPLE -- GATHERED BY THE RIVERSIDE -- a lot of people, 
normal-sized people, all of them oddly dressed in some hue or 
shade of yellow, and they’re all just gaping at him.  Oz 
comes out of the water, dripping wet -- and all the people 
take a step or two back.  Oz nods hello --

             OZ
      How do you do?  My name’s Oz.

And they all bow down to him!  Like he’s a King or a God -- 
and Oz doesn’t know what the hell to make of it.

             OZ
      Well that’s... thank you -- that’s 
      very kind.  But if you don’t mind 
      my asking:  Where am I?

A WINKIE MAN ventures forward -- who looks and sounds a lot 
like the Winkie Guards did in The Movie.

             WINKIE MAN
      Why, you’re here, sir.

             OZ
      Yes, I, I understand that, but... 
      where, my good man, is here?

             WINKIE MAN
      The Land of Oz, of course!

             OZ
      The Land of Oz?  You’re kidding me.
      You call this place Oz?

             WINKIE MAN
      Far as I know that’s been its name 
      since just short of forever.  

             OZ
      If that don’t beat all... I mean, 
      what are the odds?

And the Winkie Man turns to the others and proclaims:

             WINKIE MAN
      He’s here!  The Great Oz is finally 
      here!

And everyone CHEERS, long and loud -- then they start hugging 
and kissing and shaking hands with one another -- 
tremendously happy and relieved, and --

                                      14.

             OZ
      You people certainly know how to 
      make a stranger feel welcome -- but 
      why all the hullaballoo?

             WINKIE MAN
      It’s just -- we’ve been waiting 
      ever so long, sir -- and we’re all 
      very glad and grateful for what 
      you’re about to do!  

             OZ
      And, ah, not to be obtuse, but... 
      what, exactly, is it that I’m about 
      to do?

A SECOND WINKIE MAN steps forward.

             WINKIE MAN #2
      Deliver us from the Wicked Witch!

             OZ
      The Wicked what?

But before he can get an answer:  All sound abruptly stops -- 
a sudden hush -- everyone now looking west -- where we see:  
SOMETHING... FLYING TOWARDS US -- and at first it’s too far 
away for us to tell what it is, but soon we see it’s:

A YOUNG WOMAN -- BORNE ALOFT BETWEEN TWO WINGED MONKEYS

             OZ
      Am I seeing what I think I’m 
      seeing?  Flying monkeys?  Now I 
      know I’m not in Kansas anymore.

And as the Winged Monkeys swoop down and gently set the Young 
Woman on the ground, the Winkies all bow deeply again.  Meet:

THEODORA -- and she is beautiful.  Dressed in an open-
collared white shirt, black pants, black knee-high boots.  
She has quick eyes, quick movements, a quick, lively mind -- 
and Oz likes what he sees.  

             OZ
      You can’t be the Wicked Witch.

             THEODORA
        (laughs)
      Is that what they told you?

                                      15.

             OZ
      No.  But they did just mention 
      something about there being a 
      Wicked Witch, so --

             THEODORA
      Well, I am a Witch -- but do I look 
      wicked to you?

She smiles -- he smiles back, with charm --

             OZ
      On the contrary.

             THEODORA
      They were no doubt referring to the 
      Witch of the South, who is indeed 
      very wicked and who is trying to 
      overthrow my sister the Queen.
        (then, looking past him)
      Is that yours?

-- gesturing towards the still semi-inflated balloon.

             OZ
      Yes, yes it is.

             THEODORA
      Why does it say “Oz” on it?

             OZ
      ‘Cause that’s my name.  Oscar 
      Zoroaster Phineas Isaac Norman 
      Henkle Emmanuel Ambroise Diggs, at 
      your service.  
        (tips his hat, grins)
      You can call me Oz.  

             THEODORA
      I’m Theodora.
        (then)
      So, Oz, tell me:  What are you?

             OZ
      What am I?  Why, I’m an American -- 
      a Kansas man, born and bred.

             THEODORA
      But are you a Wizard?  Or a 
      Sorcerer? -- as the Winkies here 
      seem to believe?

             OZ
      The Winkies?

                                      16.

             THEODORA
      These are the Winkies.  You landed 
      in Winkie County, the western-most 
      quarter of the Land of Oz.

             OZ
      And they think I’m a Wizard?

             THEODORA
      Why wouldn’t they?  You just came 
      out of the clouds, you fell from 
      the sky, and you call yourself Oz.
        (really needs to know --)
      So:  Are you a Wizard?  The Wizard 
      we’ve all been waiting for?

And Oz can’t help himself -- the showman in him takes over.

             OZ
      As a matter of fact, back home I am 
      known as something of a Wizard -- a 
      Wizard of Pyrotechnics and 
      Prestidigitation -- I’m also a 
      renowned charlatan and a Master of 
      Illusion -- and if you good folks 
      would permit me just a moment of 
      your kind indulgence, allow me to 
      both Illustrate and Amaze!

He flips open his satchel (which, by the way, also has the 
name “OZ” embossed upon it) -- picks out a few props and --

             OZ
      Okay, gather around everyone -- 
      proximity only adds to the wonder -- 
      can I have a volunteer?  How about 
      you, madam?  That’s right -- don’t 
      be shy...

And as Oz starts his shtick we:  FOCUS ON THEODORA... who’s 
watching Oz very closely -- watching his magic and, more 
important, she’s watching the effect his tricks are having on 
the Winkies, because... 

The Winkies are becoming more and more convinced that Oz does 
have Special Powers -- that he is, in fact, a Wizard -- and 
it’s hard to tell how Theodora feels about that... Oz 
finishes, takes a bow, turns to Theodora and ta-da’s.

             THEODORA
      So you are a Wizard, aren’t you?

                                      17.

             OZ
      Modesty precludes me from tooting 
      my own trumpet, but strike me blind 
      if I’m lying:  Seeing is believing.   

He smiles -- like a fox -- she smiles back, says --

             THEODORA
      In that case... 

She gives a quick flick of her hand, and:  LIGHTNING FLASHES 
FROM HER FINGERTIPS -- ARCS INTO THE BALLOON and --

KA-BOOOOOM! -- THE BALLOON ERUPTS IN A GIANT FIREBALL -- a 
huge hydrogen conflagration -- towering flames -- the Winkies 
shielding themselves and cowering -- Oz is sputtering --

             OZ
      Wh-wh-wh-what’d you do that for!

             THEODORA
        (sweet as spun sugar)
      I couldn’t just let you leave, 
      could I? -- my sister would never 
      forgive me.  She could use a Great 
      Wizard like you.

             OZ
      Use me?  For what?

             THEODORA
      To help her defeat the Wicked Witch 
      once and for all -- and you should 
      know:  My sister is a very powerful 
      Witch... you help her and I’m sure 
      she’d give you anything you ever 
      wanted... 

             OZ
      Anything I ever wanted... and she 
      can do that, your sister? 

             THEODORA
      She can make your every dream come 
      true.

             OZ
      Y’know that doesn’t sound half bad.

             THEODORA
      No it doesn’t, does it?

Oz glances towards the burning balloon. 

                                      18.

             OZ
      And, circumstances being as they 
      are:  Tell you what.  I will 
      henceforth and immediately cancel 
      all my planned and prior 
      engagements, and I will speak to 
      your noble sister -- Wizard to 
      Witch, as it were -- see what we 
      can arrange.

Theodora signals to NIKKO, one of the Winged Monkeys, who 
flaps to her side, hands her some parchment and a quill.

             THEODORA
      I’ll send word, let her know we’re 
      on our way.

             OZ
      We?  You’re coming with me?

             THEODORA
        (writing)
      There could be... dangers along the 
      way.  The Emerald City’s a full 
      day’s walk from here -- at the end 
      of the Yellow Brick Road.

             OZ
      We’re walking?

She rolls up her note, hands it to Nikko, who flies off.

             THEODORA
      This one will carry your things.

KANA’S the other Winged Monkey -- who bears a simian 
semblance to Oz’s old pal Frank.  He fetches Oz’s satchel.

             OZ
      But why are we walking?  You’re a 
      Witch -- you don’t have a broom?

             THEODORA
      What would I do with a broom?

             OZ
      You could fly us to your sister’s.

             THEODORA
      With a broom?  I don’t understand.

             OZ
        (sees she’s not joking)
      Never mind.

                                      19.

Then he leaps up on a tree stump, booms to the Winkies --

             OZ
      Before we go I just wanted to thank 
      you one and all for your 
      wonderfully warm welcome and your 
      heartfelt hospitality -- I’m never 
      going to forget it and I hope to 
      see around next time -- you’ve been 
      a great crowd!  Namaste! 

He hops back down, says to Theodora -- 

             OZ
      This place we’re going -- 

             THEODORA
      The Emerald City.

             OZ
      I do like that name -- green, 
      y’understand, has always been my 
      favorite color.  
        (rubs his hands and grins)
      Let’s go, then -- no time to waste  
      -- opportunity awaits!

They start out -- not on the Yellow Brick Road yet; the road 
here is just cobblestone -- Kana monkey-walking behind them -- 
the Winkies bowing deeply in farewell -- and when they rise, 
Winkie #2 sees the troubled look on Winkie #1’s face.

             WINKIE MAN #2
      What is it?

             WINKIE MAN
      Nothing, I just... hope this Wizard 
      is Wizard enough.

             WINKIE MAN #2
      He will be.

             WINKIE MAN
      He has to be.
        (then, to the others --)
      Spread the word, far and near:  The 
      Great Oz is finally here!

EXT. EN ROUTE TO THE EMERALD CITY - OZ, THEODORA AND KANA

Through rolling farmland, past curious-looking houses -- 
which all look vaguely like human faces.  

                                      20.

             OZ
      So tell me about this Wicked Witch.

             THEODORA
      Her Father was the King -- a very 
      powerful Wizard and a very Evil 
      King.  The Wicked Witch of the 
      South is also very Evil -- and a 
      very powerful Sorceress -- stronger 
      even than my sister.

             OZ
      But your sister’s the Queen.

             THEODORA
      My sister has me to help and 
      protect her -- and she has the love 
      of the Good People of Oz.

We see that Kana’s frowning, as Theodora muses --

             THEODORA
      They used to be friends, you know, 
      my Sister and the Wicked Witch... 
      but she had no idea how wicked 
      wickedness could be, or how easily 
      friendship could be betrayed... 

             OZ
      I know what you mean.  There was a 
      Witch I knew in Wichita -- you 
      wanna talk about wicked?
        (shudders at the memory)
      She had a face lovely as a summer 
      day -- and a heart as black as a 
      Midnight Grave.

And then:  Oz slows, stops, staring... 

             OZ
      What’s that I’m looking at?

             THEODORA
      That?  That’s The Ripple Land.

EXT. THE RIPPLE LAND

Which is, as Baum describes it:  ‘A succession of hills and 
valleys, all very steep and rocky, and they changed places 
constantly by rippling.’  So when someone climbs a hill, it 
sinks and becomes a valley -- and vice versa -- which, writes 
Baum, ‘was very perplexing to the traveler.’

                                      21.

             OZ
      We’ve got to cross that?

             THEODORA
      The Yellow Brick Road’s just on the 
      other side.  

             OZ
      Well, then, when in Rome...
        (then)
      Take my hand.

             THEODORA
      Why?

             OZ
      I’ll help you.

             THEODORA
        (seems flustered)
      Help me?  That’s... thank you, 
      but... I’ll be fine.  

             OZ
      Suit yourself.
        (then)
      Here goes nothing.

And he steps onto the Ripple Land, the ground undulating 
beneath his feet like a blanket in the breeze -- and at first 
Oz has a hell of time keeping his bearings and his balance, 
stumbling to and fro like a drunken sailor... Theodora walks 
across with regal ease... Kana wings his way to the other 
side toting Oz’s satchel, and at one point --

Oz stumble-staggers smack into Theodora -- has to grab hold 
of her to keep her from falling down -- so his arms are 
around her, their faces this-close, and we see... something 
almost like fear in Theodora’s eyes... Oz just laughs, says --

             OZ
      Sorry.

And he lets her go, continues on his way like a punch-drunk -- 
starts to get the hang of it, laughs with sheer delight, then 
suddenly bursts into song:  the jaunty ‘No pui andrai’ from 
Marriage of Figaro -- and he starts dancing across the Ripple 
Land -- a joyous jig -- and once again Theodora’s looking at 
him like she can’t quite figure him out, but we can tell:  
He’s getting to her... the lady’s quite intrigued... and when 
they all make it safely back to solid ground, Oz looks back 
at the Ripple Land, grinning from ear to ear --

                                      22.

             OZ
      That’s the most fun I ever had 
      outside of St. Louis.

Then he sees, just ahead...

THE YELLOW BRICK ROAD

             OZ
      No-no, don’t tell me, lemme guess.  
      That’s the Yellow Brick Road.
        (she smiles, nods)
      This way to Emerald City?

             THEODORA
      Follow the Yellow Brick Road.

And as they start off on the Yellow Brick Road, we go into a:

MONTAGE:  THE RUMOR MILL OF OZ

As word of Oz’s arrival spreads throughout the land.  We see 
VARIOUS CITIZENS in VARIOUS PLACES, talking on the sly.

             VARIOUS CITIZENS
        (like a song)
      Did you hear?  Did you hear?  The 
      Wizard is here, he’s finally here, 
      he’s going to save us all -- we’ll 
      soon be rid of the Wicked Witch -- 
      the Wizard of Oz is here!

EXT. ON THE YELLOW BRICK ROAD - LATER THAT DAY

Oz spots:  AN APPLE ORCHARD. 

             OZ
      Apples!  I’m starving!

He hops the fence, reaches for an apple, but --

             THEODORA
      I’d ask first if I were you.

             OZ
      Ask?  Ask who?  There’s nobody 
      here.  Besides... 

He plucks an apple off a branch, takes a big bite out of it, 
says with his mouth full --

                                      23.

             OZ
      ... it’s just an apple.

             VOICE FROM BEHIND
      Just an apple?

And just as Oz starts to turn:  THE BRANCHES OF THE APPLE 
TREE GRAB HIM FROM BEHIND! -- lift him right off his feet as 
THE GNARLED FACE OF THE APPLE TREE SNARLS --

             APPLE TREE
      How’d you like it if someone took a 
      bite out of you!

THE APPLE TREE’S MOUTH OPENS WIDE -- exposing oozing sap and 
sharp stick teeth -- and the creaking branches start to bring  
Oz towards the gaping maw -- Oz doing his damndest to free 
himself -- can’t! -- and then --

             THEODORA
      No -- let him go!

The Apple Tree hesitates -- as if debating whether or not to 
obey her -- loosened leaves 3-D’ing all around.

             THEODORA
      Do as I say.

A beat, then with a flick of the branch the Apple Tree flings 
Oz away -- he goes sailing through the air, hits the ground 
and somersaults himself right up to his feet, dusts himself 
off, says with all the dignity he can muster --

             OZ
      Sneaky little sapling snuck up on 
      me.  Like to see him try it again -- 
      I’d turn him into a toothpick.  
        (scoffs at the Tree)
      Bet your bark’s worse than your 
      bite!

             THEODORA
      We should go.  It’ll be getting 
      dark soon.    

EXT. IN THE HAUNTED FOREST

Deep, dark, forboding.  A YELLOW-EYED OWL hoots from a tree.  
3D BATS flutter past us.  Oz dumps another armful of wood on 
a cold woodpile, then steps back -- as Theodora flashes 
lightning out of her fingertips again -- THE WOODPILE BURSTS 
INTO FLAME --

             OZ
      Someday you’ve really got to teach 
      me that.  

                                      24.

EXT. THE CAMPFIRE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Theodora’s staring thoughtfully into the fire -- Kana’s 
picking bugs off his fur (and eating them) -- and Oz is at 
his satchel -- takes something out of it... 

             OZ
      Thought we could do with a little 
      music.  

Shows her:  A BEAUTIFUL LITTLE MUSIC BOX.  He winds it up, 
MOZART STARTS TO PLAY -- ‘Che soave zelliretto’ from Figaro -- 
and Theodora’s face lights up with an almost-childlike wonder 
and delight -- completely charmed --

             THEODORA
      What is that?

             OZ
      It’s Mozart.  

             THEODORA
      Why’s it called a Mozart?

             OZ
      No, the music is Mozart.  This is a 
      Music Box -- you’ve never seen one?  
      Then here -- take it -- it’s yours.  
      A gift, from me to you.

             THEODORA
      Why?  Why would you do that?

             OZ
      No reason -- I just want you to 
      have it.

She hesitates -- then holds out her hand... 

             THEODORA
      No one’s ever given me something 
      just because he wanted to.

             OZ
      I can’t believe that -- pretty lady 
      like you?  I bet there are lots of 
      men out there who’d give you the 
      world if they could.

                                      25.

             THEODORA
      You don’t know much about Witches, 
      do you?

             OZ
      Maybe not, but I’m told I’m a 
      pretty fast learner.  
        (stands, extends a hand)
      Dance, m’lady?
        (off her look)
      Now you’re gonna tell me no one’s 
      ever danced with you before?  

             THEODORA
        (almost a whisper)
      No one ever has.

             OZ
      Then it’s high time you learned a 
      little something.  C’mon.

And he reaches down, hauls her to her feet -- winds up the 
Music Box, sets it down, and as the MUSIC STARTS TO PLAY --

             OZ
      Okay, then -- put your hand up -- 
      like this.  Good.  Now put your 
      other hand around me like so...

He takes hold of her up-raised hand, puts his right arm 
around her, gets a little closer and says --

             OZ
      Now just try and feel the music, 
      and follow me...

They start to DANCE -- Kana watching them very closely -- 
their bodies touching -- backlit -- 3D fireflies like stars 
all around them -- and we go --

CLOSE ON THEODORA’S FACE -- and it’s true:  she’s never 
danced with a man -- never been held by a man -- she’s never 
before felt some of the things she’s feeling now... 

             OZ
      Nice, isn’t it? -- and there are 
      beautiful words that go with it -- 
      want to hear them?  
        (she can only nod)
      ‘You ladies, who know what love is, 
      see if it is what I have in my 
      heart... I have a feeling, full of 
      desire, which now is pleasure, now 
      is torment... 

                                      26.

             OZ
	(cont'd)
      my spirit all ablaze... I seek for 
      a treasure outside of myself, I 
      know not what it is... you ladies, 
      who know what love is, see if it is 
      what I have in my heart.’
        (smiles)
      You like it?

             THEODORA
        (a whisper)
      Yes.

             OZ
      You seem nervous.

             THEODORA
      This is all... new to me.

             OZ
      It always is -- every time.

She glances up -- their eyes lock and hold.  The music ends -- 
and she takes a step back -- voice shaky --

             THEODORA
      I... the fire, I’ll -- I’ll gather 
      some more wood.

She flitters off into the darkness -- Kana scuttling after 
her -- and Oz shakes his head, chides himself --

             OZ
      You’re the wicked one, Oscar Diggs.  

WITH THEODORA -- RUNNING -- STUMBLING -- THROUGH THE WOODS

Excited, frightened, confused -- hand to her belly, as if 
she’s trying to quell the strange new emotions within -- Kana 
still looking at her with great interest -- then he glances 
up, hears the flapping of wings and --

NIKKO SWOOPS IN -- TOUCHES DOWN -- has just returned from 
Evanora’s -- he hands Theodora a rolled parchment -- Theodora 
unwraps and reads it, tells the two Monkeys --

             THEODORA
      My sister wants me to be sure this 
      Wizard’s a real Wizard.
        (thinks a moment, then)
      Fetch me a mouse.  

BACK AT THE CAMPFIRE -- Oz berates his hound-dog self --

                                      27.

             OZ
      Innocent girl like that?  You 
      oughta be ashamed of yourself.  

BACK TO THEODORA -- as Nikko brings her A LITTLE BROWN MOUSE.  

             THEODORA
      Set it down.  

Nikko obeys.  Kana returns -- watches from a distance, as... 
Theodora stares fixedly at the mouse -- then does a little 
something with her hands and, just like that:

THE TINY MOUSE TRANSFORMS INTO A FULL-GROWN LION.  The 
Monkeys shrink back -- ready to fly away if need be. 

             THEODORA
        (to the Lion)
      Listen close, then do as I say.

EXT. BACK AT THE CAMPFIRE

Oz is poking at the fire with a stick, when he hears:  A 
rustling in the woods.  He peers into the darkness.

             OZ
      Theodora?  That you?

No response.  But then he hears:  A low, guttural growl.  
And, very slowly, Oz pulls a tree branch from the fire, the 
end of which is burning like a torch.  He calls out again --

             OZ
      Theodora?

AND WITH AN EARTHSHAKING ROAR THE LION ATTACKS! -- comes 
CHARGING out of the darkness, MAKES A MURDEROUS LEAP AT OZ --

OZ HITS THE DECK -- THE LION GOES SAILING OVER HIM -- Oz 
quickly body-rolls to his satchel -- desperately tries to 
open it with one hand, the other waving that burning branch 
at the Lion -- and we see:

THEODORA -- IN THE TREES -- keeping to the shadows -- moving 
to get a better ringside view, as --

THE LION CIRCLES... Oz, on one knee, gets the satchel open -- 
shakes the burning branch at the beast --

                                      28.

             OZ
      Stay back!  I’m warning you!
        (his other hand fumbling 
         inside the satchel)
      C’mon -- c’mon -- where is it?

THE LION ROARS -- then charges Oz again! -- and Oz, still 
kneeling, whips his arm out of the satchel, brings it up and:

BANG!  He SHOOTS at the leaping Lion with a small Derringer 
pistol -- and the Lion -- unscathed but terrified -- TURNS 
TAIL AND FLEES INTO THE FOREST -- whimpering -- and --

             OZ
      That’s right!  Run!  Run, you 
      coward!  And don’t come back!
        (checks the gun, mutters)
      ‘Cause I’m fresh out of bullets.

And thus the Cowardly Lion was born -- perhaps -- and --

THEODORA -- STILL IN THE TREES -- smiles, says --

             THEODORA
      Satisfied, Sister?

-- like she knows Evanora can hear her, even though Evanora’s 
miles away... she then gestures Nikko over, pens another 
quick note to her sister -- Nikko flies off with it and --

BACK IN THE CLEARING -- Oz turns as Theodora comes dashing 
out of the woods -- she runs to him, all a-flutter --

             THEODORA
      What happened!  I heard this 
      roaring, then a bang!

             OZ
      It was nothing.  I just...
        (wipes sweat off his face)
      I just fended off a large 
      carnivorous, uh, carnivore -- no 
      big deal -- back where I come from 
      we do that practically every day... 
      Decorum alone prevented me from 
      tussling with the beast bare-handed 
      -- so I just gave him a little 
      taste of this --
        (shows her the gun)
      And he went scampering off like a 
      scared little mouse.

             THEODORA
      What an odd-looking wand.

                                      29.

             OZ
      Wand?  Oh, right, yes, well -- it 
      certainly worked its magic tonight, 
      didn’t it?  

             THEODORA
      You’re shaking.

             OZ
      Of course I’m shaking -- I was 
      terrified!

             THEODORA
      Were you?

             OZ
        (nodding)
      That he was going to hurt you.  

Theodora blinks -- as zing goes another heart string.

             THEODORA
      You were... concerned for me.

             OZ
        (takes both her hands)
      I wouldn’t want anything to happen 
      to you.   
        (then he smiles)
      And don’t worry -- I made sure he 
      didn’t hurt Mozart.

He picks up the Music Box, hands it to her.  

             THEODORA
      Thank you, Wizard.

... their eyes connect again, and --

             THEODORA
      We should get some sleep.  We still 
      have a long way to go tomorrow.  

EXT. ON THE CAMPFIRE - LATER THAT NIGHT

OZ -- ASLEEP -- cinders from the fire dancing around him in 
3D -- as a hand gently shakes him awake.  His eyes open -- he 
looks up and sees:

THEODORA -- IN CLOSE-UP -- GAZING DOWN AT HIM FROM ABOVE -- 
firelit, beautiful -- and there’s absolutely no mistaking the 
blazing look in her eye... Oz halfheartedly tries to resist --

                                      30.

             OZ
      No... don’t... 

-- but she BENDS DOWN AND GIVES HIM AN INCENDIARY KISS... and 
when she lets him up for air he breathes --

             OZ
      You’re a devil.

She smiles -- nods:  Yes, she is -- then kisses him again, 
and we discreetly PAN AWAY to the smoke and cinders rising 
from the flames and --

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. FURTHER ALONG THE YELLOW BRICK ROAD - FOLLOWING MORNING

Oz, Theodora and Kana come out of the forest -- into brown-
hued Central Oz -- then Oz abruptly stops, seeing... 

EMERALD CITY:  IN THE DISTANCE

A spectacular soaring skyline -- Sleeping Beauty’s Castle on 
steroids -- and Oz is appropriately awed.  

             OZ
      The Emerald City... I’ve seen it 
      before, you know.

             THEODORA
      You have?

             OZ
      In my wildest dreams.  Come on!

-- quickening the pace -- he can’t wait to get there -- and 
Theodora laughs -- his enthusiasm’s infectious, and --

EXT. CLOSER TO EMERALD CITY - STILL ON THE YELLOW BRICK ROAD

They pass through a LARGE FIELD STREWN WITH BOULDERS... THEN 
THE BOULDERS START TO MOVE... and it quickly becomes apparent 
that the rocks are really turtle-shell-shaped concave 
shields, under which have been hiding:

A BATTALION OF GNOMES -- short, squat, fierce-looking 
warriors with skin the color and texture of stone and beards 
so long they tie them around their waists -- and they’re all 
armed to the teeth:  Broadswords, cutlasses, battle-axes... 
OZ goes still, then sees, even worse --

                                      31.

ON THE SURROUNDING HILLSIDES:  MORE SAVAGE WARRIORS -- a mix 
of GROWLEYWOGS -- silent, half-clad, eight-foot-tall 
Aboriginals armed with knives and bows and arrows and spears  
-- and WHIMSIES -- who are distinguished by their 
extraordinarily broad shoulders and the enormous crazy-
colored papier-mache MARDI GRAS MASKS they wear on their 
amazingly-undersized heads.

             OZ
      Get behind me.

             THEODORA
      Don’t hurt them.  They’re here to 
      escort us to my sister.  

             OZ
        (hiding immense relief)
      They are?  Then lucky for them you 
      stayed my hand -- I was about to 
      smite the lot of them!

A GNOME AND A WHIMSIE approach, one leading a UNICORN, the 
other a WOODEN SAWHORSE -- a living wooden Sawhorse, no 
taller than a donkey... 

             OZ
      That thing’s alive?  

The Gnome raps his knuckles against the wood.

             GNOME
      Aye, he may not be much to look at, 
      but he never tires neither.  

Theodora gets on the Unicorn, Oz warily onto the Sawhorse.

             OZ
      Tally-ho.

The Savage Horde starts marching them towards the Emerald 
City, chanting:

             SAVAGE HORDE
      Oh-we-oh, yo ho!  Oh-we-oh, yo-ho!

Oz is looking at the Gnome who’s walking beside him.

             OZ
      Quite the tonsorial accoutrement 
      you’ve got there, fella.  

             GNOME 
        (touches his beard)
      What, you mean this?  

             GNOME 
	(cont'd)
      This here is my pride and joy, the 
      source of my vast potency and 
      strength.  

And the Whimsie Warrior on the other side of Oz says --

                                      32.

             WHIMSIE
      Or so those ignorant creatures 
      believe.  You want to beat a Gnome 
      in battle, just have a whack at 
      that beard of his and he’ll go 
      hieing home to his mommy quick as 
      you please.  

             GNOME
      Yeah, well, you wanna defeat a 
      Whimsie all you gotta do is knock 
      that great silly contraption off 
      his shoulders and that’s the last 
      you’ll see of him I assure you!  
      They canna bear to be seen without 
      those masks of theirs, on account 
      of their woefully-wee heads -- no 
      bigger than a Munchkin’s fist. 

-- miming the approximate size -- Oz laughs -- this place is 
curiouser and curiouser -- then he sees the smitten, sultry  
look Theodora’s giving him... and Oz turns away -- perhaps 
already wondering if maybe last night was a mistake... and as 
the procession continues by us we see ANOTHER GNOME WARRIOR 
growling to another --

             GNOME WARRIOR
      He don’t look like much of a Wizard 
      to me.

Then we hear:  A FANFARE OF TRUMPETS -- and jump to:

EXT. EMERALD CITY - DAY

As the jewel-studded gates swing open to reveal:  Sheer 
magnificence -- towering towers, soaring spires, flowers, 
fountains -- everything glittering and gleaming -- a MARCHING 
BAND is there to lead them inside -- Oz and Theodora climb 
off their respective steeds and follow the band into --

                                      33.

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE - EMERALD CITY

BELLS are RINGING -- young girls strew roses -- sidewalks and 
balconies are lined with WILDLY CHEERING CROWDS -- a 
hodgepodge of Oz inhabitants from all four corners of the 
Kingdom:  WINKIES from the West, MUNCHKINS from the East, 
GILLIKINS from the North and QUADLINGS from the South -- all 
dressed in different regional colors and all enthusiastically 
waving and fluttering green-and-white flags and pennants -- 
flower petals and confetti dancing past us in 3D, and --

OZ is eating this up -- waving to the throng like he’s a 
returning war hero or a campaigning politician -- laughing --

             OZ
      What, no fireworks?

             THEODORA
      What are fireworks?

They pass through the ARCH OF TRIUMPH -- heading towards the 
Emerald Palace -- and what Oz isn’t seeing is:

BEHIND THE SCENES -- EVANORA’S PALACE GUARD -- uniformed 
bully-boys passing out the flags and banners, and they’re 
making damned sure the Citizens of Em City are cheering Oz’s 
entrance with sufficient gusto -- or else... giving us a 
sense that things might not be quite what they seem here in 
the Merry Old Land of Oz... 

EXT. THE PALACE

Grand -- glorious -- Theodora leads Oz inside.

INT. THE GRAND ENTRANCE HALL OF THE PALACE

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF THE SAVAGE ARMY nod deferentially to 
Theodora as she leads Oz through the enormous double doors at 
the other end of the hall, into:

INT. AN INCREDIBLY LONG VAULTED CORRIDOR

Seems to stretch on forever -- and at the end there’s another 
set of tall double doors which open all by themselves, into:

INT. THE THRONE ROOM

And there she is, seated majestically on the EMERALD THRONE:

                                      34.

EVANORA -- THE QUEEN OF OZ.  She’s also the Witch of the 
East.  She’s older than Theodora, but no less attractive.  A 
very powerful presence -- with a penetrating gaze. 

             THEODORA
      Wizard, my sister Evanora.  

Oz nods to her.  Evanora sounds curious, almost amused --

             EVANORA
      You do not kneel.

             OZ
      No, ma’am, I do not.

             EVANORA
      But I am Queen.

             OZ
      And I’m an American -- and 
      Americans kneel to no one.

A beat -- then Evanora smiles -- practically purrs -- 

             EVANORA
      Oh, Sister, I like him already.   
        (back to Oz)
      An American, you say -- I’m not 
      familiar with the word.  You’re 
      also a Wizard, I’m told.

             OZ
        (slyly)
      Not just a Wizard... but the Wizard 
      you’ve all been waiting for.  

             EVANORA
      At last.
        (another, cryptic smile)
      You’ve had a long journey, I’m sure 
      you’d like a bath and a bed.  These 
      girls will show you to your room.  

She waves a hand -- TWO MUNCHKIN MAIDS waddle up to Oz.

             EVANORA
      We’ll speak some more at dinner. 

             OZ
      I’m looking forward to it.

Each girl takes a hand and they lead Oz away -- Kana toddling 
after them toting Oz’s satchel.  Evanora waits until they’re 
gone, then turns to her sister.

                                      35.

             EVANORA
      You’re certain, then, that he’s a 
      Wizard?  

             THEODORA
      You saw what he could do.

             EVANORA
      Yes, I did see...

-- gesturing towards:  her CRYSTAL BALL -- then she smiles --

             EVANORA
      I saw then what I see now... that 
      this Wizard has already worked a 
      little magic on you.

Theodora -- almost blushing -- can’t meet her sister’s eyes -- 
as Evanora comes close, and circles...

             EVANORA
      Look at you... so pretty... so 
      young... so much still to learn.

             THEODORA
      What... what do you mean?

Evanora simply smiles again, strokes her sister’s cheek.

             EVANORA
      You did the right thing, dear, 
      bringing him here.  

INT. OZ’S CHAMBERS - SAME

The Munchkin Maids curtsey their way out the door -- Oz looks 
around the room, which is sumptuous as sin -- 

             OZ
      Not bad... not bad at all.
        (then, to Kana)
      I’m gonna tell you something, 
      Monkey, ‘cause who’re you gonna 
      tell? -- but methinks yours truly 
      has finally hit the Mother Lode --  
      landed feet first in the Pot at the 
      End of the Rainbow -- smelling like 
      a rose.

Kana frowns -- Oz bursts out laughing, and we go --

INT. GRAND DINING ROOM - THAT NIGHT

Oz and the Sisters are the only ones sitting at a long oaken 
table which could easily seat fifty.  Kana’s here to attend 
to them, as --

                                      36.

             EVANORA
      So, Wizard, tell me -- it is true?   
      I’m told you came from the clouds, 
      just fell from the sky.

             OZ
      I do like to make an entrance.

             EVANORA
      Yes -- but why here, of all places?  
      Why did you come to Oz?

Oz shrugs -- obliquely -- maintaining the mystery --

             OZ
      Could’ve been happenstance... 
      could’ve been serendipity... or 
      maybe it was Destiny... could’ve 
      been Fate.

             EVANORA
      Whatever it was, my sister and I 
      are very glad you’re here.  Come, I 
      want to show you something.

She rises, Kana pulling back her chair for her.

INT. OUTSIDE THE ROOM OF RESPLENDENCE

Two Savage Guards are on either side of an Archway -- and the 
interior of the arch is A CURTAIN OF BURNING FIRE.  Evanora 
gestures to the Guards:  Begone -- they move off -- then 
Evanora gives a little wave of her hand and the Curtain of 
Fire goes out, revealing a STOUT WOODEN DOOR -- with iron 
bands and multiple locks.  Another wave of Evanora’s hand and 
the locks fly open, the door swings open by itself, and the 
Sisters and Oz and Kana enter into --

INT. THE ROOM OF RESPLENDENCE

The Royal Repository of THE CROWN JEWELS OF OZ -- gemstones 
and jewels everywhere you look -- thousands of them, 
sparkling with the brilliance of a million suns...

                                      37.

             OZ
      This is, uh, quite the little piggy 
      bank you’ve got here, Highness.

             EVANORA
      Yes, I thought you’d like it.  

There’s a TREASURE CHEST filled with GLEAMING GOLD COINS.  Oz 
runs his fingers through them like water -- then PALMS one of 
the coins, disappears it up his sleeve as he moves on and 
picks up an Emerald the size of an Ostrich Egg.  

             OZ
      Y’know, with this stone alone I 
      could buy half the state of Kansas.

             EVANORA
      It’s yours if you want... 

             OZ
      Excuse me?

             EVANORA
      That and everything else in this 
      room -- for a price, of course -- a 
      small one... all you’ve got to do 
      is:  Bring me back the Witch of the 
      South’s Ruby Red Pendant.

             OZ
      Her Ruby Red Pendant -- that’s it? 

             EVANORA
      It will be no easy task.  The only 
      way you’ll ever get it away from 
      her is if she’s no longer alive.

             OZ
      You want me to kill her.

             EVANORA
      Rid the land of her evil, and all 
      this will be yours.  This... the 
      Golden Crown... and the Emerald 
      Throne.
        (smiles, nods)
      Yes... do this for me, Wizard, and 
      I’ll make you King... 

             OZ
      King?

             EVANORA
      And I’ll be your Queen.  

                                      38.

And Theodora reacts like she’s been slapped.  

             THEODORA
      What!  Sister --!

             EVANORA
        (ignores her)
      What say you, Wizard?  Will you do 
      this for me?  For yourself...?

Oz’s eyes sweep the room -- greedily -- 

             OZ
      All this, you say?

             EVANORA
      And more, much more -- riches and 
      power you’ve never dreamed of.

             OZ
      Sounds tempting, I’ll give you 
      that.  

             THEODORA
      But Wizard... you can’t... 

             EVANORA
        (trills a laugh)
      Why not?  

             OZ
      Yeah -- why not? 

But when he sees Theodora’s look, he says to Evanora --

             OZ
      Highness, will you excuse us for a 
      moment?

             EVANORA
      Of course.

She gives him a dazzling smile, glides from the room.

             THEODORA
      Wizard, you can’t do this.

             OZ
      Theodora, she’s offering me a 
      Kingdom.  

             THEODORA
      But last night... 

                                      39.

             OZ
      We had a moment, nothing more.

             THEODORA
      Nothing...!

             OZ
        (rephrases that)
      It was a memory I’ll forever hold 
      dear in my heart.

             THEODORA
      Your heart!  And what of mine?
        (bitterly)
      You know she can never love you.

             OZ
      That’s fine.  I don’t believe in 
      love.  

She stares -- like he just stabbed her in the heart -- then 
she just gives him a little nod, and walks from the room, 
head held high -- doesn’t so much as glance at Evanora, who 
steps back into the room, sees the grim look on Oz’s face.

             EVANORA
      Don’t feel bad, Wizard -- cruelty 
      befits a King.  And she’s young, 
      she’ll learn -- as you and I both 
      know:  the world’s no place for 
      childish dreams. 

Still, Oz is feeling like a heel, and off him we go --

INT. THE INCREDIBLY LONG VAULTED CORRIDOR - WITH THEODORA

Running -- actually seems to be fighting back tears, and --

             THEODORA
      No -- No!

-- hands to her face now, over her eyes -- and she stumbles -- 

             THEODORA
      Don’t!  Do not!  Stop!

She wails -- in pain -- blindly keeps moving -- staggering --

                                      40.

INT. THEODORA’S ROOM

She stumbles in -- one hand still across her face -- feels 
her way across the room to the Mirror on the Wall.  She 
stands in front of it, removes her hand, and we see:

THEODORA -- IN THE MIRROR -- and she has been crying -- still 
is:  a single tear leaking from each eye -- and both those 
tears are leaving burn-lines on her face -- smoke rising... 
Theodora -- breathing hard -- berating herself --

             THEODORA
      Stupid.  So stupid.  Serves you 
      right.

She dabs at her eyes, then sees:  OZ’S MUSIC BOX.  She waves 
a hand -- music starts to play -- then, zap! -- she flashes 
lightning from her fingers and --

THE MUSIC BOX BURSTS INTO FLAME... the wood cracks and 
splinters... the music groans and pings and dies... Theodora 
just staring -- empty -- hollowed inside...

                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. EVANORA’S PALACE - INNER COURTYARD - FOLLOWING MORNING

OZ STARTS OUT ON HIS QUEST -- mounted on Sawhorse, Kana 
tagging along behind him, on foot.  Oz looks up, sees:

EVANORA -- IN THE THRONE ROOM WINDOW -- hand lifted in 
farewell.  He also gets a glimpse of:

THEODORA -- IN HER BEDROOM WINDOW -- PEERING OUT FROM BEHIND 
THE CURTAIN...  

BACK TO OZ... riding out... still feeling like a heel... 

EXT. ON THE ROAD SOUTH - MORNING

Emerald City receding in the background -- Oz on Sawhorse, 
his conscience still bothering him -- then he glances over at 
Kana, who’s just minding his own business --

             OZ
      Don’t give me that sly simian look 
      of yours -- I know what you’re 
      thinking, Monkey... 

Kana’s look says:  Huh? -- Oz shakes his head --

                                      41.

             OZ
      ... and I can’t say I disagree.  I 
      hurt her, I know I hurt her -- but 
      what else could I do?  
        (Kana stays silent)
      I know.  I know.  And you’re right.  
      I’d probably be a hell of a man if 
      I only had a soul.

Kana just looks at him.  Oz sighs again, then --

             OZ
      Why don’t you take a load off, 
      Monkey -- come on, climb aboard.

He reaches a hand out -- Kana hesitates, then takes it -- Oz 
helps him up onto the Sawhorse.

             OZ
      Y’know something, Monkey?  Believe 
      it or not, my whole life I’ve been 
      waiting for something like this -- 
      a Glorious Quest -- a chance to 
      maybe even actually do something 
      good for once -- and get well-
      compensated in the process.  Battle 
      Evil, Slay the Wicked Dragon, 
      Return the Conquering Hero...

             KANA
      Sure you’ve got the right Dragon?

And Oz wheels around so fast he nearly falls off Sawhorse.

             OZ
      You... you can talk?

             KANA
      Oh yes-yes -- this sly simian can 
      talk-talk pretty good!

             OZ
      You got a name, Simian?

             KANA
      Kana.

             OZ
      Pleased to meet you, Kana.  

He reaches over his shoulder to shake Kana’s hand.  Kana 
hesitates -- no one’s ever wanted to shake his hand before -- 
and, as they do --

                                      42.

             OZ
      The other Monkeys -- can they talk 
      too?  

             KANA
      No-no, only me!  And my brother, 
      thanks to Glinda.

             OZ
      Glinda?

             KANA
      The Witch of the South.

             OZ
      The Wicked Witch?

             KANA
      No-no -- silly man, foolish man -- 
      for a Wizard you’re not so wise!  
      Glinda, she is the Good Witch -- 
      the Sisters are the Wicked Ones!

             OZ
      The Sisters...?  You’re telling me 
      that Theodora’s...?

             KANA
      Oh, she’s not all the way wicked 
      yet, but soon, I think, soon-soon!
        (sees)
      You don’t believe me, do you?  
      Okay, Kana show you -- take-take 
      that road there... 

They bear left at the fork, and soon they come to...

EXT. THE OUTSKIRTS OF CHINA TOWNE - DAY

Approaching a hill -- Oz and Kana still riding Sawhorse -- 
when Oz notices... Sawhorse’s wooden hooves have started to 
make a chinking sound against the ground.  Oz pulls back on 
the reins, hops off Sawhorse, pulls that Gold Coin he 
pilfered out of his pocket and taps it against the road.

             OZ
      Sounds like... fine china.  

He looks, sees:  It’s not just the road:  The grass, the 
rocks, the trees all around him look strangely glassine, 
smooth and shiny as painted porcelain.  There’s also:

                                      43.

ASH, wafting from the sky like 3D snow... Oz glances at Kana, 
then hurries the rest of the way up the hill -- he reaches 
the crest and sees in the bowl of the valley below:

EXT. CHINA TOWNE

And everything down there seems to be made of fine china as 
well -- the farms, the barns, the streets and houses and 
buildings, the village green -- all made of fine china --

And they’ve all been smashed to pieces! -- smashed, trashed 
and burned -- like a giant fist laid waste to a child’s tea 
set, then put it to the torch -- smoke and ash still rising, 
much of the town blackened and charred.

             OZ
      What... what happened here?

             KANA
      Come see.

EXT. CHINA TOWNE - TOWN SQUARE

Yesterday this place looked like something out of a fairy 
tale... now it’s the morning after Kristallnacht.  We see an 
adorable little CHINA GIRL coming up the street -- and she 
too is made if china, and is carrying a man’s china leg.

CHINA GIRL’S FATHER is sitting against a building -- his one 
good leg stretched out before him -- the other’s been broken 
off at the hip -- and CHINA GIRL’S MOTHER is repairing a hole 
in his chest -- a china piece of him had been knocked out; 
Mama’s gluing it back into place -- other wounded CHINA 
PEOPLE, many in even worse shape, lay strewn amidst the 
rubble in the street, then --

             CHINA GIRL
      Here, Mama, I found Papa’s leg.

Then they hear:

             OZ
	(O.S.)
      Who did this?

China Mama turns, asks sharply -- 

             CHINA MAMA
      Who are you?

             KANA
      This man, he is the Wizard!

                                      44.

             CHINA MAMA
      You’re the Wizard?  Well, then, 
      hope you’re happy -- see what 
      you’ve done?

             OZ
      What I’ve done?

             CHINA MAMA
      This happened because of you.  

Oz -- taken aback -- as China Papa explains --

             CHINA PAPA
      When we heard you’d arrived, that 
      you were actually, finally here -- 
      you’ve never seen such a 
      celebration! 

             CHINA MAMA
      You should’ve known better -- but 
      did you listen to me?  No!

             CHINA PAPA
        (sadly)
      She’s right -- we should’ve known -- 
      should’ve known that the Queen 
      could never abide such a thing -- 
      but we couldn’t help ourselves -- 
      we were so happy!  And then... the 
      Queen’s Army came in, and did this.

             OZ
      Evanora’s Army.

             CHINA PAPA
      The Savage Horde.
        (then)
      You will help us, won’t you?  

China Mama just snorts.  China Papa reaches up and grabs Oz 
by the arm, with urgency --

             CHINA PAPA
      But be warned.  She’s evil to the 
      bone, Evanora is -- as wicked as 
      wicked ever was.

             CHINA MAMA
      And someday that little sister of 
      hers is going to be even worse.

                                      45.

             OZ
        (can’t believe it)
      Theodora?

             CHINA MAMA
      Mark my words.

And we hold on Oz a moment -- rocked -- then hear an angry 
O.S. sound that’s somewhere between a snarl and a screech as 
we jump back to --

INT. THRONE ROOM - EVANORA’S PALACE - EMERALD CITY - SAME

CLOSE ON EVANORA’S CRYSTAL BALL --- seeing, from above:  Oz 
and the others in China Town... 

             EVANORA 
      You weren’t supposed to see that, 
      Wizard.

Then she wheels, orders her assembled Savage Generals --

             EVANORA
      You bring them back here, and 
      whatever you do, do NOT let them 
      reach the Witch of the South!
      Now GO!  Ride and fly!

THE SAVAGE GENERALS dash out, and --

INT. THEODORA’S ROOM

THEODORA hears a commotion, goes to her window and sees, in 
the courtyard below:  THE SAVAGE GENERALS -- calling for 
their men, marshaling their troops -- and puzzled -- 
concerned -- she races from the room, to --

INT. THRONE ROOM

Theodora rushes in, Evanora’s again at into the Crystal.

             THEODORA
      Sister, what’s happening!

             EVANORA
      This is all your fault!  I should 
      have killed him straight away, but 
      I didn’t, because of you.  I wanted 
      to discover your true intent.

                                      46.

             THEODORA
      My -- what --?

             EVANORA
      You think you’re very clever, don’t 
      you?  What was it you promised him?  
      That you and he would rule this 
      land together after he disposed of 
      Glinda... then me?  

             THEODORA
      Sister, how can you even think --

             EVANORA
      -- That you want to be Queen?  Of 
      course you do, I know you do -- I 
      know the evil within you -- I also 
      know:  Soon we’re going to need it.  

Theodora frowns, uncertain -- Evanora creeps closer... 

             EVANORA
      Tell me, my pretty, what do you 
      think’s going to happen should the 
      Wizard reach Glinda?  You really 
      think he’s going to kill her?  No -- 
      her charms are much, much greater 
      than yours...
        (lets the needle sink in)
      ... Or mine.  Just you wait -- 
      you’ll see.
        (wicked smile)
      But don’t you worry -- your Wizard 
      will be coming back -- coming back 
      for you... 
        (strokes Theodora’s hair)
      But he won’t be coming to ask you 
      for your hand -- he’ll be coming to 
      chop off your head!

Then we bang outside to -- 

EXT. EMERALD CITY - SAME

THE SAVAGE HORDE ARMY STORMS OUT THE CITY GATES -- hundreds 
of them -- armed to the teeth -- a loping, quick-march pace --  
A CADRE OF WINGED MONKEYS flying in formation above them, all 
of them heading for --

EXT. CHINA TOWNE

Oz, Kana and Sawhorse are trudging out of town -- Oz looking 
hangdog, morose... 

                                      47.

             OZ
      They had me fooled, you know --
      Theodora and her sister.

             KANA
        (nods, agrees, then)
      You may be a wizard, Wizard, but 
      you’re still a man, and many-many 
      men-men get fooled by a pretty face 
      and pretty promises.  

Oz looks at him -- then notices, walking behind them... THE 
LITTLE CHINA GIRL.  Oz waves her away.

             OZ
      What are you doing?  Go home.

             CHINA GIRL
      I want to go with you.

             OZ
      You can’t.  Now go on, go home. 

He continues walking -- and she keeps following.

             OZ
      I told you, git, get outta here, 
      scram, skedaddle, shoo!

But then he sees -- behind her, on the north side of the 
valley, just coming over the hill --

THE SAVAGE HORDE

-- coming fast and furious -- a phalanx of Winged Monkeys 
overhead -- and Oz roars --

             OZ
      What’s the matter, you Savages, you 
      didn’t do enough to these people?  
      You’re coming back for more?

             KANA
      They’re not coming back for more, 
      Wizard.  They’re coming for us.

             OZ
      They -- what! -- what do we do!

                                      48.

             KANA
      You’re the Wizard -- do something!

             OZ
      Sorry, but I’m fresh out of 
      miracles at the moment.

             KANA
      Then we run.

He takes off.  Oz swats Sawhorse on the rump -- Go! -- and is 
about to go running off himself when he stops, turns, sees:

THE LOOK IN THE LITTLE CHINA GIRL’S EYES -- all her faith and 
hope and trust in him -- so, half hating himself for risking 
his own neck like this, he rushes back, scoops her up, and 
holding her in his arms he races after Kana and the Sawhorse -
- up the valley’s southern ridge -- Kana turns, sees:  the 
Savage Horde is gaining on them --

             KANA
      Glinda, she will help us.  

             OZ
      Good -- where is she?

             KANA
      Far from here.

             OZ
      Then how --?

             KANA
      She just will.   

And as they go over the ridge and down the other side, we 
pull up and back and see...

THE IMPENETRABLE MIST

A thick, spectral fog sweeping in from the south -- moving 
across the land like an immense ghostly hand... it envelops 
Oz and China Girl and Kana and Sawhorse... and soon the 
Savage Horde and the Winged Monkeys and all of China Towne 
are engulfed in an Ocean of Cloud... 

WITH OZ AND KANA -- IN THE IMPENETRABLE MIST

Eerie, dreamlike -- Oz can’t see a thing.

             OZ
      Where are you?

             KANA
      Here, Wizard. 

Oz moves towards the sound -- finds Kana -- who’s got 
Sawhorse by the reins.  

                                      49.

             OZ
      Glinda did this?

             KANA
      Oh yes -- yes-yes -- I told you, 
      she‘s a very good Witch.  
        (then)
      Take my tail.  Follow me.  

EXT. WITH THE SAVAGE HORDE ARMY -- IN THE IMPENETRABLE MIST

Fog-blind, floundering, disoriented.  The GNOME AND WHIMSIE 
WARRIORS we met before are griping --

             GNOME WARRIOR
      You think he did this?  

             WHIMSIE WARRIOR
      The Wizard?  

             GNOME WARRIOR
      They say he came from the clouds, 
      and here we are stuck in one. 

             WHIMSIE WARRIOR
      Magic like this is probably easy 
      for the likes of him.  

             GNOME WARRIOR
      The Queen better be careful -- a 
      Great and Powerful Wizard this one 
      is, believe you me...

EXT. NEAR THE BORDER 

As Oz, China Girl, Kana and Sawhorse step out of the cloud, 
and into sudden bright sunlight.  Kana looks, sees:

             KANA
      We’re here.  That’s Quadling 
      Country, just on the other side.

             OZ
      But on the other side of what?

                                      50.

The reason he’s asking:  Everything for the next hundred 
yards or so looks regular and normal, clear as a bell.  
Beyond that, though, is what appears to be:

A SHIMMERING WALL -- extending east to west as far as Oz can 
see in either direction -- and everything on the other side 
of the Wall is hazy as a mirage.  Oz et al approach... Oz 
first tentatively tosses a pebble at the Wall... the pebble 
drops straight to the ground in a shower of fairy-dust 3D 
sparkles... the Wall’s a force-field of some kind.  

             OZ
      Glinda’s work as well, I take it.  
      How do we get through?

             KANA
      How do I know?  I’m just a Monkey.  
      You’re the Wizard.

Oz frowns -- then suddenly Kana chortles and does a STANDING 
BACK FLIP -- very pleased with himself --

             KANA
      Kana kidding you, Wizard!  You want 
      to go through?  It’s easy -- just 
      walk! -- but be careful... only the 
      good get through.

Oz glances at him -- understandably hesitant -- then... 

             CHINA GIRL
      Take my hand.  

She takes his hand in both of hers, and with her eyes locked 
on his she walks backwards towards the wall, pulling him 
after herself, and --

             OZ
      No -- wait -- don’t --

And when she touches the Wall... there’s a big shimmer of 
sparkles and she passes through -- drawing Oz in after her -- 
as if through a veil of crystal water, and he steps into --

EXT. QUADLING COUNTRY

And the China Girl hugs him, laughing --

             CHINA GIRL
      See?  You’ve just got to believe.

Then Kana and Sawhorse come through -- and Oz is gazing up at 
the Wall, shaking his head and marveling --

                                      51.

             OZ
      You know I’m about this close to 
      losing my capacity for surprise?

He turns and -- yikes! -- he sees, up in the Quadling sky, 
flying right towards them:  TWO WINGED MONKEYS.  Oz snaps a 
look at Kana -- What do we do? -- but Kana just smiles --

             KANA
      It’s alright, Wizard -- these-these 
      are my brothers.  

Oz relaxes -- the Brothers touch down -- Kana touches his 
forehead to each of theirs in greeting -- then introduces 
them to Oz.

             KANA
      This is Kala, this is Kaya.  And 
      this, this is the Wizard.  

The Brothers nod hello, then Kala says to Kana --

             KALA
      Listen.

             KAYA
        (with difficulty)
      I... I learning how... to speak.

Kana beams with pride -- claps Kaya on the shoulder --

             KANA
      Good-good! -- very good! -- Glinda 
      must be pleased.

             KALA
      Oh yes -- yes-yes.
        (then)
      She wants to speak with you.

             KANA
      I must go, Wizard.  You just follow 
      this road here, take you straight-
      straight to Glinda’s Castle.

             OZ
      Before you go, I wanted to ask 
      you... Theodora -- did she know you 
      could talk?
        (Kana gestures No)
      So she also didn’t know that you’re 
      Glinda’s spy.  

             KANA
        (after a beat)
      See you at the Castle.  

He and his Brothers wing off.  Oz looks at the China Girl.  

                                      52.

             OZ
      Guess that leaves the two of us.  
      Y’know, I should just send you 
      home... but you’re probably safer 
      here with me.  
        (then)
      So.  You ever been to a Castle?
        (she shakes a No)
      Me neither.  You want to go to a 
      Castle?
        (off her excited nod --)
      Alright, then... let’s go.  

He hoists her up, sets her on Sawhorse, sits down behind her, 
and as they move off --

EXT. EMERALD CITY - DAY

             EVANORA
	(O.S.)
      So you let him escape...

INT. THRONE ROOM 

Evanora eyes her Generals -- two Gnomes, two Whimsies, two 
Growleywogs, two Winged Monkeys.  Theodora’s here as well -- 
and the Queen is not pleased.

             EVANORA
      I’m sure by now he’s already in 
      Quadling Country.  

She covers her eyes -- disgusted with the lot of them -- 

             EVANORA
      Leave us.
        (the Generals start out)
      But before you go... 

The Generals turn -- Evanora, eyes still covered, flicks her 
hand -- and LIGHTNING lances out of her fingertips, FRIES 
FOUR OF THE GENERALS right on the spot -- one Gnome, one 
Whimsie, one Growleywog, one Monkey -- reduces them to four 
small black piles of ash.  

                                      53.

             EVANORA
      We’re going to need some new 
      Generals.

The surviving Generals hurry out.  Evanora turns to her 
sister, tells her --

             EVANORA
      So.  Your Wizard will soon reach 
      Glinda -- which means that soon you 
      must choose.

             THEODORA
      Choose?

             EVANORA
      I know a part of you still wants to 
      be like Glinda -- beautiful, and 
      beloved -- rather than hated and 
      feared, like me.  But that is not 
      who you are, dear, not who you are 
      meant to be.
        (moves close)
      I need you, Sister -- and halfway 
      isn’t enough.  Join me, and 
      together we’ll defeat them -- join 
      me, and together we shall rule for 
      the next thousand years... and all 
      it will cost you is your heart.

EXT. ON THE ROAD TO GLINDA’S CASTLE - DAY

Sawhorse clip-clops past us, Oz and China Girl still astride  
-- China Girl asleep, her head lolling against Oz’s chest, Oz 
holding her -- uncomfortably -- like most childless men would 
be in such a situation.  Then he frowns, sensing something -- 
looks back over his shoulder and sees... 

He’s being followed... there are FIVE PEOPLE behind him... 
different-looking people -- from different clans... and since 
they don’t seem to be posing any threat, Oz just shrugs, 
turns to face forward again... then in another few seconds he 
looks over his shoulder once more, and --

Now there are TWENTY PEOPLE following him... Oz seems to find 
that sort of strange... he digs his heels into Sawhorse, 
gives a snap of the reins and says --

             OZ
      Giddyap.

But Sawhorse maintains that same steady pace -- and for a 
third time Oz looks back over his shoulder --

                                      54.

And now a HUNDRED PEOPLE are following him -- and even more 
are coming to join the procession.  Oz shouts at them --

             OZ
      What are you doing?  Why are you 
      following me!

The Little China Girl wakes up -- sees the people behind --  
and smiles up at Oz --

             CHINA GIRL
      ‘Cause you’re the Wizard.
        (then)
      Look! -- we’re here.

And there it is... 

EXT. GLINDA’S CASTLE

White, radiant, glorious -- seems to be made of living 
crystal.  Kana’s waiting out front.  Oz -- dazzled -- 
dismounts from Sawhorse -- China Girl still in his arms.

             KANA
      I see you’ve already developed 
      quite a following, Wizard.

             OZ
      Who are those people?

             KANA
        (brightly)
      Glinda, she will explain.  Now 
      come, come inside!

Oz sets down China Girl, takes her hand, then follows Kana in 
through the Castle Gates.

INT. CASTLE COURTYARD

Like the Gardens of Babylon -- but not a person to be seen.

             OZ
      Where is everybody?

             KANA
      Who were you expecting?

             OZ
      Guards, servants, courtiers -- this 
      is a castle, isn’t it?

                                      55.

             KANA
      Glinda, she is a Witch -- and a 
      Witch-witch needs no one.  

             OZ
      Independent-minded, is she?  I like 
      that in a woman.  

             KANA
        (stops, turns)
      But I’m telling you she’s not a 
      woman -- she’s a Witch.

             OZ
      How ‘bout you let me be the judge 
      of that? 

-- with a wolfish grin -- and Kana rolls his eyes -- they 
continue into the castle -- and in moments we arrive in:

INT. GLINDA’S PRIVATE CHAMBER

Very long, very high, many-windowed -- French doors leading 
out to a balcony -- and, as with the rest of the castle, 
there’s no one to be seen.  

             OZ
      You gonna let her know we’re here?

             KANA
      No need!

And he points -- through the open French doors -- and Oz 
looks and sees, in the distance, coming towards us --

A MAGIC BUBBLE... looks like a big opalescent bubble of soap.  
Oz glances at Kana -- Kana just grins -- and the Bubble keeps 
wafting towards us, settles down onto the balcony -- the 
Bubble vanishes, and there she is... 

GLINDA

And she is, in the words of Joseph Campbell:  “The paragon of 
all paragons of beauty, the reply to all desire... the 
incarnation of the promise of perfection.”  She steps into 
the room -- has the bearing of a Pirate Queen.  

             GLINDA
      So.  You’re the Wizard everyone’s 
      talking about.  I’m Glinda.

And Oz just shakes his head -- sounds absolutely awestruck --

                                      56.

             OZ
      No... I know who you are:  You’re 
      Venus and Aphrodite, Ishtar and 
      Isis, you’re Helen and Cleopatra, 
      Ophelia and Juliet.  You are the 
      reason men write poetry.  You are 
      why men fight wars.

And Glinda smiles -- dryly --

             GLINDA
      Yes, Kana told me how fond you were 
      of words.  He also said he wasn’t 
      sure if you really are a Wizard.

             OZ
      He did, did he?

-- scowling at Kana, who nods enthusiastically -- 

             GLINDA
      So, then -- are you?

             OZ
      A Wizard?  Guess that all depends 
      on how you define the term.  Can I 
      turn water into wine, dross into 
      gold?  No.  Nor can I make 
      mountains tremble or part the Seven 
      Seas.  However... 

He reaches towards Kana -- seems to pluck that pilfered Gold 
Coin right out of the Monkey’s ear.  

             OZ
      I can at times Astound and Amaze. 
        (makes the Coin disappear)
      Illusion’s my game.

             GLINDA
      Illusion as in:  Not real.

             OZ
      Madame, you cut me to the quick.

             GLINDA
      I’m sure Evanora would like to do 
      even worse than that.  
        (then)
      Real Wizard or not, right now 
      you’re the only Wizard I’ve got...
        (walks onto balcony)
      The only Wizard they’ve got.

                                      57.

She gestures:  Come look.  Oz steps outside and sees:

EXT. GLINDA’S CASTLE BALCONY

A SEA OF PEOPLE -- hundreds, maybe thousands of them -- 
streaming towards the castle from every direction.

             OZ
      Who... who are they? -- what are 
      they doing here!

             GLINDA
      Some are refugees, the rest are 
      just the Good People of the South --  
      and they’ve all come to see the 
      Great Wizard who’s going to lead 
      them against the Sisters and their 
      Savage Army.

Oz gapes at her -- then stares out at the in-coming flood -- 
and they’re coming from different cities, different clans, 
different tribes -- we go in closer and see:  

CUTTENCLIP SOLDIERS -- who, from the front, look very 
impressive -- marching smartly, rifles on their shoulders, 
dressed like Beefeater Guards... HAMMERHEADS, who have flat-
top heads and no arms... DAINTY CHINA SOLDIERS AND FARMERS -- 
their glazed china clothes and bodies shining in the sun... A 
PHALANX OF FUDDLES -- fairly normal-looking people except for 
the thick haphazard puzzle-piece lines on their faces and 
bodies and clothes...and lastly:  THE STERLING INHABITANTS OF 
UTENSIA -- who are walking kitchen utensils:  KNIVES and 
FORKS and CLEAVERS and SCISSORS and SPOONS -- all with eyes 
and arms and legs -- the Scissors en pointe like ballerinas --

And when the Good People of Oz look up and see Oz, a 
TREMENDOUS CHEER goes up -- Oz feels obliged to wave back to 
them -- says to Glinda, through a fixed smile --

             OZ
      All these people... they want me to 
      lead them into battle?

             GLINDA
      They want the Land of Oz to be 
      free.

             OZ
      You need a Wizard, I’ll be your 
      Wizard, but I’m not a Warlord -- 
      you need someone with brains and 
      heart and courage --

                                      58.

             GLINDA
      We need you.  

             OZ
      Why?  Why me?  Why can’t you do it?  
      Theodora told me you were the most 
      powerful Sorceress of all.

             GLINDA
      But there are two Wicked Sisters, 
      and if I try to fight them alone 
      they might well destroy me -- and 
      if I should die, Hope and Dreams 
      would die here in the Land of Oz -- 
      would die for a thousand years.  
        (adamant)
      No -- it has to be you.  

             OZ
      And what if I say no?

             GLINDA
      Then I’d be very disappointed.

             OZ
      You wouldn’t be the first.

             GLINDA
      And I would banish you forever from 
      Quadling Country.

             OZ
      Throwing me to the tender mercies 
      of the Sisters, you mean.
        (then)
      And you call yourself a Good Witch.

             GLINDA
      A Good Witch is still a Witch, and 
      a Witch wants what she wants -- and 
      I want these people to be free.

A beat -- then Oz smiles -- craftily... 

             OZ
      Back where I come from, nothing’s 
      free -- so tell you what -- I’m 
      gonna go down and have a little 
      look-see at what you’re giving me 
      to work with -- then you and I are 
      gonna have a little parlez-vous... 
      so now, if you’ll excuse me... 

                                      59.

He moves past her, climbs over the railing and climbs down 
the trellis which goes from the balcony to the ground.   
Glinda signals to Kana -- Kana flaps down to join Oz as --

OZ REVIEWS THE TROOPS -- Kana trailing behind him like a 
Master Sergeant.  And to call this a Highly Irregular Army is 
to put it mildly.  Oz first stops in front of:   

THE DAINTY CHINA SOLDIERS AND FARMERS -- all as smooth and 
glossy and apple-cheeked as Dresden figurines. 

             OZ
      Very pretty -- but can they fight?

Kana discreetly shakes a no.  Next up:  

THE FUDDLES -- who all stiffen their spines and try to look 
stalwart and strong for Oz -- who can’t help but stare at the 
thick jigsaw lines which pattern each of their bodies and 
faces like scars.  Their leader is named FARNSWORTH --

             OZ
      What happened to you people?

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      What happened?  Nothing happened -- 
      we were born like this.  

             OZ
      I see.

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      Do you?  Most people find us 
      rather... puzzling.

             OZ
      Can you fight?

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      We love to fight, sir -- provided, 
      of course, that nothing untoward or 
      unexpected occurs -- you know:  
      Loud noises, sudden attacks -- 
      anything that would get us 
      frightened or surprised.  The thing 
      is, sir, we Fuddles have a tendency 
      of sometimes falling all to pieces.

             OZ
      Falling all to --?

And just like that:  THE FUDDLE FALLS TO PIECES -- just 
collapses in a jigsaw heap -- there’s part of his face here, 
half his shoulder there, the crook of an elbow next to that.

                                      60.

             OZ
        (absolutely flabbergasted)
      Did he just --?  He did, he just... 

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
	(O.S.)
      Don’t concern yourself, sir -- I’m 
      quite all right!

Oz looks closer:  a puzzle piece of Farnsworth’s MOUTH is 
moving -- under another piece which features a BLINKING EYE.

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      See? -- I’ll have myself back 
      together in no time.

He’s already piecing himself back together.

             OZ
      Does it hurt when you do that?

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      Not at all, sir.  Coming apart at 
      the seams is actually quite 
      relaxing -- relieves a lot of 
      stress, as you can imagine.

Oz looks at Kana, then moves on to:

THE HAMMERHEADS -- those short, squat, surly-looking 
characters with flat-topped heads and no arms... 

             OZ
      How are you going to fight?

             HAMMERHEAD
      To the death, if need be!

-- sounding like a card-carrying member of the Lollipop 
Guild.  The other Hammerheads all nod and scowl.  

             OZ
      Well, uh, I hate to be the one to 
      ask the obvious, but... how do you 
      propose to take up arms against the 
      Queen’s Savage Army when you don’t 
      happen to, um, have any arms?

             HAMMERHEAD
      Doesn’t mean we can’t fight.  

                                      61.

And to demonstrate, the Hammerhead’s head suddenly SHOOTS out 
from his body -- neck stretched like a Jack-in-the-Box -- and 
the flat part of his skull slams into a SECOND HAMMERHEAD -- 
sends him flying into the air -- and a THIRD HAMMERHEAD 
deftly catches #2 on the his flat noggin like a soccer pro, 
then boings him into the air again -- other Hammerheads then 
start launching each other skyward -- volleyballing -- ping-
ponging them back and forth, and --

             OZ
      Okay, I stand corrected -- you boys 
      have got some definite potential.

The Hammerheads nod and scowl again -- satisfied -- as Oz and 
Kana move on to:

THE CUTTENCLIP SOLDIERS -- and there seem to be thousands of 
them -- all almost identical in their military finery, in 
perfect lines and perfect rows -- and Oz sounds pleased --

             OZ
      Ah, here we go!  Now these men look 
      like soldiers!  These men --

He’s so happy he claps one of the Soldiers on the shoulder -- 
and the Cuttenclip’s torso RIPS almost in two!  And this so 
startles Oz that suddenly he SNEEZES -- and dozens of the 
Cuttenclips go flutter-flying back into one another as though 
they just got hit with a bomb-blast!

             OZ
      Are these men made of... paper?

             KANA
      Oh yes -- magic paper -- a little 
      old lady, she makes them! -- she’s 
      very-very jolly, very sweet --

             OZ
        (glaring up at Glinda)
      But they’re paper!  You’re giving 
      me Paper Soldiers?  

He moves on to the Utensils -- who look hard and honed -- 

             OZ
      Now we’re talking... yes...  I 
      reckon these Sterling Citizens 
      could kill a Savage or two!

             GLINDA
      No, they cannot.

                                      62.

             OZ
      Excuse me?

             GLINDA
      They are enchanted -- and anything 
      enchanted cannot kill.  

And this knocks Oz completely for a loop.

             OZ
      Can I... speak to you a moment?

And he clambers back up the trellis, heatedly gestures for 
Glinda to join him back in -- 

INT. GLINDA’S PRIVATE CHAMBER

             OZ
      You’re telling me that none of 
      these People can kill?  

             GLINDA
      No one born here in Oz can kill... 
      except Witches -- and Wizards --

             OZ
      And the Sisters’ Savage Army?  

             GLINDA
      The Savages are not from here... 
      nor are they enchanted.

             OZ
      So you’re saying:  They can kill.  
      But the Good People of Oz --

             GLINDA
      Cannot.

             OZ
      You want me to lead an Army that 
      can’t kill.  

             GLINDA
      If this were easy, we wouldn’t need 
      a Wizard, would we?

A sly look comes into Oz’s eye... 

             OZ
      And, like you said:  Right now I’m 
      the only Wizard you’ve got.  So 
      tell me something...  

             OZ
	(cont'd)
        (he grins, like a fox)
      What’s in it for me?

He’s now in his element, on a roll -- he’s seen an angle here 
and he’s working it --

                                      63.

             OZ
      What’d you think, you were dealing 
      with some babe in the woods here, 
      all dewy-eyed and wet behind the 
      ears?  No, and the way I see it:  
      Banish me and you’ve got nothing, 
      they’ve got nothing -- so what I 
      wanna know is:  I do this for you, 
      and what do I get out of it?

             GLINDA
        (ice)
      What do you want?

             OZ
      If I’m gonna risk my neck I wanna 
      be rewarded.  Which means:  If, in 
      the highly unlikely event that we 
      somehow do manage to defeat the 
      Wicked Sisters and their Savage 
      Horde, as soon as we march into the 
      Emerald City I wanna load up with 
      all the gold and jewels and 
      gemstones I can carry, and then I 
      want out -- 

             GLINDA
      Where do you want to go?

             OZ
      I don’t know... someplace where 
      everyone isn’t looking at me like 
      I’m the Answer to questions that 
      have nothing to do with me!
        (then rhapsodizes)
      I want to go where the rich people 
      go... I wanna walk through rooms of 
      soft carpet, I wanna sleep in beds 
      of eiderdown, I wanna drink 
      champagne out of cut crystal and I 
      wanna live in a house high on a 
      hill -- and when I pass by people 
      on the street in my gilded carriage 
      I want them to turn to each other 
      and say:  There goes somebody.  

                                      64.

             GLINDA
        (a beat, then)
      That would be a small price to pay 
      for the freedom of my people. 

             OZ
      Then it sounds like you and me have 
      got ourselves a deal.  

He steps back onto the balcony -- Glinda out behind him --

EXT. GLINDA’S BALCONY

Kana shouts out from below --

             KANA
      THREE CHEERS FOR THE WIZARD!

And as the Good People of Oz thunder as one --

             GOOD PEOPLE OF OZ
      Hip-hip, FOR OZ!  Hip-hip, FOR OZ!  
      Hip-hip, FOR OZ!

-- Oz hears, from over his shoulder --  

             GLINDA
      Imagine... if you turned out to be 
      the man they imagine you to be... 
      the man you’ve always dreamed of 
      being?

He stares -- she struck a nerve -- it’s like she looked right 
through him -- and she smiles -- knowingly -- and the Little 
China Girl comes out, takes Oz’s hand in hers -- he looks 
down at her -- at her adoring, trusting gaze -- then he looks 
back out at the Sea of People -- as we go --

INT. EMERALD CITY - THRONE ROOM - SAME

Evanora’s gazing into her CRYSTAL BALL -- Theodora comes in.  

             EVANORA
      Ah.  There you are.  Come see:  I 
      was right.

SEEING:  OZ AND GLINDA -- IN THE CRYSTAL BALL -- still out  
on Glinda’s Castle Balcony -- the huge crowd still below...

                                      65.

             EVANORA
      Your Wizard and Glinda are now 
      together.  He has chosen... now you 
      must too.

Theodora -- staring into the Crystal -- very still -- as 
Evanora sneers, contemptuous --

             EVANORA
      And still you hesitate.  What’s it 
      going to take?  Do you intend to 
      wait until they’re inside the city 
      gates?...
        (suddenly grabs Theodora 
         by the hair)
      NO!  I cannot wait any longer!  I 
      need you and I need you NOW!  You 
      must ACCEPT the Evil inside of you!  
      You must EMBRACE THE HATE!

Theodora wrenches free -- and in so doing she accidentally 
KNOCKS THE CRYSTAL SMASHING TO THE FLOOR in 3D smoke and 
sparkle -- as Evanora keeps at it, keeps on her --

             EVANORA
      What are you so frightened of!  
      WHAT ARE YOU HOLDING ON TO!  He 
      doesn’t love you!  He will never 
      love you!  
        (grabs her, turns her)
      OPEN YOUR EYES AND SEE THE 
      DARKNESS!  Your Wizard and Glinda 
      will soon be coming here and they 
      will be coming here to KILL US!

And Theodora finally shrieks --

             THEODORA
      ALRIGHT!  Stop it! -- alright! -- 
      I’ll do it... 

Evanora suppresses a smile -- crooks a finger --

             EVANORA
      Come.

INT. GRAND DINING ROOM - EVANORA’S PALACE - MOMENTS LATER

Theodora’s seated at the table -- staring -- as Evanora DRIPS 
POTION from a vial on a SHINY RED APPLE -- drop by drop... 

             THEODORA
      Will it hurt?  

                                      66.

             EVANORA
      Fleetingly.  Then you’ll never feel 
      pain again.

             THEODORA
      Nor love.

             EVANORA
      What good has love ever done you?  
      What good has good ever done you?  
        (the apple’s ready)
      There now.  One bite is all it 
      takes.  One bite, and the world 
      will change forever... one bite, 
      and you’ll be able to fly... one 
      bite -- or Glinda will soon be 
      seated on the Emerald Throne -- as 
      the Wizard’s Blessed Queen...

That does it:  Theodora snatches up the apple, takes a savage 
bite, and almost immediately it begins:

THEODORA’S TRANSFORMATION

A violent inner upheaval -- the sudden shock and pain of it 
flashing across her face -- she PUSHES BACK FROM THE TABLE, 
hand to her chest -- CONVULSING -- shrieking --

             THEODORA
      WHAT’S HAPPENING TO ME!

             EVANORA
        (soothingly)
      That’s only what’s left of your 
      heart... withering away.  Soon, my 
      pretty, you’ll feel nothing at all 
      except... beautiful wickedness.  

Theodora’s gasping, fighting for air -- face and body 
contorted -- she sinks to the floor -- hunched over -- folded 
in on herself -- face hidden -- her breathing slows, then... 

             THEODORA
      Oh yes... yes... now I understand.

And as she lifts her face we see:  Her CHIN has lengthened... 
her NOSE has hooked and grown... and HER SKIN HAS TURNED 
COMPLETELY GREEN -- and she has become:

THE WICKED WITCH OF THE WEST

She sees her hand -- sees the color -- feels her nose and 
chin -- goes to the Mirror on the Wall... gazes at herself.

                                      67.

             EVANORA
      A simple enchantment can have you 
      looking just the way you were... if 
      you want.

             THEODORA
      No.  This is me now -- and now I 
      know...

She practically flies from the room, and --

INT. GRAND ENTRANCE HALL

THE SAVAGE GENERALS are milling about, killing time -- then 
Theodora comes in and commands them --

             THEODORA
      From every village, every outpost, 
      from all four corners of Oz, I want 
      ten thousand Savages here by week’s 
      end, armed and ready for war.
        (then snaps --)
      Why are you looking at me like 
      that!  What are you waiting for!

A GNOME GENERAL asks for all of them --

             GNOME GENERAL
      But... who are you?

A beat -- then Theodora CACKLES -- loud and proud --

             THEODORA
      I AM THEODORA -- THE WICKED WITCH 
      OF THE WEST!

EXT. GLINDA’S CASTLE - NIGHT

The crystal spires against a backdrop of a zillion stars.

             OZ
	(O.S.)
      And what’s this here, to the east 
      of the Emerald City?

INT. GLINDA’S LIBRARY

A LAND MAP OF OZ -- spread out on a low table in front of a 
blazing fireplace, the room’s only light -- OZ AND GLINDA on 
separate chairs, shadows fluid on their faces.

                                      68.

             GLINDA
      Those are the Deadly Poppy Fields.  
      Steer well clear of them -- they 
      can put you to sleep forever.

             OZ
      Right now eternal rest doesn’t 
      sound too bad.  

He yawns, picks up his goblet of wine -- then leans back, 
rubs his face -- done for the night.  Glinda has to ask:

             GLINDA
      So what do you think, Wizard?  You 
      think this is going to work?

             OZ
      I think this’ll be child’s play -- 
      just a walk in the park.  
        (flip, sarcastic)
      I mean, come on, what’s the big 
      deal?  All you’re asking me to do 
      is lead a rag-tag bunch of 
      Irregulars who can’t fight and 
      can’t kill against an Army of 
      Murderous Savages who not only can 
      fight and can kill but, I’m told, 
      actually quite enjoy it --

             GLINDA
      -- Yes they do --

             OZ
      -- And if, somehow, against all 
      odds, we survive the Heathen Horde, 
      then all we’ve got to contend with 
      is a pair of Witchy Sisters, both 
      of whom have some serious magic 
      literally at their fingertips and 
      who, no doubt, would like nothing 
      more than to visit the tortures of 
      Torquemada on my mind, body and 
      person!  Like I said... child’s 
      play.  What could be easier?

             GLINDA
      But that’s what a Wizard does...  
      he does things everyone knows can’t 
      be done.

And Oz gives her a long, long look -- then just closes his 
eyes again -- and, almost unconsciously, he takes that Gold 
Coin from his pocket, rolls it through his fingers.

                                      69.

             OZ
      Y’know, back where I come from 
      there’s a Wizard -- a Great Wizard  
      -- Thomas Alva Edison, his name is  
      -- the Wizard of Menlo Park.  I 
      once traveled three hundred miles 
      just to meet him -- even got to 
      shake the man’s hand.

             GLINDA
      Why do you call this Wizard great?

             OZ
      Because he could look into the 
      future -- then make it real.  
        (his eyes close again)
      You know what he did?  He invented 
      the electric light... and the 
      phonograph... and a camera that 
      lets you take moving pictures.

             GLINDA
      Pictures that move...

             OZ
      A prime example of good old 
      American Know-How and Ingenuity.  
      That’s all it is -- all you need... 
      good old American Know-How and... 
      Ingenuity...

He’s asleep.  The Gold Coin drops to the floor.  Glinda 
rises, takes the goblet from his hand, covers him with a 
blanket, places the Gold Coin back in his pocket.

             GLINDA
      Sleep well, Wizard.  And dream of 
      Victory.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. GLINDA’S LIBRARY - LATER THAT NIGHT

Oz suddenly wakes up -- has his Eureka Moment.

             OZ
      I’ve got it.  

He flings off the blanket, jumps out of the chair, rummages 
around the room -- finds what he’s looking for:  SHEETS OF 
PAPER AND A QUILL-TIP PEN -- and immediately, feverishly, he 
gets to work -- sketching, drawing -- designing -- and off 
the scratching of his pen we jump to:

INT. GLINDA’S PRIVATE CHAMBER - MORNING

Glinda’s here with Kana -- as Oz bursts in, all excited, 
waving his sketches in the air.

                                      70.

             OZ
      I’ve got it!  I know how we can 
      beat them!  What I have in mind is 
      an historic extravaganza of 
      Olympian proportions!  Using good 
      old American Know-How and 
      Ingenuity, smoke and mirrors, Son 
      et Lumiere, I intend to create an 
      illusion of such magnificent 
      magnificence that it will boggle 
      the mind and bedazzle the senses!  
      It will, in other words, send the 
      Sisters and their Savage Army into 
      such paroxysms of Awe and Wonder 
      that they will flee the Emerald 
      City like rats from a burning barn!
        (then, much quieter)
      And the one tiny little potential 
      hiccup is... I have no technical 
      expertise whatsoever and, 
      therefore, no way of turning these 
      renderings into reality.

             GLINDA
        (smiles)
      Then you must speak to the Elves at 
      Smith & Tinkers.  They should be 
      able to help you.

Kana nods -- yes-yes -- and we go --

EXT./INT. SMITH & TINKERS WORKSHOP - DAY

Looks like Santa’s Workshop without the snow -- and the ELVES 
look a lot like Santa’s Helpers.  Oz is here with Kana.  TWO 
MASTER ELVES are leafing through Oz’s drawings... 

             MASTER ELF
      Shouldn’t be a problem.  When do 
      you need these by?

             OZ
      Quick as you can -- and faster than 
      that if possible!  

             MASTER ELF
      Come back day after tomorrow.  Not 
      before lunch.

                                      71.

The Master Elves turn and walk away -- already discussing 
between themselves who’s going to be doing what -- then Oz 
glances at Kana, says --

             OZ
      Wait here -- something I forgot to 
      tell them.  

He hurries after the Elves -- and Kana watches as Oz puts an 
arm around the Master Elf’s shoulder, glances back at Kana, 
then surreptitiously slips the Elf a folded piece of paper, 
whispers something in his ear, and --

Kana scowls -- knows Oz is up to something... something he 
doesn’t want Glinda to know... 

EXT. SMITH & TINKERS WORKSHOP - MOMENTS LATER

Oz and Kana come outside -- Oz looks up -- has a thought --

             OZ
      That fog the other day -- you said 
      that was Glinda’s doing?  Can she 
      do that whenever she wants?

             KANA
      Oh yes -- that-that and more.

             OZ
      She’s a heckuva woman, isn’t she?

             KANA
      I told you, she’s not a woman --

             OZ
      Yeah-yeah, I know -- got it -- 
      she’s a Witch.  

             KANA
      Yes she is, Wizard -- a Good Witch  
      -- please-please don’t forget that. 

IN. GLINDA’S LIBRARY - LATER THAT DAY

Oz is giving the various CLAN LEADERS their marching orders.  
He gestures to some of the Scissor People, and tells the very 
old, strangely girlish, apple-cheeked MISS CUTTENCLIP --

             OZ
      They’ll help you -- just tell ‘em 
      what to do and how to do it.

                                      72.

             OZ
	(cont'd)
        (then, to everyone)
      Any questions?

THE DAINTY CHINA MAYOR stands and gives Oz a snappy salute.

             DAINTY CHINA MAYOR
      Begging pardon, sir.  But the China 
      People, we want to contribute -- we 
      want to fight!

The other CHINA PEOPLE present nod in agreement.  Oz gets up, 
comes over and SHAKES THE MAYOR’S HAND.

             OZ
      That’s very valiant of you -- most 
      laudable -- and I appreciate the 
      sentiment, believe me -- but here’s 
      the thing...

With a quick twist of the wrist, OZ SNAPS OFF THE MAN’S ARM.

             OZ
      See, that’s a problem.  
        (hands the man his arm, 
         then, to the others)
      Alright, let’s get to work.

MONTAGE:  THE CLANS PREPARE FOR WAR

Miss Cuttenclip and dozens of magic Scissors are cutting out 
hundreds of Paper Soldiers... China People are painting the 
Soldiers in martial colors... the Fuddles are on the Champ de 
Mars, in military rows, and when Farnsworth Fuddle shouts a 
command the Fuddles in unison all fall to pieces... the 
Hammerheads are practicing their head-butting skills... and 
Oz is overseeing everything -- seems more energized than 
we’ve ever seen him.  END MONTAGE.

INT. GLINDA’S LIBRARY - EVENING

Oz is sitting down with Glinda and Kana.

             OZ
      I’m guessing you have friends 
      inside the Emerald City -- friends 
      you can trust.

             GLINDA
      We do.  How many do you need?

                                      73.

             OZ
      However many the Elves need to set 
      things up.  Now...   

             GLINDA
        (interrupts)
      You’re enjoying this, aren’t you?

             OZ
      Enjoying it?

             GLINDA
      I can tell.  

             OZ
        (a beat)
      Can you also tell I’m terrified?

             GLINDA
      Of?

             OZ
      All of it.  I mean... for the first 
      time in my life people are counting 
      on me -- they’re relying on me --

             GLINDA
      And is that so terrible?

             OZ
      It is if we fail.

             GLINDA
      We won’t.

             OZ
      But if we do, you said it yourself:  
      It would mean the Death of Hope and 
      Dreams here in the Land of Oz.

             GLINDA
      Then we’ll just have to make sure 
      that doesn’t happen, won’t we?  

Another pause, then -- it’s been bothering him --

             OZ
      What about Theodora?

             GLINDA
      What about her?

                                      74.

             OZ
      I was just wondering... look, just 
      because her sister’s evil doesn’t 
      mean she is too -- and maybe if I 
      could just talk to her --

Glinda gently cuts him off --

             GLINDA
      Wizard -- Theodora’s doomed. 

             OZ
      I don’t believe that.

             GLINDA
      You need to.   Whatever good was in 
      her will soon be gone, if it’s not 
      already.  For years she’s tried to 
      resist both her Sister and the Evil 
      within her own heart... but that 
      Evil won’t be denied.  
        (touches his hand)
      And even you can’t save her.  

He takes back his hand -- doesn’t want to believe her -- and 
off his troubled look we go --

INT. SMITH & TINKERS WORKSHOP - NEXT DAY

             MASTER ELF
      And on this, you’ll notice, we made 
      a few modifications.

Oz is examining one of the completed contraptions.  Kana’s 
here with him.  

             MASTER ELF
      We thought if you added a few more 
      of these -- here, here, and here -- 
      instead of this it should look more 
      like that, rounded instead of flat.

Oz studies the schematics -- then looks up.

             OZ
      You’re a genius.  A genius on par 
      with the Great Edison himself!  

             MASTER ELF
      Try telling that to my wife.

             OZ
      Kana, look at this!  

-- waving him over -- and as Kana bends over the renderings, 
Oz whispers in the Master Elf’s ear --

                                      75.

             OZ
      How ‘bout that other thing?

             MASTER ELF
      It’s done.  You want to see it?

             OZ
        (furtive glance at Kana)
      Not now.  Tonight.

We get a look at Kana -- and we can tell that no one’s 
pulling the wool over this Monkey’s eyes... meanwhile --

EXT. EMERALD CITY - EVENING

THE SAVAGE ARMY is outside the city gates, thousands of them.

INT. THRONE ROOM - EVANORA’S PALACE

Theodora and Evanora are here with the Savage Generals.  
Theodora’s now dressed head to toe in witchy black.

             THEODORA
      I want your men to enjoy themselves 
      -- tell them to go and play... and 
      no mercy, no prisoners -- leave the 
      bodies where they fall for the 
      jackals and the crows -- but kill 
      them all... except the Wizard... 
      him I want alive.  I want to deal 
      with him personally. 

And off her wicked CACKLE we jump --

EXT. EMERALD CITY - NIGHT

THE SAVAGE ARMY moves out -- a thunder of drums and clouds of 
3D dust -- malevolence on the march.  THEODORA AND EVANORA 
watch from the ramparts atop the city walls... 

EXT. GLINDA’S CASTLE - NIGHT

FOLLOWING GLINDA -- hurrying down a corridor, concerned 
expression on her face -- she stops, knocks on a door -- 

             GLINDA
      Wizard?

                                      76.

No answer -- she tries the door, opens it -- no one’s inside  
-- she hurries off again, and --

INT. GLINDA’S LIBRARY

Kana and Kala are playing some Ozian version of chess.  
Glinda comes in.

             GLINDA
      The Wizard -- have you seen him?  

Kana stays mum, but Glinda can tell he’s hiding something.  

             GLINDA
      What is it?  Where is he?  Kana...

He hears her urgency -- hates being a rat, but --

             KANA
      I think I know -- come-come.

INT. SILO - BEHIND SMITH & TINKERS WORKSHOP

Like an open-roofed grain or missile silo -- where we find Oz 
admiring THE LARGE LIGHTER-THAN-AIR BALLOON the Elves have 
secretly made for him... he walks around it -- tests the 
tautness of the ropes -- checks out the engine and the rudder 
and the steering mechanism... 

             OZ
      Very nice... yes... fine work -- 
      the Wizard is well pleased.

But then:  THE CURTAIN across the silo’s single door flashes 
open -- and there’s Glinda... who stares at the balloon -- 
then at Oz -- sad -- angry -- very disappointed -- and he’s 
like a kid with his hand in the cookie jar -- first he says 
to the Master Elf --

             OZ
      Could you give us a moment, please?

The Elf shuffles out -- Oz scratches his head -- gives a 
forced, sheepish laugh and tries to tell Glinda --

             OZ
      Believe it or not, this isn’t what 
      it looks like.

                                      77.

             GLINDA
      Oh?  So this is one of your... 
      Illusions?  Well done, Wizard, it 
      certainly looks real to me.

             OZ
      I wasn’t planning on running out on 
      you.

She doesn’t seem to be buying it, so --

             OZ
      Look, it’s just... my whole life 
      I’ve always had one foot out the 
      door -- nothing, no one tying me 
      down -- no responsibilities.  And 
      now -- here in Oz?... I just wanted 
      to know I had an out.

             GLINDA
      And should you take it, should you 
      leave -- have you given any thought 
      as to what you’d leave behind?  
        (then, harsh)
      The Good People of Oz, they believe 
      in you --

             OZ
      No one asked them to -- I didn’t 
      ask for this!

             GLINDA
      Nor did you say no.

             OZ
      You wouldn’t let me.  I tried 
      telling you from the start I wasn’t 
      the man or the Wizard you were 
      looking for.  

             GLINDA
      Maybe not, but as I told you:  
      You’re the only Wizard we’ve got.

A beat, then, quietly... 

             OZ
      You know I’m not a Wizard.

             GLINDA
        (she nods, she knows)
      But I thought you were a good man -- 
      and sometimes that’s enough.  

                                      78.

             OZ
      Well I’m not.  I’m not a good man -- 
      or a good Wizard.  

             GLINDA
      Nevertheless and still... I came 
      here tonight to tell you:  The 
      sand’s run out of the hourglass -- 
      the Sisters’ Armies are on the move 
      -- tomorrow we must march -- and 
      tomorrow, perhaps, we’ll know...
        (off Oz’s frown)
      ... what kind of man and what kind 
      of Wizard you really are... 

And with that, she turns and walks out.  Oz lets her go.  
After a few moments, he glances up at the balloon, sighs, and 
skulks out of the silo, and --

EXT. OUTSIDE SMITH & TINKERS

As he steps outside he’s startled to see:  A CROWD OF 
CITIZENS HAVE GATHERED... Kana and his brothers... the Little 
China Girl... various others... and they’re all looking at Oz 
like:  Say it ain’t so -- and Oz says nothing -- his head 
down, shoulders hunched, he just walks the Walk of Shame -- 
the crowd parting, silently, to let him by... and Oz never 
lifts his eyes... 

INT. OZ’S BEDROOM - GLINDA’S CASTLE - LATER THAT NIGHT

OZ -- IN BED -- fully awake -- and fully dressed -- moonlight 
across his face -- then, abruptly, he swings his feet to the 
floor and stands -- quietly creeps from the room.  

EXT. OUTSIDE SMITH & TINKERS

He steals across the courtyard -- and into the silo.  

INT. THE MONKEYS’ BEDROOM

Kaya shakes Kana awake, stutters --

             KAYA
      B-b-brother -- w-wake up.

Kana does so -- Kaya gestures:  Come look -- Kana follows him 
to the window, looks out and sees:

KANA’S POV:  THE BALLOON -- RISING UP OUT OF THE SILO -- 
backlit by the moon, and --

KANA is crestfallen -- devastated -- can’t believe Oz is 
doing this -- running away -- he’s leaving -- 

                                      79.

             KANA
      Wake Kala.

EXT. WITH OZ - IN THE BALLOON

Adjusting this and that -- just letting the balloon lift and 
drift -- and when he’s far enough away from the Castle, only 
then does he crank up the engine -- uses the propeller to 
propel himself Due North... on course for Emerald City.

EXT. THE BALLOON

Wafting across the face of the moon... then we see, some 
distance behind:  KANA AND HIS BROTHERS -- following Oz, as --

THE BALLOON sails over the Shimmering Wall... then high above 
smashed China Towne... and soon Oz sees, far below:  THE 
SAVAGE HORDE ARMY -- encamped for tonight -- bonfires dotting 
the dark... 

INT. THEODORA’S ROOM - EMERALD CITY

CLOSE ON THEODORA -- as, birdlike, she twitches -- alert -- 
like she just sensed something... then she smiles... 

             THEODORA
      You want to dance again, do you?  
      By all means, Wizard -- let’s.

Then she waves her hand and -- poof! -- she disappears. 

EXT. WITH OZ - IN THE BALLOON 

THE TOWERS AND SPIRES OF EM CITY are dead ahead.  Oz 
maneuvers the balloon downwards -- Kana and his Brothers 
still on his tail, some distance behind.

EXT. EMERALD CITY

THE BALLOON appears overhead -- like an alien spaceship.  

                                      80.

EXT. WITH OZ - IN THE BALLOON 

OZ tosses out a grappling hook, snags it on a spire -- he 
brings the balloon to a stop -- anchors it -- then climbs 
hand over hand down the mooring rope to the ramparts running 
along the top of the city’s walls.

EXT. ON A SECOND SPIRE

KANA AND HIS BROTHERS silently alight -- and watch as --

EXT. ON THE RAMPARTS

OZ makes his way towards the Palace, when suddenly:  IN AN 
EXPLOSION OF SMOKE AND FIRE THEODORA MAGICALLY APPEARS  -- 
looking very much the Wicked Witch -- eyeing him like a cat 
ready to pounce -- voice dripping poison --

             THEODORA
      My my my -- look what the bats 
      dragged in.  

             OZ
      Theodora?  
        (stunned, mortified)
      Wh-what happened to you?

             THEODORA
      You happened to me.
        (raises a crooked finger)
      But don’t fret -- don’t apologize -- 
        (then smiles)
      Tell me -- do you like my dress?  
        (off his confused look)
      It’s my wedding dress.  I got 
      married, you see -- to wickedness.  

KANA AND HIS BROTHERS are still watching from the spire, as --

             THEODORA
      Care to kiss the bride?  No?  Fine  
      -- there’s something else I want 
      you to do for me...

She steps back, and with an upward flick of her hand, Oz is 
lifted -- LEVITATED -- up into the air -- and she just holds 
him there -- FORTY FEET ABOVE THE STONE COURTYARD as --

             THEODORA
      I want you to suffer.  I want you 
      to die screaming and slow.

             OZ
      Theodora --!

Another flick of her hand and Oz’s words are cut off -- he 
can’t speak -- he’s choking --

                                      81.

             THEODORA
      No more words from you, Wizard --
        (then, like she only just 
         realized it --)
      If you are a Wizard, Wizard, you’re 
      not much of one, are you?  Simple 
      magic like this should be easy to 
      break -- and since it seems you 
      can’t... let me save you the 
      trouble of peering into the 
      future... let me just tell you what 
      I’m going to do.

He’s still gagging -- dangling -- as she croons to him --

             THEODORA
      Publicly -- painfully -- in front 
      of all of Emerald City, I’m going 
      to peel the flesh from your bones 
      then grind your bones to dust -- 
      then, assuming you’ve been kind 
      enough to stay alive I think I’ll --

But that’s as far as she gets, because:  KANA’S LITTLE 
BROTHER KAYA SUDDENLY SWOOPS IN OUT OF NOWHERE AND SLAMS INTO 
THEODORA -- knocking her back -- breaking her telekinetic 
hold on Oz, and --

OZ DROPS -- plummeting -- down towards the courtyard -- 
towards certain doom, but then --

KANA AND KALA SWOOP IN -- SNATCH HIM OUT OF HIS FALL -- start 
winging him to safety -- over the City Walls, while --

KAYA’S STILL ALL OVER THEODORA -- has her by the wrists --  
literally in her face -- she’s trying like hell to get him 
off her -- and finally:  She rips her hand free, and --

LIGHTNING FLASHES FROM HER FINGERTIPS -- sends Kaya flying 
through the air -- over the ramparts -- we hear a meaty thud 
from below -- Theodora looks down and sees:

KAYA’S CORPSE -- IN THE COURTYARD -- broken, lifeless -- 
smoke rising from his fur -- Theodora shrieks at the night --

             THEODORA
      WIZARD!  

                                      82.

But he’s gone -- she snarls she’s so furious -- then vents 
her anger by flinging fire at --

THE BALLOON -- which DETONATES -- blindingly bright in the 
night -- plumes of flame jetting at us in 3D, and --

EXT. IN THE NIGHT SKY

Oz -- borne aloft between Kana and Kala -- looking back at 
the burning balloon -- a blazing orb of fire, and --

             OZ
      Your brother -- you think --?

             KANA
      He is dead, Wizard.

             OZ
        (rocked, reeling)
      He... he saved my life.  He died 
      for me...   

             KANA
      He knew you’d do the same.

             KALA
      That you’d... die for us. 

             KANA
      For any one and all of us.

CLOSE ON OZ -- as this hits home -- echoes in his soul... 
they fly on, as we hear --

             OZ (V.O.)
      Ever since I can remember, I always 
      tried to be the man my father 
      wasn’t...

INT. GLINDA’S LIBRARY - LATER THAT NIGHT

OZ AND GLINDA -- Oz staring into the flames, staring deep --

             GLINDA
      What kind of man was he?

             OZ
      He was a nothing -- a nobody -- so 
      poor the holes in his pockets had 
      holes.  He was also... 
        (exhales)

                                      83.

             OZ
	(cont'd)
      Hard-working, honorable, honest, 
      responsible, kind -- a man of faith 
      and charity who’d rather cut off 
      his own arm than hurt anyone --

             GLINDA
      And you?

             OZ
      It’s not like I ever tried to hurt 
      anyone -- but if I did?  When I 
      did?  Then it was poof, goodbye, 
      sorry, see you later -- I was gone. 
        (beat)
      It was always just easier to run.

He looks at her -- heart bared -- tells her true --

             OZ
      I wasn’t running tonight.  I went 
      to Emerald City because I wanted to 
      make amends, I wanted to atone, and 
      I still wanted to believe Theodora 
      could be saved.  But when I saw 
      her, I knew -- you were right -- 
      the damage is done -- I also 
      knew... Once upon a time there was 
      a Wicked Witch here in the Land of 
      Oz... and now there are two -- 
      thanks to me. 

             GLINDA
      It wasn’t you alone, Wizard.  
      Destiny determined Theodora’s fate, 
      just as it’s decided yours.  

             OZ
      My Destiny --?

             GLINDA
      I think you know already.
        (then she smiles)
      You’re the Wizard of Oz.

CLOSE ON OZ... anointed... ennobled... he nods, he’s ready -- 
and off him we jump --

EXT. GLINDA’S CASTLE - NEXT MORNING

OZ’S ARMY is here in force -- flags and standards flapping in 
the breeze -- UTENSILS... HAMMERHEADS... PAPER SOLDIERS... 
FUDDLES -- ready to march.  

                                      84.

DAINTY CHINA PEOPLE are here to wave their heroes off -- some 
of the DAINTY CHINA GIRLS so caught up in the moment they’re 
actually CRYING SOLID DAINTY CHINA TEARS -- which fall like 
pebbles to the ground -- or shatter into powder.  Glinda’s 
mounted on a steed whose coat is an ever-changing 
KALEIDOSCOPE OF COLOR.  Oz is standing next to Sawhorse -- 
gives the troops his best Henry V --

             OZ
      My friends!  Back where I come from 
      we have a saying:  Ad astra per 
      aspera -- it’s the motto of the 
      Great State of Kansas and in Wizard-
      speak it means:  “To the stars, 
      through difficulties.”  We also 
      say:  E Pluribus Unum:  “Out of 
      many, one.”  And that is us today:  
      One people -- one army -- and, 
      together, we shall reach the stars!  
      Are you with me!
        (the Army roars back a 
         resounding YES!)
      Are you with me!

A louder YES! -- then, to Glinda, under his breath --

             OZ
      This is your last chance to talk me 
      out of this.  

Glinda smiles again -- then shouts out to the troops:

             GLINDA
      TO OZ AND THE EMERALD CITY!

The Army starts to march -- the China People wave and weep 
and hurrah -- as we go --

EXT. THE SHIMMERING WALL - MORNING

Oz‘s Army approaches the border -- everything on the other 
side wavy, mirage-like -- then Glinda sweeps an arm, and the 
SHIMMERING WALL DISAPPEARS -- Central Oz is now clear as a 
bell.  Oz himself looks skyward.

             OZ
      Nice day we’re having... but I’m 
      told the weather around here can 
      change just like that.

-- snapping his fingers -- then Glinda smiles --

                                      85.

             GLINDA
      Actually it’s more like this...

And she slowly raises her arms, calling forth:

AN ENORMOUS SNOWSTORM

A WALL OF WHITE comes ROARING in out of nowhere and engulfs 
the whole of Oz’s Army in a HOWLING BLIZZARD -- 

FROM ABOVE WE SEE THE STORM spreading over them -- spreading 
wide -- spreading miles in every direction -- wide enough 
that it would be impossible to pinpoint the Army’s location -- 
and the strangest thing is...

WITH THE ARMY -- INSIDE THE STORM -- the weather here is...  
perfectly calm.  It’s like they’re in the eye of a wintry 
hurricane -- in the middle of a parted Red Sea -- with 
towering clouds VORTEXING above and all around them -- a 
swirling ceiling, whirling walls -- but down here at ground 
level, there’s only the slightest breeze... 

             OZ
      You, m’lady, are magnificent.
        (then, to the troops)
      Ad astra per aspera and E Pluribus 
      Unum!

And as the Army moves forward -- THE CALM EYE OF THE STORM 
MOVES WITH THEM... 

EXT. THE GREAT PLAIN OF OZ

THE SAVAGE HORDE ARMY’s on the march -- like a vast stain 
oozing south -- but then, look out, here it comes --

GLINDA’S STORM -- A ROLLING, BILLOWING WALL OF WHITE

It SLAMS into the Savage Army -- with shrieking winds -- 
slashing ice and snow -- the Winged Monkeys are flung from 
the sky like rag dolls -- and all the Savage Army can do is 
hunker down right where they are -- huddled together -- soon 
they’re covered, mounded in snow, and we jump to --

INT. THE INCREDIBLY LONG VAULTED CORRIDOR

Theodora sweeps towards us like a wraith, into --

INT. THRONE ROOM

Evanora stands serenely in front of the open French doors -- 
eyes closed -- strong wind blowing in her face -- Theodora 
marches in, gets the doors closed, wheels on her Sister --

                                      86.

             THEODORA
      Look at you -- calm as a clam. 

             EVANORA
      A storm like this is no easy task, 
      even for a Sorceress as powerful as 
      Glinda.  The longer it lasts...

             THEODORA
      The weaker she’ll become... 
        (thoughtfully)
      Then perhaps we’ll see what kind of 
      Wizard this Wizard is -- if, that 
      is, he’s truly a Wizard at all.  

             EVANORA
      Sister, you don’t believe?

             THEODORA
      I believe we shall see.  All in 
      good time -- all in good time.

EXT. WITH OZ’S ARMY - IN THE EYE OF THE STORM - EARLY EVENING

Oz is watching Glinda closely -- and the Sisters were right:  
The storm has clearly weakened her.  Oz glances at Kana.

             OZ
      How much further?

             KANA
      We’re here.

And as the wall of snow in front of us recedes we see:

A PYRAMID OF ROCKS

A jumble of boulders fifty feet high.  

             OZ
      The Caves are under there?  How do 
      we get in?

             KANA
      Magic.  

                                      87.

-- looking to Glinda -- and she summons up the last of her 
strength, circles her hand in the air, and...

THE STORM WALLS START CLOSING IN ON THEM  -- narrowing and 
lifting to form a spiralling FUNNEL overhead -- Glinda 
directs this snaky funnel over to the Pyramid -- to one 
particular HUGE BOULDER -- and THE FUNNEL PICKS IT UP AND 
WHISKS IT AWAY just like Dorothy’s Farmhouse, revealing:

THE MOUTH OF THE CAVES.  Oz, impressed, turns to compliment 
Glinda, just as her eyes roll up in her head -- Oz leaps off 
Sawhorse, CATCHES GLINDA AS SHE FALLS -- passed out. 

THE STORM IS OVER.  Night’s falling fast.  Oz carries Glinda 
into the Caves, while --

EXT. THE GREAT PLAIN OF OZ

The Storm has ended here, too -- the Savages are digging 
themselves out of the snow --

             GNOME GENERAL
      Let’s get some fires going.  We’ll 
      camp here tonight.  

INT. THE CAVES

Torchlight reveals:  A SUBTERRANEAN WONDERLAND -- a vast 
central cavern -- towering stalactites and stalagmites -- an 
underground river -- tunnels stretching into the darkness...

             KANA
      The tunnels, they go all the way 
      under the Impassable Desert right 
      into the Savage Lands.

             OZ
        (still holding Glinda)
      So that’s how the Savages got here.

             KANA
      Evanora, she brought them in -- to 
      help her fight-fight Glinda’s 
      father.  He’s the one who closed 
      the Caves, just before he died.

             OZ
      How did he die?

             KANA
      I thought you knew.  He died saving 
      Glinda.  Evanora, she killed him.

                                      88.

             KANA
	(cont'd)
        (then)
      Come-come, we find a place to lay 
      her down.  

INT. A CHAPEL-LIKE HOLLOW IN THE CAVE WALL

Oz gently sets Glinda down inside it.

             KANA
      They were friends, you know -- 
      Glinda and Evanora... and Evanora, 
      she used that friendship, used 
      Glinda’s goodness to trick-trick 
      and trap her, because she knew that 
      Glinda’s Father the King would do 
      everything in his power to save 
      her... and that’s when Evanora, she 
      struck like a snake.  Glinda, she 
      saw her father die.

             OZ
      Killed by her friend.
        (echoes Theodora)
      She had no idea how wicked 
      wickedness could be, or how easily 
      friendship could be betrayed.
        (then)
      How long will she sleep?

             KANA
      Whatever you do, don’t try to waky-
      wake her with a kiss.  We need you, 
      Wizard.

             OZ
        (a quizzical look, then)
      Let’s get everyone ready.

INT. ELSEWHERE IN THE CAVES - LATER

Sparks fly -- shooting towards us in 3D -- as one by one, 
Scissors, Knives and Cleavers step up to hone their blades 
against live spinning Whetstones.

             SERGEANT CLEAVER
      Next! -- let’s go! -- look sharp!

Oz passes by -- and a little further on we see: TWO 
HAMMERHEADS -- HARASSING A PAPER SOLDIER -- using their 
breaths to huff and puff him back and forth between them.

                                      89.

             OZ
      C’mon, boys, leave him alone.

The Hammerheads scowl, but stop.  Kana appears.

             KANA
      The Munchkins, they are here.

INT. OUTSIDE THE CAVES - THE PYRAMID OF ROCKS - NIGHT

EMERALD CITY MUNCHKINS -- Glinda and Kana’s inside guys -- 
are helping the Smith & Tinker Elves load the gadgets and 
gizmos they’re going to need for Oz’s Grand Finale onto small 
wagons and carts, pulled by MINIATURE HORSES.  Oz and Kana 
are with the main MUNCHKIN, who’s named M.

             OZ
      We’re counting on you.  

             M. MUNCHKIN
      And the Good People of Oz are 
      counting on you.

Both smile, shake hands.  

             OZ
      See you in Emerald City.
        (then --)
      What’s the matter?

             M. MUNCHKIN
      Nothing, just... thought you’d be 
      bigger.

-- and this from a guy about three feet tall -- and as he 
climbs on his tiny horse he says --

             M. MUNCHKIN
      The others will be here before 
      first light.

The Munchkins and the Elves start out.

INT. THE CAVES - WITH GLINDA - LATER

Still asleep -- then her eyes butterfly open -- she sees Oz 
sitting nearby -- he’s been watching her sleep.  He smiles.

             OZ
      You’re awake.

                                      90.

             GLINDA
      And restored.

             OZ
      We’re ready whenever you are.

INT. THE CAVES - MOMENTS LATER

Oz stands with arms as extended, as those freshly-sharpened  
Scissors and Knives and Cleavers climb up his legs and torso 
and settle themselves in -- in his belt -- in his pockets -- 
he’s soon sheathed in steel, bristling with blades -- other 
honed Utensils are loading themselves onto Kana and Kala -- 
still others are stepping into a rucksack -- which Oz loops 
over his shoulders -- then he looks to Glinda.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CAVES - THE PYRAMID OF ROCKS

             GLINDA
      Step closer.

Oz does -- Glinda makes a little motion with her hand -- and 
the two of them are enveloped by THE MAGIC BUBBLE --

OZ -- INSIDE THE BUBBLE -- marveling -- excited --

             OZ
      Sure beats a broomstick doesn’t it?

THE MAGIC BUBBLE LIFTS OFF -- KANA AND KALA SHADOWING THEM --
flying behind, to --

EXT. THE GREAT PLAIN OF OZ - NIGHT

OVERLOOKING THE ENEMY ENCAMPMENT.  The Savage Army is asleep: 
a grunting, snoring, wheezing, scratching, mumbling sleep.  
Then we see, coming out of the night sky to the south:

THE MAGIC BUBBLE, KANA AND KALA.  They land on the ridge 
overlooking the encampment, then head down the hill --

INTO THE ENEMY ENCAMPMENT -- where quickly, quietly, the 
Utensils climb off Oz and the Monkeys and out of the 
rucksack, and they all get to work CLIPPING AND CHOPPING OFF 
THE GNOMES’ BEARDS -- AND SLICING THE MASKS OFF THE WHIMSIE 
WARRIORS... And we get our first look at the Whimsies real 
heads -- and they really are just appallingly, embarrassingly 
small.  And as Oz et al continue their shearing, we --

                              DISSOLVE TO:

                                      91.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CAVES - THE PYRAMID OF ROCKS - NIGHT

Just before dawn.  Oz, Glinda and the Moneys return with the 
Utensils -- Mission Accomplished, safe and sound -- to find:

MUNCHKINS have arrived with MINIATURE MUNCHKIN HORSE-DRAWN 
HAY WAGONS AND OX CARTS.  Cuttenclip Soldiers are marching 
out of the Caves and are loading themselves onto the carts 
and wagons -- laying themselves flat, one on top of the 
other, so that hundreds can be stacked together and still 
only be as high as a couple of reams of paper.  The Munchkin 
teamsters then COVER THEM UP WITH HAY.  We also see:

THE FUDDLES and THE HAMMERHEADS are ready to move out 
together.  Oz shakes Farnsworth Fuddle’s hand.

             OZ
      Safe journey.  Keep yourselves 
      together, men!
        (then, to the Hammerheads)
      And you boys, use your heads!  Give 
      ‘em what-for!

The Army starts out -- the Hammerheads and Fuddles heading 
west -- the Munchkins heading north with the hay-hidden Paper 
Soldiers.  Then Glinda closes her eyes -- like she’s 
receiving a transmission of some kind -- then she smiles --

             GLINDA
      The Elves have made it safely into 
      the Emerald City.

             KANA
      And look-look.

Behind the eastern hills:  The first glimmer of dawn.  

EXT. THE GREAT PLAIN OF OZ - THE ENEMY ENCAMPMENT - SAME

And as the Savage Army starts to awaken, we start to hear... 
AN UNGODLY HOWLING -- a great wailing and gnashing of teeth -- 
as Gnomes realize they’ve been barbered -- Whimsies see 
they’ve been E-mask-ulated -- and they’re horrified -- beside 
themselves -- can’t deal -- and so --

THEY RUN -- just go instant AWOL -- A MAD, MASS STAMPEDE -- 
collisions -- confusion -- Savages scattering in every 
direction -- as we hear a furious prolonged SCREECH and go --

INT. THRONE ROOM - EMERALD CITY - SAME

THEODORA -- furious -- barges in -- Evanora’s on the Emerald 
Throne -- a Munchkin Maid is to the side, sweeping.

                                      92.

             THEODORA
      The Gnomes -- the Whimsies -- 
      they’re fleeing -- they’re gone.  
      Whatever magic Glinda used --

             EVANORA
      -- Glinda or the Wizard.

             THEODORA
      We’ll see about that!

Then she notices the Maid -- snatches the broom away.  

             THEODORA
      He wanted a broom?   I’ll give him 
      a broom, and sweep him to his doom!

She hops on the broomstick -- JETS OFF OUT THE WINDOW.  

EXT. EMERALD CITY

Above:  THEODORA -- streaking off -- a black bolt across blue 
sky -- while M. MUNCHKIN AND THE MASTER ELF -- hidden -- 
watch her from below -- then shrink back into the shadows...

EXT. ENCHANTED APPLE ORCHARD - DAY

THE HAMMERHEADS AND FUDDLES have reached their destination.

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      Alright, everyone, spread out, and 
      prepare yourselves...

EXT. THE GREAT PLAIN OF OZ - SAME

CLOSE ON THEODORA -- who’s arrived to take charge of the 
Savage Army -- she cocks her head -- receiving a psychic 
transmission of some kind -- then she smiles...

             THEODORA
      There you are... 
        (orders the Monkeys)
      To the Enchanted Orchard!  Kill 
      everyone you see!  Go!
        (the Monkeys fly off)

             THEODORA
	(cont'd)
      The rest of you:  I want a line of 
      sharpened steel between here and 
      the Emerald City.  

The Growleywogs move out to form a Maginot Line across 
Central Oz.  Meanwhile --

                                      93.

INT. THE CAVES - SAME

GLINDA frowns -- she senses -- knows --

             GLINDA
      The Winged Monkeys are on their way 
      to the Orchard.

Oz nods -- exhales -- here we go -- D-Day’s about to begin... 

EXT. ENCHANTED ORCHARD - DAY

SEEING:  THE WINGED MONKEYS -- IN-COMING -- a dark cloud 
against the sky like a murder of evil crows.  

             FARNSWORTH FUDDLE
      Brace yourselves, men!  Hold firm 
      and wait until they land!

THE FUDDLES straighten their shoulders, stiffen their spines.  
There’s no sign of the Hammerheads.

NIKKO AND THE WINGED MONKEYS SWOOP IN -- hit the ground 
running -- drawing short swords from their belts -- and with 
horrific simian shrieks they come charging at:

THE FUDDLES -- WHO IMMEDIATELY ALL FALL TO PIECES -- every 
man-jack among them just fragments and collapses, and --

THE WINGED MONKEYS ARE CONFUSED -- their primitive little 
brains weren’t expecting this -- and they warily come forward 
and start pawing through the puzzle piles -- inspect them 
with ignorant frowns -- and then, now that all the Monkeys 
are here on the ground --

THE HAMMERHEADS ATTACK -- spring out from behind the trees 
and start jackhammering the Monkeys with their Jack-in-the-
Box heads -- ping-ponging the primates between them -- the 
FUDDLES QUICKLY RE-ASSEMBLE AND JOIN THE FIGHT, and --

THE HAMMERHEADS AND FUDDLES LAUNCH THE MONKEYS INTO THE TREES 
-- high up into the branches, snapping off leaves and twigs 
and apples -- and the Trees don’t like that one bit, and they 
start WHALING ON THE WINGED MONKEYS -- limbs and branches 
just hammering the hell out of them, and soon --

                                      94.

THE MONKEYS ARE FINISHED -- every one of them TKO’ed.  The 
Fuddles tie the Monkeys up.  Victory is theirs.

INT. THE CAVES - SAME

GLINDA suddenly starts SMILING -- Oz sees it, and knows --

             OZ
      They did it?  
        (off her nod)
      Now the Cuttenclips -- if they make 
      it through.

Her smile fades -- she shares his concern -- and we go --

EXT. ON SEVERAL DIFFERENT ROADS IN CENTRAL OZ - DAY

IN A QUICK MONTAGE WE SEE:  MUNCHKIN WAGONS AND CARTS -- 
getting STOPPED by Growleywog Warriors.  Some of the wagons 
are just waved on through -- others receive a rudimentary 
SEARCH -- which entails nothing more than a Growleywog 
jabbing his spear in the straw.  Then they wave the Munchkins 
on, and we END MONTAGE and go:

EXT. THE POPPY FIELDS - AFTERNOON

And it is a Sea of Scarlet Poppies -- poppies whose odor is, 
according to Baum, ‘so powerful that anyone who breathes it 
falls asleep, and if the sleeper is not carried away from the 
scent of the flowers he sleeps on and on forever.’

THE MUNCHKIN TEAMSTERS have halted a safe distance from the 
fields, remove the hay and straw from the carts.  THE 
CUTTENCLIP PAPER SOLDIERS PEEL THEMSELVES OFF ONE ANOTHER AND 
DISEMBARK -- some of them sporting the rips and tears they 
received from the points of probing Growleywog spears.  THE 
PAPER SOLDIERS MARCH INTO POSITION -- form into rows in front 
of the rolling red fields -- mightily impressive, and --

EXT. THE GREAT PLAIN OF OZ

A GROWLEYWOG WARRIOR rides in on horseback -- in a hurry -- 
jumps off the stallion -- and in their guttural tongue he 
quickly briefs the GENERAL -- who translates for Theodora --

             GROWLEYWOG GENERAL
      The Poppy Fields.  Thousands of 
      them.

                                      95.

             THEODORA
      Follow me!

She hops on her broomstick -- takes off -- shoots down the 
line of Warriors -- who charge after her -- 

INT. THE CAVES

GLINDA’s seeing this in her mind’s eye -- tells Oz --

             GLINDA
      Theodora and her Warriors are 
      heading for the Poppy Fields.  

             OZ
      Please don’t let there be a wind -- 
      not yet --

             GLINDA
      I won’t.

Oz glances at Kana -- who’s quiet, worried -- clearly 
whatever’s about to happen is crucial to Oz’s plan...

EXT. THE POPPY FIELDS - AFTERNOON

FROM THE PAPER SOLDIERS’ POV:  First they see THEODORA on her 
broomstick -- a black onrushing dot in the sky -- then the 
loping ARMY OF GROWLEYWOGS, spear-tips flashing in the sun.

FROM THE GROWLEYWOGS’ POV:  A countless number of blue-
jacketed Cuttenclips in front of the red, red fields.  

             THEODORA
      Just remember they can’t kill you.
      Now water those pretty red flowers  
      -- with pretty red blood.

THE GROWLEYWOG GENERAL turns, raises his spear, lets out some 
guttural war-cry, snaps his spear down -- and THE GROWLEYWOGS 
LET FLY WITH A THOUSAND ARROWS.

THE CUTTENCLIP SOLDIERS look up -- see this arrow-storm 
sizzling towards them -- the Cuttenclips stand their ground -- 
and the arrows pass right through them -- not a single 
soldier falls, and --

THEODORA’s stunned -- What just happened? -- and --

                                      96.

INT. THE CAVES - CLOSE ON GLINDA

             GLINDA
        (eyes closed)
      Now... 

And she puffs out her cheeks and BLOWS, and --

EXT. THE POPPY FIELDS - ON THE CUTTENCLIP SOLDIERS

A SUDDEN WIND SWEEPS IN AND BLOWS THE CUTTENCLIP SOLDIERS 
BACK INTO THE POPPIES -- so it looks like they’re retreating  
-- and the GROWLEYWOG WARRIORS GO CHARGING UP THE HILL -- war-
whooping like banshees -- a sound to freeze the blood, and --

DEEPER IN THE POPPY FIELDS -- Glinda’s wind keeps fluttering 
the Cuttenclips farther into the flowers -- and THEODORA 
senses something’s wrong -- and shrieks --

             THEODORA
      NO!  IT’S A TRICK!  DON’T --!

THE GROWLEYWOGS don’t listen -- blood lust high -- and in 
full battle cry they set upon the Cuttenclips -- STABBING and 
SLASHING -- RIPPING the Soldiers to shreds -- but then... the 
poppies start working their narcotic magic... THE GROWLEYWOG 
WARRIORS START DROPPING LIKE OPIATED FLIES -- soon every last 
one of them is in a deep, drugged sleep...

THEODORA can’t believe it -- for the briefest little moment 
we see a flicker of fear -- then her eyes narrow -- 

             THEODORA
      Deftly done you two -- but you 
      haven’t won yet -- far from it.  
      See you at Emerald City -- my 
      sister and I will be waiting...  

And she jets off on her broom, back to Emerald City, and --

INT. THE CAVES

             GLINDA
      Our turn now.

             OZ
      Magic Time.

                                      97.

EXT. EMERALD CITY - THAT NIGHT

A very dark night... SAVAGE GUARDSMEN patrol the gates -- TWO 
GROWLEYWOG WARRIORS man the ramparts above -- and one of them 
wheels, as -- 

KALA COMES ZOOMING OUT OF THE NIGHT -- KAYOS the Growleywog 
with a flying punch to the jaw -- then we see --

KANA -- LANCING AT US -- fist out in front of him -- and POW! 
-- his piledriver knocks the second Growleywog cold -- both 
Savages go down in a heap, spears clattering onto stone --

OTHER SAVAGE SENTRIES hear it, come racing to investigate -- 
see KANA AND KALA -- who scamper -- on foot -- and THE 
SAVAGES GIVE CHASE -- and when the balustrade is clear...

THE MAGIC BUBBLE wafts in -- OZ AND GLINDA have arrived in Em 
City -- but before they separate, Glinda smiles --

             GLINDA
      Welcome to your Destiny.  

And Oz is as honest as he’s ever been in his life --

             OZ
      I didn’t do this because of 
      Destiny.  I did it because of you.

Then quickly, he turns and goes -- Glinda gazing after him -- 
then she pulls up the hood of her cloak, hiding her face in a 
cowl.  She moves off, into the shadows, while --

INT. ELSEWHERE IN EMERALD CITY

KANA AND KALA are still leading the Guards on a helluva 
chase, and --

INT. A SMALL DARK CORRIDOR - INSIDE THE PALACE

GLINDA moves along the stone wall -- her hand against it -- 
then pauses as if she’s listening to something far beyond our 
hearing -- and then... SHE STEPS THROUGH THE WALL -- just 
walks through solid stone, into --

INT. THRONE ROOM

EVANORA’s on the Emerald Throne -- doesn’t even turn around 
as Glinda silently materializes behind her.

                                      98.

             EVANORA
      I’ve been expecting you.

             GLINDA
      Of course you have.  You knew this 
      day would come.

             EVANORA
      I’m sorry -- am I supposed to be 
      frightened? -- of you or this false 
      Wizard of yours?

             GLINDA
      False Wizard...?

             EVANORA
      Don’t tell me you believe --

             GLINDA
      In him?  As a matter of fact I do.

             EVANORA
      You always were so gullible.

             GLINDA
      Yes, once upon a time I even 
      believed in you.

             EVANORA
      You believed in our friendship.
      And you believed that, deep down, 
      there was some Good inside me...
        (sneers)
      You were foolish then, you’re 
      foolish now -- too foolish, I 
      think, to live.  Wouldn’t you 
      agree, Sister?

             THEODORA
	(O.S.)
      Definitely.

Glinda slowly turns -- and there’s Theodora.

             THEODORA
      So good to see you again, Glinda.

             GLINDA
      Don’t you look lovely.

             THEODORA
      I’m sure your Wizard would agree -- 
      he did once tell me green’s his 
      favorite color.  

                                      99.

             GLINDA
      Then I’m sure he’ll enjoy sitting 
      on the Emerald Throne.

             EVANORA
      You mean my throne.

             GLINDA
      I mean my father’s throne.  Oz the 
      Great and Powerful will be sitting 
      there by morning.

             EVANORA
        (cackles)
      The Great and Powerful --?! 

             GLINDA
      Just you wait -- you’ll see.

Then, just as LIGHTNING flashes from Theodora’s fingers, 
Glinda abruptly VANISHES INTO THIN AIR.  Theodora scowls...

             THEODORA
      What if she’s right? 

             EVANORA
      What if this Wizard’s a real 
      Wizard?  What does it matter, long 
      as he’s dead by morning?

             THEODORA
      He and fair Glinda can share the 
      same grave.  

INT. ELSEWHERE IN EMERALD CITY - WITH OZ

He slips around a corner -- sees, up ahead, in the shadows:  
M. MUNCHKIN -- gesturing:  This way -- but then --

             WINKIE GUARDSMAN
	(O.S.)
      THERE HE IS!

Oz wheels, sees:  SIX WINKIE GUARDSMEN... M. Munchkin quickly 
slips back into his hiding place as the Guardsmen advance on 
Oz -- spears raised -- the steel circle closing -- Oz sees no 
escape -- so, thinking fast --

             OZ
      There who is?

             WINKIE GUARDSMAN
      You, Wizard.

                                     100.

-- spear-points now inches from Oz, who somehow laughs --

             OZ
      Wizard?  Me?  I’m not the Wizard!

And the Guardsmen hesitate... 

             WINKIE GUARDSMAN
      Yes you are -- sure you are.

             OZ
      How could I be?  Gentlemen:  Look 
      at me!  I’m just a man, and haven’t 
      you heard?  The Wizard of Oz is ten 
      feet tall -- he breathes smoke and 
      fire -- he is by all accounts and 
      by any stretch of the imagination --

But that’s as far as he gets, because:  SUDDENLY THE WINKIE 
GUARDSMEN ALL COLLAPSE TO THE FLOOR -- their bodies seem to 
just disappear, leaving behind a jumble of hats and cloaks 
and spears, then... RATS START WRIGGLING OUT FROM UNDER THE 
MUDDLE -- the transformed Winkie Guardsmen -- courtesy of:

GLINDA -- to whom a greatly relieved Oz says --

             OZ
      Thought you’d never get here.   
      Come on!

M. Munchkin reappears -- Oz and Glinda follow him into the 
shadows, as we start to hear:  THE TOLLING OF A BELL... 

INT./EXT. EMERALD CITY BELL TOWER

KANA’S RINGING THE BELL -- hauling on the rope like a crazed 
Quasimodo -- he and Kala are barricaded here in this tower 
while, outside, the SAVAGE GUARDS TRY TO BREAK DOWN THE DOOR.  
And as the bell continues to loudly Ding and Dong... 

EXT. THE STREETS OF EMERALD CITY 

THE CITIZENS OF EM CITY come out of their houses -- wondering 
what all the commotion’s about, and --

INT. EMERALD CITY BELL TOWER

The SAVAGES successfully smash the door down -- Kana and Kala 
wing their way out the tower window -- safely away, and --

                                     101.

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE - EMERALD CITY

THE EM CITY CITIZENS gather in the Central Square... SAVAGE 
PALACE GUARDS keep them well back from the Palace, and --

INT. IN A SECRET LOCATION - INSIDE EMERALD CITY

THE MASTER ELF is peering out.

             OZ
	(O.S.)
      Close the curtain.

The Elf turns, and we see:  Oz -- standing inside a circle of 
very strange-looking CAMERA DEVICES.  He says to Glinda --

             OZ
      Let’s begin.  

Glinda gives a sharp wave of her hand, and just like that --

EXT. EMERALD CITY

All the torches in the city go out. 

INT. BEHIND THE CURTAIN - IN THE SECRET LOCATION

Glinda pulls the cowl back over her head, smiles at Oz.

             GLINDA
      Ad astra per aspera.

             OZ
      E Pluribus Unum.  

Glinda heads out -- Oz says to the Master Elf --

             OZ
      Here we go.  

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE - THE EXTRAVAGANZA BEGINS

DRY-ICE SMOKE starts billowing in from all sides -- hugging 
the ground -- prompting murmurs from the crowd... then:  from 
UNDER THE ARCH OF TRIUMPH -- AN EXPLOSION OF SMOKE AND FIRE.  
And even before the smoke clears we hear -- booming, 
amplified -- like the Voice of God Himself... 

             OZ’S VOICE
      DO NOT FEAR, GOOD PEOPLE OF OZ -- 
      DO NOT FEAR... 

                                     102.

And then, under the Arch -- we see it -- see him:  A LARGER-
THAN-LIFE HOLOGRAM OF OZ -- spectral, see-through --

             OZ’S VOICE
      IT IS I:  THE GREAT AND POWERFUL 
      WIZARD OF OZ!

GEYSERS OF FIRE shoot up on either side of the Hologram.  

             OZ’S VOICE
      WHERE ARE THE WICKED SISTERS!

             EVANORA
	(O.S.)
      We are here...

EVANORA AND THEODORA -- ON THE PALACE BALCONY.  Theodora 
flicks a hand -- the TORCHES next to them REIGNITE.  

             EVANORA
      And we are anxious to see just how 
      Great and Powerful you truly are.

Theodora signals -- and the PALACE GUARDSMAN RUSH THE 
HOLOGRAM -- SHOOTING ARROWS and FLINGING SPEARS -- which 
harmlessly pass right through the Image of Oz -- and when the 
spears and arrows hit the floor... 

GLINDA -- in her shawl -- gestures -- AND THE SPEARS AND 
ARROWS TRANSFORM INTO SNAKES -- and go slithering off into 
the shadows... THE HOLOGRAM LAUGHS WITH SCORN.

             OZ’S VOICE
      WICKED SISTERS... IN YOUR 
      IGNOMINIOUS IGNORANCE AND HATE DID 
      YOU REALLY BELIEVE THAT SUCH 
      PUSILLANIMOUS PIECES OF IMPOTENT 
      ARMAMENTS COULD HARM THE GREAT AND 
      POWERFUL OZ?

             THEODORA
      Perhaps you’d prefer this!

And suddenly:  THERE’S FIREBALL IN HER HAND -- which she 
heaves at the Hologram -- the fireball EXPANDING en route so 
that when it hits it totally ENGULFS OZ’S IMAGE -- turning 
the space beneath the Arch INTO A CURTAIN OF FLAME -- the 
Citizens shrinking back from the light and the heat and --

BEHIND THE CURTAIN -- IN THE SECRET LOCATION

Oz motions to the Master Elf -- Cut! -- then steps up close 
to a single, larger camera-type device, and --

                                     103.

BACK IN THE CENTRAL SQUARE

When the Fireball dies out we see... Oz’s Image is gone.  
There’s nothing there under the Arch any longer.  THE WICKED 
SISTERS CACKLE -- triumphant -- but only for a moment... 

BEHIND THE CURTAIN

Oz signals -- the Master Elf flicks a switch, and --

BACK IN THE CENTRAL SQUARE

Another terrific BOOOOOM! of smoke and fire erupts under the 
Arch -- and this time when the clouds clear we see:

OZ’S FACE -- AN ENORMOUS SPHERICAL HOLOGRAPHIC MOON FACE -- 
like the face Dorothy will see when she goes to see the 
Wizard years from now -- and THE MOON FACE starts to grow... 
gets BIGGER and BIGGER... then it starts FLOATING UP into the 
air... and as it rises, in a voice like rolling thunder --

             OZ’S VOICE
      HOW DARE YOU DOUBT ME!  

             THEODORA
      Doubt you? -- I DEFY you!

             OZ’S VOICE
      THEN WITNESS AND OBSERVE... AS I 
      UNLEASH THE STARS!

And then it begins... first a single streak of light zips 
across the sky like a meteor... then two more... then three -- 
zip, zip, zip... then more and more and more -- crissing and 
crossing, slashing the sky, then all at once --

It all stops.  Theodora and Evanora exchange a look -- Was 
that it? -- but then... OZ’S MOON FACE CHUCKLES... then 
THUNDERS LOUDER THAN EVER --

             OZ’S VOICE
      BEHOLD!

AND THE SKY SEEMS TO EXPLODE!  And, as Oz himself would 
probably say it, what follows is:  ‘A FIREWORKS FANTASIA MORE 
SPECTACULAR AND STUPENDOUS THAN ANY THE WORLD HAS EVER SEEN!’ 
-- in unbelievable 3D -- and no one in Em City has ever seen 
anything like it -- it’s eye-goggling and mind-boggling -- 
the Fourth of July times fifty -- and, as Oz had predicted --

THE PALACE GUARD SAVAGES -- terrified -- run like rats from a 
burning barn -- break ranks and high-tail it for the hills --

                                     104.

             EVANORA
        (shrieks to Theodora)
      Do something!

THEODORA turns -- then ZAPS A STEADY STREAM OF LIGHTNING from 
her fingertips into Oz’s Holographic Moon Face -- and THE 
MOON FACE LAUGHS at her -- then BOOMS to the crowd --

             OZ’S VOICE
      GOOD PEOPLE OF OZ, LOOK AND SEE:  
      THE WEAKNESS OF WICKEDNESS!

And we can tell:  All this zapping is sapping Theodora’s 
strength.  The lightning first dims -- then fades out 
completely -- and she slumps against the railing.

             EVANORA
      Sister?

GLINDA -- DOWN BELOW -- IN THE SHADOWS -- smiles to herself -- 
then THRUSTS her hand up and forward -- and some great 
shimmering PULSE OF ENERGY flashes up to the balcony -- THE 
SURGE SLAMS INTO THE SISTERS -- knocks Evanora clear through 
the doorway -- she goes sliding on her backside along the 
floor -- her hair awry -- animal fear in her eyes for the 
very first time -- THEODORA’s still on the balcony -- on her 
hands and knees -- the Sisters lock eyes.  

             EVANORA
      We must leave.

             THEODORA
      NO!

             EVANORA
      The night is his.  We leave and 
      there will be other nights.

THEODORA’s wavering -- then a ROMAN CANDLE slams into the 
Palace wall right beside her -- EXPLODES IN A 3D SUPERNOVA OF 
RED, WHITE AND BLUE.

HIDDEN SMITH & TINKER ELVES FIRE MORE FIREWORKS AT THEODORA -- 
she’s being bombarded -- rockets and Roman Candles strafing 
the Palace walls -- she has to duck and cover -- snarling 
with rage -- shrieks towards Oz’s Moon Face --

             THEODORA
      THIS ISN’T OVER, WIZARD!  Mark my 
      words:  You will watch each other 
      die!

She runs into the Palace, helps her Sister to her feet -- and 
the two Wicked Witches beat a hasty retreat down the hall.

INT. THEODORA’S ROOM

Theodora grabs her broomstick, flings open the window.  Looks 
back -- Evanora’s just standing there -- looks devastated.

                                     105.

             EVANORA
      Curse them -- curse them all.

             THEODORA
      We will, Sister.  All in good time.

Evanora nods -- regally walks past Theodora to the window -- 
raises her arms, the long folds of her sleeves spreading like 
wings -- then SHE TAKES OFF -- soaring like a nighthawk -- 
THEODORA SAILS AFTER HER -- ON HER BROOM -- 

EXT. ON A SPIRE - HIGH ABOVE THE CITY

KANA AND KALA see the Wicked Sisters flying away -- and the 
two Monkeys embrace -- then Kana takes a trumpet off his belt 
and BLARES A TANTARA --

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE

Everybody hears it.  The fireworks stop.  The tantara 
continues -- a fanfare of victory -- and THE CELEBRATION 
BEGINS -- like an explosion -- an outpouring of utter joy -- 
Kana flaps down off the spire, and --

BEHIND THE CURTAIN

Kana rushes in -- charged up -- Monkey-laughing -- 

             KANA
      We did it, Wizard -- you did it!  
      The Wicked Witches:  Gone-gone!

Oz beams -- Glinda steps through the curtain -- all aglow -- 

             GLINDA
      You were wonderful.

             OZ
      Yeah, that’s me:  The Wonderful 
      Wizard of Oz.  

He sweeps her into his arms, is about to kiss her, when -- 

             GLINDA
      What are you doing!

                                     106.

             OZ
      I was... trying to kiss you.

             GLINDA
      But I’m a Witch.

             OZ
      Believe me, I’ve kissed worse.

             GLINDA
      But... my kiss would kill you.

A searching beat -- then he sets her down.

             OZ
      You mean... kill me kill me? -- 
      compos mentis, kill me dead?  

She nods -- Kana does, too -- it’s true... 

             OZ
      Not even one tiny kiss?

             GLINDA
      Much as I might like to, Wizard, I 
      prefer you alive -- as do the Good 
      People of Oz.

Her smile’s bittersweet -- Oz shakes his head.

             OZ
      Ain’t that a kick in the pants?

Kana nods -- yes-yes -- and we go --

EXT. EMERALD CITY - FOLLOWING DAY

A GLORIOUS CELEBRATION IS IN FULL SWING.  There’s a PARADE -- 
MARCHING BANDS -- DANCING IN THE STREETS.  Hammerheads are 
bouncing one another up in the air -- we see the Little China 
Girl walking hand in hand with her parents... 

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE

A STAGE has been erected -- crowded with VIP’s -- a MUNCHKIN 
DIGNITARY is at the podium proclaiming --

             MUNCHKIN DIGNITARY
      No one who was here last night will 
      ever forget it -- Such wizardry!  
      Such wonder!  What a whiz of a Wiz 
      our Wizard was!  

             MUNCHKIN DIGNITARY
	(cont'd)
      So sound the bells, Ding Dong, Ding 
      Dong, the Wicked old Witches are 
      gone!

                                     107.

A CHEER goes up -- MUSIC PLAYS -- TOWER BELLS start to RING --

INT. THE ROOM OF RESPLENDENCE

Oz has stuffed his satchel full of about A GAZILLION DOLLARS 
WORTH OF GEMS AND JEWELS.  But then... he HEARS the Bells, 
hears the Citizens break out in song, and he goes to the 
window, peeks through the curtain -- sees the Celebration -- 
the laughing and singing and dancing, then --

             GLINDA
      Ready, Wizard?

Oz spins, startled -- didn’t hear her come in.  Then... 

             OZ
      I’m not going.  

Glinda holds her breath -- and waits.

             OZ
      I’m not leaving Oz.  I can’t.  If I 
      did, you know what would happen 
      here.  

             GLINDA
      The Wicked Sisters would no doubt 
      return, and could well reclaim the 
      Emerald Throne.

             OZ
      And I can’t let that happen.  I 
      won’t.  The People need a Wizard 
      and I’ll be their Wizard -- I’ll be 
      the Wizard of Oz.

The answer Glinda had hoped for -- and expected -- she glows.

             GLINDA
      You’re a good man, Wizard.

             OZ
      Yeah:  Who knew?

             GLINDA
        (sweeps an arm)
      Your People await you.  

But Oz just shakes his head, glumly.

                                     108.

             OZ
      I can’t do that, either.  If I go 
      down there the Good People of Oz 
      will see me for what I really am:  
      A common, ordinary man.

             GLINDA
      Wizard, you are neither common nor 
      ordinary.

             OZ
      Nor am I a Great and Powerful 
      Wizard -- and that’s what the 
      People need me to be -- what they 
      need to believe me to be... they 
      need a Myth, not a man -- which is 
      why I can never again let them see 
      the real me... I’ve got to keep up 
      the Illusion -- I’ve got to stay 
      Behind the Curtain...

             GLINDA
      It will get lonely there.

             OZ
      I know.  
        (looks at her)
      I’m sure you know it, too.

             GLINDA
      I do -- all too well.  

             OZ
        (another moment, then)
      I need a pen and some paper.

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE - MOMENTS LATER

KANA comes out of the Palace, clutching a piece of parchment.  
He marches towards the stage.

INT. EMERALD THRONE ROOM

OZ AND GLINDA are at the window, watching from behind a 
curtain when, suddenly:  there’s A SOUND LIKE A SONIC BOOM!

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE

Everyone stops, looks up and sees, SLASHING ACROSS THE SKY:

                                     109.

THEODORA AND EVANORA -- ON BROOMSTICKS -- burning broomsticks 
-- trailing BLACK SMOKE -- SKYWRITING the words...     

                     JUST YOU WAIT

THE CITIZENS exchange nervous glances, nervous murmurs -- 
THEODORA AND EVANORA finish -- and zoom away -- Theodora 
leaving behind one last wicked CACKLE... after they’re gone:  
Silence -- uncertainty -- then --

ON THE STAGE -- Kana prods the Munchkin Dignitary -- who 
steps to the podium and cries:

             MUNCHKIN DIGNITARY
      Good People of Oz!  I have here a 
      missive from the Great Wizard 
      himself!  And I quote... 
        (reads from the parchment)
      ‘As your Wizard I hereby decree 
      that henceforth and hereafter the 
      Land of Oz will forever be Free!’

A GREAT CHEER -- the MUSIC and DANCING start up again, and --

INT. THRONE ROOM - BEHIND THE CURTAIN

OZ AND GLINDA gaze down at the revelers... 

             OZ
      Tell me this isn’t a dream.  

             GLINDA
      It’s no dream.

             OZ
      Good.  I don’t want to wake up and 
      find out none of this is really 
      real -- ‘cause y’know something?
        (turns and smiles)
      There’s no place like Oz.

EXT. CENTRAL SQUARE

THE CELEBRATION continues -- but for us we’ve reached...

             THE END.

