
                                           “Z is for...”


                                      2.

FULL SCREEN OF BLACK

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Let me be clear, you are my 
      prisoner. I will treat you as I 
      have treated others of your kind, 
      which is with no mercy.  You will 
      most likely not survive the next 
      few hours.  And when you die, 
      you’ll be grateful for it because 
      your time with me will be 
      unpleasant.  Do you understand? 
      Nod, if you do. 

Shrouded in darkness, the contours of a human head leans 
forward into a sliver of light, nodding.  

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Good.  You will be surprised to 
      discover I speak your language.  
      Don’t let that disorient you or 
      cloud your thoughts.  I need you to 
      focus on my words.  I will speak, 
      you will listen. I will question, 
      you will answer.  This is non-
      negotiable.  

We hear the sound of a page being flipped.

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      How did the invasion start?

Pause.

Pause.

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Are you listening to me?    

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      How did it start?  How does it 
      spread?  What’s your end game?

Long pause.

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      You got nothin’ to say?  Is that 
      how you want to play it?  Okay, 
      fine.  But I’m not the one driven 
      by the hunger.  

Pause.


                                      3.

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      I’m not the one tortured by the 
      burn.  I can do this all day, all 
      night.  I’m going to get my answers 
      from you.  No matter how long it 
      takes.

A match FLARES, piercing the darkness.

The flame ignites the end of a cigarette.  The glow 
illuminates the details of the shrouded face... 

Revealing horrific details...

Rotten dripping flesh hanging from exposed cheek bones.  
Darkened sockets where eye balls should be.  Grey, prune-like 
scalp clinging to a few strains of dead hair.

This is THE PROFESSOR.  He’s an Infected.  And he’s casually 
smoking a cigarette.  

He lets out a puff... Smoke creeping out through the holes in 
his cheeks... Swirling around his face like a ghost.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Trust me, my friend... Time is a 
      luxury you cannot afford.

The Professor returns the cigarette to his spotted lips and 
inhales.  As the end of the cigarette glows and crackles...

THE SCREEN TURNS RED

And over this
PATIENT                    Z
OPENING CREDITS against microscopic images of viruses 
attacking blood cells.   

SOUNDTRACK swells as we see nature’s dance of life and death -
- viruses overwhelming cells, like an alien being overtaking 
a helpless host. 

The virus even attacks the CREDIT NAMES AND TITLES.

Then...

FADE IN ON

Blood.

Blood and flesh everywhere.


                                      4.

Naked bodies writhing.  Bodies made of rotten bloody flesh.  

Dozens of these bodies.  Climbing all over each other like a 
pile of worms.  It fills the screen like modern art.

The sound of flesh ripping.  Bones crunching.  Hungry growls.

A WOMAN SCREAMS! The kind of scream that haunts your dreams.

And in the middle of the writhing bodies, an arm appears, 
reaching out for help -- help that never comes...

             WOMAN’S VOICE 
      MORGAN!!!

SMASH CUT TO

INT. SLEEPING QUARTER - NIGHT

MORGAN AVERY, late 20’s, violently awakes.  He bolts up in 
bed, breathing heavily!  Square jaw tense, sweaty bangs 
pinned to his forehead.

Subtitle appears:  “48 HOURS EARLIER...”

             SCOTT’S VOICE
      Morgan!  

Morgan clears his eyes, looks up... It’s not a woman’s voice 
calling out to him...  

It’s actually SCOTT MURPHY, 30’s, filling the doorway with 
his thin frame and typical nervous energy.  

             SCOTT
      Time to work.

Morgan nods.  His is a kind face with eyes connected to a 
wearisome soul.  His slumping posture indicates the weight of 
the world, the shoulders of Atlas.

His sleeping quarters, a tiny space.  This isn’t the Four 
Seasons.  

On his night stand, a framed picture of a brunette woman.  

This is JANET, Morgan’s wife -- comforting eyes, a warm 
smile.  The photo can barely contain her beauty. 

In the image, Janet is wearing a sterling silver butterfly 
necklace, its wings pop with blue-colored topaz.

It’s the only thing that gives this dreary room any life.


                                      5.

INT. UTILITY CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Scott leads Morgan through a long utility corridor.  

Like the trenches of PATHS OF GLORY, we follow them through 
the serpentine passageway as dozens of military personnel 
rush around them.

The sounds of war can be heard reverberating through the 
walls: 

Chatter of rapid gunfire -- 

Beating of helicopter propellers -- 

Thumping of bombs and mortars --   

Dull thud of explosions --

The walls rattle --

Dirt falls from the ceiling --

Voices frantically shouting in the background -- 

Morgan and Scott turn a corner...

Five body bags on gurneys ahead of them.  

They stop for a moment, somberly watch the MORTICIAN zip up 
the last body bag.  

             SCOTT
      Let’s hurry.  It’s my son’s 
      birthday.  

They continue down the corridor. 

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

The room is lined with sleek metal consoles and illuminated 
computer screens.  A small team of TECHS monitor the system.

It’s state-of-the-art equipment, but the dull colors of the 
walls indicate a 70’s throwback.  The push and pull of old 
vs. modernity.

Nothing’s more old school than SERGEANT KNOX, who has the 
phone to his ear, screaming into it.

Knox is a cold man in his 50’s, the hardened landscape of his 
face underlines his years in war.  You have nothing in common 
with him.


                                      6.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Are you fuckin’ kidding me?!  Patch 
      me through to their CC!  What?  
      What do you mean they went dark-?!

DR. GINA ROSE storms into the room, approaches Sergeant Knox 
with intense purpose.

Gina’s crimson red hair pleasantly clashes with her 20’s 
something pale skin.  The stress of an apocalypse has yet to 
dent her youthful and rebellious energy.

             GINA
      Sergeant Knox, is it true?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Not now, Gina!

             GINA
      Is it true they’ve overtaken 
      Hawaii?

Sergeant Knox turns his back to her.

             GINA
      I warned them!  I told them to move 
      everyone to Fiji!  These things can 
      walk the ocean floor until-

             SERGEANT KNOX
      I don’t have time for a toldja so 
      lecture-

Scott and Morgan enter an observation room...  

             SERGEANT KNOX
        (into phone)
      We’ll brief when I’m done here.

He slams the phone down.  Gina approaches Morgan. 

             GINA
      Get any sleep?

             MORGAN
      Here and there.

             GINA
      Can’t have you working at a 
      deficit.

Gina jots down a reminder in a tiny notebook.


                                      7.

             GINA
      I’ll get you a stronger dose.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      He’s fine.  Let’s get started.

Morgan points to the darkened window flushed in the wall 
above the computer consoles.  

             MORGAN
      What do we got?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      There was a skirmish at the 
      intersection of 5th and Central.  
      The 27th Brigade we’re northbound 
      when they came across a swarm of 
      Infected feeding on the carcass of 
      dead public transit passengers.  

             GINA
      We were only able to bring two in 
      alive.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      But we lost five of our own doing 
      it.

A somber beat as everyone realizes Knox is referring to the 
five body bags in the hallway.

             MORGAN
      What are we calling the first 
      Infected?

             GINA
      Keith Richards.

Gina hands Morgan a file folder labaled: Keith Richards.

             MORGAN
      Great guitarist.

             GINA
      The best.

One of the Techs switches on the light in the adjacent 
interrogation room.  

Through the window we see an INFECTED chained down to a chair 
in the next room.  The shredded plaid shirt indicates this is 
a different creature from the one in the opening scene.


                                      8.

             SCOTT
      Keith hasn’t aged a bit.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Time and tide, folks!

             GINA
      Morgan?

             MORGAN
        (nodding)
      Dropping the needle.

Morgan walks over to the corner of the room.  In the middle 
of all this high-tech equipment is a dusty vinyl collection.

The records are stored in neatly lined crates, each crate 
labeled with the words: “Wax Philosophical”.  

Morgan flips through the records.  A collection that is 
extensive and varied.

He finally pulls out a Rolling Stones single.  Hands it over 
to Scott.

While Morgan exits the room, Scott places the record on top 
of a turntable that’s piped into the PA system.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The Infected (*to be referred as KEITH RICHARDS from here 
on), sits at a square table.

Keith Richards perks up as the opening guitar strums to the 
song “Tell Me” blares through a pair of speakers overhead.

As the song’s lyrics fill the air, the Infected gets restless 
and uncomfortable, rustles in his seat.  

Morgan steps into the room, the thick metal door hisses 
closed behind him.  Keith growls, snaps his jaws.  

Morgan casually sits down at the chair across from Keith, the 
table between them.

The chains snap tight as Keith struggles to break free, 
trying to attack Morgan.  His growls growing louder, more 
violent!

Morgan lifts his right index finger into the air.


                                      9.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Everyone’s observing Morgan and the Infected through the one-
sided window.  

On Morgan’s raised hand signal, Scott yanks the needle from 
the record.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The music stops.  Keith Richards relaxes, his growls lowering 
to a grumble.

Morgan is not phased by any of this.  Stone-faced.  
Experienced.  Looks down as he jots notes into the file.

Morgan then looks up and modestly growls back.  Keith pauses, 
a confused look on his face.

Then something surprising happens...

As Morgan continues to growl, the animalistic sounds coming 
out of his mouth morphs into perfect English.  

*Note, this is the same device used in Bryan Singer’s 
VALKYRIE, where Tom Cruise first speaks German but then his 
dialogue, for the benefit of the viewing audience, gradually 
transforms into English.  

             MORGAN’S VOICE
      ...let me be clear, you are my 
      prisoner. I will treat you as I 
      have treated others of your kind, 
      which is with no mercy.  You will 
      most likely not survive the next 
      few hours.  And when you die, 
      you’ll be grateful for it because 
      your time with me will be 
      unpleasant.  Do you understand? 
      Nod, if you do. 

Keith nods.

             MORGAN’S VOICE
      Good.  You will be surprised to 
      discover I speak your language.  
      Don’t let that disorient you or 
      cloud your thoughts.  I need you to 
      focus on my words.  I will speak, 
      you will listen. I will question, 
      you will answer.  This is non-
      negotiable.  


                                      10.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      How...how is this possible?

             MORGAN
      You’re the one in chains.  I’m the 
      one who is not.  That means I get 
      to ask the questions.

Morgan opens the file in front of him, flips through the 
pages.

             MORGAN
      You had no identification when you 
      were brought in.

Keith is still in stunned silence, can’t believe he’s 
actually communicating with a regular human.

             MORGAN
      Did you hear what I said?  No I.D.?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      No.

             MORGAN
      Why not?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      I don’t need one.

             MORGAN
      How long have you been infected?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      I don’t know...

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

We occasionally INTERCUT with the Observation Room where 
Gina, Scott, Sergeant Knox, and the Tech team watch the 
interrogation through the one-sided window.

From their POV, they hear Morgan speaking to the Infected 
with grunts and growls.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Morgan remains steady and calm as he continues his 
interrogation.

             MORGAN
      Where are you from?


                                      11.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      I don’t remember.

             MORGAN
      Do you remember your name?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      No.

             MORGAN
      That’s why you need an I.D.

Morgan pauses, writes in the file.  

             MORGAN
      Your name is now Keith Richards.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      The guitarist?

             MORGAN
      The best.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      Why?

             MORGAN
      The riff from ‘Jumpin’ Jack Flash’ 
      alone.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      No, why are you calling me Keith 
      Richards?

             MORGAN
      It’s the same reason we give 
      hurricanes human names. 

More confused looks from Keith.

             MORGAN
      Nevermind.
        (jots down more notes)
      So tell me about Patient Z.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      Patient Who?

             MORGAN
      Patient Z.  The first person to be 
      infected.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      I don’t know anything about that.


                                      12.

             MORGAN
      You sure?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      Where am I?
        (looks around)
      Is this a military base?  I thought 
      we destroyed them all?

A series of distant explosions rattle the room.  Keith 
Richards looks up. 

Dust falling onto his face confirms his suspicions that...

             KEITH RICHARDS
      We’re underground, aren’t we?  

             MORGAN
      Focus on me... 

Keith turns his gaze back to Morgan.

             MORGAN
      When you’re roaming around with 
      your Infected friends, you never 
      talk about how the invasion 
      started?  

             KEITH RICHARDS
      I don’t remember.

             MORGAN
      Don’t remember what?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      If I have any friends.

             MORGAN
      Do you remember what year it is?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      2023.

             MORGAN
      Close.  But wrong.  
        (writing notes)
      You’re not a reliable source of 
      information.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      Why the hell should I help you in 
      any way?


             MORGAN
      You have no choice.

Agitated, Keith lunges forward but is snapped back by the 
chains.

                                      13.

             MORGAN
      What is your last memory, before 
      you were brought in?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      The burn.

             MORGAN
      The what?

             KEITH RICHARDS
      The sensation I feel in my belly 
      when the hunger builds.  And I am 
      hungry all the time, hungry for 
      flesh.  

Keith gets restless, yanking on his chains.

             KEITH RICHARDS
      All I smell is flesh, and I can 
      smell yours from here.   

Morgan causally reaches under the table, opens a drawer.

From the drawer, Morgan pulls out a wine bottle and a wine 
glass, places them on the table.

             MORGAN
      Ever heard of Daniel Burnham?

No response from Keith.  As expected. 

             MORGAN
      Daniel Burnham was an architect, a 
      brilliant man who designed many 
      famous buildings including the 
      first skyscraper in Chicago.  He 
      was also a wine lover.  But he 
      didn’t age his wine in a cellar 
      like most.  Instead he aged his 
      bottles by shipping them around the 
      world twice on slow freighters.  
      Sometimes it would take years for 
      the wine to return home to him.

Morgan points to the bottle of wine on the table.


                                      14.

             MORGAN
      That’s one of those bottles, 
      extremely rare as you can imagine.  
      We found a dusty case hidden in the 
      basement of the Montezuma Hotel in 
      New Mexico, a structure that 
      Burnham designed in the early 
      1900’s.

Morgan picks up the bottle, slowly pours into the glass.  The 
sloshing of the wine is almost hypnotic.  

             MORGAN
      Whenever Daniel Burnham opened a 
      bottle amongst friends, he would 
      read to them the long list of 
      countries that wine traveled. And 
      when they drank it, it was more 
      than just a sip of wine --

Morgan grabs the glass, sniffs it.  Then, with eyes closed, 
sips the wine.

He takes a moment.  Then lightly exhales.

             MORGAN
      -- it was a trip around the world.

Takes another sip.

             MORGAN
      I’ve forgotten what fresh air and 
      sunlight feels like.  It’s because 
      of you this wine is my only 
      connection to the outside world.  

Morgan stands up, walks across the room and flips a switch.

A tracking light on the ceiling beams down on Keith, 
revealing the wall behind him.

Keith looks back, sees the wall is covered with dried blood 
and splattered brain bits.

This isn’t just an interrogation room -- it’s an execution 
room!

Morgan reaches into his jacket, pulls out a Glock 17 hand 
gun.

He points the gun at Keith Richard’s head.


                                      15.

             MORGAN
      It’s because of your kind that I 
      cannot share this wine with my 
      wife.

BANG!

The Infected’s head JERKS BACK as the remnants of his 
decaying brain SPLATTERS the wall.  Then slumps forward.

Morgan looms over the corpse, staring at it for a long time.  

Slowly holsters his gun.  Gazes at his hands. 

             GINA’S VOICE
      Morgan, you okay?

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Gina’s leaning into a microphone, finger pressed on a button.  

Sgt. Knox stands over her shoulder, brow furrowed with 
frustration.

             GINA
        (into microphone)
      Morgan?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Waste of fuckin’ time.  

             GINA
        (into microphone)
      Morgan, can you hear me?

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Morgan continues to stare at his hands.  The sound of Gina’s 
voice is washed out as he’s lost in his dark thoughts.

With a WHOOOSH on the soundtrack... 

             GINA’S VOICE
      Can you hear me?

Her voice regains its clarity.  Snaps Morgan back to his 
senses.

He looks up.

             MORGAN
      Yeah.


INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Gina eyes Morgan through the window with a hint of concern.

                                      16.

             GINA
        (into microphone)
      You need a break?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      He doesn’t need a break.  Let’s 
      continue.

             GINA
        (into microphone)
      Morgan, take five.

Gina takes her finger off the button.  

Through the window, we see Morgan leaving the Interrogation 
Room.

Sergeant Knox is doing his best not to blow up.  As Gina 
heads for the door...

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Dr. Rose-

             GINA
      Not now, Sergeant.

Gina exits the room.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Morgan’s at the sink, splashes water on his face.  He stares 
at himself in the mirror, his reflection a stranger’s art.

Gina steps into the bathroom.

             GINA
      Headaches still bothering you?

Gina approaches, pulls a couple of paper towels from the 
dispensers.  Hands them to Morgan.

             MORGAN
      I’ve been having these nightmares.  
      Flashbacks to the day I lost my 
      wife...  All I see is blood.  Blood 
      and flesh.  And I hear her 
      scream... but...
        (pause)
      ...but I can’t see her face.


                                      17.

Gina presses herself against Morgan.  

             GINA
      You don’t have to.  Not anymore.

She kisses him.  For a few seconds, his body is tense, almost 
resisting her.  

But the kiss lingers, and he begins to melt.

His arms snake around her body.  They consume each other.  
Breathing heavily.

She lets out a heavy breath as he spins her around.  Bends 
her over the sink.

Her cheek pressed against the mirror, fogging with each 
breath.

He pulls her pants and underwear down.  She closes her eyes 
as he enters her from behind.  

Again.  And again.  

They soon climax together.  It doesn’t take much.  All that 
fear and energy pent up and awaiting release.

Morgan leans against the wall, breathing heavily. Gina pulls 
up her pants, fixes her hair.  

Gina quickly exits the bathroom.  Leaving Morgan alone, 
staring at his reflection.

INT. NORTH CORRIDOR - DAY

Gina makes her way down the corridor.  Sergeant Knox is 
coming her way, stops her.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Dr. Rose, I will not tolerate this 
      attitude-

             GINA
      All due respect, Sergeant-

             SERGEANT KNOX
      All due respect, Doctor, but my 
      soldiers are out there dying on the 
      battlefield-

             GINA
      Your soldiers are not the only ones 
      fighting this war. 


                                      18.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      My orders are explicit.  

             GINA
      And I’m not military.

Gina turns and walks away.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      You’re operating on my base!  My 
      house, my rules.  Didn’t your Daddy 
      ever tell you that?!

That stops Gina cold.  Her brow furrows, turns back to face 
the Sergeant.

             GINA
      Are you still upset I didn’t choose 
      you?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      An offensive suggestion. I’m just 
      trying to speak a language you 
      understand cause obviously plain 
      English doesn’t work.

             GINA
      Then let me speak YOUR language.  
      Do you know what’s the first thing 
      they teach commandos in counter-
      terrorism?  

             SERGEANT KNOX
      I don’t need a lecture from-

             GINA
      When confronted with a group of 
      terrorists, and there’s a
      woman in that group -- take her out
      first.  Why? Because women always
      have to try harder than men to
      prove themselves -- invariably they
      become smarter and more dangerous
      than their male counter-parts.

Sergeant Knox fumes, anger brewing in his eyes as he steps up 
to Gina in a menacing way.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Is that a threat, Dr. Rose?

Gina doesn’t back down.


                                      19.

             GINA
      If you consider me a threat, then 
      you’re the wrong man for this job.

Unflinching, Gina walks away.  Sergeant Knox can do nothing 
but grit his teeth.

INT. ISOLATION WARD - DAY

A narrow, cavernous hallway deep in the belly of the military 
compound.  Several lonely bulbs above fight back the 
darkness.

Morgan moves through the dimly lit hallway.  Passes through 
dusty shafts of light.  A paper bag in hand.  

The echoes of his footsteps pierces the oppressive silence.  

At the end of the hallway is a cage, there’s an Infected 
imprisoned in it.

The Infected looks frail, slow-moving.  It lethargically 
looks up at the sound of Morgan reaching into the paper bag.

Morgan pulls out a large piece of raw steak and a tupperware 
container full of blood.  

He slides the slab of meat and container under the metal 
door.  

The Infected instantly scurries forward, grabs the meat, and 
consumes it like a starving animal.  The steak is gone in 
seconds.

The Infected then gulps from the tupperware container, tosses 
it aside once it’s empty.

Then the Infected slowly looks up to Morgan, blood dripping 
from its lips.

             INFECTED
      Sometimes I can hear the music.

The Infected crawls back into its corner, hides its head in 
the shadows.

Morgan stares into the darkness of the cage for a moment.  
The heavy, nasally breathing of the Infected can be heard.

             MORGAN
      V is for victory.  It will be 
      our’s.   


                                      20.

With that, Morgan turns and walks away.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Gina, Scott, and Sergeant Knox are gathered around in deep 
conversation. 

             SERGEANT KNOX
      ...and make sure it’s not one we 
      tagged.

             GINA
      He’s not on the list.

             SCOTT
      The odds of that happening is-

Morgan enters the room.  Realizes he’s stepped in the middle 
of a conversation.

             MORGAN
      Tagged what?

He notices the tense energy between Gina and Sgt. Knox as she 
hands Morgan a file folder labeled:

             GINA
      Pete Townshend.  Tell him I’m a big 
      fan.

Morgan looks through the observation window, sees the second 
infected (aka Pete Townshend) being guided into the 
interrogation room by TWO SOLDIERS.

A metal leash wraps around Pete Townshend’s neck.  Two long 
metal poles branch out from the leash, the soldiers 
controlling each pole from a safe distance.

Pete thrashes like a trapped animal. The soldiers struggle 
but finally forces him into a chair.  

While Soldier #1 pushes Pete’s head back with the pole... 

Soldier #2 crouches down... Carefully inches his way towards 
the Pete’s ankles, trying to lock them down. 

But Pete’s strength is overpowering, jerking Soldier #1 back 
and forth... 

Soldier #1 loses his grip of the pole.  This gives Pete 
enough slack to stretch forward, jaws snapping! 


                                      21.

             MORGAN
      GODAMMIT! 

Morgan, Scott, Gina, and Sgt. Knox rush out of the room to 
help!

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM

They burst into the room!

Morgan and Sgt. Knox help Soldier #2 with the metal poles, 
using their body weight to press Pete Townshend back into the 
seat.  

Gina pulls Soldier #1 safely away.  

Scott rushes in -- bends down, locks Pete Townshend’s ankle.  
Yanks his arms back --  

But it’s too late!  Pete’s teeth sink into Scott’s forearm!  

             SCOTT
      Arrrggghhh!!

Scott attempts to yank his arm back -- but he can’t!  Pete’s 
jaws are locked in place and -- TEARING OFF a chunk of meat 
from Scott’s forearm!

Scott falls back, screaming in pain.  Morgan and Gina rush 
over to Scott.  

Gina grabs onto Scott’s arm, examines it.  It’s a nasty 
sight, open bloody wound, exposed bone and veins.  

             GINA
      Time!

Morgan presses a button on his watch.

             MORGAN
      90 seconds and counting!

             SCOTT
      Fuck!  My arm!!!

Gina looks to Morgan.  He clocks the edge of panic in her 
eyes.  Then she looks to Knox.

             GINA
      Sergeant?

Sergeant Knox nods.  They all know what this means.  


                                      22.

             SCOTT
      Is it that bad?!

             MORGAN
      85 seconds!

Morgan and Sgt. Knox put Scott’s arms around their shoulders 
and carry him out the door.

INT. EAST CORRIDOR - DAY

Gina leads the way as Morgan and Sgt. Knox are helping Scott 
down the corridor, leaving a trail of blood behind them.

             SCOTT
      Don’t let me turn!  Please don’t 
      let me turn!

             GINA
      Stay calm, Scott.

             SCOTT
      Stay calm?!

             MORGAN
      65 seconds!

             GINA
      The faster your heart beats, the 
      faster the virus is pumped through 
      your circulation.

INT. MEDICAL WARD - DAY

They burst into the medical ward, knocking over a tray. They 
set Scott down onto one of the beds.  

             GINA
      Scott, take deep breaths. Close 
      your eyes.  And tell me about the 
      first time you kissed a girl.

Scott’s chest heaves as he takes in a few deep inhales.  

He closes his eyes as Sgt. Knox grabs onto his right arm, 
straightens it out.

             SCOTT
      I...I was in 2nd grade... Her name 
      was Christine Furlong... I had the 
      biggest crush on her... 


                                      23.

While Scott mumbles away, Gina reaches into a cabinet and 
pulls out an electric bonesaw.

             SCOTT
      I stole some money... From my Mom’s 
      purse to buy Christine some 
      candy... from the drugstore.  

Gina brings the saw blade near where Scott’s forearm meets 
the elbow.  Morgan prepares to hold Scott down.

             MORGAN
      40 seconds!

             SCOTT
      I gave it to her in the schoolyard 
      and... The other kids made fun of 
      me for it... But Christine... Was 
      so grateful... She leaned in to...

THE BLADE TURNS ON, SLICES INTO SCOTT’S ARM!  Scott lets out 
a deep HOWL of pain!

Gina struggles as she PUSHES the buzzing blade deeper into 
Scott’s arm -- the sounds of crunching bones and ripping 
flesh!

             MORGAN
      25 seconds!

Scott’s entire body is trembling with pain!  

More sounds of blade crunching bones!

Ligaments snap like broken strings on a tennis racket!

Slicing muscles!

Finally...

The arm comes off!  Blood spurting at the stump with every 
heart beat.  Gina instantly begins bandaging the arm.

Scott writhing in pain, about to fall off the bed!  

Morgan holds Scott down as he glances at his watch.

             MORGAN
      10 seconds!

             SCOTT
        (to Gina)
      Don’t let me turn!  Don’t let me 
      live like that!


                                      24.

             GINA
      You gotta fight it, Scott!

             MORGAN
      5...

             SCOTT
      Do you hear me?!  I can’t live like 
      that!

             MORGAN
      4...

             SCOTT
        (turns to Morgan)
      Tell Tommy happy birthday for me.

             MORGAN
      3... 

             SCOTT
      Please...

             MORGAN
      2...

             SCOTT
      Tell Tommy for me...

And instead of saying “1”... Morgan says...

             MORGAN
        (nodding to Scott)
      I promise.

Everyone holds their breath.   Seconds go by.  Nothing’s 
happening.  

They exchange looks.  Did it really work?  A minute passes.  

The panic of Scott’s face hesitantly morphs into relief. 

Even Sgt. Knox breathes a little easier.

And just as smiles begin to form on their faces...

Scott’s body snaps back, his spine bent at an obscene angle 
and seemingly frozen in time. 

Then he convulses -- legs kicking, his arms swinging wildly! 

Then just as quickly, his body slumps completely still.  His 
eyes wide open with the stare of death.


                                      25.

Gina flashes a light in Scott’s cold eyes.

             GINA
      Reset time!

Morgan taps a button on his watch.  

             MORGAN
      30 seconds!  Is he breathing?

             GINA
      He could have gone into shock.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Tie him down.

Gina grabs a stethoscope, listens to Scott’s chest.  Checks 
his pulse.

             GINA
      No heartbeat.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      He’s gone.

Gina ignores Sgt. Knox.  She applies CPR to Scott, counting 
to herself with every pump of his chest.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      He’s gone!  Now tie him down!

             MORGAN
      20 seconds!

Gina continues to frantically pump Scott’s chest.

             GINA
      Come on... come on...

             MORGAN
      15 seconds!

             SERGEANT KNOX
      TIE HIM DOWN BEFORE-!

             GINA
      OKAY OKAY!

Gina backs off, frustrated.

             MORGAN
      10 seconds!


                                      26.

Gina and Morgan desperately begin strapping Scott’s legs and 
his one remaining arm to the bed.

Scott’s body begins to turn... His muscles drying up... His 
skin turning sheet thin, exposing the contours of his 
bones... His color pale... His flesh flaking... Cheeks sink 
in like a deflating balloon... 

             MORGAN
      5...!

They snap the lock shut on his left leg.

             MORGAN
      4...!

Snap the lock on his right leg.

             MORGAN
      3...!

Snap the lock on his left arm.

             MORGAN
      2...!

Snap the lock to the strap around Scott’s waist and...

SCOTT ROARS BACK TO LIFE -- AWAKENS AS AN INFECTED! 

His jaws violently snapping!  The leather straps stretch and 
creak as they pin him to the bed.

Morgan and Gina jump back, staring at their friend who has 
completely transformed into a horrible monster!

BANG!

The top of Scott’s head explodes as a bullet RIPS through it, 
startling Morgan and Gina.

Scott’s body slumps back down to the bed.  Completely still.  
Dead forever.

Morgan and Gina turn to see Sgt. Knox holding a 44 Magnum, 
smoke rising from its nose. 

             SERGEANT KNOX
      It’s what he wanted.

Sgt. Knox holsters his gun.


                                      27.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      It’s what any one of us would have 
      wanted.

With that, Sergeant Knox turns and leaves the room.

INT. MORGUE - DAY

Morgan enters the morgue.  The walls are tall and lined with 
endless cabinets holding dead bodies.  This is their 
cemetery.  

Morgan walks along the wall, eyes scanning the labels on each 
cabinet.  He stops at the cabinet labeled:  “THOMAS MURPHY 
2012 - 2017”.

He pulls the cabinet out... Revealing a casket inside.  
Morgan places a cupcake with a lone birthday candle on the 
casket.

             MORGAN
      Happy birthday, Tommy.  Tell your 
      father I said hi.

WE HEAR the opening chords of The Who’s “Happy Jack”...

CUT TO

CLOSE UP of the turntable needle tracking the grooves of a 
spinning record by The Who.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

“Happy Jack” continues to play as...

Morgan, Gina, and Sgt. Knox are watching Pete Townshend 
through the observation window.  

They’re observing the Infected closely as he squirms in his 
seat, agitated by the music, angrily growling!

Gina turns to Morgan, hands him a file folder.

             GINA
      Make this one count.  For Scott.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Pete Townshend frantically looks around as “Happy Jack” blare 
over the speakers.


                                      28.

Morgan enters the room.

Pete thrusts his jaws out, his rotten teeth rattling, tongue 
wagging.

Morgan sits down across from Pete, lifts his right index 
finger.  The music suddenly stops.

Pete relaxes, letting loose a low growl.

Morgan growls back...

             MORGAN’S VOICE
      Let me be clear, you are my 
      prisoner. I will treat you as I 
      have treated others of your kind, 
      which is with no mercy.  You will 
      most likely not survive the next 
      few hours.  And when you die, 
      you’ll be grateful for it because 
      your time with me will be 
      unpleasant.  Do you understand? 
      Nod, if you do. 

Pete Townshend nods.

             MORGAN’S VOICE
      Good.  You will be surprised to 
      discover I speak your language.  
      Don’t let that disorient you or 
      cloud your thoughts.  I need you to 
      focus on my words.  I will speak, 
      you will listen. I will question, 
      you will answer.  This is non-
      negotiable.  

Morgan slams a beat-up paperback copy of Heminginway’s THE 
SUN ALSO RISES onto the table.

             MORGAN
      We found this on you when you were 
      brought in.

Pete Townshend eyes it curiously.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Interesting.  I’d totally forgotten 
      about it.

             MORGAN
      Do you forget easily?


                                      29.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      My nerve endings don’t work, so I 
      stopped feeling things in my 
      pocket.

Morgan raises the book.

             MORGAN
      Tell me what this book is about.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Is this a book club?

             MORGAN
      Just tell me.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I don’t know... something about an 
      impotent American journalist living 
      in Paris.  He’s all gaga over some 
      Englishwoman.  You should read it.  

             MORGAN
      I have.  

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Then why’d you ask me about it?

             MORGAN
      Just checking.  You remember how 
      you got here?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Why are you so interested with my 
      memory?

             MORGAN
      Just answer the question.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Yes, I remember.  You guys dragged 
      me in here.

             MORGAN
      Can you be more specific?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      There was a pack of us, moving up 
      Main Street.  

             MORGAN
      Where were you coming from?


                                      30.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      The east end, which was dry as a 
      nun’s cooch.  Everything was picked 
      off.  We haven’t seen food for 
      almost three days.

             MORGAN
      What was so special about Main 
      Street?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      It was there we saw an overturned 
      bus.  Car wreckage is not an 
      unusual sight in the city, but this 
      bus was special.  Oh yes, we hit 
      the jackpot with this one.  

A grin forms along the zombie’s face as he recants his story.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      It was full of dead passengers, 
      barely a day old, still fresh with 
      blood.  

             MORGAN
      And blood is important, because it 
      helps you break down the flesh you 
      eat.  That’s why you don’t eat each 
      other, infected flesh is dry.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      You’re an expert, are you?

             MORGAN
      I’ve done my homework.  Continue...

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      We were so excited to find such a 
      payload of food that no one paid 
      much attention to anything else.  
      That’s when your soldiers snuck up 
      around the corner.  

             MORGAN
      What’s your name?

             PETE TOWNSHEND 
      Jeffery.

             MORGAN
        (surprised)
      You remember your name?


                                      31.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Why wouldn’t I?

             MORGAN
      You’re now known as Pete Townshend.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Why?

             MORGAN
      I’ll be asking the questions.  Do 
      you remember what year it is?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      2019.

             MORGAN
        (nodding)
      Very good.  Place of birth?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I’m hungry.

             MORGAN
      We’ll get to that in a moment.  
      Place of birth?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Sarasota, Florida.  

             MORGAN
      Beautiful at this time of the year.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I wouldn’t know. Moved to Minnesota 
      for College.

             MORGAN
      Minnesota?  There’s where I’m from.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Really?  You lost the accent.

             MORGAN
      When did you turn?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      We prefer the term ‘merge’.  
      Merging with our infected nature.

             MORGAN
      Okay, when did you merge?


                                      32.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Almost a year ago. I was at my home 
      in Redwood Falls.  It’s in Southern 
      Minnesota.

             MORGAN
      I know where it is.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I wasn’t testing you.  

             MORGAN
      How many humans have you killed?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      My memory is not THAT good.

             MORGAN
      That many?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Each taste better than the last.  I 
      bet you taste good.

             MORGAN
      Do you miss your family?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Yes, but not in the way you think.

             MORGAN
      Explain.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I miss them because I have this 
      urge to eat them.  I know their 
      flesh would be very satisfying.  
      Especially my 8 year old daughter.  
      I see so clearly in my head the 
      vision of me tearing the limbs from 
      her torso like wings from a 
      butterfly.  I would clean each bone 
      of their meat as she begged me to 
      stop, cried out in pain the words 
      ‘Daddy Daddy’, but I keep eating 
      her until I rip out her heart with 
      my jaws because...

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      ...because I’m no longer her Daddy.

Pause.

Pete Townshend licks his crusty lips.  The hunger setting in.


                                      33.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Why are you asking me all these 
      questions?

             MORGAN
      I’m trying to find out who was the 
      first to be infected.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      You mean The Original?

Morgan perks up.

             MORGAN
      Is that what you call him?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Yes.

             MORGAN
      We call him Patient Z.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      That’s catchy too.

             MORGAN
      Have you ever met Patient Z?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      No.  But there are stories.

             MORGAN
      Such as?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Just that he is the father of all 
      being.  

             MORGAN
      Tell me where he is.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Why would I?

             MORGAN
      Because you have to.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Or what?

             MORGAN
      There is no or what.


                                      34.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Is that a threat?

             MORGAN
      I don’t have to threaten you.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Then why would I answer any of your 
      questions.

             MORGAN
      Because you can’t lie.

Pete Townshend pauses, thinking about Morgan’s declaration.

             MORGAN
      You probably haven’t realized that, 
      have you?  

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I don’t know what you mean.

             MORGAN
      You said your name is Jeffery.  Now 
      try to identify yourself by another 
      name.

Pete Townshend is silent, tilts his head in confusion.

             MORGAN
      Go ahead.  Try it.

The Infected struggles for the words, practically choking on 
his own tongue.

             MORGAN
      Tell me, what’s your name?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      My name...
        (pause)
      ...is Jeffery.

Pete Townshend’s face drops with revelatory shock.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Why?  How?

             MORGAN
      The fact that you don’t know the 
      answer to that, is exactly what 
      separates you from being human.


                                      35.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Then I won’t tell you anything at 
      all.

             MORGAN
      Excuse me?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I may not be able to lie, but I 
      also don’t have to tell the truth 
      simply by not saying anything.

             MORGAN
      That’s probably not a good idea.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      What are you going to do?  Torture 
      me?  
        (chuckles)
      I don’t feel pain. 

             MORGAN
      But you feel the hunger.

Morgan glances at the observation window.

             MORGAN
      Gina, show us the west corridor.  

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Gina turns to one of the computer Techs.

             GINA
      Bring up cameras 24 through 32.   

The Tech taps at a few keys on a keyboard.  

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

A flat screen monitor on the wall suddenly comes alive.  
Morgan and Pete Townshend turn to watch as... 

THE MONITOR shows a live image of a very long hallway 
elsewhere in this military compound.  The walls are lined 
with glass doors to tiny containment units.  

In each cramped unit is an imprisoned infected, and they’re 
moaning in pain, tortured by the hunger of not having fed on 
meat for awhile. 


                                      36.

             MORGAN
	(V.O.)
      That’s a live feed of our 
      containment units.  And those are 
      some of your friends we keep around 
      for further interrogation and 
      studies.

Suddenly, The Who’s song ‘Happy Jack’ plays again over the 
loud speaker system, the music piped into each containment 
unit.

The music sends the infected into a frenetic state, driving 
them stir-crazy!

             MORGAN
	(V.O.)
      Music has an interesting affect on 
      the Infected.  In small doses, it 
      agitates and disorients.  That’s 
      why we play it before an 
      interrogation. But a steady diet of 
      music can be dangerous for you.  
      It’s because the hair cells in the 
      cochlea of your inner ear are so 
      damaged, the contorted signals are 
      transmitted through the brainstem. 

The captured Infected let out ghoulish groans of pain, 
banging on the glass doors, desperate to get away from the 
music.

             MORGAN
	(V.O.)
      The rotted cortex of your brain is 
      unable to process music and your 
      body doesn’t know how to deal with 
      it.  The only defense your body has 
      is hunger. Music amplifies that 
      defense.  

We focus on one of the contained infected, this one 
frantically claws at his own head... Then... With a sickening 
CRACK... Opens his own skull like a coconut...

It moans as it pulls pieces of its own brains out, begins 
eating it.

             MORGAN
	(V.O.)
      But when you’re locked up in a cage 
      and you’re unable to find a food 
      source, the hunger becomes so great 
      you’ll eventually eat yourself.

Soon the infected eats enough of its own grey matter to kill 
itself.  The infected keels over, slumps to the floor as bits 
of its own brain tumbles from its gaping mouth.


                                      37.

             MORGAN
	(V.O.)
      After what you did to my friend, 
      Scott, I have no reason not to lock 
      you up and make you listen to 
      music.

BACK ON, Pete Townshend’s face, contorted with fear.

             MORGAN
      So, tell me... Where is Patient Z?

Pete looks at the monitor, then back on Morgan.  If he could 
gulp, he would.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I don’t know.

Morgan gets up from his chair.  Walks over.  Pulls out his 
gun.  Aims it at Pete Townshend.

             MORGAN
      Where is Patient Z?

Pete Townshend shakes his head.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I don’t know.

Morgan cocks the hammer of the gun.  

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I don’t know.

Pause.

Morgan gently pushes the hammer back.  Holsters his gun.

             MORGAN
      I believe you.

Morgan turns to the one-sided window.

             MORGAN
      Scan him.

INT. MEDICAL WARD - NIGHT

Pete Townshend is tied down to a bed connected to a CT 
scanner machine.  

Pete growls, struggles with his restraint as the bed slowly 
moves him through the donut hole of the scanner.  LOUD CLICKS 
as the machine scans his brain.


                                      38.

TWO MEDICS monitor the system, reading the results.

INT. CONTAINMENT UNITS - NIGHT

The soldiers drag Pete Townshend down a long hallway of 
containment units.

On both sides of the hallway, imprisoned zombies helplessly 
observe as they toss Pete Townshend into one of the units.  

The glass door slides and shuts him in.  Pete Townshend 
presses himself against the glass door.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Please!  No music!  Please!

Pete Townshend crumbles to his knees as the soldiers foot 
steps disappear down the hallway.

INT. WAR ROOM - NIGHT

Gina pointing to the illuminated x-ray of the human brain.

             GINA
      This is the brain of someone who 
      was infected just last week.  Note 
      the irregularities through most of 
      the cerebrum. We categorized this 
      kind of infected as a Sub-Walker.  

Gina points to the cerebrum and its Swish cheese-like 
landscape.  

Sitting around a long conference table is Sergeant Knox, 
several other military top brass, and the DEFENSE SECURITY. 

They observe attentively as Gina places a second slide next 
to the first image.  The second slide displays another human 
brain x-ray.  

             GINA
      This is the brain of the infected 
      we refer to as Pete Townshend. 
      Notice that 87% of the cerebrum is 
      still intact and fairly healthy.  
      He is what we call an Alpha-Walker.

A flat screen monitor on the wall comes alive.  All eyes turn 
to it as the monitor show columns of other brain scans, and 
they all look similar to Pete Townshend’s.


                                      39.

             GINA
      Pete’s brain matches several other 
      Alpha-Walkers we captured who also 
      have high memory retention.  All 
      got infected a year ago around the 
      time the virus first broke out. The 
      longer a person has been when 
      infected, the higher the chances of 
      memory retention. Which means the 
      virus continues to mutate as it’s 
      passed from person to person.  
      Eventually the evolution of the 
      virus will hit a diminishing return 
      and all infected will have no trace 
      of human memory.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      The other important link between 
      Alpha-Walkers is that we’re 
      consistently finding them the 
      further north we sweep across 
      Minnesota.  So our tracking system 
      is working.

             ADMIRAL
      Why Minnesota? 

             GINA
      Not sure, admiral.  But I theorize 
      that might be where their hive is -- 
      ground zero of the infection. 

All the military brass glance at each other.

             GINA
      If we continue tracking Alpha-
      Walkers, there’s a good chance it 
      could lead us to Patient Z.  That 
      means expanding our search further 
      north.

Gina points to a map of the United States on the wall.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      For the record, I’m not 100% 
      convinced.  What if Patient Z has 
      migrated elsewhere?

             GINA
      That’s why we have to act quickly.  

             SERGEANT KNOX
      That’s like finding a needle in a 
      haystack.  


                                      40.

             SERGEANT KNOX
	(CONT'D)
      I’m not risking more soldiers on 
      such a low percentage mission.  

             GINA
      We don’t know what the percentage 
      is, but we do know we are getting 
      closer.  
        (to Defense Secretary)
      And there is no Plan B, sir.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      No Plan B doesn’t mean we have a 
      good Plan A.

             GINA
      I was right about Hawaii.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      That has nothing to do with what 
      we’re-

             GINA
      If only you had conveyed to them 
      what I suggested, we wouldn’t have-

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      Quiet!!!

The room goes dead silence.  All eyes on the Defense 
Secretary.

The Defense Secretary balls his hands into fists, taps his 
knuckles against his chin.  Thinking.  Weighing the options.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      Sounds like actionable intel to me.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Mr. Secretary-

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      It’s not a straight line to Patient 
      Z, but we should be able to 
      triangulate.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Sir, but-!

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      She WAS right about Hawaii.

That shuts up Knox.  Gina beams.


                                      41.

             GINA
      Thank you, sir.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
        (to Gina)
      Don’t ever bring up Hawaii again.  
      Thousands of people died and it’s 
      not something you should be proud 
      of being right about. 

The Defense Secretary glances up at the map.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      Send all units north for a thorough 
      sweep.  If we’re going to do this, 
      we’re going to do it right.
        (turn to Sgt. Knox)
      Pull the trigger.  And pray.

INT. SLEEPING QUARTERS - NIGHT

Meanwhile...

Morgan’s in bed, deep in slumber but twisting and turning.

On his bedside table, we see the framed photo of his wife 
Janet. 

At the foot of the photo is the pill bottle Gina prescribed 
to him.  The bottle is open, on its side, with pills spilled 
out.

Obviously, Morgan’s taken some.  How many?  We’ll never know.  
But enough to give him restless sleep.

SLOWLY PUSH IN on Morgan’s sleeping face...  

Creeping into the soundtrack comes the opening of The Moody 
Blue’s “Knights In White Satin”...

CUT TO 

FLASHBACK OF

The same record player from the Observation Room... The 
needle on top of a spinning record...

Then CRASH!!!

             JANET’S VOICE
      Ow!!

WE SLOWLY PULL BACK TO REVEAL


                                      42.

INT. BOOK STORE - DAY

The record player is located behind the counter of a small, 
independent book store that sells used books and records.  

PULL BACK FURTHER

Pass rows and rows of tall bookshelves.  Pass crates of used 
records.  Finally settling on...

Janet sprawled on the floor, wincing in pain with dozens of 
books scattered around her.  Next to her is a ladder which 
she obviously fell off of.

In the background, the store’s front entrance opens.  Morgan 
enters, carrying a paper bag.

             MORGAN
      Lunch time!  

He looks behind the counter, doesn’t see his wife.

             MORGAN
      Janet?

             JANET
      Over here!


Morgan looks over, shocked to find Janet on the floor.  He 
rushes over.

             MORGAN
      What happened?  Are you okay?

             JANET
      I’m fine.  Was trying to reach the 
      top shelf.

Janet bends over to pick up a few of the books.  The blue 
butterfly necklace glimmers as it hangs from her neck.  
Morgan stops her.

             MORGAN
      No, leave them.  Let’s have lunch 
      here.

             JANET
      On the floor?

             MORGAN
      It’ll be like when we first moved 
      into our studio apartment and 
      didn’t have furniture yet.


                                      43.

             JANET
        (smiles)
      Silly.

Morgan pulls out Thai food from the paper bag.  Leaning 
against book shelves, they enjoy their lunch on the floor. 

The lyrics to “Nights In White Satin” floating through the 
store.

             JANET
      Do you remember the first time we 
      heard this song?

             MORGAN
      Yes, it was at a gas station.  I 
      was filling up my car on our first 
      date.

             JANET
        (nodding)
      I always wondered why they played 
      such a beautiful song at something 
      so ugly like a gas station.

             MORGAN
      It’s to keep the riff raff from 
      loitering.

             JANET
      Really?

             MORGAN
      Oh yeah, they did psychological 
      studies on this.  Older music 
      agitates kids who, on a 
      subconscious-level, think it’s not 
      ‘cool’ enough, which makes them not 
      want to hang out in the area. 
      That’s why gas stations play non-
      contemporary music at their pumps.

             JANET
      You’re a spermologer. 

Morgan almost chokes on his Pad Thai at Janet’s words.

             MORGAN
      A what?

             JANET
      Someone who is full of trivia.


                                      44.

             MORGAN
      I’m not a good spermologer if I 
      don’t know what the word means.

Morgan scratches at his ring finger, where a wedding ring is 
supposed to be.  Janet notices.

             MORGAN
      Still not used to not wearing it.

             JANET
      Oh my God!  What time is it?

Morgan glances at his watch.

             MORGAN
      Almost 2:30.

             JANET
      Shoot!  I’m gonna be late to the 
      restaurant.  

Janet gets up.

             JANET
      I won’t be home for dinner.  Are 
      you-?

             MORGAN
      There’ll be plenty of leftovers.

Janet rushes to the counter, grabs her purse.  Morgan follows 
her.

             JANET
      I’ll try and get off as soon as 
      possible.  But we had a few servers 
      quit and-

             MORGAN
      I’m sorry, honey.

             JANET
      Sorry for what?

             MORGAN
      When we got married we vowed to do 
      everything together.
      This store was to be our adventure 
      for the rest of our lives.  I’m 
      sorry you have to-

             JANET
      Hey, it’s okay.  


                                      45.

             MORGAN
      It’s not okay.  We had to sell our-

             JANET
      It’s only jewelry, honey.  Once 
      we’re back on our feet, I’m sure we 
      can get them back.  

Morgan nods.  Knows she’s right.  As usual.

             JANET
      No matter how tough things get, 
      it’s not the end of the world.

             MORGAN
      You’re the best.  Let me walk you 
      out.

EXT. BOOK STORE - DAY

Morgan walks Janet out of the store.  We see the sign above 
the store:  “WAX PHILOSOPHICAL - USED BOOKS & RECORDS”

He leads Janet to her car, which is parked right out front.

Janet slides into the driver seat.  Rolls down the window and 
peeks through it.

             JANET
      Where are we in the alphabet?

             MORGAN
      I believe it’s T.  Your turn.

Janet ponders.

             JANET
      T is for tears.  I don’t remember 
      the last time I cried because you 
      make me so happy.

You can tell by the look on Morgan’s face he’s looking at the 
woman of his dreams and couldn’t be happier.

He leans in and kisses her through the window.

She starts the engine.  He smiles as Janet drives away.

WE STAY ON Morgan as he continues to watch her drive off, the 
car engine fading in the distance.

Morgan turns, heads back towards the store.  Then...


                                      46.

A CRASH off-screen!

Morgan spins around, looks into the distance.

             MORGAN
      Janet?

Morgan’s face contorts with panic and fear at what he sees!  

             MORGAN
      JANET!!!

BACK TO PRESENT TENSE

INT. SLEEPING QUARTERS - NIGHT

Morgan BOLTS up in bed, screaming...

             MORGAN
      JANET!!!

Breathing heavily, he slowly orients himself.  These dreams 
get more vivid each time.

He looks over at the framed photo of Janet.  

With trembling fingers, Morgan grabs 2 more pills from the 
table, pops them into his mouth.

INT. ISOLATION WARD - DAY

Morgan makes his way down the hallway of the Isolation Ward.  
He approaches the cage at the end.

Staring through the bars of the cage, he sees the imprisoned 
Infected sitting with its back to him.

             MORGAN
      How you feeling?

             INFECTED
      Hungry.

             MORGAN
      I can bring you more steak.

The Infected finally turns its entire body towards Morgan -- 
and we’re shocked to see the blue topaz butterfly necklace 
around its neck!

Holy shit!  This Infected is JANET!


                                      47.

             JANET
      Doesn’t matter.  I’ll still be 
      hungry. 

Morgan sits down on the ground, facing the cage.  

             JANET
      What’s the world like out there?

             MORGAN
      Not good.

             JANET
      What else is new?

             MORGAN
      You know how in movies when there’s 
      an alien invasion all the countries 
      in the world set aside their 
      differences and come together to 
      defeat a common enemy?

             MORGAN
      Turns out real life is a lot more 
      cruel.  Instead there was a huge 
      grab for power, hundreds of civil 
      wars broke out.  We’re too busy 
      fighting each other to save 
      ourselves. 

Beat.

Beat.

             MORGAN
      There’s something I’ve been meaning 
      to tell you.

Janet tilts her head, waiting...

             MORGAN
      We’re losing the war, Janet.   
      We’re desperate... We have to 
      rebuild... We don’t know how many 
      humans are left... Some of us were 
      paired off...

             JANET
      Paired off?

             MORGAN
      Yes.  I had to... had to spend time 
      with someone... 


                                      48.

Janet nods, finally gets it.

             JANET
      Was it with the doctor?

Morgan is silent.  His non-answer is confirmation enough for 
Janet.

             JANET
      She’s pretty.

             MORGAN
      She chose me.  I didn’t choose her.

Long pause. 

             JANET
      You take for granted the simple 
      things that make you human, like 
      tears.  If I had any, I would cry.  

             MORGAN
      They said it was my duty.

             JANET
      I know.

             MORGAN
      It doesn’t mean anything.

             JANET
      Morgan, you don’t have to explain.  

Beat.

             JANET
      Morgan...

             MORGAN
      Yes?

             JANET
      I can’t exist like this.

             MORGAN
      We’re getting close.

             JANET
      Morgan-

             MORGAN
      You have to trust me, Janet. We’re 
      closing in on Patient Z.


                                      49.

             JANET
      Even if you found Patient Z, you 
      still don’t know for a fact that 
      you’ll be able to find a cure, much 
      less one that reverses someone that 
      has completely turned.

             MORGAN
      Honey-

             JANET
      No!  I’m not your honey!  Not 
      anymore.  I’m a monster!

Morgan reaches into the cage.

             MORGAN
      Promise me you won’t give up.

She pulls back, looks away and hisses.

             JANET
      No!

             MORGAN
      It’s okay.

             JANET
      Stay away from me.  Please...

Her body trembles, fighting the urge to bite his hand.

             JANET
      You better go.  I’m sorry.

He slowly pulls his hand back.

             JANET
      W is for waltz.  Remember when we 
      took a ballroom dance class and 
      totally tripped all over each 
      other?  

Morgan nods, walks off down the hallway.

             JANET
        (to herself)
      I miss my tears.

INT. REST ROOM - DAY

Sgt. Knox enters the bathroom.  He walks over to the sink, 
his hands trembling.


                                      50.

He reaches into the inside of his jacket.  Pulls out a flask.

He gulps from it.  The warm booze instantly calming him.  

He turns on the water.  Washes his face... 

But then hears someone crying.

He turns off the water.  Listens.  It’s a female crying.

He hides the flask in his jacket, spins around.  The weeping 
is coming from one of the stalls.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Hello?

The only response is more crying.

Sgt. Knox creeps forward, approaching one of the stalls.  He 
slowly opens its door.

Gina is sitting on the toilet, her dress hiked up and panties 
at her ankle.  She is crying into her palms.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Dr. Rose?  You okay?

She nods, not able to look at him.

             GINA
      Please close the door.

Sgt. Knox continues staring at her with a certain look in his 
eyes -- we’re not sure if it’s a look of concern or he’s 
being a pervy old man.  

             GINA
      CLOSE THE FUCKIN’ DOOR!

He quickly shuts the stall door.

INT. MESS HALL - DAY

Morgan sits alone at a table, eating his breakfast.  Gina 
approaches and sits down across from him.

She quietly eats with her eyes glancing down.  He waits for 
her to say something.  But she doesn’t.

An awkward moment that finally breaks when...

             MORGAN
      What’s this thing about Hawaii?


She finally looks up.

                                      51.

             GINA
      You really want to know?

             MORGAN
      I’m not privy to a lot operational 
      logistics.  Would be nice to not be 
      in the dark.

             GINA
      Infected are walking dead bodies.  
      Any corpse overtime transforms into 
      fertilizer, building up gases like 
      ammonium nitrate. If an Infected 
      full of gases walk the bottom of 
      the ocean, the pressure would crush 
      them. But you know what kind of 
      infected can walk the bottom of the 
      ocean? 

             MORGAN
      The ones that just recently got 
      turned.

             GINA
      Exactly, the Sub-Walkers.  The 
      distance between the states and 
      Hawaii is not enough time for a new 
      Infected to fully decompose and 
      build up gas.  That’s why I 
      suggested they move everyone to 
      Fiji, far enough where no infected 
      could reach them. 

Morgan suddenly winces in pain, rubs his temples.

             GINA
      You look like shit.  I’m getting 
      worried.

             MORGAN
      You don’t have to be.

             GINA
      This is taking a toll on you.

             MORGAN
      I’m fine, Gina.

             GINA
      Your headaches have only gotten 
      worst.  And you’re sleeping less.


                                      52.

             MORGAN
      What do you want me to do?

             GINA
      I want you to slow down.  They can 
      bring in an endless cavalcade of 
      infected for you to interrogate but 
      that’s not helping you.

             MORGAN
      I’m the only one who can-

             GINA
      One person cannot bear that burden.  
      It’s too much.  It’ll break you.  
      And I need you not broken.

             MORGAN
      I can do this.  I have to.

             GINA
      This is not going to bring her 
      back.

             MORGAN
      Don’t mention my wife...

             GINA
      She’s no longer your wife.

             MORGAN
      Yes, she is.

             GINA
      Then why are you fuckin’ me?

             MORGAN
      It’s my duty-

             GINA
      Don’t give me that bullshit.  I 
      know how you touch me. It’s more 
      than that-

Morgan glances away.

             GINA
      Hey!  Look at me.

Morgan looks at her.


                                      53.

             GINA
      It’s time we think about the 
      future.  Together.  It’s the only 
      way to save ourselves...

Gina reaches over, takes Morgan’s hand into hers.

             GINA
      Just because your wife is dead 
      doesn’t mean you are too.

He flinches at her statement.  Harsh but true.

             MORGAN
      She’s not dead.

             GINA
      No, she’s worse.

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

The Mortician’s ASSISTANT pushes a cabinet into the wall.  
The cabinet is labeled “Scott Murphy” and is positioned next 
to the cabinet labeled “Thomas Murphy”.  Father buried next 
to son.  

WE FOLLOW the Assistant walking across the room where Sgt. 
Knox and the Mortician stand over five body bags (the corpses 
of the dead soldiers from the latest raid -- the same body 
bags we saw in the beginning). 

5 medals dangle from Sgt. Knox’s hands.  The Mortician 
readies a pen against a clipboard.  

The Assistant unzips the first body bag, revealing the corpse 
of the first dead soldier.

             MORTICIAN
        (writes on clipboard)
      Alexander Riggs.

Sgt. Knox gently lays a medal across the soldier’s chest.  

The Assistant moves on and unzips the second body bag.

             MORTICIAN
        (writes on clipboard)
      Hank Downey.

Sgt. Knox gently lays a medal across the chest of the second 
soldier.

The Assistant unzips the third body bag.


                                      54.

             MORTICIAN
        (writes on clipboard)
      Stephen Tartakoff.

Sgt. Knox gently lays a medal across the chest of the third 
soldier.

The Assistant unzips the fourth body bag.

             MORTICIAN
        (writes on clipboard)
      Theodore Garrison.

Sgt. Knox gently lays a medal across the chest of the fourth 
soldier.

The Assistant unzips the fifth body bag.

             MORTICIAN
        (writes on clipboard)
      Marcus Stone.

Sgt. Knox moves in to lay the medal across the fifth 
soldier’s chest --

But he suddenly stops.

The Mortician peers over his glasses at the Sergeant. 

             MORTICIAN
      Something wrong, Sergeant?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Affirmative.  Have you examined the 
      bodies?

             MORTICIAN
      Protocol dictates the autopsy is 
      done after the ceremony, sir.

Sgt. Knox gestures to the fifth soldier’s body.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Something don’t seem right.

The Mortician and the Assistant lean in for a closer look at 
the body.

             MORTICIAN
      Not sure what you mean, sir.  I 
      don’t see anything that would-

The 5th dead soldier, MARCUS, suddenly COMES TO LIFE!  And 
BITES the Mortician’s nose!  Rips it right off!


                                      55.

             MORTICIAN
      AAAHHHHHHHH!!!

Sgt. Knox pulls out his gun -- AIMS and...

Marcus throws the Mortician at Sgt. Knox, knocking them both 
to the ground.  The gun goes tumbling across the floor and 
under a metal cabinet.

Marcus then grabs at the skin of his own face, pulling it 
off! Revealing an Infected underneath -- who was wearing the 
skin of Marcus’ face like a mask ala Hannibal Lecter.  

This Infected is called THE PROFESSOR (for reasons you will 
know later).  

The Assistant is paralyzed by fright, finally finds the nerve 
to turn and run.  But too late -- 

The Professor grabs the Assistant, begins chewing at his 
face!  The Assistant SCREAMING and STRUGGLING!

Sgt. Knox dives to the floor, reaches under the metal 
cabinet.  The gun just inches beyond his reach.

The Mortician staggers to the wall, moaning in pain as blood 
spills from where his nose used to be.  He presses the ALARM 
BUTTON!  

INT. MESS HALL - NIGHT

Morgan pokes at his food as his conversation with Gina 
continues....

             MORGAN
      I don’t want to talk about my wife 
      anymore.

             GINA
      Fine.  There’s something else I 
      want tell you...
        (collects herself)
      You should know that-

THE ALARM SUDDENLY BLARES!!!  Everyone stops, looks around 
with confusion.

             MORGAN
      What’s going on?

Gina bolts from her chair.  Runs to the wall where a red 
phone is hanging.  


                                      56.

She picks up the phone. It instantly connects her to the 
observation room.

             GINA
        (into phone)
      What’s happening?

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

The Tech team who are frantically typing at their keyboards.  
One of the Tech’s speak to Gina through his ear-set.

             TECH
      The alarm was triggered from the 
      morgue.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Morgan, Gina, and a team of armed FOUR SOLDIERS rush their 
way down the hall, heading straight for the morgue. 

INT. MORGUE - NIGHT

The Professor continues to feast on the Assistant’s face!  

             ASSISTANT
      Help!  Help me!

ANGLE ON,

Sgt. Knox, grunting as he stretches for the gun under the 
cabinet.  

His fingers, touching the gun --

He stretches further --

Fingers loop around the gun’s handle.

But he’s suddenly pulled back, dragged across the floor.

Sgt. Knox turns over, finds the Mortician, now fully turned 
into an Infected, on top of him!

The Mortician is about to take a bite out of Sgt. Knox!

But Sgt. Knox jams the gun into the Mortician’s open mouth -- 

Pulls the trigger -- 


                                      57.

BANG!  The Mortician is thrown backwards as his brains 
peacock out from back of the skull!

Sgt. Knox turns around -- sees the Assistant on the ground, 
his body spasms, face a bloody pulp.  He’s turning into an 
Infected!

Sgt. Knox grits his teeth -- aims his gun-- 

BANG!  Pops open the top of the Assistant’s skull with a 
bullet -- brains spilling out.

Sgt. Knox gets to his feet, turns just in time to see The 
Professor KICKING a gurney his way! 

WHAM!

The gurney knocks Sgt. Knox down -- the body bag tumbles to 
the floor.  

The Professor POUNCES on top of Sgt. Knox!  Has the sergeant 
pinned to the floor.

Sgt. Knox swings the gun at The Professor face. The Professor 
grabs Knox’s wrist, jerks the gun inches to the left --

BANG!  BANG!  BANG!

Three bullets rip through The Professor’s left shoulder.  It 
does nothing to slow down the Infected.

The Professor pins both of Knox’s arm to the floor.  Bends 
down, mouth wide open, grey tongue wagging with thirst!

Just inches from biting Sgt. Knox’s face...!

Until Knox KNEES The Professor in the groin!  Which has no 
effect -- but gives the sergeant enough space to leverage 
himself and--

FLIPS The Professor onto his back!  Sgt. Knox is now on top, 
straddling the infected.

The Professor growls violently.

Knox points the gun at The Professor’s head.  Finger curling 
around the trigger -- 

             MORGAN’S VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Stop!  Don’t kill him!

Morgan, Gina, and the four soldiers spill into the room.  


                                      58.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Give me one good fuckin’ reason not 
      to!

             MORGAN
      He wants to talk to me.

This gives Sgt. Knox pause as the Professor continues to 
growl.

             MORGAN
      He’s saying he wants to speak to 
      the one gifted with the language of 
      the undead.

The Beatles’ “Yellow Submarine” slams onto the soundtrack 
as...

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

IN SLOW-MOTION --

Several armed soldiers escort The Professor into the 
interrogation room.  

His hands cuffed, the Professor doesn’t resist at all as he’s 
placed in his seat.  His demeanor is calm, serene.  His 
posture is perfect.

The Soldiers lock his feet to the chains bolted to the 
ground.  Then the soldiers leave the room.

The Professor sits calmly.  Unnaturally calm... Seemingly 
nodding his head to the rhythm of the music.

He reaches into his pocket.  Pulls out a pack of smokes.  And 
a box of matches.

The visual to song is hypnotic as The Professor gently places 
a cigarette between his lips.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Morgan, Gina, and Sgt. Knox watch through the observation 
window.  Watching The Professor.  

They’re expecting The Professor to react violently to the 
music as every infected has before him.

Gina looks to Morgan with a concerned look.  Morgan tenses 
up.  Even the usually stoic Sgt. Knox furrows his brow.


                                      59.

They’re thinking the same thing:

This Infected is different.

This Infected is dangerous.

Gina turns to Morgan, hands him the case file.

             GINA
      He had a campus I.D. on him.  Says 
      he’s a professor at the University 
      of Minnesota.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      What kind of professor?

Morgan takes the file into his hands.

             MORGAN
      Does it matter?

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Morgan steps into the interrogation room.

He’s fascinated by The Professor, who sits comfortably in his 
chair.

The Professor puts a cigarette to his lips.

Morgan sits down, raises his finger.

The music abruptly stops.  A moment of tense silence as 
Morgan and The Professor size each other up.

             MORGAN
      Let me be clear, you are my 
      prisoner. I will treat you as I 
      have treated others of your kind, 
      which is with no mercy.  You will 
      most likely not survive the next 
      few hours.  And when you die, 
      you’ll be grateful for it because 
      your time with me will be 
      unpleasant.  Do you understand? 
      Nod, if you do. 

The Professor nods.

             MORGAN
      Good.  You will be surprised to 
      discover I speak your language.  


                                      60.

             MORGAN
	(CONT'D)
      Don’t let that disorient you or 
      cloud your thoughts.  I need you to 
      focus on my words.  I will speak, 
      you will listen. I will question, 
      you will answer.  This is non-
      negotiable.  

Morgan flips a page in the file.

             MORGAN
      How did the invasion start?

Pause.

Pause.

             MORGAN
      Are you listening to me?    

             MORGAN
      How did it start?  How does it 
      spread?  What’s your end game?

Long pause.

Pause.

             MORGAN
      You got nothin’ to say?  Is that 
      how you want to play it?  Okay, 
      fine.  But I’m not the one driven 
      by the hunger.  

             MORGAN
      I’m not the one tortured by the 
      burn.  I can do this all day, all 
      night.  I’m going to get my answers 
      from you.  No matter how long it 
      takes.

The Professor lights a match.

The flame ignites the end of his cigarette. 

He lets out a puff... Smoke creeping out through the holes in 
his cheeks... Swirling around his face like a ghost.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Trust me, my friend... Time is a 
      luxury you cannot afford.

The Professor returns the cigarette to his spotted lips and 
inhales.  As the end of the cigarette glows and crackles...


                                      61.

             MORGAN
      Amazing that you smoke.

             THE PROFESSOR
      It doesn’t effect me.  

             MORGAN
      Yet you still do it.

The Professor offers a cigarette to Morgan.

             MORGAN
      I quit.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Good for you.  I, however, am a 
      lifetime smoker.  Ironically, it’s 
      not what killed me.

             MORGAN
      Why do it now that you’re dead?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Pleasure without consequence.  

The Professor takes another puff.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Besides, I remember the sensation 
      quite fondly.

             MORGAN
      You remember a lot of things, don’t 
      you?

             THE PROFESSOR
      I suppose.

             MORGAN
      You said you wanted to talk to me.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I wanted to see if the rumors were 
      correct.  To meet the one gifted 
      with the language of the undead.

Morgan gives a surprised look.

             MORGAN
      How do you know about me?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Oh, you know us Infected.  We just 
      love to gossip.


Morgan writes in the file.  

                                      62.

             MORGAN
      You’re a Professor?

             THE PROFESSOR
      By passion and trade.

             MORGAN
      You remember teaching?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Of course.

             MORGAN
      You remember your students?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Every last one of them.
        (puffs smoke)
      Cause I ate them.

             MORGAN
      Ate them?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Yes.  The moment I merged, I felt 
      this sensation of hunger like no 
      other.  The hunger was crippling, 
      to the point that I fell to me 
      knees in pain.  Then one of my 
      students approached me out of 
      concern, asking if I was okay.  Her 
      hand was on my shoulder, so I 
      turned and sank my teeth into her 
      plump thigh.  She screamed, tried 
      to pull away.  But I clamped my 
      jaws tighter, her warm blood 
      gushing into my mouth.  
        (beat)
      She was a good student.  Very 
      attentive.  

             MORGAN
      How long have you been dead?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Am I?

             MORGAN
      You’re certainly not alive.


                                      63.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I’m here conversing with you, 
      animated, enjoying a smoke  -- not 
      exactly the symptoms of death.

             MORGAN
      But you’re not human.

             THE PROFESSOR
      What is it to be human?

             MORGAN
        (chuckles)
      This isn’t one of your classes, 
      Professor.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I’m asking a simple question.

             MORGAN
      A diverting question.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Diverting from what?

             MORGAN
      Tell me why the music doesn’t 
      bother you?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Is it supposed to?

             MORGAN
      It has with every other Infected.

             THE PROFESSOR
      So because of the behavior of a 
      few, you assume we’re all like 
      that?

             MORGAN
      Just an observation.

             THE PROFESSOR
      A broad observation that doesn’t 
      take into account individuality.  

             MORGAN
      Infected have personalities?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Why not?


                                      64.

             MORGAN
      Because that goes against 
      everything we know about them.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Are you aware how narrow-minded you 
      sound?

Morgan puts down his pen, glares at The Professor for a few 
seconds.  Recalibrating his thoughts.

             MORGAN
      Tell me about Patient Z.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I won’t.

             MORGAN
      Oh you will.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Are you intentionally being this 
      obtuse?  

             MORGAN
      You can’t lie, Professor.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Is that so?

             MORGAN
      That is my understanding of your 
      nature, yes.

             THE PROFESSOR
      YOU’RE understanding of MY nature?  
      That’s quite precious.  
      And how did you reach this height 
      of enlightenment? 

             MORGAN
      By interrogating many of your kind.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      But many isn’t all.

             MORGAN
      It’s enough.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Enough until proven otherwise.

             MORGAN
      Like yourself?


                                      65.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Perhaps.

             MORGAN
      So you’re the anomaly?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Do you believe in exceptions?

             MORGAN
      Yes.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Do the math.

             MORGAN
      You’re telling me you have the 
      ability to lie?

             THE PROFESSOR
      If I did have the ability to lie, 
      how could you believe me if I did?

             MORGAN
      Or maybe you’re just a master at 
      avoiding the question, which is not 
      necessarily lying.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      The burden of absolute truth is 
      yours since it is what you seek.

             MORGAN
      It’s only logical that you can’t 
      lie.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Explain.

             MORGAN
      I will, by answering your question.

             THE PROFESSOR
      My question?

             MORGAN
      What is it to be human?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Oh, so class is in session after 
      all?  

             MORGAN
      Only humans have free will.


                                      66.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Go on...

             MORGAN
      Lying is a choice.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      Ahhh, I see... You’re postulating 
      that because I am not human, I have 
      no free will, hence I don’t have 
      the ability to choose to lie.

             MORGAN
      Correct.

             THE PROFESSOR
      But what if your definition of 
      being human has been incorrect this 
      whole time?

             MORGAN
      As in...?

             THE PROFESSOR
      As in your humanity, or lack 
      thereof, is measured by the level 
      of evil you choose to engage in.

The Professor raises his cuffed wrists, stares at his hands.

             THE PROFESSOR
      The kind of evil that makes you 
      look at your trembling hands and 
      ask yourself, ‘What did I do?’ 

             MORGAN
      My choice to be evil, if I so wish, 
      is what makes me human.

             THE PROFESSOR
      The fallacy of your premise 
      presumes that humankind is 
      perfection incarnate.  There’s no 
      such thing as perfection. 
      Everything is by degrees.
      And why is it so great to be human 
      if that comes with the ability to 
      create such evil?  Evil is 
      barbaric.  Barbaric is not civil.  
      And non-civility is not evolved.

Morgan pauses, pondering.


                                      67.

             THE PROFESSOR
      If I am a creature of impulse, 
      driven solely by the purity of my 
      hunger with not a single evil 
      intent, than I would argue I am a 
      more evolved organism than you. 

             MORGAN
      An evolved organism that devours 
      humans without a conscience?

             THE PROFESSOR
      The same way humans devour cows and 
      chickens without a conscience.

             MORGAN
      That’s sustenance.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Exactly.  The food chain.  Nothing 
      speaks to evolution more naturally 
      than that.

             MORGAN
      Your point is?

             THE PROFESSOR
      My point is between humans and the 
      Infected, who do you think is on 
      top of the food chain?

             MORGAN
      You’re delusional. Like animals you 
      don’t have a soul, operating only 
      on instinct. No free will, no 
      choice.  Animals can’t lie.

             THE PROFESSOR
      So animals can’t lie, infected 
      can’t lie.

             MORGAN
      Right.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Then by your logic, I am more 
      truthful cause my actions nor my 
      words are corrupted by choice.

             MORGAN
      No, you’re just giving a lack of 
      proper response and calling it 
      truth.


                                      68.

             THE PROFESSOR
      But truth is absolute, independent 
      of intentions.  

             MORGAN
      Truth is relative, not absolute.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Truth is discovered, not invented.

             MORGAN
      Experience is my highest truth. And 
      my experience tells me you’re just 
      dancing around the question but 
      eventually your true nature will 
      force you to tell me what I want to 
      know.

             THE PROFESSOR
      But you’re working on the belief 
      that my true nature is absolute, 
      which is anti-thesis to your belief 
      that truth is relative.

             MORGAN
      I can back my argument with 
      evidence.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Declaring something doesn’t 
      necessarily make it so.

             MORGAN
      I can drag in every Infected we 
      have locked up and you can try to 
      get them to lie and they won’t.  
      That’s my evidence.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      Ad Ignorantiam.

Morgan pauses, not sure what The Professor means.

             MORGAN
      I guess it’s your turn at the 
      podium.

The Professor drops his cigarette.  Extinguishes by stepping 
on it.

             THE PROFESSOR
      There was a time when astronomers 
      were convinced the moon was a 
      perfect sphere.  


                                      69.

The Professor pulls out a second cigarette.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Galileo explained to them the lunar 
      landscape was not a smooth surface 
      but made of rough mountains and 
      valleys, which could be viewed 
      through his telescope.
      The scholars retorted that the 
      moon’s irregularities are filled in 
      by a transparent crystalline 
      substance.  And this hypothesis, 
      which saves the perfection of the 
      heavenly bodies, Galileo could not 
      prove false.  

He lights his cigarette.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Unable to prove the nonexistence of 
      the transparent crystal supposedly 
      filling the valleys, Galileo put 
      forward the equally probable 
      hypothesis that there were rearing 
      up from the invisible envelope on 
      the moon, even greater mountain 
      valley peaks -- but made of crystal 
      and thus invisible.  And just like 
      those astronomers, you’re arguing 
      from ignorance, saying something is 
      true simply on the basis it hasn’t 
      been proven false.

Morgan pulls out his gun, slams it on the table.  The 
Professor smiles, smoking his cigarette with great pleasure.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Is that supposed to scare me?

             MORGAN
      Class is over.  Where is Patient Z?

             THE PROFESSOR
      There is none.

             MORGAN
      The virus had to start somewhere.  

The Professor points to his own chest.

             THE PROFESSOR
      What if it started here?

Morgan cocks his head with confusion.


                                      70.

             THE PROFESSOR
      What if the virus laid dormant in 
      all of us since the beginning of 
      time, but it wasn’t until the 
      extremes of modern stress that 
      caused it to awaken?

             MORGAN
      Bullshit.

             THE PROFESSOR
      What if we are all Patient Z?

Morgan sits for a moment in silence, stewing in the air of 
The Professor’s obvious smugness.

             MORGAN
      I change my mind.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      Pardon?

             MORGAN
      I’ll have a cigarette after all.

The Professor smiles, offers a smoke from his pack.  Morgan 
gets up, slowly walks around the table.

He stops, keeps a safe distance as he reaches over and gently 
pulls a cigarette from the pack in The Professor’s hand.

The Professor then lights a match, raises it up.   

Morgan pauses, ponders.  Should he?  Morgan then lowers his 
head towards the match.

He’s close enough to where The Professor could grab him and 
rip his face off.  

But in this moment of rare trust... The Professor just lights 
the cigarette in Morgan’s mouth.  

Morgan straightens up, takes a few puffs from his cigarette.

The Professor sits quietly, smiling as he watching Morgan 
enjoying his smoke.

Morgan takes the cigarette out of his mouth, examines it.  
You can tell by the look on Morgan’s face he’s remembering 
the joy of it.

But then -- 

Morgan JABS the cigarette into The Professor’s face.  


                                      71.

The Professor doesn’t flinch, but his smile fades as Morgan 
puts out his smoke.

             MORGAN
      There’s nothing human about you.  
      You’re just an ashtray.

Morgan turns and leave the room.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

Morgan steps into the observation room, rubbing his temples.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      What’s wrong?

             MORGAN
      Headache.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Then take a fuckin’ Tylenol and get 
      back in there.

             MORGAN
      This one is different.

             GINA
      What do you mean?

             MORGAN
      He’s intelligent.  He’s able to 
      maneuver my questions.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      He’s fuckin’ undead.  There’s 
      nothing intelligent about him at 
      all.

             GINA
      Morgan, what’s he saying to you?

             MORGAN
      He’s debating with me.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Bullshit.

Morgan closes his eyes, rubs his temples again.

             GINA
        (to Morgan)
      Do you need a minute?


                                      72.

             MORGAN
      No, the sergeant is right.  I need 
      to continue.

Gina reaches into her pocket, pulls out a tiny pill bottle.  
She slaps it into Morgan’s palm.

             GINA
      Don’t be so combative.  Try 
      empathy.  

Morgan heads back into the interrogation room.  But then 
stops, turns to Sgt. Knox.

             MORGAN
      To answer your question, Sergeant, 
      he’s a Professor of Philosophy and 
      Logic.

Morgan continues on out the room.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor continues smoking as he observes Morgan taking 
a seat again at the table.

Morgan pulls the bottle of wine out, pours himself a glass.  
He opens the pill bottle, pops two pills, and downs them with 
a gulp of wine.

             THE PROFESSOR
      How long have you been married?

             MORGAN
        (surprised)
      How’d you know?

The Professor smirks.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Where is she?

A somber look drags Morgan’s face.  

             MORGAN
      She’s no longer...

             THE PROFESSOR
      Truly sorry for your lost.

             MORGAN
      No, you’re not.


                                      73.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I may not be human, but I’m not 
      inhuman.  

             MORGAN
      Hard to believe.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I lost my wife 10 years ago to 
      cancer.  I remember the pain of 
      lost.

             MORGAN
      You don’t have any feelings.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I didn’t say I feel anything.  I 
      said I REMEMBER the pain.  The pain 
      of losing a loved one is something 
      you don’t forget. 

             MORGAN
      What was her name?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Rita.  She was a feisty, passionate 
      Italian creature. She was deadly 
      gorgeous. Looked like the kind of 
      woman who had always been someone’s 
      muse, inspiring endless art and 
      countless heartbreak. I was by her 
      side when she passed.  Last thing I 
      said to her was I loved her.

             MORGAN
      I never got that chance.

             THE PROFESSOR
      That’s tragic.

             MORGAN
      Janet and I had this thing -- we 
      never liked saying good-bye to each 
      other.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      Cause good-bye sounds so permanent.

             MORGAN
        (nodding)
      Every time we parted ways, instead 
      of saying good-bye, we picked a 
      topic from the alphabet.  


                                      74.

             MORGAN
	(CONT'D)
      We’d recycle through all 26 letters 
      over and over, and never once said 
      good-bye to each other.  
        (chuckles)
      We could never figure out what 
      started with Z other than zebra.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      How quaint.

             MORGAN
      We were on the letter T when the 
      invasion happened in our area.
      She left our store to go work at 
      the restaurant.  My back was to her 
      when she drove off and I heard this 
      loud crash.  I turned around and 
      was shocked to see her car had 
      slammed into a tree.  She swerved 
      to avoid hitting what turned out to 
      be an infected in the middle of the 
      road.  Before she could unbuckle 
      herself, she was covered in a swarm 
      of them.  I ran towards her. 
      Thought I heard her calling out my 
      name, but I’m not sure.  I saw her 
      arm reach out from the pile of 
      bodies.  I almost got to her when 
      another one tackled me.  I fell and 
      knocked my head against something.  
      I was out.  I woke up days later in 
      a hospital.  They said I was 
      clinically dead. But beyond the 
      miracle of coming back to life, I 
      also discovered I brought with me 
      the ability to speak the language 
      of the undead when I heard Janet 
      calling out to me.

             THE PROFESSOR
      So your wife is infected? 

             MORGAN
        (nodding)
      I was walking by the Medical Ward 
      where they were doing tests on her, 
      heard her say my name.  Imagine the 
      look on everyone’s faces when they 
      all realized I understood her.

             THE PROFESSOR
      That’s why you’re so desperate to 
      find Patient Z.


                                      75.

             MORGAN
      Find the source.  Find the cure.

             THE PROFESSOR
      WE are the disease?

             MORGAN
      Yes.

             THE PROFESSOR
      What if humans are the disease?

Morgan squints at the question.  Begins to feel the pressure 
of a headache.

             THE PROFESSOR
      What if we are earth’s way of 
      getting rid of the humans who have 
      scorched it?  What if we are the 
      cure -- the antibody that the earth 
      produced to fight back the human 
      infection?

             MORGAN
      Enough with your theories.  How did 
      you know about me?

             THE PROFESSOR
      Let me float another theory then...
      Are you interested in 
      nanotechnology?

             MORGAN
      Atomic size robots that operate at 
      the molecular level.  Now answer my 
      question:  How did you know about 
      me?

Morgan grimaces, the headache expanding, creeping behind his 
eyes.

             THE PROFESSOR
      As a bioethicist, one of my fields 
      of great interest was the merging 
      of nanotechnology and noetic 
      science.  Noetic science states 
      everything in the universe is made 
      of energy - even human thought -- 
      and all energy is made of photon 
      based matter, thus human thought is 
      also made of matter.  These ‘noetic-
      bots’ could manipulate the 
      molecules of human thought into 
      physical manifestations. 


                                      76.

             THE PROFESSOR
	(CONT'D)
      You could think something and it 
      would become true.

             MORGAN
      Highly improbable sci-fi bullshit.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I’m talking to a man who claims to 
      have died and mysteriously come 
      back with the language of the 
      undead.  You are in a precarious 
      position to talk about probability. 

The sting of the headache increases.  Morgan doing his best 
not to show it, but his face tightens.

             MORGAN
      Where are you going with this?

             THE PROFESSOR
      This whole reality came from you!  
      You’re the one who is ‘infected’ by 
      these noetic-bots.  You thought out 
      this virus invasion and it’s 
      spreading the more you think about 
      it.  The question is: what is 
      triggering these thoughts?  
      Traumatic emotions?  Hidden sexual 
      deviancy?  Deep-seeded 
      sociopathology?

             MORGAN
      You’re not making any sense.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I’m talking to you about science.  
      Existing science.

             MORGAN
      You’re trying to fuck with me.

Morgan buckles over, holding his head.  His skull pounding.  
The Professor tilts his head, casually observing Morgan in 
pain.

             THE PROFESSOR
      How are those headaches treating 
      you?  Those noetic-bots bouncing 
      inside your head like popcorn in a 
      popper.

Surprised, Morgan glances back up at The Professor.


                                      77.

             THE PROFESSOR
      I know about the headaches, Morgan.  
      I know you better than you know 
      yourself.  You represent the next 
      step in our evolution.  The merging 
      of both human and Infected.  You 
      are Patient Z hence forth!

The Professor’s word echo through Morgan’s brain, a crippling 
migraine.  

But then Morgan take in several deep breaths.  He steadies 
himself, finds his center, the pain subsiding.  

             MORGAN
      This is not a philosophy class.  
      This is war.

             THE PROFESSOR
      Then take an honest hard look 
      around. If this is war, who do you 
      think is winning?

Morgan cocks an eyebrow.  The Professor just said a curious 
thing.  

He does as instructed and glances around the room.  A 
revelation slowly sinking in...

He stares at The Professor, studying him, reading him...  

             MORGAN
      You think you’re winning this war.  
      Your posture, your tone, the words 
      you use are from someone who 
      believes they’re in a position of 
      power.
        (pause)
      Yet, you’re the one in chains.

Morgan slowly straightens up, back to eye-level with The 
Professor.

             MORGAN
      You saw me take some pills.  From 
      that you deduced I have chronic 
      headaches.  

Morgan displays his ring finger, and the tan line around it.

             MORGAN
      You noticed the tan line around my 
      ring finger, figured I was married.  
      You’re full of tricks, aren’t you?  


                                      78.

But then Morgan suddenly remembers...

             MORGAN
      Tricks like... You trojan horsed 
      yourself in here.

The Professor remains quiet.  His poker face firmly on.  

Morgan gets up, walks circles around The Professor.  Studying 
him from every angle.

             MORGAN
      You claim you wanted to talk to me.  
      And that’s certainly what we’ve 
      been doing -- lots of talking.  

More circling.

             MORGAN
      But we haven’t been talking about 
      anything specific.  Just random 
      bullshit.  Going in circles.  

More circling.

             MORGAN
      And circles.  

More circling.

             MORGAN
      Just wasting...

Morgan pauses.  His eyes light up.

             MORGAN
      ...time.  Time, which you claim we 
      don’t have much of.

The Professor’s lips slightly curl.  Morgan turns to the one-
sided window.

             MORGAN
      Gina, bring me a wand.

Morgan turns to the Professor.

             MORGAN
      That’s your purpose, isn’t it, 
      Professor?  To waste time?  To 
      distract us?

The Professor remains silent.


                                      79.

             MORGAN
      But from what, Professor?    

Gina runs in with a metal detector wand.  She hands it to 
Morgan.  Morgan waves it around The Professor’s body.  

Nothing abnormal.

             GINA
      What are you doing?

Morgan continues waving the wand at the Professor from head 
to toe.

             GINA
      He was thoroughly checked.  There’s 
      nothing on him.

The wand is not picking up anything.

Morgan pauses, staring at The Professor.  A million thoughts 
running through his head.  What the fuck is this Infected up 
to? 

             GINA
      Morgan?

It finally hits Morgan.  He rushes out of the room.

             GINA
      Hey-!

INT. CONTAINMENT UNITS - NIGHT

Wand still in hand, Morgan marches down the hallway of the 
containment units.  He stops at the unit holding Pete 
Townshend.

Pete Townshend’s curled up on the floor, face pressed against 
the glass door of his prison.

             MORGAN
      Are you a plant?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I’m...hungry...

             MORGAN
      ARE YOU A PLANT?!  

Pete Townshend is quiet.


                                      80.

             MORGAN
      Every prisoner I’ve interrogated 
      have always been surprised at first 
      that I could communicate with them.  
      But not you.  You seemed pretty 
      casual about it.

Pete looks down, scratches his head.  He wants to lie but 
can’t.

             MORGAN
      You knew about me, didn’t you?  
      Just like The Professor.

Pete Townshend nods.

             MORGAN
      This whole thing was a set-up.  You 
      wanted to be captured.

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      Yes.

             MORGAN
      Why?

             PETE TOWNSHEND
      I can’t lie to you.

Pete Townshend slowly staggers to his feet, propping himself 
against the wall.

Pete opens his mouth, and for a second, we think he’s about 
to tell us something important... But instead...

Pete LAUGHS!  Cackling loudly, an eerie laugh that’s a cross 
between a witch and a dying cat.

Then Pete bends over at a 90 degree angle, aiming the top of 
his head at the wall across from him.

Morgan suddenly realizes what’s going on.

             MORGAN
      SECURITY!!!

Pete Townshend RUSHES FORWARD -- SLAMS THE TOP OF HIS HEAD 
AGAINST THE CELL WALL!  A disgusting THUD as his skull 
collapses.

             MORGAN
      SECURITY!  OPEN UNIT 23!!!


                                      81.

Pete continues to cackle as he staggers back... Throws 
himself forward and... WHOMP!  SLAMS his head against the 
wall again!

WHOMP!  And again!  WHOMP!  WHOMP!

             MORGAN
      Open the fuckin’ door!  

Finally, THREE SOLDIERS run over... One of them frantically 
presses the keycode for the door.

The glass door HISSES open.  But by then, Pete has dropped to 
the floor... His skull split wide open... His brain mashed 
potatoes.

The confused soldiers stare as Morgan waves the metal 
detector wand across Pete’s body...

Up his legs... Pass his waist... To his belly... Where the 
wand suddenly BEEPS!  Morgan turns to one of the soldiers.

             MORGAN
      Anybody have a knife?

One of the soldiers hands Morgan a tiny army knife.  

Morgan SINKS the knife into Pete’s stomach... Slicing 
flesh... Cutting a large wound...

The intense smell of rotten death hits them in the face, 
enough to gag.

He tosses the knife aside.  Holds his breath as he digs his 
fingers into the wound...

Forces his hands into the cavity of Pete’s belly, pushing 
through squishy flesh as he fingers crawl around inside.  

Morgan pulls out decayed organs... Muscles... Finally finds 
what he’s looking for! 

The soldiers lean in closer, squinting at the tiny thing in 
Morgan’s hand.

Morgan cleans the object with his shirt,  brings it to his 
face for a closer look.  It’s a tiny metal capsule.  

At the tip of the capsule is a BLINKING GREEN LIGHT!


                                      82.

INT. WAR ROOM - NIGHT

Gina, Sergeant Knox and the Defense Secretary sit at the 
conference table.  

Morgan tosses the tiny capsule, it tumbles across the table 
and rests in front of the Defense Secretary.

             MORGAN
      What is that?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      It’s a tracking device.  But it’s 
      one of our’s.

Morgan looks to Knox with surprise.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      We implant them in a few of the 
      captured Alpha-Walkers.  Then we 
      release them to be tracked in the 
      wild.  

Morgan looks to Gina.

             MORGAN
      Did you know about this?

Gina nods, looks down.

             MORGAN
      And no one told me?

             GINA
      As you said, Morgan, you’re not 
      privy to every operational 
      logistics.  

             MORGAN
      Problem is your plan backfired 
      cause the ones you’re tracking are 
      coming back here.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      No, the real problem is that we 
      never planted a device in Pete 
      Townshend.  He was never in our 
      custody.  

             GINA
      It seems someone took one of our 
      devices from a tagged Alpha-Walker 
      and then put it in Pete.


                                      83.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      Who?

             GINA
      Don’t know.  Obviously someone... 
      Or something very intelligent.  

             MORGAN
      Why didn’t we intercept the signal 
      when Pete was brought in?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      This tracking device has been 
      reprogrammed to send a signal to 
      another location other than our’s.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      Wait -- you’re saying these 
      creatures have a base?

             GINA
      A base, a hive, a breeding 
      ground...  Whatever you want to 
      call it, they are now tracking us.

This reveal shuts everyone up.  An ominous feeling weighs 
down the room.

Defense Secretary drops the device.  He steps on it.  It 
crunches under his shoe.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      Not anymore.

BOOM!!!

There’s a large explosion that rattles the entire compound!  
Everyone stumbles, bracing themselves against something. 

Gina grabs the phone on the table.  It directs her to the 
Observation Room.

             GINA
        (into phone)
      What’s happening?  WHAT?!  How 
      many?!  Oh my God... 

Gina SLAMS the phone down.  She types on a keyboard built 
into the conference table.

Several flat screen monitors on the walls come alive.  
Everyone’s face drops with horror, shocked at what they see:


Each monitor displaying a live feed around the perimeter of 
the compound, showing thousands upon thousands of infected 
attacking the compound!

                                      84.

             GINA
      They’ve already breached the main 
      tunnels!  

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      What about our defenses?

             SERGEANT KNOX
      Weak at best.  We’ve sent the 
      majority of our forces north!  
      It’ll take them an hour to get back 
      here!

BOOM!!!  Another earth-shattering explosion.

The power goes out.  Monitors die.  Emergency lights kick in, 
painting the entire compound an eerie red hue.

             MORGAN
      We don’t have an hour.

Morgan suddenly runs out of the room!

             GINA
      Morgan!

INT. CONTAINMENT UNITS - NIGHT

Morgan dashes down the hallway, turns a corner to the 
Containment Units!  Suddenly all the lights go out!

Morgan hits the brakes.  Slowly backs away as all the doors 
to the containment units hisses open.  

The freed Infected burst out of their cages, instantly 
feeding on nearby military personnel!

INT. WAR ROOM - NIGHT

Sgt. Knox pulls out two guns from his holsters, hands one to 
the Defense Secretary.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      What are we going to do?

Sgt. Knox gestures for Gina and the Defense Secretary to stay 
put as he takes a look outside.


                                      85.

Sgt. Knox cracks the door, peeks through.  What he sees is a 
bloody massacre!  Dozens of Infected feasting on humans, 
walls and floor covered in blood and organs.  

Sergeant Knox closes the door, turns to Gina and The Defense 
Secretary.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      We’re gonna die.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      What?!

The blood drains from Sgt. Knox’s face, his dead eyes 
resigned to their fate.

             DEFENSE SECRETARY
      We have to figure out a way out!

Sgt. Knox ignores the Defense Secretary as he turns to Gina.  
The sergeant approaches her, pushing pass the Defense 
Secretary.

             GINA
      What are you doing?

Knox suddenly grabs Gina, lifts her off her feet!  SLAMS Gina 
onto the table.  He throws himself on top of her!

             GINA
      STOP!  GET OFF OF ME!  STOP IT!

Gina struggles, tries to swing her arms at Knox -- but he 
overpowers her!  

             GINA
      GET THE FUCK OFF!  MR. SECRETARY!  
      HELP ME!

The Defense Secretary is paralyzed with shock.  Stands 
motionless, watches as Sgt. Knox forces himself between 
Gina’s legs.

             GINA
      GET HIM OFF ME!  HELP!

The Defense Secretary grips his gun, looks like he’s about to 
help.  

But instead, with a panicked look, he runs out of the war 
room, leaving Gina alone with Sgt. Knox.


INT. ISOLATION WARD - NIGHT

Morgan rushes to the cage holding Janet.  Janet looks up as 
he frantically opens the lock to the cage door.

                                      86.

             JANET
      What are you doing?

             MORGAN
      We have to get out of here.

             JANET
      No, stay away from me.

             MORGAN
      There’s no time to argue about 
      this.

Morgan slides the cage door open.  Janet becomes restless, 
licking her cracked lips, smells his flesh.

             JANET
      STAY AWAY FROM ME!

Morgan takes a step into the cage.  Janet ROARS... LUNGES at 
Morgan with her jaws wide open!  SNAPPED backwards as her 
chains pull taut.

Morgan steps closer to his wife.  Janet is going crazy, the 
smell of his flesh and blood stirring her hunger.  Jaws 
snapping...

INT. WAR ROOM - NIGHT

Jaws snapping...

Like Gina, who desperately tries to bite Sgt. Knox, both 
still struggling on top of the conference table.

Knox pins her arms down, pressing his body against her.

He unbuckles his pants, attempts to pull out his penis 
when...  

Gina’s right hand slips from his grip -- she grabs the 
conference phone -- SLAMS IT ACROSS KNOX’S HEAD! 

Sgt. Knox falls over, moaning and barely conscious.  

Gina rolls off the table, grabs the gun, slides it into her 
belt.  She then grabs Sgt. Knox by his ankles.  


                                      87.

With hell in her eyes, she pulls him across the floor and out 
the door.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Gina drags the dazed Sergeant out into the hallway, just 
outside the war room.  

She glances to her left, sees the swarm of Infected just down 
the hallway.

She pulls out the gun -- BANG! BANG!

SHOOTS Sgt. Know in both his legs!  He WAILS in pain as blood 
pours from his wounds. 

This gets the swarm of Infected to turn their attention!  
They move towards the wounded Sgt. Knox.

Gina backs away from him.

             SERGEANT KNOX
      No!  Don’t-!

Gina runs off and disappears down the hallway. 

We stay on Knox, who helplessly watch the swarm approaching. 

             SERGEANT KNOX
      STAY AWAY!  STAY-!

Knox SCREAMS as they pounce on him!  Chomping into his legs!  
Biting his shoulders!  

An Infected grabs Knox’s left arm, sniffs the fresh flesh of 
his hand before biting into it!  Hand to face...

INT. ISOLATION WARD - NIGHT

Hand to face...

Just like Morgan who slowly puts out his hand towards Janet’s 
face.

             JANET
      STAY AWAY!  DON’T COME NEAR ME!

Though Janet’s words say one thing, her action say another as 
she stretches her neck out, trying to bite Morgan’s hand.

His hand inches closer.  Janet resisting the urge to bite 
into his flesh.  She closes her eyes, grits her teeth.


                                      88.

Struggling with the hunger.  

             JANET
      Leave me!

             MORGAN
      Not without you, I won’t.

             JANET
      I don’t belong with you anymore!

             MORGAN
      Listen to me-

             JANET
      X is for Xerox!

             MORGAN
      We can do this.

             JANET
      Y is for Yard sale!

             MORGAN
      Janet-

             JANET
      Z is for...

             MORGAN
      STOP IT!!!

His hand in front of her face now... He touches her cheek... 
She doesn’t bite him.

His hand caressing the side of her face.  She’s trembling 
from the urge, impossible to fight.

But she does fight it.  And soon the familiarity of Morgan’s 
touch relaxes her.

             MORGAN
        (softly)
      We’re leaving.  Together.

She slowly nods.

Morgan bends down, about to unlock the chains around Janet 
when...

He suddenly hears rapid foot steps down the hall.  Quickly 
approaching.  

Morgan gets up, ready to face whatever threat is coming...


                                      89.

Foot steps quickening.  Getting Louder.  Just right around 
the corner and -- 

It’s Gina, approaching the cage!  She’s breathing heavily, 
covered in pieces of rotten flesh, and carrying the electric 
bonesaw.    

             GINA
      Morgan, there you are!  We have to 
      get out of-

She stops mid-sentence when she sees Morgan with the lock in 
his hands.

             GINA
      What the hell are you doing!?

             MORGAN
      I’m freeing Janet.

Gina stomps into the cage.

             GINA
      Leave her!

             MORGAN
      I won’t.

             GINA
      We’re running out of time!

GUNSHOTS rattle off down the hallway.  Human screams.  The 
roar of an Infected swarm getting closer.

             MORGAN
      I’m not losing her again!

             GINA
      That’s not your wife anymore!
        (points to Janet)
      Look at her!  That’s not even 
      human!

             MORGAN
      Don’t say that.

             GINA
      You have to let her go.

             MORGAN
      Don’t ever talk about Janet like 
      that.


                                      90.

Gina steps back, her face drops.  Frozen by the disbelief at 
what Morgan’s saying.

She turns to Janet, and switches on the bonesaw!

Gina raises the buzzing blade over her head, ready to bring 
it down on Janet. 

But before Gina can do such a thing, Morgan grabs onto Gina’s 
arms, holding her back.

             MORGAN
      Gina, stop!

             GINA
      Let me go!  

The buzzing blade swings wildly back and forth as they 
struggle.  Janet helplessly watching.

The bonesaw goes flying from their hands -- the blade 
accidentally cutting into Morgan’s right arm.

             MORGAN
      Ahhhh!

             JANET
      Morgan!

The bonesaw tumbles across the floor, the blade comes to a 
stop.

Morgan staggers back, grabbing onto his bleeding arm as he 
grits his teeth in pain.

             GINA
      Godammit, Morgan!  You don’t-!

Gina reaches into the inside of her jacket.  It’s a total 
blur -- but Gina’s pulling something out!  Her arm sweeps 
around, pointing something at Janet!

Janet closes her eyes, prepared for the end!

BANG!  BANG!  BANG!

Gina’s chest explodes as three bullets pierces her!  Her body 
is thrown across the room.

Janet opens her eyes.  Sees Morgan standing there with his 
gun in his hand, the nose billowing with smoke.

He staggers forward, can’t believe what he just did.


                                      91.

He bends over Gina’s body, checks her pulse from her neck.  
There is none.  Gina is dead.  

He shuts his eyes.  Shakes his head.  Angry.  Sad.  Every 
emotion times a million. 

He opens his eyes...

Spots the thing in Gina’s hand.  It’s not a gun.

What is it?

He leans in closer.  It’s white.  Thin.  Her dead fingers 
covering most of it.

He reaches down, opens her fingers.

His eyes blow up with shock!  

In Gina’s cold dead palm is a PREGNANCY TEST STICK!

And it’s positive.

Morgan’s body shaking, fighting back the tears.  He drops the 
gun.

Raises his trembling hands to his face, stares at them...

             MORGAN
        (to himself)
      What did I do?

Janet cautiously approaches Morgan from behind.

             JANET
      Morgan?  You okay?

Morgan closes Gina’s fingers again, covering the stick.  He 
gets up, turns to Janet.

He unlocks her chains.  Janet is now free.  They leave the 
cage.  

INT. NORTH CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Morgan and Janet rush down the corridor.  

             JANET
      Where are we going?!

             MORGAN
      A secret passage. The East Exit.  


                                      92.

They’re about to turn a corner until Morgan silently signals 
Janet to halt. 

He creeps toward the edge of the corridor, peeks around the 
corner.

Down the north corridor, he sees dozens of Infected attacking 
people, tearing their limbs apart, eating their flesh.

Morgan turns back to Janet.

             MORGAN
      We have to find another way.

They turn around and head the other way.  Moving through the 
corridor.  

Morgan and Janet hurry their pace, pushing through the doors 
of the mess hall.

INT. MESS HALL - NIGHT

Morgan and Janet rush through the empty mess hall.  Heading 
for the...

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Morgan stands on one of the counters.  He uses a butter knife 
to unscrew the faceplate of an air vent. 

He slides the faceplate off, pulls himself up into the vent.

             MORGAN
      Stay close behind.

Morgan climbs into vent first.  Janet follows after him.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor sits alone in the interrogation room, listening 
to the surrounding sounds of the attack on the compound.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      Hello?!  Anybody there?

But no one is around.  The adjacent Observation Room has been 
completely abandoned.  

             THE PROFESSOR
      Is anyone out there?!


                                      93.

Still no response.

The Professor sits for a moment, contemplating.  

Then he lets out a grunt as he tries to yank his legs free 
from the iron rings around his ankles.  But they’re too 
strong.

He pauses, relaxes.  Comes to peace with what he must do to 
free himself.

With a forceful grunt, The Professor YANKS his right leg 
again -- the constraints remain around his ankles.

He continues to pull his leg -- with more power -- more 
force!  The constraints won’t give...

But something else will... We hear a sickening ripping 
sound... As his right leg slowly detaches from his ankle!

His left leg is next.  A strained grunt as he pulls!  The 
left leg rips from its ankle.

The Professor falls forward -- slumps to the ground onto his 
belly.  He is free!  But minus his feet.

Unable to walk, he crawls forward.  Slowly dragging himself 
towards the Observation Room.  Crawling...

INT. AIR VENT - NIGHT

Crawling...

Just like Morgan and Janet who are crawling through the 
narrow air vent situated in the ceiling of the east corridor.  

As they inch forward, they can see through the steel mesh 
beneath them the top of the heads of the Infected below.

They do their best to not make any sound.

They’re almost there... Until...

The metal panel under Morgan starts to CREAK!  The Infected 
perks up at the sound, looking around to see where it came 
from.

Morgan and Janet remain still, holding their breath.  He 
looks back to her, nods a “it’s okay.”

They continue crawling forward.


                                      94.

Another LOUD SCREECH as the metal panel gives way a little 
bit.  They stop again.

The Infected gaze upwards.  Time stands still as Morgan and 
Janet try not to move a muscle.

The Infected soon lower their heads, continue to wander the 
corridor.

Morgan looks back at Janet.  They both breathe a sigh of 
relief.  But then...

Blood from the cut on Morgan’s arm bleeds through his shirt, 
about to drip from his arm and through the air vent mesh...

He quickly cups his wound with one hand.  Praying the 
Infected don’t smell the fresh blood.

They continue crawling.  Slowly.  Painfully slow.  Every inch 
an eternity.

And if things couldn’t get worse --

Morgan suddenly hears a squeaking noise.  Emerging from the 
darkness ahead of him is an infected rat!  

Its eyes dead, skin and fur rotten, teeth exposed from 
snarling and rabid jaws.  

The rat staggers forward, careening side to side like a drunk 
-- but getting closer to Morgan’s face.  One bite from the 
rat and he’s done...

Morgan pulls out his gun, holds it in reverse, aims the 
handle at the approaching rat.

The rat creeps toward Morgan’s face!  With no other choice...

Morgan CRUSHES the rat’s head with the gun’s handle!

The metal panel completely gives in!  Morgan falls through 
the vent!

SLAMS onto the floor below!

Morgan hits his head, dazed.  He’s trying to get up but his 
legs won’t let him.

The Infected loom over him, their hands reaching out to grab 
him.  But before they do...

Janet DROPS down from the vent, tackling several Infected to 
the ground.


                                      95.

Janet gets to her feet, stands between Morgan and the swarm.

             JANET
      Stay away.  He is my husband.

In unison, the entire swarm of infected shout...

             INFECTED SWARM
      He is food!

This gives Morgan enough time to shake out the cobwebs.  He 
staggers to his feet. 

Janet beats a few of the Infected back.  But there’s too many 
-- and she is quickly overpowered -- they’re about to tear 
her limbs apart --

BANG!  BANG!  BANG!

Morgan FIRES his gun!  Blasting several Infected in the head!  
Janet pulls away from their grasp!

Morgan and Janet run!  The Infected give chase.  They are 
slow moving.  But they will never stop.

INT. EAST CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Morgan and Janet rush down the hallway.  They pasa the 
medical ward.  Then they pass the Observation Room, catches a 
glimpse of the Professor on the ground... 

Finally approaching the metal door at the end of the 
corridor.  The door is labeled...

EAST EXIT

Morgan and Janet approach the metal door.  He punches in the 
keycode.  The door doesn’t open.    

The thick, exit door is electronically locked.  No power 
means it’s not opening.  

Morgan desperately tries to pry the door open with his hands.  
Janet joins in as well.  But it’s no use.  This door is 
secured and not budging.  

             MORGAN
      We have to find another way out.

They run back down the hallway in the direction they 
previously came.  Again passing the Observation Room.  
Passing the Medical Ward.


                                      96.

But not much further when they see the swarm of Infected 
heading their way.  They’re trapped.  No other direction to 
go.

Morgan grabs Janet by the hand, yanks her into the only place 
they can hide...

INT. MEDICAL WARD - NIGHT

Morgan SLAMS the door behind him!  Locks it! 

BANG! BANG! BANG!

Morgan and Janet jump back as the swarm attempt to break down 
the door!  

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor grunts as he drags himself across the floor of 
the empty Observation Room.  He reaches up, grabs onto a 
cabinet handle.  

He pulls himself up, props against the counter where the 
record player sits.

He randomly grabs a record, places it on the player.  Gently 
puts the needle on the record.

The Professor then slides back down to the floor, laughing to 
himself as the opening of “Nights In White Satin” begins to 
play.

INT. MEDICAL WARD - NIGHT

Morgan and Janet look around as “Nights In White Satin” booms 
through the speaker system, echoing throughout the compound!

The music drives the Infected on the other side of the door 
into a frenzy!  They POUND and PUSH more forcefully!  The 
door pulsating from its hinges!

Morgan and Janet slowly back away from the door.  It’s going 
to give any second now.

Morgan checks his ammo clip.  Only one bullet left.  Fuck.

He then rummages through all the cabinets.  Looking for the 
electric bonesaw.  Then realizes Gina had it, which was left 
in the Isolation Ward.  Double fuck.

He continues shifting through more cabinets.  


                                      97.

             JANET
      What are you doing?

             MORGAN
      Trying to find a weapon.  Anything.

He suddenly comes across a several boxes containing batches 
of thermometers and cold sprays.  His eyes light up.  An idea 
hits him.

             MORGAN
      I know how to open the east exit.

BANG! BANG!  Morgan turns as the pounding on the door getting 
louder.

             MORGAN
      But how do we get past them?

             JANET
      Infected can only identify live 
      human flesh by smell, right?  

             MORGAN
      Correct.

             JANET
      Then you can’t be human anymore.

             MORGAN
      What are you saying?

Janet picks up a scalpel, places it in Morgan’s palm.

             JANET
      Merge.

She climbs onto one of the beds, lays down.  Morgan pauses, 
realizes what Janet is suggesting.

             MORGAN
      No.  I can’t.

             JANET
      We have no other option.

             MORGAN
      I won’t agree to it.

             JANET
      I’ll be okay.

             MORGAN
      Janet, no-


                                      98.

             JANET
      As long my brain is intact, I’ll be 
      alright.

             MORGAN
      But the rest of you-?

             JANET
      Is a corpse.  Useless.

             MORGAN
        (shakes head)
      I’m going to find a cure for you. 

             JANET
      If YOU die, no one will be cured.

             MORGAN
      But what about YOU?!

             JANET
      It’s too late for me. Think about 
      everyone else you can save.  

Their heads turn when they hear POUNDING on the metal door.  
They turn back to each other.

             JANET
      It’s the only way.  Do it, Morgan.

He hesitates.

             JANET
      DO IT!

He grips the scalpel tighter.  Brings it closer to Janet’s 
body.  His forehead sweating, hands trembling... 

He’s about to do the unthinkable...

             MORGAN
      I love you.

             JANET
      I love you too.

Morgan tears open Janet’s shirt, exposing her rotten naked 
body.  

The POUNDING on the door getting louder.  The hinges about to 
snap!

Morgan delicately inserts the scalpel into Janet’s chest.  


                                      99.

He slices a clean, straight line down to her lower abdomen, 
Janet’s innards erupt out like lava spilling over a volcano 
mouth.  

He grabs a handful of her spoiled organs, rubs it all over 
his body, drenching himself in the smell of decay.

He then carves a Y-Shape from her abdomen all the way down to 
her feet.  Then he cuts open both of Janet’s arms to their 
wrists.

He empties out everything from Janet, leaving a body-length 
jacket made of her skin, with her head fully intact and 
attached like a hoodie.

Her face is animated, still able to blink and talk.

             JANET
      Hurry!

Morgan grits his teeth, can’t believe he’s doing this.  He 
picks up Janet’s remains, flings her skin over his shoulder.

He wears her skin draped over him like long coat -- Janet’s 
head sits on the top of his own head like a hood.

Morgan moves across the room.  Grabs a plastic bag.  Fills it 
up with boxes of thermometers, cold sprays, and medical tape.

             JANET
      Come on, Morgan!

The door falls over with a SLAM!  Morgan suddenly straightens 
up like a statue, holding the plastic bag.

Dozens of hungry Infected pour into the Medical Ward.  But 
quickly their energy calms as they realize they don’t smell 
live human flesh. 

Morgan quietly, slowly steps forward.  He mimics the 
staggered motions of an infected.  Walks right into the heart 
of the swarm.

The Infected brush against him.  Sniffs him, but only smells 
Janet’s layer of skin.  

Morgan holds his breath.  They growl at him, but leave him 
alone.  

The infected move on, wandering the Medical Ward, looking for 
anything to feed on.

Morgan maneuvers his way through the swarm and out of the 
ward.


                                     100.

INT. EAST CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Morgan quickly makes his way down the hallway.  All of the 
Infected can be heard moving around in the Medical Ward 
behind him.

Morgan heads straight for the Observation Room.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT

The Professor continues to chuckle at himself with eyes 
closed.  Listening as “Nights In White Satin” continues to 
play...

Suddenly, a pair of hands enter the frame -- slaps some 
medical tape across The Professor’s mouth.

He opens his eyes, sees it’s Morgan wearing the Janet jacket!  
It’s a strange and surreal sight that even surprises him!

Morgan unlocks the cuffs around The Professor’s wrists, bends 
his arms behind his back, and recuffs them.

Morgan and Janet drag The Professor out of the room.

INT. EAST CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The Professor tries to scream as Morgan drags him out of the 
Observation Room.  

Trying to get the attention of the swarm inside the Medical 
Ward, but The Professor’s screams are muffled by the tape.

Morgan pulls The Professor to the end of the corridor, props 
him against the east exit door.

Morgan then unloads the plastic bag.  He begins snapping 
apart the thermometers... Spilling mercury onto the 
Professor’s body.

The Professor growls through his tape, shaking his head.  

Morgan ignores him, snapping more thermometers -- the 
Professor’s chest gleaming with silver mercury.  

SNAP!

SNAP! 

SNAP!


                                     101.

             JANET
      What are you doing?

Another box of thermometers.

SNAP! 

SNAP!

SNAP!

Janet just watches, confused.

The Professor shakes his head even more violently.  The 
medical tape slips a bit -- his mouth free and --

The Professor HOWLS at the top of his decayed lungs!

Morgan spins around -- sees the swarm of Infected coming out 
of the Medical Ward --

Heading down the corridor... Straight at them!

             JANET
      Oh my God!

             MORGAN
      Almost...

Morgan turns back to the task at hand. 

One last box of thermometers.

SNAP!

The Infected are moving in.

SNAP!

Their growls getting louder.

SNAP!

Closer they come...

SNAP!

Morgan then grabs the cold spray containers.

             JANET
      Morgan...? What...?


                                     102.

             MORGAN
      Overtime, a decomposing body 
      transforms into fertilizer, 
      building up gases including 
      ammonium nitrate.  Mixed with 
      crystallized mercury, fertilizer 
      becomes highly combustible.

He aims the cold sprays at The Professor’s chest and --

SPRAYS AND CRYSTALLIZES THE MERCURY into The Professor’s 
body!

The Professor cackling!  

The swarm just a few yards away.  Closer...

Morgan empties the last of the spray cannisters.  He quickly 
gets up, dashes and hides around the corner.  

The Infected almost on top of them!  Reaching out to them!   
The corridor echoes with the Professor’s mad laughter!

             THE PROFESSOR
      You’ll never find Patient Z!  

Morgan pulls out his gun, points it around the corner. 

He carefully aims --  and with his only bullet, SHOOTS THE 
PROFESSOR IN THE CHEST!

BOOM!  

A MASSIVE FIREBALL BLOSSOMS AS THE DOOR BLOWS WIDE OPEN!  

THE FORCE OF THE BLAST RIPS THE SWARM OF INFECTED INTO TINY 
PIECES, SPLATTERING THE CORRIDOR.

As the rumble of the explosion rolls through the entire 
compound... Diminishing like thunder...

Morgan is curled up around the corner, coughing. His ears 
ringing.  But alive.

He gets to his weary feet.

             JANET
      Morgan, are you okay?

             MORGAN
      I think so.

             JANET
      What now?


                                     103.

Morgan emerges from around the corner.  He moves into a shaft 
of light that pierces through the smoky remains of the east 
exit door.

He walks into the opening of the exit, his & Janet’s 
silhouette filling the doorway.

             MORGAN
      We go north.

EXT. DESERT LANDSCAPE - DAY

Morgan limps through the exit, stepping into the open for the 
first time in a long time.  The smell of the desert air fills 
his lungs.  

CLOSE ON Morgan’s face as his eyes glow with the sun’s light.  
His smile beaming just as bright.  He’s in disbelief.  

He did it.  THEY did it.

Suddenly, a drop of rain lands on his cheek.  

Then another drop.  It rolls down his face towards the edge 
of his lips.

He licks the fresh rain.  

But wait...

It’s salty.  And there’s not a cloud in the sky.  Morgan 
glances up.  He can’t see but he suspects it...

WE PAN UP to Janet’s smiling face.  The sunrise in her eyes.  
And she is weeping.

Tears.

To the final chords of “Nights In White Satin” -- they walk 
towards the orange hue of a waking sun that peeks over a 
sliver of the horizon.

They step into a new day.

Together.

FADE OUT

Over END CREDITS

The Rolling Stones’ “Time Is On My Side” plays...


