__________________________________________________________________

        POX               Americana
              Screenplay by
            Frank John Hughes

               Story by
            Frank John Hughes 
                 & 
               Rick Gomez

Code Entertainment
9229 Sunset Blvd., Suite 615
Los Angeles, CA  90069
(310) 772-0008

                                April 22, 2013


                                      ii.
Dear Reader,

     The script you are about to read concerns acts of violence 
and contains scenes of shocking brutality - all of which have been 
pulled directly from the historical record.

	I have deliberately written it in the most graphic prose 
possible in order to strip it bare of any glamour which the reader 
might associate with film violence and to expose it for its vile 
and pointless truth.

It is my belief that, only by depicting the atrocities of the 
American West in their most blunt and unforgiving ferocity, can 
the reader experience the themes of the film and understand the 
absurdity behind the myth so prevalent in our culture and history - 
the myth of redemptive violence.

Frank John Hughes
Los Angeles, CA


SUPER: The following is inspired by events that took place in 
the New Mexico Territory in 1859.

OVER BLACK:

The faint sound of a tin can being knocked over... the sounds 
of crickets grows louder and louder as you awaken. You 
quickly turn your head...

FADE IN:

INT. TENT - NIGHT

SUBJECTIVE POV (HANDHELD)

... a form moving quick and silent out of the darkness at 
you... the burnt red skin, the madmans eyes, the axe raised 
above his head... INDIANS!

You throw your hands up for protection - the axe cuts off two 
fingers on your left hand on its way into your shoulder where 
it cleaves muscle from bone - you scream! 

The Indian falls atop you, his oily skin presses against 
yours... his face close, his breath reeking of boiled sheep's 
blood and liver, his sludge of onyx hair falls in your 
face...

He removes the axe from your sinew and swings again - misses - 
and you roll him over...

...youre on top of him, your hands find his windpipe and  
try to choke it flat as he kicks, spits and flails... somehow 
you hold on.

You shimmy up his torso and drop your full weight on his 
throat... reach in the darkness for his axe... find it, swing 
it without looking and wedge it between his upper ribs. You 
feel him contract violently beneath you. He screams but your 
death grip on his throat chokes the sound to mere moan and 
spittle.

You reach around in the dark and find it - your sidearm. As 
you hold him in place he sees the gun... his eyes bore into 
you... small, black dots in neon oceans of white hot 
menace... you shove the barrel into his Adams apple and 
fire... a massive ear-ringing explosion of gunshot and powder 
dust fills the tent...

...the bullet crushes his larynx and snaps his spine -
throwing his head into a broken angle up and to the right.

Blood pours black from the smoldering hole as you roll off 
him.

Safe for the moment, the sounds of massacre come blaring into 
your skull... yelping braves, crying women, gunshots, the 
hoof-pounding and high-pitched neighing of frantic horses.

You look at your severed fingers, your shoulder, shards of 
collar bone jut through your skin... and a screaming boy, 
CHILBY (10), runs into the tent.  Hes crying so hysterically 
that he cant catch his breath. He points at some atrocity 
outside the tent...

             YOU
      Lay down under these blankets here 
      boy and dont move!

You grab the shock-frozen child and throw him down, cover him 
with blankets...

             CHILBY
      My momma...

You put your hand over his mouth...

             YOU
      You stay quiet and hide here. 
      Youll be OK. You just lay flat and 
      quiet as a snake alright?

You gently touch the terrified childs face and he calms for 
an instant before burrowing down to lie flat as he can under 
the blankets.

You run from the tent.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT 

CHAOS! Murdered men... BRAVES on horseback trampling WOMEN 
under their mounts and others chopping at bodies with axes - 
tearing off limbs - like butchers over skinned livestock.

Thirty feet from you, through sheets of smoke you see your 
brother, wounded and on all fours. 

A BRAVE grabs him by the hair and is about to slit his throat 
when you fire and hit the warrior just under the armpit, 
killing him instantly.

Your brother, exhausted, bleeding, panting looks at you - his 
savior - you lock eyes...

...the dust and smoke envelope him and when it clears you 
find him sitting on his calves - impaled by two long arrows 
that run from his back through his stomach and into the 
ground.

His head hangs back, his mouth open.

You scream and as you head toward him - you turn in time to 
see a flash of MOUNTED BRAVE swinging a club matted in blood, 
torn flesh and bits of hair.

The club is arcing toward your face...

SMASH TO BLACK:

FADE IN:

EXT. CAMP - MINUTES LATER

You open your eyes...

SUBJECTIVE POV (HANDHELD)

The world sits tilted on its side. You come to 
consciousness... try to focus... youre severely injured... 
fingers missing and the stumps bleeding... fighting off 
shock...

You look around helplessly as...

A BRAVE pulls down the trousers of a gravely wounded SETTLER. 
He castrates the man and holds up the organs as he howls out 
his dominance.

You look away and see...

ANOTHER BRAVE hacks away at a PREGNANT WOMAN until his axe 
eventually sticks in her skull and she keels over.

ANOTHER BRAVE plants his foot into the back of a wounded 
MANS neck - grabs the mans hair and wraps it around his 
fist. 

The brave pulls his scalping knife and in three cruel slices 
of perfected sadism carves away the crown around the mans 
hairline. The Indian then steps even harder on the mans neck 
while he yanks at the scalp, pulling it free with the 
sickening sound of ripping leather.

The Indian takes the gore soaked trophy and puts it on his 
own head - shrieks as he looks right into you with his black 
eyes.

He walks towards you and time stops...

...his sepia skin gleaming with sweat and viscera... his 
ponytail hanging down his back slippery as an eel, the saliva 
trembling on his wisp of Fu Manchu mustache. The horror and 
glee on his face as he approaches you...

...you turn away - try to crawl - your nails clawing the 
blood clotted, horse shit dappled earth...

Hes on you... turns you over... you lie there helpless, 
panting... looking into his face full of hatred as he raises 
a boulder over his head... screams generations worth of 
warpath and lowers the stone toward your face... you raise 
your bleeding hands, close your eyes...

A quick glimpse of your wife beneath you as you enter her, 
the expression she makes... 

Your infant son looking into you blankly with new blue 
eyes...

Your hands holding the bible open as you read...

SMASH TO BLACK:

FADE IN:

EXT. CAMP - DAY (TWO DAYS LATER)

The panic-stricken eyes of the bludgeoned settler stare back 
at us. A rigid arm - its hand missing two fingers -  juts 
upward from his stiff and rotting corpse like the remains of 
some mummy unearthed. Flies hum in the recrement seeping from 
his sun-bloated body.

CAPTAIN CYRUS P. BURKE (40), lost in thought or prayer, looks 
down at the cadaver. 

Burke is a West Point graduate from Pennsylvania who has 
known combat all his adult life. A proven killer and smart, 
pragmatic leader who is first into harms way and has earned 
the endless respect of his men.

Burke turns, walks over to another MALE VICTIM lying face 
down, the sand around the corpse is black where his blood 
pooled and dried.

Burke bends, examines the carvings on the axe buried to the 
handle near the mans kidney, and the feathers on the arrow 
between his shoulder blades...

             CUDDY
      If any reds was killed they took 
      they dead with em.

Burke rises slowly, turns to SERGEANT CUTHBERT CUDDY MORTON 
(45). A tall man with a thick tuft of beard only at his chin, 
Cuddy has the imposing menace of an Amish executioner. He is 
a fearless zealot and natural born Indian killer from 
Pennsylvania who abandoned his familys Amish faith to join 
the Army.

             CUDDY 
      Whatchya think, Cap?

             BURKE
      Apaches. 

             CUDDY
      Well they was out for hair, thats 
      for sure. 

             BURKE
      You get a count?

             CUDDY
      14 males. 10 women. 7 children. 
      Three of em infants.

Burke surveys the panorama of merciless bloodshed surrounding 
him...

             BURKE
      Sure is an exquisite display of 
      savagery, isnt it, Cuthbert? 

Cuddy nods. Another of the platoons NCOs walks up... 

             DOC
      Oh these sons a bitches are good at 
      bein savage! 

This is DR. BARTHOLOMEW DOC BIRCH (40), a Tennessee native 
whose family has been in the military since the revolution 
and has fought Indians for nearly 100 years. Once smart, 
loyal and brave, a lifetime on the battlefield has turned Doc 
into a bitter alcoholic. 

             DOC 
      Makes ya sick to ya guts to see 
      what these animals done to some of 
      the women here, sir. Theys been 
      stripped and all kinds a tampered 
      with. Its ungodly!

             BURKE
        (to Doc and Cuddy)
      Well... lets get them buried 
      proper.
        (to Cuddy)
      Have your men start digging.

             CUDDY
      Yes, sir.

             BURKE
      And make sure they cover them with 
      enough stones to keep them damn 
      wolves from getting at em.

Burke walks with a severe limp through clumps of human debris 
and over to two of his sergeants who stand grim-faced outside 
a tent. They are:

SERGEANT EBENEZER PRATT (34), lean and tensely coiled - a man 
more formulated to be an outlaw gunfighter than a soldier. 
Hes of few words but possesses a quick, dry gallows humor. A 
sniper for Co. G he is well-liked and highly respected by the 
men who consider him to be their own angel of death. 

SERGEANT CALLUM COONEY (38), an immigrant from County Kerry, 
Ireland, who found a home in the Army. He is a man drunk on 
the American dream - a soldier made valorous by combat in his 
quest to receive a battlefield commission.

             COONEY
      Saw some blankets... wanted to see 
      if they be worth anything... and 
      found this, sir.

Cooney shakes his head and he and Pratt lead Burke inside.

INT. TENT - DAY

Cooney takes a knee and pulls back a small pile of blankets 
to reveal - the bullet-riddled body of Chilby.

             COONEY
      Who shoots a child six times?

He shakes his head, makes the sign of the cross and walks out 
in disgust.

Burke, his face bent with remorse, looks down at Chilby - the 
boys torso chock-full of gashing wounds, flies churning in 
the gummy blood of it...


             BURKE
        (almost to himself)
      I have a son about his age.

             PRATT
      Way I see it... only way to stop a 
      savage is to be more savage.

Pratt exits the tent. Burke watches him go, then gently 
covers the young corpse with the blankets.

EXT. CAMP - DUSK

The massacre site has now been converted into an impromptu 
cemetery of toppled wagons and thirty-one graves covered in 
rocks and marked with small wooden crosses. 

Burke holds a small stuffed doll which has somehow avoided 
the bloodshed - its clean, smiling face made of buttons 
smiles back at him.

Burke props the doll against the crucifix on the smallest 
burial mound.

He mounts and grimaces as he swings his bad leg onto his 
horse. He raises his arm in a move out gesture and the 
column of mounted dragoons make their way, chasing the sun as 
it sinks behind hills howling with wolves made lunatic by 
famine.

EXT. FT. RESOLUTION - DAY 

Looming behind an impoverished town of windowless adobe 
structures and sitting on the edge of scorched nothingness 
for as far as the eye can see is Ft. Resolution - home to 
Company G and its fewer than 200 troops.

SUPER: TOWN OF SANGRE DE CORDERO, NEW MEXICO TERRITORY, 1859 

This work-in-progress fort built deep in the Navajo nation on 
what is today the border between Arizona and New Mexico, is 
the US Armys farthest-flung garrison, designed to provoke 
the Din people and let them know the white man isnt going 
anywhere.

At the center of the compound is a 300 yard parade ground 
surrounded by a series of simple pine log troop barracks, 
some smaller private quarters for officers, and a string of 
tents where Mexican servants and Indian scouts reside. 

EXT. FT. RESOLUTION - CHAPEL - DAY

Sunday service has just broken up and 20 DRAGOONS spill out 
of a barn that doubles as a chapel. 

INT. CHAPEL - DAY

CHAPLAIN DUKES (58), gathers up his bible and hand-written 
sermon. He notices Burke off in a corner, sitting on a bale 
of hay used as a pew. The chaplain heads over and stands 
beside him quietly for a beat before Burke realizes hes 
there.

             CHAPLAIN DUKES
      Is there anythin I can do for ya, 
      Captain?

Burke slowly emerges from his thoughts, shakes his head.

             CHAPLAIN DUKES 
      Hows ya leg comin along?

             BURKE
      Oh, its coming. I think the only 
      reason I still have it is those 
      prayers of yours.

The chaplain smiles, lowers himself to sit beside Burke. They 
say nothing - just listen to the scrape and clank of gruff 
men laughing, dogs barking, wainwrights working.

After a few beats...

             BURKE 
      Your sermon today about The 
      Judgement... made me think about a 
      man who served under me... at 
      Kensho Bluffs... surname was 
      Thomas. A private out of 
      Pennsylvania. Good man. He got hit 
      the same time as me. Hit bad. Gut 
      wound. He lay there bleeding out a 
      few feet from me. His eyes looking 
      right into mine. But not really - 
      they were looking at something else 
      - something way past me... said he 
      saw God Almighty coming to get him 
      and he got all peaceful. I thought 
      he passed but then he started 
      looking afraid... he started to 
      cry. Real bad. He kept saying Im 
      sorry Lord! Im sorry! Please 
      forgive me! I didnt know! 

             BURKE 
      I didnt know you loved them too!
        (beat)
      Thats how he died. Frightened. I 
      wont ever forget it.

             CHAPLAIN DUKES
      It is true. Well all have to stand 
      before God and answer to him 
      someday, Captain...

             BURKE
      It isnt god Im worried about. My 
      son Ethans thirteen now. Keeps 
      tellin his ma that he wants to 
      join the Army so he can kill 
      Indians like his pa.

Burke looks out the open door to the dry nothing beyond...

             BURKE 
      Im starting to believe that 
      theres more to life than killin 
      Indians.
        (almost to himself)
      Gotta be, right?

             CHAPLAIN DUKES
      Sure is.

The chaplain touches Burkes arm and rises... 

             CHAPLAIN DUKES 
      But I imagine thats hard for a 
      soldier to remember out here on the 
      edge of the civilized world, aint 
      it?

Chaplain Dukes walks away. Burke ponders that a beat when...

             GIBBS
      Captain Burke?

Burke turns to see CORPORAL GIBBS (23), standing by the main 
barn doors.

EXT. SANGRE DE CORDERO - MAIN PLAZA - DAY

Goats and chickens run roughshod through a plaza of kiosks 
sardined with sun-shriveled widows in black shawls and obese 
Catholic friars haggling with merchants in a gumbo language 
of Spanish and Indian dialects. All of it marinated in the 
constant, retching scent of urine, dung and boiled mutton. 

Just off the plaza is The Palace of Governors, an ancient 
adobe building with a weather-stricken porch. Guarding its 
front door are two DRAGOONS in dress blues with model 1851 
Sharps carbine rifles on their left shoulders and 36 inch 
Old Wristbraker sabers hanging at their hips beside Colt 
Dragoon revolvers.

The guards salute Burke and he goes inside. 

INT. PALACE OF GOVERNORS - HALLWAY - DAY

Burke enters and finds AUGUSTUS (GUS) CANFIELD (40), sitting 
in a wicker chair in the lobby and looking feral and out of 
place in his buckskins. 

Gus is a legendary trapper and former Dragoon from Missouri 
who speaks 5 Indian languages along with French and Spanish. 
He is of solid build and bears the dark intelligent eyes of a 
man full of secrets as to how the frontier really works. He 
possesses a dry sense of humor and a ferocious temper when 
riled.

             GUS
      I thought you was headin back 
      home.

             BURKE
      The old boy keeps denying my 
      resignation. 

Gus smirks, extends his hand, the old friends shake.

             GUS
      Good to see ya, Cy.

             BURKE
      You too, Augustus. How are things 
      in Taos?

Gus looks to the floor with a quick beat of discomfort thats 
not lost on Burke.

             GUS
      Cold.
        (beat)
      So how bad is it?

             BURKE
      How bads what?

             GUS
      Whatever it is we doin that got 
      the ol boy to call me on a Sunday 
      and offer me twice my normal pay.

Burke grins.

INT. PALACE OF GOVERNORS - OFFICE OF COLONEL MONROE THACKER - 
DAY

What was once a private Catholic chapel is now a make-shift 
office that chirps with birds that fly about the room freely. 
The pews and altar have been ripped out and replaced with 
chairs and a wooden banquet table functioning as a desk.

The walls are covered in elaborate frescos portraying the 
stations of the cross - and behind the desk is a gruesomely 
vivid depiction of the crucifixion.

Under this, sitting at the desk, is COLONEL MONROE THACKER 
(60), a lanky Missouri native and military legend. Thacker 
has a thin pelt of long grey hair pushed back flat above his 
wide forehead and the black eyes of an eagle on the hunt - 
eyes that now suffer from a degenerative disease robbing him 
of almost all his vision. 

Thacker drains the last of his coffee, clinks cup to saucer, 
shakes his head in thought...

             THACKER
      Gents this business last month - 
      them settlers you lead the search 
      party for, Captain, who was 
      mutilated out at Bear Rock? Well 
      one of those families were friends 
      of President Buchanan and hes 
      taken the massacre as a personal 
      affront. Hes mad. Wants the 
      Indians chastised. Severely. And 
      administered thusly...

Thacker leans forward...

             THACKER 
      Hes ordered a top secret incursion 
      deep in Navajo territory. The 
      operation is two pronged; the first 
      will function as a diversion. 

             THACKER 
      It involves three companies of 
      Dragoons marching toward Canyon De 
      Chelly in staggered waves to make 
      the Navajos prepare for a full on 
      assault. That operation is already 
      underway. 

Burke throws Gus a quick look. 

             THACKER 
      While the Navajo are scattered, a 
      raid team will carry out the real 
      mission - to assassinate their 
      chief, Babazorka and any others 
      that may be with him. Our Zuni 
      scouts have been tracking the chief 
      and his clan. They say hes ill and 
      hiding in the La Taza del Diablo 
      mountain range. Theres no tellin 
      how long the chief will stay put - 
      so speed and astoundment will be 
      paramount. You leave in the 
      morning. Before sunrise.

Burke tries to hide the shock of how soon it is. 

             BURKE
      Yes, sir. 
        (beat)
      But Colonel, with all due 
      respect... why would we attack the 
      Navajo for what happened at Bear 
      Rock? I was there at the massacre 
      site... saw the evidence with my 
      own eyes. I know for a fact that 
      the Navajo had nothing to do with 
      it. This was clearly the work of 
      the Apaches...

             GUS
      ... I agree, Colonel. My scouts 
      tell me it was Jicarilla Apaches to 
      be exact. 

             THACKER
        (knowing they are right)
      Well Washington thinks differently.

Burke and Gus share a look... Burke drops his gaze to the 
floor...

             GUS
      They usually do, dont they, 
      Monroe? 

             GUS
      But who we to doubt men sitting 
      behind desks 2,500 miles away?

             THACKER
      Glad to see youre still salty as 
      whales piss, Augustus.

Gus gives a sly grin. 

             THACKER 
      Now the Presidents hand-picked 
      someone he trusts to lead this 
      excursion. A Major Trigwell outta 
      Ft. Leavenworth. Word is hes a 
      right son of a bitch but an able 
      officer. Per the Majors request, 
      Captain, you will assemble a seven 
      man squad - including yourselves 
      and the Major - plus two scouts to 
      accompany Mr. Canfield.

             BURKE
      Seven men? Two scouts? Its 
      clandestine, alright, sir... but we 
      cannot be expected to manage 
      prisoners...

             THACKER
      No prisoners shall be taken. Make 
      no mistake, Captain, this mission 
      is punitive - pure and simple. The 
      President wants these murders 
      punished and punished they shall 
      be. So help you God. Understood?

Thackers near blind eyes stare back hauntingly at Burke. 

                  BURKE
		  Yes, sir.


             THACKER
      	Questions?


             BURKE
     		No, sir.


             THACKER
      All right then. Rosacita!

The door opens to the Colonels private quarters and a Ute 
servant, ROSACITA (21), enters the room.

             THACKER 
        (in Ute)
      [Bring us the whiskey.]

She nods and ducks out. Gus looks around the office - watches 
birds fly and perch atop furniture.

             GUS
      I like this here new office. 

             THACKER
      Blazing, morbid Catholics! This 
      used to be the private chapel of 
      the Spanish Governor. I feel more 
      like the God damn pope than a 
      colonel.

Burke and Gus share a smile.

Rosacita reenters, moves quietly through the room, pours two 
fingers of whiskey in each of three glasses, hands them out. 

             BURKE
      Thank you.

The girl nods timidly, puts her head down and waits for more 
orders.

             THACKER
        (to Rosacita in Ute)
      [Very good, Rosacita. Now you go 
      out back and wash them lady parts a 
      yours and lay down in the bed 
      there. My friends will be leaving 
      soon.]

She nods and leaves.

             GUS
      Your Utes gotten much better, 
      Monroe.

             THACKER
      Shit! Aint there any Indian you 
      dont speak?

Gus smiles and shakes his head... Thacker raises his glass in 
salute... 

             THACKER 
      For God and country!

The men toast and drink. Gus wipes his mouth on his sleeve 
and rises to leave...

             GUS
      Ill let you gentlemen finish up.

             THACKER
      Always good to have you on board, 
      Augustus.

             GUS
      Proud to be.

Gus heads out. Thacker turns his face to the open window -
toward the Chuska Mountains far off in the distance.

             BURKE
      Hows your vision these days, sir?

Thacker shakes his head...

             THACKER
      Poor. Poor as shit. Truth be told.
        (beat)
      Aint all bad... one of the rare 
      blessings of this affliction has 
      been the gradual loss of my ability 
      to see this god-awful town Im in.

Burke allows a compassionate smile to slip forth.

             THACKER 
      But its been four months since I 
      was able to see the sun setting on 
      the Chuska out there. The thought 
      of never seeing them mountains 
      anymore throws me into the deepest 
      of despairs. So does the idea of 
      never soldiering with you boys 
      again. 
        (beat)
      They aint nothin more useless 
      than an old soldier.

They sit in silence a few more beats...

             THACKER 
      I know youve been havin some 
      tryin times since ya got back from 
      Kensho Bluffs. 

Burke looks up, surprised...

             THACKER 
      Thats to be expected after what 
      you gone through there. That kind 
      of fighting... its... 

             THACKER 
      well its barbaric and you almost 
      losing yer leg and all. It can make 
      a man question things. No shame in 
      that.
        (beat)
      I want you to know Ive run your 
      resignation up the line more than 
      once but Washington wont have it. 
      They need Indian killers like you 
      out here. But you get this one done 
      quick and right and the skys the 
      limit for you with a President much 
      obliged. Understood? 

Burke thinks...

             BURKE
      Yes, sir.

             THACKER
      Well, thats all, then.

Burke rises... salutes. Its formal - sincere - solemn. Both 
men feel it. Burke nods, pivots and exits..

From Thackers blank face, staring out at nothing, we are-

EXT. CHAPEL - PRE-DAWN

Coyotes cackle unseen in the black hills behind the corrals, 
taunting and tensing the horses. Rain burbles on the muddy 
parade grounds. A hint of dull candlelight bleeds out of the 
chapel.

INT. CHAPEL - SAME

The shadows of men huddle near the front of the church like 
congregants at some secret ritual. Burke and Gus are there 
along with the 3 NCOs of Company G we met earlier -  Cuddy, 
Pratt, Cooney - and the units medic, Doc. 

At the chapels altar, with a large wooden cross behind him 
and standing straight as a hammered nail is MAJOR SOLOMON 
TRIGWELL (50). In his crisp Dragoon blues -  buckles and 
blades gleaming - he is a daunting figure, a zealous New 
England Calvinist with a shock of thick, prematurely white 
hair above a hard angled face weatherbeaten to a red tinge 
that seems to turn his intense blue eyes incandescent. 

             TRIGWELL
      Gentlemen, my name is Major Solomon 
      Trigwell. I dont know any of you. 

             TRIGWELL
      But I know your reputation. Company 
      G is the best the First Regiment of 
      Dragoons has to offer. Starting 
      today we add another chapter to 
      this units storied greatness. Ive 
      been sent from Ft. Leavenworth to 
      lead you on a mission... by direct 
      order from the President of the 
      United States to pursue and execute 
      the Navajo leader, Babazorka and 
      anyone else who chooses to stand 
      with him. 

We can feel the shock wave that runs through the men as they 
ingest the audacity of their mission.

             TRIGWELL 
      Because to be with or harbor this 
      enemy of the American people, is to 
      be our enemy and subject to our 
      wrath. Whether we bring our enemies 
      to justice or bring justice to our 
      enemies, justice will be done. And 
      done by us. It is God Almightys 
      will to spread the liberty and 
      greatness of our nation from sea to 
      sea - and we shall do Gods work 
      with vigilance and without pity. 

Trigwell lets his words soak into the men whose faces are now 
illuminated by the first grey light of morning.

             TRIGWELL 
      For God and Country! Mount up!

The men head outside. Trigwell considers them as they leave.

             TRIGWELL 
      How long have you been with these 
      men, Captain?

             BURKE
      Long time now, sir. We were 
      privates together in the Army of 
      the West under Kearny.

Trigwell nods, something aloof about it...

             TRIGWELL
      What did you think of the General?

             BURKE
      He was a great man. Fine leader. 

             TRIGWELL
      I found him... overrated. Grossly.

Before Burke can say anything - 

             TRIGWELL 
      They tell me you may have killed 
      more Indians than any other soldier 
      in the U.S. Army.

Burke stares back at him without denying it. Trigwell runs a 
cautious eye over the space - the barn-turned-church.

             TRIGWELL 
      Do you believe in God, Captain 
      Burke?

             BURKE
      More or less.

Trigwell studies Burkes eyes, looking for clues to some fact 
only he knows... then turns, strides down the aisle and out 
the doors.

EXT. PARADE GROUNDS - DAWN

Against a dark silver sky the men sit on their mounts facing 
Trigwell who, mounted on a grey stallion, nods.

Gus, with two Zuni scouts, UTAKO (20), and MACHAQUA (28),  
kicks his horse and heads to the front. 

Trigwell rides up beside Gus... sizes up the slight and 
unassuming man dressed in oily buckskins.

             TRIGWELL
      So youre Canfield, the man who 
      makes the Indians run.

             GUS
      Done so... but most a-times theys  
      runnin after me.

A twinkle of pure mischief in Guss eyes... Trigwell gives a 
detached smirk as he tries to figure him out. Gus moves up 
ahead.

And, without fanfare the team slinks out of the fort, 
unnoticed save by the SENTRIES who man the gate...

EXT. SANGRE DE CORDERO - MAIN STREET - DAWN

The men move on, their mounts steadily kicking up mud as they 
make their way out of town.

EXT. TRAIL - DAY (LATER)

The Zuni scouts lead the way through a waist-high universe of 
prairie grass. Gus follows behind them - his ever cautious 
eyes scanning the shrubs and rocks for movement of any kind.

EXT. TRAIL - DAY (LATER)

The column makes its way up onto a plateau and a daunting 
view of the colossal swathe of unnamed desert they must 
cross.

EXT. TRAIL - DAY (LATER)

All hints of civilization have fallen away now. The sun beats 
down on seared arroyos littered with the bleached bones of 
mules, horses and settlers.   

EXT. TRAIL - DAY (LATER)

The team plods through the deep, loose sand of the punishing 
desert; sporadic sand-devils heave a fine pure white sand 
into their faces. 

Trigwell wipes his tearing eyes, spits...

Burke, a bandana around his nose and mouth, drifts back to 
check on his men. Cooney rides without hands as he holds up a 
Navajo rug to block the flying sand for himself and the other 
men who hunker down low in the draft behind him.

Burke gives Cooney an approving nod then moves to the back - 
his eyes scanning for Navajos.

EXT. ZUNI VILLAGE - SUNSET 

The team comes upon a tiny pueblo - a dilapidated collection 
of mud structures wilting like some ghetto on the moon - a 
place of stray animals and ZUNI WOMEN wrapped in blankets who 
scurry indoors when they see the team approaching.

The MALES hang back in the shadows, leery as Gus leads the 
column through the center of the town and Burke rides up to 
Trigwell.

             TRIGWELL
      Captain. Take that barn there for 
      our camp. 

Trigwell looks to a small crop growing green and miraculous 
from the dead earth beside a small barn.

             TRIGWELL 
      That corns ready. Have the men 
      take what they want for tonights 
      meal. 

             BURKE
      Yes, sir. We have good relations 
      with the Zuni. Ill have Mr. 
      Canfield talk to them. 

Trigwell sees two sheep nibbling grass. He wipes the sweat 
from his face with a handkerchief then calmly draws his 
revolver and fires two shots into their heads, dropping them.

The team tenses and gauges the response of the men of the 
town - who watch in quiet outrage and then duck inside their 
structures.

             TRIGWELL
      Well have mutton with that corn.

Burkes jaw tightens with repulsion...

             TRIGWELL 
      Do you not like mutton, Captain 
      Burke?

             BURKE
      Sir, thats not how we do business 
      out here.

             TRIGWELL
      Take the men in.

             BURKE
        (to the men)
      Set up in the barn and get these 
      horses watered. Doc, get some 
      mutton going. Someones hungry.

The men get the jab at Trigwell.

             DOC
      Yes, sir!

The men head toward the barn with Burke. Gus approaches 
Trigwell... sizes him up a beat...

             GUS
      Been my experience... moves like 
      that get men killed. 

             TRIGWELL
      As does insubordination.

             GUS
      I aint part of your Army, Major.

He turns his horse toward the barn. Trigwell watches him go.

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

The men sit black as vultures - their greasy fingers and 
faces glowing as they catch moonlight while sucking marrow 
and fat off bone - snorting and wet-chewing a pink gruel of 
boiled mutton like pigs at the trough. 

EXT. BARN - NIGHT (LATER)

The team is huddled around a campfire, drinking coffee from 
rusted tin mugs and smoking after the meal.

Some of them play cards on a blanket.

Doc deals... the men gather their cards. Cooney sees a ZUNI 
MOTHER (35) and her DAUGHTER (15) heading over to sell them 
beads and blankets.

             COONEY
        (re: the blankets)
      Oooh... Look at them!

The men look over - then back to their game. Cuddy stares at 
the girl - the long black hair down her back... the small 
dark feet...

             DOC
      How many God damn blankets ya gonna 
      buy - Coonzy?

             COONEY
      I heard one a them Navi blankets 
      sold for 300 dollars back in 
      Boston.

             CUDDY
      Wagh!

             COONEY
      Its true! Hear they hang em like 
      art paintings.

             PRATT
      Dont believe everything you hear.

             COONEY
      Amish dont know anything about 
      art! Doc knows. Dont they hang em 
      up?

Doc nods. Cooney heads over to the mother and daughter.

             COONEY 
      Im collecting as many as I can. 
      Im gonna make a fortune selling 
      them back east.

             DOC
      Christ on the cross Irish, we 
      playing or not?

Cooney shakes him off while looking through the mothers 
goods.

             DOC 
      Well dont bring them vermin over 
      here or Ill shoot em. Like having 
      rats at the dinner table!
        (to Cuddy)
      Guess the games been suspended for 
      the moment.

He pulls a flask and takes a good pull, whistles and tosses 
it over to Pratt who catches it without looking, his eyes 
still covered by his hat.

Cuddy watches the younger daughter...

             CUDDY
      Hey Coonzy? Ask her how much for a 
      dirty rub from that girl a hers.

Cooney waves him off - 

             CUDDY 
      Coonzy! I said ask her how much for 
      a little dirty rub!

             PRATT
      Behave ya self, Cuthbert. Shes a 
      kid!

             CUDDY
      So what! Its just a dirty rub. Not 
      a push-it-in!

             DOC
        (disgusted)
      Those filthy reds are gonna give ya 
      French pox. You crazy now but you 
      get that syph and Ill shoot ya 
      like a dog!

Cuddy smiles...

             CUDDY
      Wagh! Easy for you. You got a 
      woman. Men like me and Pratt - we 
      got needs.

             PRATT
      I aint got no need to push-in a 
      kid.

             CUDDY
      Not a push-in! A dirty rub!

Pratt shakes his head. Cooney hands over money for two 
blankets.

Cuddy lights a cigar, puffs, his eyes fixated on the girl as 
she walks away...

EXT. BARN - TWENTY YARDS AWAY -  SAME

Burke sits smoking a clay pipe. 

Trigwell materializes from out of the darkness, a bible in 
his hand. He stands there looming over Burke for a beat as he 
stares at...

Gus sitting by a small fire and eating with his Zuni scouts. 
Hes one of them - passing a drink back and forth with them 
and talking fluently in their language, shiwima.

             TRIGWELL 
      He seems competent. Ill give him 
      that.

             BURKE
      Hes the best there is, sir. 

             TRIGWELL
      He better be for what I hear the 
      Dragoons pay him.

             BURKE
      He gets men home alive. What would 
      you suggest the fair value of such 
      a talent is... sir?

Trigwell stares at Gus with a mix of awe and disgust.

             TRIGWELL
      He is no doubt a godless man, is he 
      not?

             BURKE
      I wouldnt know, sir.

             TRIGWELL
      You lie. I dont think theres 
      anything about these men you dont 
      know, Captain. 
        (almost to himself)
      There is no god in him. Not a hint.

Trigwell gazes another beat then opens his bible and starts 
reading again as he drifts back off into the darkness.

Burke tries to make sense of the man... watches him vanish.

EXT. TRAIL - DAY

The land seems to swallow the men from all sides. A stark, 
lifeless furnace boiling between two distant mountain ranges. 

EXT. DESERT - DAY (LATER)

The men push on in the punching heat, their faces and beards 
veiled with fine white sand.

They move through a terrain littered with the slag of failed 
desert crossings: dried bones, a childs dress, broken wagon 
wheels, white crosses to mark where the dead lay... then 
something grabs their attention...

The men fan out in a line and fix their gazes on a strange 
site.

THREE MEN crucified on a desolate berm - moaning out as they 
hang in the relentless sun.

Standing before them as they chant in Latin, are a GROUP OF 
MEN in hooded white cloaks who lash themselves on the back 
with disciplinas - little whips made from amole leafs. Their 
garments are ripped to tatters exposing their blood-soaked 
backs.

             TRIGWELL
      Dear god!? 

             GUS
      That time of the year.

Burke nods. Trigwell tries to understand.

             TRIGWELL
      What are they doing?

             BURKE
      Theyre the Los Hermanos de 
      Penitentos. Fanatics that crucify 
      themselves during holy week. They 
      consider it a great honor to be 
      chosen... 

             COONEY
      Hell of an honor...

             BURKE
      Theyll hang there for a few hours 
      then be cut down. Only the 
      strongest can hold out... 

Trigwell looks at the gruesome spectacle with curious 
disgust.  

             GUS
      Little different than the plains of 
      Kansas isnt it, sir?

The column starts to move on. Trigwell follows last - not 
able to pull his eyes off the brutal scene.

EXT. DESERT - DAY (LATER)

The group passes a tipped-over wagon, its contents have been 
looted. The horses that pulled it, long stolen.

The DRIVER of the wagon has been stripped naked and impaled 
with a long piece of wood that has him jutting from the sand 
like a scarecrow.

His scalped head frizzles in the unrelenting heat while 
vultures - unperturbed by the squads presence - peck at it.

             GUS
      Apaches. 

             TRIGWELL
      This deep in Navajo territory?

Gus nods.

             GUS
      The Navajo are thieves by nature. 
      You chase, they run. You run, they 
      chase. 

Trigwell gives him a long look...

             GUS 
      Oh they kill when they must. But 
      they try to avoid it. This heres 
      the work of the Apaches. They like 
      killing and theys good at it.

Gus rides to the front. Trigwell turns to Burke:

             TRIGWELL
      You also believe it was Apaches 
      that were responsible for the 
      massacre at Bear Rock?

             BURKE
      I know it was. I was there, sir.
        (beat)
      But I dont think that matters at 
      all in this mission.

Trigwell holds his look.

             TRIGWELL
      What matters is Indians performed 
      that massacre and Indians will be 
      punished.

             BURKE
      Even if theyre the wrong Indians?

             TRIGWELL
      When it comes to chastising, 
      theres no such thing as a wrong 
      Indian, Captain Burke.

Trigwell trots off. Burke watches him go.

EXT. BUTTE - DAY (LATER)

The procession guide their horses gingerly through a forge of 
volcanic rock formations. They kick up plumes of dust as they 
maneuverer their way down to the valley floor and into a lush 
meadow on the other side of which are the La Taza del Diablo 
mountains.

Gus points to the ring of mountains.

             GUS
      Thats Devils cup. Cant be no 
      more than two hours thusly.

The men ponder the odd topography of it.

             GUS 
      The Navis say thats where the 
      devil keeps all his anger. 
        (beat)
      Sacred grounds. No Navajo would 
      dare step foot in it. If Babazorka 
      is hiding in there... he must be 
      right desperate. 

They ponder that for a beat... then move on.

EXT. SMALL MEADOW - SUNSET 

What appears to be an oasis is in fact a small meadow with a 
few shallow pools of water that bubble up from fissures in 
the earth at the foot of the La Taza del Diablo range.

The men have dismounted and are drinking from the water 
alongside their horses. 

             BURKE
      Sir, I suggest we camp here while 
      Mr. Canfield and the Zunis go out 
      and scout the Cup. 

             TRIGWELL
        (not taking his eyes off 
         Devils Cup)
      Good. Oh and Captain... put 
      everyone on fire discipline. Were 
      close now.

             BURKE
      Yes, sir.

Burke walks over to the men...

             BURKE 
      This is camp. 

Trigwell looks around... the sun is setting... he can feel 
the unseen eyes on him. He watches as Gus and the Zunis take 
off on horseback.


EXT. CAMP - NIGHT (LATER)

A fireless night. The men sip cold coffee and fill up on the 
last of the mutton.

             COONEY
      I heard once... muss been twenty 
      years ago... He got shot up bout 
      ten times and still was able to 
      ride back thirty miles to his camp. 
      Tough bugger he is.

             CUDDY
      Yeah that Babazorka, he all 
      warrior. Thats for sure.

             COONEY
      Hes a god to his people... they 
      aint gonna let him go without a 
      fight.

             DOC
      I wouldnt be surprised he dont 
      have seventy to a hundred braves 
      around him at all times.

             COONEY
      Ya think?

             CUDDY
      Could be...

Doc takes a long pull from his flask...

             DOC
      And all seven a us.

They let the bad odds hang in the air a beat... then... Pratt 
pushes his hat down low over his eyes so he can nap...

             PRATT
      Poor Navis.

Cuddy looks at Cooney and they share a smile as they lay 
their heads on their saddles used for pillows. 

Trigwell, who has been sitting nearby, studies them without 
expression... then locks eyes with Burke... gives one of his 
aloof smirks... and, bible in hand, stares into the vast 
nothing above, his lips forming words silently. Is he 
praying? Or talking to himself?

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT (A FEW HOURS LATER)

Gus rides into the camp with the Zuni scouts. He dismounts as 
Burke and Trigwell join him and the three of them move to a 
nearby oak.

Cuddy holds up two tins of food for the Zuni scouts, who nod 
their thanks. 

Doc, his eyes glassy with drunken menace, watches them go by 
with disgust. Spits after they pass - Utako turns...

             DOC
      Dont you eye me. Ill shoot ya 
      where ya stand. 

Cuddy steps in and gestures to the Zunis that its OK. They 
turn and go off to eat by themselves.

             DOC 
      I dont know how Gus can stand 
      bein with them.

             PRATT
      Thats his job, Doc.

             DOC
      Job? Shit! I mean bedding down with 
      these savages! Turns my stomach to 
      think hes married to one and got 
      two halfie girls with her too! 
      Thats why he left the army.

Doc takes a pull from his flask.

Cuddy walks over to Doc, takes the flask from him, throws it 
deep into the dark nothing beyond and gets up in his face. 

             CUDDY
      Quiet that mouth o yours. Thats 
      Gus youre talking about. I take 
      offense to that. 

Doc holds Cuddys gaze for a moment... then walks away.

EXT. CAMP - OAK TREE - NIGHT 

Gus briefs Burke and Trigwell.

             GUS
      Theys bought the diversion 
      completely. They sitting right down 
      in the center of the Cup. Exposed. 

             GUS
      No idea we comin. Hard to 
      believe...

Trigwell looks at him surprised.

             BURKE
      Out in the open?

             GUS
      Yep. Some braves... but most of em 
      are his wives and kids.

             BURKE
      We go in guns-a-blazing thatll get 
      messy, sir. 

Trigwell ignores Burkes words...

             TRIGWELL
      Gather the men.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

The men have gathered around as Gus etches a diagram of the 
Cup in the sand with his finger.

             GUS
      Devils Cup is shaped thusly... the 
      Cano River cuts it thissa way...

He draws a diagonal line through the circle of the Cup.

             GUS 
      Theyre set up smack dab in the 
      center of it. They have a small 
      farm and about ten hogans. They 
      aint hidin from us. This is their 
      home. They right out there for the 
      takin.

             CUDDY
      How many?

             GUS
      About twenty braves. Plus fifteen 
      women and children.

A quick excitement goes through the group. Thats no problem 
for this squad...

             CUDDY
      Well alright. 

             TRIGWELL
      Their attention is on the troops 
      heading west into Canyon de Chelly. 
      So we should be able to run down 
      the north slope undetected and hit 
      them from behind. Well head out 
      and swing north to stay out of 
      their view. When we reach the Cup, 
      Sergeant Cooney will go with one of 
      the Zunis to fix the mountain 
      howitzer in place. I want you to 
      pummel that village before we hit 
      it. 

Cooney nods.

             TRIGWELL 
      The rest of us will charge right 
      down that slope into the village. I 
      want this quick and lethal. See it, 
      kill it. Questions?

The men nod. 

             BURKE
      And the women and children?

             TRIGWELL
      Prisoners will not be taken.

He looks hard into the faces of each man - they get the 
message.

             TRIGWELL 
      Tend to your gear and pray to your 
      lord. We hit em while they sleep. 
      Depart in two hours.

Trigwell walks away. 

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

The men squat around their weapons and ammo pouches - 
obsessively loading, cleaning, checking. They are silent, 
focused killers who crave the tension of impending combat - 
junkies of wars rush and stakes.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

Burke and Gus, locked, loaded and waiting, watch Trigwell - 
off by himself on a small berm, looking into the black and 
distant mountain as if taking its counsel.


After a long beat he pulls his bible, paces, reads from it.

             GUS
      My scouts tell me the Cheyenne call 
      him The White Flame cuz he burnt 
      their settlements to the ground. 
      Scorched earth. Thats why hes 
      here. To send a message to the 
      Navajos that things is different 
      now. 

             BURKE
      Their lands are too vast. You cant 
      scorch that much earth.

             GUS
      Dont mean he cant try.

             BURKE
      These women and children down 
      there...

             GUS
      ... aint the first time we had to 
      a done it, Cyrus...

             BURKE
      No Augustus, it aint.

             GUS
      This countrys goin sea to sea, 
      you know that. Till then, Indians 
      gonna die.

             BURKE
      Not all of them need to. The 
      reservations can work...

Gus gives a knowing chuckle.

             GUS
      We aint gonna make good Christian 
      farmers out of em, Cy. 
        (beat)
      Washingtons knows - its just 
      cheaper to kill em off.

             BURKE
      Nothing cheap about killing, 
      Augustus. 

Gus considers his old friend for a long beat...

             GUS
      You sure loved the killin once. I 
      never knew a man more born to it 
      than you.

             BURKE
      This army life... it aint no life.
        (beat)
      Hell these are your people we 
      killin. Your wife and daughters 
      people. How you reconcile all this 
      murder?

             GUS
      Its... the nature of these things.
        (beat)
      If I gotta bust heads so my little 
      angels can rest theirs in safer 
      places - so be it.
        (beat)
      I leave it so. You should too.

Burke ponders that.

EXT. RIDGE TOP - DEVILS CUP - NIGHT (LATER)

The team crouches down behind rocks and take their first look 
down into the hallowed grounds known as Devils Cup. 

Trigwell lenses the settlement with his spyglass... 

Cooney leans close to Cuddys ear and whispers:

             COONEY
      Ten years in Indian country... this 
      the first time I feel like Im 
      trespassing.

             DOC
      Caint trespass on whats yours 
      Coonz.

             COONEY
      Dont feel like mine.

Trigwell collapses the spyglass... peers down into the Navaho 
darkness... nods at Burke.

             BURKE
      Sergeant Cooney. Set the Howitzer 
      up here. Pound that village for 
      cover as we descend the slope.


             COONEY
      Yes, sir.

He wrestles the Howitzer in place with the help of Machaqua.

            BURKE
      Sergeant Pratt - find a spot 
      halfway down the slope in that 
      thicket, and snipe. I want them to 
      think theres more of us in the 
      hills. 

             PRATT
      Yes, sir.
        (calm assurance)
      See ya boys down yonder.

They nod to him and he takes off in a crouch down the slope. 
The men watch as he draws no fire reaching his post.

             BURKE
      Use your sidearms only when needed.
      Sergeant Cooney?

             COONEY
      Loaded hot, sir!

Trigwell checks his pocket watch. The men sense the charge is 
imminent. 

A light breeze brings the scent of sulfur and flowers up from 
the river. On a distant ridge the howls of a hungry wolf 
bellow out with lonely menace.

             TRIGWELL
      Mount up.

The men spring to their feet and on to their mounts. Rifles 
are slid into scabbards - horses are shushed...

Trigwell nudges his horse to the rim of the Cup as the men 
deploy beside him in a line - their silhouettes darker than 
the sky above them.

             TRIGWELL 
      Draw sabers.

The men execute a precision move and hold their swords at 
their sides. 

             TRIGWELL 
      The righteous will rejoice when He 
      sees the vengeance; 

             TRIGWELL 
      He will wash his feet in the blood 
      of the wicked! FOR GOD AND 
      COUNTRY!

             THE MEN
      For God and country!

Trigwell raises his sword... the mens eyes watch it like 
dogs waiting for dropped food. 

Trigwell lowers his arm and each man spurs his horse and 
bolts forward over the breach and down the moonlit slope.

The line pounds its way down the damp grass which muffles 
their stampede toward the settlement.

For the first time we see the men in their natural state - 
raw war. Each of them is a master horseman who at full gallop 
commands his beast with the most subtle of gestures.

They effervesce down the slope like hot lava - a lethal, well-
ordered and professional force of destruction.

EXT. RIDGE - NIGHT

Cooney drops his shell and covers his ears. With a dull, 
smoky thump a 12 pound ordinance launches into the last of 
the silent, starless night sky.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - NIGHT

The first shell lands cracking open the quiet with the brutal 
force of a lightning strike - and the first hogan is 
obliterated. Splintered shafts of wood and severed human body 
parts shower down.

Two more shells concuss right behind it - blowing apart 
structures and sending wads of earth high in the air.

Navajos run like bees fleeing the hive. 

EXT. FLATS - NIGHT

The team hits the flats without resistance and push forward 
at incredible speed, swords held high, tense with the threat 
of imminent counterattack as they close the gap to the first 
hogan. 

The settlement is already being swallowed by cannon smoke, 
and the battle that follows feels as though it is being 
fought in the clouds.

Burke leads Canfield and Utako off to the right.

Trigwell leads Doc and Cuddy into the settlement as two more 
explosions rupture the ground.

As they charge at the smoke we get glimpses of a frantic OLD 
WOMAN stumbling around in panic. 

Trigwell tramples her from behind.

From out of nowhere THREE TEENAGE BRAVES appear. Doc hacks 
one deep in the head. 

Cuddy slashes another across the stomach, disemboweling him. 
The boy tries to hold back his steaming guts as they unfold 
onto the dirt.

Cuddy shoots the other in the cheekbone with his revolver, 
blowing a black hole through his face.

EXT. NORTH SLOPE - THICKET - SAME

Pratt sits perfectly still on one knee with his rifle raised, 
calmly squeezing off shots into the smoke, at fast slashing 
silhouettes - dropping them one by one...

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - SAME

Burke rides at full gallop, drops low to one side and hacks 
the arm off a BRAVE preparing to throw a lance. When the 
stunned Indian turns, Burke hacks at his neck, dropping him 
dead.

A spear pierces the wall of smoke and just misses Burke. He 
turns in time to see a BRAVE reaching back to throw his axe. 

Burke deftly moves his horse as the axe whirls, then shoots 
the brave through the eye, knocking him to his knees an 
instant before Gus comes bounding out of the haze and crushes 
the dying brave beneath his horses hooves while firing at 
another brave behind Burke.

EXT. NORTH SLOPE - RIDGE - SAME

Cooney slightly repositions the Howizter and Machaqua feeds 
it ammo. From their vantage point we can see the settlement 
smothered with thick smoke as flames crawl up out of it with 
scalding, orange reach.

Cooney keeps firing...

EXT. SETTLEMENT - NIGHT (SAME)

Trigwell hacks at TWO BRAVES with his sword while firing at 
another WARRIOR who tries to take him off his horse.

Burke barges in through the smoke, firing his rifle and 
killing two braves.

Trigwell falls from his mount and thrusts his sword through 
the other brave then shoots the still screaming man in the 
face.

As he goes to mount his horse, a BRAVE drops out of the acrid 
haze and into the saddle. 

But before the Indian can grab the reins, Burke has brained 
him with his sword. With another swipe, the braves head 
tumbles off and his body slumps to the ground.

The horse takes off, leaving Trigwell with only his revolver 
and his sword. From out of the gray murk a flock of arrows 
hail down - just missing Trigwell.

Burke tries to get to him but his own horse is shot out from 
under him. But Burke manages to ride the horse down without 
being thrown - then grabs his rifle and jumps off in time to 
fire into an advancing group of BRAVES - killing them all.

When he turns Trigwell has vanished in the smoke.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - SAME

TWO BRAVES fire revolvers just missing Doc.

Doc fires, hitting one in the crotch while the other runs 
into the confusion...

As the wounded Indian staggers back, Doc jumps from his 
horse, grabs the brave by the hair with one hand and slits 
his throat... holding him up the entire time and getting a 
sick joy from watching him bleed out in his hands.

After a few beats Doc lets him fall, then hacks at the 
braves chest five or six times with his knife. 

Doc remounts and spurs his horse. 

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - SAME

Cuddy, his horse gone, moves cautiously through the dense 
smoke.

He comes upon a barn, peers inside and finds a group of YOUNG 
WOMEN cowering in the corner.

He opens fire, killing them all. 

One WOMAN hiding elsewhere, takes off running. Cuddy goes 
after her.

She runs, only to find herself pinned between two barns.

As Cuddy draws closer to her, he holsters his pistol and 
pulls out his knife. The woman is trapped, screaming, 
desperate...

With Cuddy just a few feet from her, the woman runs over to 
the dead body of a brave lying in a clump beside the barn.

Before Cuddy realizes whats happening, she has pulled a 
revolver out from under the dead man...

... Cuddy drops his knife and reaches for his pistol but its 
too late - she already has her weapon up...

... but instead of firing it at Cuddy, she puts the barrel in 
her mouth and fires - the force toppling her over backwards.

Cuddy is stunned. He takes the weapon from her dead hand, 
tucks it in his belt and looks at her - eyes opened, blood 
tumbling hot out of her nostrils... 

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - SAME

Gus sits on his horse, firing his rifle at a group of FLAME 
COVERED BRAVES who flee from a burning barn. They collapse 
and keep burning where they lie.

Through billows of smoke, come another sortie of arrows 
piercing the earth and animals and dead bodies with impunity.

Gus hears a yelp and turns in time to see Utako being pulled 
from his horse and onto his back. A NAVAJO fires six rounds 
into Utakos face in a statement act of vengeance. 

Gus screams out in horror and takes off toward the brave, who 
jumps on Utakos horse and vanishes into the gloom.

Gus heads after him. Burke, appearing from nowhere, sees him 
go and races after him.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - MOVING - GUSS POV 

You get glimpses of the brave you chase through breaks in the 
smoke as you charge after him at full gallop.

You fire blindly at his shape in the clouds - it clears for a 
second and you see him hunched low at his horses neck, 
kicking the animal as fast as it can go.

From nowhere, arrows puncture the smoke and just miss hitting 
you.  

The smoke clears again, revealing TWO BRAVES reloading their 
bows - you fire hitting one in the ear and spinning him 
around hard to the ground. 

You fire at the other and miss but he is suddenly hit in the 
teeth. His head snaps back but his body collapses straight 
down in his own footprint...

You turn and look over your shoulder to see Burke trailing 
behind you having just fired.

You turn back and now at the end of the settlement you plunge 
through the last of the smoke vapors into the crisp jaws of 
night.

You kick your mount and start closing the gap between you and 
the mounted galloping brave.

You pull your rifle and fire, hitting the Navajos horse just 
above the tail...

The animals back legs instantly flail and splay open as its 
back end drops crashing to the earth and throwing the brave 
from its back.

You jump from your horse and run over to him...

The brave lies on the ground, his femur broken through the 
flesh, pale white slivered shafts of bone against his auburn 
skin.

He looks at you with frantic eyes as you approach - you fire, 
hitting him in the thigh and, as he screams out in agony, you 
beat his face with your rifle - enough to cave in his nose, 
upper lip and jaw like some kicked in jack-o-lantern void of 
human countenance.

Hes still alive - writhing and screaming. You pull your 
knife and methodically stab into him - eviscerating him until 
he dies. 


You spit into his face. Drop to your knees, wrap his blood 
clumped hair around your wrist and scalp him.

             BURKE
      Gus! We gotta get back!

You turn to see Burke on his horse.

BACK TO SCENE

Burke looks down at Gus who, now in the pitch of butchery and 
bedlam, in no way resembles the unassuming man we have known.

             BURKE 
      Its been avenged.
        (beat)
      Lets go.

Gus mounts his horse and spurs him back toward the 
settlement. Burke falls in behind him.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. SETTLEMENT - NIGHT - (FIFTEEN MINUTES LATER)

Trigwell, bleeding from wounds on his right arm, leads the 
men cautiously through the settlement.

They are exhausted, sweating, covered in blood and still 
amped up, weapons drawn.  

             TRIGWELL
      Find the chief! If there are any 
      survivors dont kill them until 
      they tell us where he is!

The men fan out and move silently through the burning 
wreckage of the village, their ears straining for out of 
place sounds, their eyes scanning for movement.

Pratt brings up the rear walking backwards as to cover their 
flanks...

Gus and Machaqua inspect the remains of a barn...

Cuddy and Doc clear a hogan and find nothing but death. They 
head back out and give the all clear sign...

Burke steps over obliterated human remains, his eyes keeping 
close watch on the lip of the ridge. He feels exposed... 
then...

A gunshot rings out from a nearby hogan.

             BURKE
      Take cover!

The men dive for shelter.

             PRATT
        (pointing to a hogan)
      There! Its that one!

The group returns a barrage of fire at a shape moving in the 
hogan...

             TRIGWELL
      Hold your fire! Hold your fire!

The team waits. No gunfire is returned. The sound of a 
wounded man writhing in agony is heard.

Then the door opens and a BRAVE bursts forth... he is 
hemorrhaging from a shot in his stomach and carries a rifle 
at his hip. He runs out screaming and firing at the team who 
kill him instantly.

The team waits again... nothing... then a boys voice calls 
out from the hogan...

             NAVAJO BOY
        (in Navajo)
      [Dont shoot! We have Babazorka and 
      he wants to surrender! HE WANTS TO 
      SURRENDER!]

             TRIGWELL
        (yelling out to Gus)
      Whats he saying Canfield?

             GUS
      He says they have Babazorka and he 
      wants to surrender.

             TRIGWELL
      Tell them to come out!

             GUS
        (in Navajo)
      [Come out of the barn! All of you! 
      No weapons! Get out here now!]

The men hold with their weapons fixed on the barn. Finally...

TWO BOYS, 12 years of age come, out of the barn with their 
hands in the air. They are shirtless, terrified, shaking... 


the taller of the two has urine pouring down his leg - 
innocent children painted for battle who look more like they 
are pretending to be warriors in a game of cowboys and 
Indians than the last bodyguards of a great Navajo chief...

             GUS 
      [How may others are in there?]

             SMALLER NAVAJO YOUTH 
      [Just the chief. No one else.]

             GUS
      [Is that the truth? If you're lying 
      Ill shoot you both!]

             SMALLER NAVAJO YOUTH
      [Thats the truth! Just Babazorka!]

             GUS
      [Tell him to come out!]

             SMALLER NAVAJO YOUTH 
      [Hes too ill. He needs our help to 
      walk.]

             GUS
      [Lie down on your stomachs!]

The boys do as they are told.

             GUS 
      They say only Babazorka is left but 
      hes too sick to walk on his own.

             TRIGWELL
      Cuddy, Cooney. Check the inside. 
      Everyone else cover them!

Cuddy and Cooney slip out low and make their way over to the 
hogan, peer in, give the signal that its clear.

             CUDDY
        (pointing to the brave who 
         came out shooting)
      This here his boy, Nemescito?

The rest of the team rushes over. Burke motions for Pratt to 
guard the boys as Gus takes a knee.

             GUS
      No. Looks like the chief made his 
      last stand without him. Nemecito 
      probably went to Canyon de Chelly 
      when he heard about the incursion. 

             GUS
      This is all Babazorka had 
      protecting him - his two youngest 
      sons.

             DOC
      Thank Christ for that.

The team heads inside...

INT. CHIEFS HOGAN - NIGHT

The team enters the dark space. They make out the prone body 
of a large man wrapped in blankets, lying on bundles of hay. 
Its the Navajo legend, Chief BABAZORKA.

A voice booms from the darkness... in very good English. A 
voice as forceful as a tympani; a baritone full of gravel...

             BABAZORKA
      If you let my sons help me up I 
      will come to you.

Anticipation runs through the team. Burke can feel their 
collective awe at finally having caught the man...

             TRIGWELL
      Bring in the boys.

             GUS
      [Boys come!]

The children come into the barn at the end of Pratts rifle.

             BURKE
        (to Cuddy and Cooney)
      Keep our flanks covered.

This snaps Cuddy and Cooney out of their reverie and they 
twirl around, watchful, ready.

The sons position themselves beside their father and try to 
lift him to his feet. He rises... 

             TRIGWELL
      Have them bring him outside.

             GUS
      [Outside.]

EXT. CHIEFS HOGAN - NIGHT

The team stands with guns pointed at Babazorka as he comes 
out. They are astonished by how large he is. 

Well into his eighties and bent with arthritis, he still 
stands six feet six inches. His shirtless body - a grotesque 
collage of arrow, knife and bullet scars from a lifetime of 
war - has been made thinner with age and sickness but his 
shoulders remain massive. The mane of thick silver hair down 
his back and his dark face - carved and rugged as the canyons 
he patrolled in his youth - make him all the more imposing. 

The giant, with his sons attached to him, looks at the white 
men before him - inspects their faces and quickly makes his 
account of each them - until his wise eyes settle and he juts 
his proud jaw toward Trigwell.

Trigwell holds the mans gaze but can feel the mystical power 
in it. The chief speaks perfect English in a voice that bears 
a patina of dignity of which even illness cannot deprive 
him....

             BABAZORKA
      I am Babazorka, Chief of the Navajo 
      nation. My people can no longer 
      fight the great white warriors you 
      lead. It is your will to possess 
      our lands. Your will is strong. And 
      your weapons are stronger than 
      those of the Din. The time for 
      peace has come. Too many of my 
      people have died - and too many of 
      yours. I regret that it has come to 
      this. We have tried to live by your 
      treaties. But many times your 
      government has not kept its 
      promises and provoked violence. And 
      some in of our nation have caused 
      hostile acts for which I am sorry. 
        (beat)
      As leader of my nation, I offer you 
      the full and unconditional 
      surrender of my people. We have 
      fought with honor to hold the lands 
      our gods gave us. Now we give all 
      these lands over to you. We will 
      live wherever you want us to go. 
        (beat as he bores his look 
         into Trigwell)
      War has only brought us and the 
      white man suffering. War must end. 
      We want peace.
        (beat)

             BABAZORKA 
      I surrender my people and our 
      lives, to your Christian mercy.

The men are stunned into respectful silence by the eloquence 
of his surrender. Even Doc is taken aback.

Burke keeps his eyes on the Major - searching his features 
for a clue to how he will respond.

Trigwell never breaks his look from the chief in an attempt 
to maintain his own dignity. After a long beat...

             TRIGWELL
      Chief Babazorka... your words are 
      eloquent and moving. You are a 
      dignified statesman for your 
      people. It truly is an honor to 
      have met you, sir. You exceed your 
      legend in every way possible.

Burke and Gus try to guess at what will next come from 
Trigwells mouth...

             TRIGWELL 
      However, this land you turn over to 
      us, is not yours to give. It is 
      land given to us by the Mexican 
      government in the treaty of 
      Guadalupe Hidalgo.
        (beat)
      I am not here to offer you treaties 
      or to relocate your people. And I 
      bear no powers to make peace. I 
      have been sent by the President of 
      the United States to punish you for 
      acts of terror against the American 
      people. And punished you shall be.

Burke tightens his jaw in disgust. Gus looks to the ground. A 
sadistic sneer rips at Docs face. 

Babazorka takes it all calmly, his sons clinging to him; not 
knowing what is being said, they try desperately to read the 
faces of the white men.

             TRIGWELL 
      You are to be executed by firing 
      squad. Bring them beside the barn. 

On the chiefs face... his eyes looking, for the first time, 
concerned for the safety of his sons...

EXT. BARN - NIGHT

Babazorka stands against the barn with his hands tied behind 
his back. His sons, also bound and with sacks over their 
heads, are beside him crying in terror and pleading for their 
lives. 

Trigwell stands ten paces away. Beside him are a waiting 
firing squad of Cuddy, Doc and Cooney. 

A few feet away Burke waits in mounting discomfort for what 
is about to happen. The pained cries of Babazorkas sons are 
filling the Cup with horrifying grief...

Burke moves to Trigwell and, in an urgent tone that only the 
Major can hear:

             BURKE
      Sir, may I suggest we send word 
      back that Babazorka has just given 
      us the complete and unconditional 
      surrender of the Navajo people? 

Burke glances at Gus and continues:

             BURKE 
      Im confident that Washington will 
      see that the value in winning this 
      war far exceeds the execution of a 
      single man.

             TRIGWELL
      You want us to disobey a 
      Presidential order, dont you, 
      Captain Burke? It hasnt sat right 
      with you since we received it. 
      Isnt that so?

             BURKE
      Sir, a full Navajo surrender will 
      give our country all the land it 
      wants without another drop of blood 
      being spilt and will save lives on 
      both sides. Killing this man will 
      only make him a martyr and cause 
      retaliation and more war. 

             TRIGWELL
      Our orders were not to negotiate a 
      peace with these savage terrorists 
      but to punish them. And we will not 
      defy those orders. 

Burke stares at him defiantly. 


Trigwell walks over to Babazorka, looks up into the eyes of 
the man who towers over him. There is not a hint of fear on 
the chiefs face, just a deep resolve.

             TRIGWELL 
      You have been found guilty of being 
      an enemy of the United States of 
      America and its citizenry. You have 
      been condemned to death by order of 
      the President. Have you any final 
      words?

Babazorka looks down at Trigwell.

             BABAZORKA
      A nation built by blood falls in 
      blood. This is the great law of the 
      gods. For me... and someday for 
      you. So be it.

Trigwell stares at the old man, then covers the chiefs head 
with a burlap sack and walks back to the line.

             BABAZORKA 
        (in Navajo)
      [Quiet my sons!]

The boys stop crying and stiffen as they listen for their 
fathers voice.

             BABAZORKA 
        (in Navajo)
      [O Great Spirit hear me! Make us 
      always ready to come to you with 
      clean hands and straight eyes, so 
      when life ends our spirits can come 
      to you without shame! My precious 
      sons do not die afraid! Sing your 
      death song and die like a hero 
      going home!]

The boys and their father begin chanting their Navajo death 
song. Babazorkas voice rumbles up and through the Cup. The 
boys start off softly but, led by their fathers strength, 
begin to sing out the song in full voice...

             TRIGWELL
      Dr. Birch. Sergeant Cooney. 
      Sergeant Morton. Step off the line.

The men share a quick look and do so.

             TRIGWELL 
      Captain Burke to the line.

Burke does not move.

             TRIGWELL 
      Captain Burke... if I for a one 
      moment... feel that you are 
      disobeying my orders I will have 
      you shot for treason.
        (beat)
      Take the line.

Burke doesnt budge...

             TRIGWELL 
      Captain Burke! To the line...!

Without going to the line -  without awaiting Trigwells 
command to fire, Burke raises his weapon quickly and fires a 
round through the chiefs head and another through his heart. 

The chief drops hard to the ground. His sons stop chanting...

The men stand in silence as they watch what will happen next 
between Trigwell and Burke.

Burke refuses to shoot the boys, who now begin to scream for 
their father with pitiful sobs...

Burke lowers his weapon and locks eyes with Trigwell.

Trigwell seethes... 

             TRIGWELL 
      Captain Burke!

But before he can say another word, two shots ring out - Gus 
has killed the two boys - so Burke doesnt have to. 

They crumple to the ground as the shots echo across the Cup. 

Trigwell bores his eyes into Burke, then Gus.  His authority 
challenged, Trigwell makes a calculated choice to ignore 
Burkes insubordination in order to avoid further mutiny.

Trigwell addresses the men: 

             TRIGWELL 
      I want the chief scalped and his 
      body hacked to pieces for the 
      wolves. Scalp the men. Strip the 
      women and leave them all to rot.
        (beat)
      I want every pot and bowl crushed, 
      everything burned. 

             TRIGWELL 
      The livestock slaughtered. Leave 
      them nothing. Destroy everything.

Burke walks away. The others follow.

Gus moves to Babazorkas body and pulls off the sack to 
expose the black hole between the chiefs open, still 
fearless eyes.

Gus gently closes the chiefs eyes before he cuts brutally 
into the head and rips off the long silver scalp.

He holds it out to Trigwell.

             GUS
        (with a tinge of mockery)
      Your bosses back in Washington 
      ought to like this.

He drops the garish trophy in Trigwells hands, then walks 
away. Trigwell looks at the scalp with awe...

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY

The morning sun is up full but it barely penetrates a dense, 
soupy fog that seems to fill the Cup.

The men spread out and walk amongst twisted bodies, wade 
through thick puddles of blood while stripping the women 
naked and scalping the men.

In the distance Doc tends to Trigwells wounds.

Cooney takes beads from a corpses neck, looks them over, 
pockets them, then unskillfully scalps the man. He 
straightens his back and looks around...

             COONEY
      I aint never seen fog in the 
      desert before.

Gus squats over a brave hes scalping.

             GUS
      This time a year when it gets cool 
      at night, the heat from the Cano 
      rises up and causes it. That's why 
      they call it Devils Cup. Looks 
      like a witchs cauldron. By the 
      time it burns off its almost dark.

             CUDDY
      I kinda like it.

Cuddy rips the shawl off an old woman, exposing her breast. 

             COONEY
      Feels creepy to me.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - DAY - SAME

Burke walks alone taking his first good look at the carnage - 
a still-smoldering destruction straight out of Dantes 
Inferno. 

He comes upon Pratt who is scalping and stripping bodies with 
the emotional disconnect of a butcher field-dressing a 
carcass.

             BURKE
      My oldest boy wants to be a 
      soldier. Maybe if he saw this, hed 
      reconsider.

Pratt tries to strip an OLD WOMANS CORPSE, has trouble, 
pulls his Bowie knife and slashes through her rawhide skirt 
until she rolls over naked.

             PRATT
      I ever had a son - Id rather kill 
      him with my own hands than let him 
      join the army.

             BURKE
      Surprises me to hear you say that, 
      Ebeneezer.

Pratt looks down at the corpse expressionless...

             PRATT
      When I joined up, I hated Indians.
        (beat)
      Now... I just hate everything.

Pratt moves to another body. Burke watches him go...

EXT. SETTLEMENT ELSEWHERE - BARN - DAY (LATER)

Doc walks through an animal pen and slices the throats of 
sheep who wobble about confused until they fall over dead. 
The others clump together away from him... but meet the same 
bleating death.


Cuddy slices cow throats. Their pained and awful mooos dies 
with them in the hay.

             CUDDY
      Shame we got a waste all this food. 

             DOC
      The man said everything must go.

Pratt works in a chicken coop, snapping necks.

             PRATT
      Leave nothing.

             CUDDY
      Still... dont feel right. Wastin 
      foods a crime ya ask me.

At the back, Cooney moves through the ruins of the barn - two 
dead cows, their burnt and swelling carcasses teeming with  
flies. He carries a bundle of blankets he has scavenged. He 
sees another on the floor in a back stall and heads to it. A 
dead calf lies half on it. He tries to pull the rug out from 
under the beast but it wont budge.

Begrudgingly he puts down the blankets and grabs the calf by 
the legs and struggles to move it aside, leaving a wet and 
stinking trail of viscera that make Cooney gag.

He grabs some hay and wipes the entrails off the blanket and 
still finds it worthy to keep. He tries to lift it, but it 
wont come up.

It has been nailed in place. He pulls his knife and cuts the 
corners away... then lifts the blanket to find...

A wooden plank. He lifts it and reveals a three foot square 
hole in the ground - packed with more blankets.

             COONEY
      Sweet Jesus!

Cooney begins happily pulling them out - priceless works of 
Navajo art.

             COONEY 
      Hey fellas!!!

And there are jewels wrapped in the blankets... rubies, 
sapphires, diamonds... gold ceremonial bracelets...

The men come running in -

             CUDDY
      High holy hell!

Cooney looks up at the men. Hes giddy with excitement...

             COONEY
      Lookie what I found!

Doc drops to his knees and holds some of the jewels...

             PRATT
      Goodness!

             DOC
      This here is big, Coonz. 

             COONEY
      Ya know what this heres worth!?

Cooney keeps pulling things wildly from the hole... more 
blankets full of treasures... then a crate. 

It has a lock on it. Drunk with excitement, Cooney pulls his 
revolver and fires, breaking off the lock.

             PRATT
      Jesus Cooney!

             COONEY
      We have to get in it dont we?!

He opens the crate to reveal ten to twenty pounds of gold in 
all forms: jewelry, nuggets, blocks.

Cooneys eyes fill with tears of joy.

             CUDDY
      Dear God!

             COONEY
      Wes rich! WES RICH!

Gus, Burke and Trigwell run in -

             BURKE
      What the hell was that shot?

Cooney jumps up and down screaming like a madman. Doc, Pratt 
and Cuddy can only watch him with dazed smiles. 

             TRIGWELL
      Whats this about, Captain Burke?


Burke can say nothing. Trigwell looks down at it all - a 
fortune spread out on the floor of a blood-doused barn.

             COONEY
      Sir! I found this!

             GUS
      Must be Babazorkas war chest...

Trigwell bends and looks at it closely.

             TRIGWELL
      This is US government property. 

The men look at one another...

             COONEY
      Well sir, its always been the 
      practice of the Dragoons to return 
      almost all of what it finds.

Trigwell gives him a hard look and then bores his eyes into 
each man...

             TRIGWELL
      If I find any of you with even one 
      nugget of this loot I will shoot 
      you for theft of government 
      property.

Trigwell turns to Burke...

             TRIGWELL 
      And I will hold you personally 
      responsible, Captain.

             BURKE
      Sir.

Trigwell walks away.

             BURKE 
      Pack it up. 
        (beat)
      Let the damn government have it. 
      Its blood money.

The men drop to their knees and pack the treasure in 
blankets. 

             COONEY
      Well it spends just as good as 
      other money.

             CUDDY
      Damn right!

             DOC
      To the victors go the spoils, 
      right, Captain?

             BURKE
      Shut your mouths! Bad enough what 
      we done here now you want to be 
      thieves too!
        (beat)
      Pack it up! Now! Lets go!

FADE TO BLACK:

FADE IN:

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY

The fog still hangs low in the camp but is starting to break 
up in scattered patches.

Through a break in the mist we quickly glimpse the distant 
silhouettes of THREE NAVAJOS on the western lip of the ridge.

A cloud of fog passes by... and they are gone.

EXT. BARN - DAY

Cuddy exits the barn to find Burke writing his field report.

             CUDDY
      Sir? Thats all packed up.

             BURKE
      Ill go tell the Major. Prepare the 
      men to leave.

             CUDDY
      Yes, sir.

Burke walks away.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY (MOMENTS LATER)

Trigwell sits on a stump and writes a report in his journal.

             TRIGWELL 
      ...it has become clear without 
      doubt, that Captain Burke is unfit 
      for military command. He has, for 
      reasons unknown to me, lost his 
      ability to make war despite the 
      fact that he performed well during 
      our assault. He has a growing doubt 
      of the military in him that can be 
      fatal when leading men into battle. 
      Immediately upon my return, I will 
      have him removed of his post. 

He closes the journal, tucks it away, pulls the bible from 
his pocket... and something catches his eye: in a mound of 
wet scalps, the silver one belonging to Babazorka.

He goes over to it. He takes a knee and pulls the pelt free 
and holds it in his hand to examine it.

From out of the pearly mist a three foot long arrow hits him 
from behind, rips through his heart and tears out the front 
of his chest.

Another long bow arrow impacts his spinal cord and bursts out 
of his navel tipping him forward and impaling him to the 
ground in a position of prayer - on his knees, head slumped 
forward in each hand a death grip - in his right, the scalp 
of Babazorka - in the other, his bible.

Burke emerges from the mist and sees Trigwell. Confused by 
the Majors attitude, he moves towards him - then realizes -

             BURKE
      Major! Major Trigwell! 

And all hell breaks loose. Arrows pound down from the sky 
indiscriminately. 

             BURKE 
      Trigwells hit! They got Trigwell! 
      It came from the west! Take cover!

Burke runs for cover in a small barn.

INT. BARN - DAY

Lead by Gus, the men come pouring in and take up positions at 
various openings and gaps in the wall boards.

             DOC
        (looking at Trigwell just 
         outside the barn)
      Jesus!

             GUS
      Ya see any?

             BURKE
      Scan those ridges but hold your 
      fire! 

Another barrage of arrows pierce the settlement - the mens 
horses are hit. They rear up in agony and topple over, 
snorting in staggered breaths as they bleed out.

             BURKE 
      The horses!

Machaqua runs out of the back of the barn. Gus dashes out 
after him.

             BURKE 
      COVER THEM!

The men open fire at unseen attackers while the low fog 
swallows their rounds.

EXT. BARN - DAY

Gus and Machaqua grab the last two living horses by the 
reins. They run with them towards the cover of the barn but 
the horse Gus wrangles is hit by multiple arrows - sending 
the animal into a wild bucking bounce that Gus cant control. 

The horse breaks free, runs... and then collapses as Machaqua 
successfully secures his horse behind the structure.

INT. BARN - DAY

Gus and Machaqua rejoin the group, take up their positions.

             GUS
      They got the horses!

             BURKE
      All of them?

             GUS
      One left. 

Having no horses sinks in... 

             BURKE
      We have plenty of cover here, men. 
      We hold this position and fortify 
      it as best we can while we still 
      have this fog covering us.

             COONEY
      Sir, we got Navis on the South 
      slope!

The men look through breaks in the fog... its hard to see...

             CUDDY
      I cant see any!

             COONEY
      Theyre there! I saw em.

             BURKE
      Dont fire unless you have a clear 
      shot! We have to conserve our 
      rounds!

             GUS
      We cant stay here forever.

             BURKE
      I know. 

Burkes agile mind quickly assess the situation...

             BURKE 
      The diversion to Canyon de Chelly 
      was being done in staggered waves 
      with Company A going in last. I 
      want you to send Machaqua to try 
      and connect with Company A. Maybe 
      he can intercept them on their way 
      back. 

Gus thinks... nods.

             BURKE 
      Have him take the horse and go 
      along the Cano to get out of here. 
      With any luck they havent 
      completely surrounded us yet. Go.

Gus crawls away.

             BURKE 
      Anything back there Pratt?

             PRATT
        (alert but never jumpy)
      All good back here.

             GUS
      Trust me gents, they aint coming 
      down here but theyre gonna pester 
      us something awful. 

             BURKE
      Youre certain you didnt leave any 
      ammo with the Howitzer, Coonz?

             COONEY
      Im certain, sir!

             BURKE
      Lets hope they dont got any of 
      their own.

Gus walks with Machaqua to the back door. The men pat the 
Indians back and nod to him - all but Doc.

             GUS
        (in Zuni)
      [If my life be in one mans hands 
      let it be you.]

             ZUNI
      [I will be back for you.]

Gus nods to him. 

Machaqua leaves. The men anxiously watch as he jumps on his 
mount and rides quickly along the bank of the river... and 
out of sight.

Doc takes a long pull from one of his many hidden flasks...

             DOC
        (under his breath to Gus)
      A god damn Indian saving us from 
      the Indians. 

             GUS
        (unwavering belief)
      Hell make it through.

             DOC
      He best. Cause if he dont, we 
      gonna be in for a world a hurt.

That hangs in the air - each mans eyes scanning for threat. 
To break the mood -

             COONEY
      Aint this a shit?

             CUDDY
      Whats that?

             CUDDY 
      Bunch a cavalry men waitin to be 
      saved by the cavalry.

The men allow for a quiet gallows snicker. 

Burke assesses them - hes satisfied with their spirit. He 
heads over to Gus, hands him a stick of jerky, sits down 
beside him, rifle at the ready...

             BURKE
      Well... we sure been in some shit 
      together, aint we?

Gus nods. Chews a few beats...

             GUS
      Yeah... but... we been in worse 
      than this.

Burke nods, chews, thinks...

             BURKE
      Truly?

Gus chews... Burke looks out at the dead horses, Trigwells 
body, the raw carnage everywhere... 

             GUS
      Well... maybe not.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - NIGHT

A clear, black, moonless night. No more fog to give them 
cover.

On the Southern lip - campfires.

INT. BARN - NIGHT

The men are watching the ridge.

             BURKE
      I count at least ten.


             CUDDY
      We got another fire on the west 
      slope! 

             COONEY
      Where they coming from?

             GUS
      Once we started blowin up the Cup 
      we got the attention of all the 
      nearby bands. Could be lots a them 
      out there waitin for us to leave.

             DOC
      And you sure they aint gonna make 
      a run at us, Gus?

             GUS
      Im certain, Bart. Seeing they own 
      people dead spooks em. All these 
      Navi corpses around us is more 
      protection than a god damn army. 
      Trust me. 

Burke eyes a wolf meandering through the settlement.

             BURKE
      First the wolves. Then the 
      vultures...

             GUS
      Neither one of ems goin hungry 
      around here.

The men nod in clumps of agreement, peer through the slats at 
Trigwell, impaled, rigor mortis-rigid.

             CUDDY
      Think we should bury him?

             BURKE
      You volunteering, Cuddy?

The men watch as a pack of wolves now jaunt through the 
village. 

             CUDDY
      Might be nothin left of him by 
      morning.

After a long pause... a calm and emotionless voice from the 
back says...

             PRATT
      So be it.

The men look at one another and say no more about it.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - NIGHT (SAME)

Wolves slink through the camp guardedly - sniffing - their 
snouts rich with the scent of meat and blood. They begin to 
yelp and prance in a panic of excitement and start licking, 
biting, tearing apart the bloody flesh of dead Navajos. 

On the ridge above the lip there are now close to twenty 
fires spanning halfway around the Cup.

FADE TO BLACK:

FADE IN:

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAWN

Jutting through a low and leaden fog are the impaled, half 
eaten remains of Trigwell lurching from the ground like some 
half-risen zombie. His legs and arms have been partially 
eaten by the wolves and now a turkey vulture balances on the 
corpses shoulder and pecks at the soft skin under the 
Majors jaw.

INT. BARN - MORNING

The men finish eating from canned rations and wash it down 
with coffee cooked on a small fire just behind the barn.

Burke nurses a coffee near his window and looks out at whats 
left of Trigwell.

Gus nods.

             BURKE
      Bible in one hand. A scalp in the 
      other. The old bastard died like he 
      lived didnt he?

             BURKE 
      Cuddy. Coonzy. Doc. Dig a grave out 
      back. Time we bury the Major.

They nod and head out. Its just Gus, Burke and Pratt who are 
on point at the back of the barn. 

             BURKE 
      With any luck Machaqua could meet 
      up with Company A late today.

Guss mind seems to be turning with something. 

             BURKE 
      That puts em here tomorrow 
      afternoon or evening. Whats with 
      you?

             GUS
      Thinkin.


             BURKE
      What on?


Gus slides over even closer to Burke and the men talk in 
conspiratorial whispers:

             GUS
      Men are wonderin what youre gonna 
      do with that gold now that the 
      Major is dead.

             BURKE
      The men? Or you?

             GUS
      Well... Im sure theyre thinking 
      about it too.

             BURKE
      I may have been ashamed to serve in 
      the same army as Trigwell but he 
      was right about turning that over. 
      That aint ours to have Augustus - 
      you know that. 

             GUS
      Well it aint the governments 
      neither! 

             BURKE
      Its got blood all over it! 

             GUS
      Damn right it do! Our blood! And 
      you want to hand it over to men 
      that gave the orders for blood? 
      What the hell they need it for 
      anyway? 
        (beat)

             GUS 
      This here is enough to change all 
      our lives. 

             BURKE
      Gus its as wrong as wrong is. A 
      Id rather just leave it here where 
      it came from.

             GUS
      Leave it here?! You out yer mind? 
      You best think good and hard on 
      that. Cuz the minute these boys saw 
      Trigwell dead... well menll do 
      crazy things for that much money.

Burke studies Gus for a beat. Hes about to say something 
when Cuddy comes in excited...

             CUDDY
      Sir! You better come see this.

             BURKE 
        (to Pratt)
      Keep guard.

Burke heads out back.

EXT. BEHIND THE BARN AREA - DAY

Cooney points up the western slope. Coming down it, through 
swells of passing fog, is a petite, child-like NAVAJO WOMAN 
(20), naked and bleeding from an arrow through her thigh.

Somehow she continues to stagger, lost in a trance of agony 
and blood loss.

Through breaks in the mist, TWO NAVAJOS that seemed to have 
chased her, can be seen high up on the slope.

The fog thickens, then recedes, and they are gone.

The woman keeps coming, plunging forward, her small brown 
body clammy with sweat and blood.

             CUDDY
      Was them Navis chasing her?

             COONEY
      I dont know. Why would they be 
      doin that?

             CUDDY
      Looks like they shot her...

             GUS
      They may have been trying to rescue 
      her. She may have been hit with 
      cross fire in the raid and was 
      hiding. Tried to get out.

             DOC
      Then whys she coming down the 
      hill? I dont like it. Lets just 
      drop her, sir. We dont need this.

Doc raises his rifle.

             BURKE
      Put that rifle down!

             DOC
      Lets put her out her misery...

             BURKE
      Shes a helpless woman!

             DOC
      So what?

             BURKE
      Aint you killed enough today, Doc?

             DOC
      Enough aint never enough comes to 
      these animals!

Burke looks at him with disgust.

             BURKE
        (with menacing calm)
      I aint gonna tell ya again, Doc.

Doc gives him a look and lowers his weapon.

             GUS
      She can be valuable to us. I say 
      bring her in. Ive used wives to 
      barter outta some pretty messy 
      jams. We may need her.

             COONEY
      I think Gus is right.

             CUDDY
      Me too.

Doc is less than thrilled but cant argue the point.


             DOC
      Feels like a trap to me...

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY

The woman is now staggering through the camp drifting 
barefoot through splashes of human blood.

Burke nods for Gus to come with him.

             BURKE
      Cover us... in case Docs right.

They move out. The men raise their weapons to cover them. 

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY

Burke and Gus cautiously slide from structure to structure as 
they advance toward her.

Shes so overcome with injury that she doesnt react when 
Burke reaches out and lifts her from her feet and takes off 
running back to the barn while Gus covers him from behind.

INT. BARN - DAY

Burke carries her in.

             BURKE
      Bunch some hay to lay her on.

Cooney does so. Burke gently put her down. 

He looks at her a long beat - shes still bleeding and 
sweating profusely. The wound looks bad but the arrow seems 
to have gone straight through. 

Shes beautiful, with large brown eyes that seem a thousand 
years old....

Burke takes off his short shell jacket and puts it around her 
to cover her nakedness. 

The men gather around and take a look. Doc goes to the window 
to keep watch. Pratt gives a quick look and joins Doc.

Cuddy stares at her with eyes impossible to read.

             BURKE 
      Tell her shes safe and we wont 
      hurt her.

             GUS
        (in Navajo)
      [Youre safe now. Well help you.]

The young woman says nothing - just stares back at him. The 
fever making her delirious.

             GUS 
      [Can you hear me?]

She doesnt respond.

             GUS 
      She isnt Navajo. 
        (in Apache)
      [Are you Apache?]

No response. 

             GUS 
      I dont think shes that either.

             BURKE
      Really? What is she? A slave of the 
      Navajo?

             CUDDY
      Could be why they shot her.

             GUS
      I cant tell if she can hear me. 
      Fever may be making her faint.
        (beat)
      We gotta get this arrow out.

Burke nods.

             BURKE
      Doc!

Doc clenches his jaw, pretends not to hear his superior. 

Doc heads over.

             BURKE 
      Doc!


             BURKE 
      Lets get that arrow out.

Doc just stares at him.

             BURKE 
      Now, Doc.

             DOC
      How long have we known each other? 
      You really gonna make me do this? 
      You know what my familys been 
      through on account of these 
      Indians...

             BURKE
      Yes I do. And I am ordering you to 
      take care of this young lady.

             DOC
      Or what? You gonna shoot me like 
      that old bastard Trigwell was gonna 
      do you?

Burke just stares at him. 

             DOC 
      Yall goin crazy? We come here to 
      kill and git! Every second we stay 
      here is another second closer to us 
      getting eaten alive by these 
      savages! We should grab them spoils 
      and get the hell out of here while 
      we still can. Theres enough there 
      to make us all rich. Get out of 
      this god forsaken army! Live like 
      gentlemen. We just waitin to die 
      here. That damn Zuni probably took 
      off and is gonna come back for that 
      gold after wes dead. Now you want 
      me to start helping this little red 
      nigger!

Burke gets in his face...

             BURKE
      You dont follow my orders Ill 
      make sure your prosecuted and put 
      in jail till you rot, you drunken 
      piece a shit.

Doc holds his gaze a beat, knows Burke means it...

             DOC
        (under his breath)
      I dont know who you are anymore...

Doc fetches his bag of supplies, then approaches the woman. 

He squats down and looks her over. Puts his ear to her chest, 
listens in a few spots.

             DOC 
      Shes in shock. Heart sounds OK.

He examines the wound...

             DOC 
      Its gone right through. Missed the 
      artery. That fever shes running 
      may be infection. They like to 
      paint the tips with snake venom. 
      Tell ya now, if this heres been in 
      her more than half an hour shell 
      die. Nothing we can do about it. 

             BURKE
      Get it out of her.

Doc rummages through his instruments - forceps, stomach pump, 
syringes, heating iron, bandages, and splints.  

He pulls out a small silver saw with an elaborate ivory 
handle and gives it to Gus to hold.

He takes two small mason jars out and a small mortar and 
pestle. He pulls some mustard seed from one jar, some 
peppermint from the other and dumps them in the pestle. He 
takes his canteen and adds a bit of water and uses the pestle 
to make a thick, greenish paste.

He sets it aside and takes the saw from Gus.

             DOC
      Hold her still.

Burke holds the womans shoulders. Cuddy places his huge 
hands on her small ankles. 

Gus hovers to translate.

             BURKE
      Coonz, go keep watch with Pratt.

             COONEY
      Yes, sir.

Cooney heads over to the window.

             DOC
      Ill cut the head off then pull the 
      stake through.

Burke nods. Doc uses the saw to work through the wood until 
the arrow head falls off.

             DOC 
      Dont touch that. 

Burke nods.

             DOC 
      This here is gonna hurt. Hold her 
      down. 

Burke holds her in place.

             GUS
      [We are going to help you and take 
      out the arrow. This will hurt but 
      it will be over very quickly.]

The woman looks back at him blankly. He has no idea if she 
can understand him.

Gus nods at Doc. 

Doc grabs hold of the shaft and starts pulling it out. It 
makes a grotesque sucking and popping sound as oily, black 
blood percolates up out of the hole.

She begins to moan in agony but her ability to take the pain 
surprises all the men. 

Doc continues to slowly pull it out, stops a beat, continues. 
He may be getting some sadistic joy from making the pain last 
in her.

Tears flow from the womans eyes but she does not scream out.

             BURKE
      Damn it Doc, pull it out!

Doc doesnt look at Burke and keeps sadistically pulling it 
out slow.

             GUS
        (to the woman)
      [Almost done....] 
      Cmon Doc, get it out!

A few more slow pulls and its out. Doc drops it to the 
floor. He reaches up for the bandages which Gus drops in his 
blood drenched hand. He staunches the bleeding with them.

She moans out... Cuddy eyes her as she arches her back, her 
ribs and taut stomach showing, her breasts barely covered by 
Burkes jacket.


Once the bleeding is somewhat stopped, Doc applies the paste 
he made to the wound - this too sets the woman writhing. 

             CUDDY
      Shit... I give er this... shes 
      tough. I seen soldiers cry for 
      their mommies gettin arrows 
      yanked.

             GUS
      Agreed.

             DOC
      Cuddy get some water.

             CUDDY
      Sure thing, Doc.

Cuddy lets go of the woman and heads outside.

Doc expertly bandages the wound. He pulls a bottle of whiskey 
and a pillbox from his bag.

             DOC
      Ill give her this here calomel for 
      the infection and quinine for the 
      fever. After that they aint much 
      we can do but give her whiskey and 
      change the bandages so she dont 
      rot. But like I said, she may 
      already be dyin of venom.

Doc gives her the calomel tablets and forces the whiskey down 
her throat. She gags and coughs.

             DOC 
      Them and that whiskeyll make her 
      sleep.

Doc sits there with her blood all over his hands looking at 
her.

             BURKE
      Wash up, Doc.

Doc nods, gets to his feet. With a look, Burke lets Doc know 
hes grateful and that Doc has done the right thing. Doc 
looks away and heads outside.

             BURKE 
      Lets move her over in that corner 
      and hang some blankets around her 
      to give her privacy.

Gus nods...

             GUS
      Strange how she aint spoke.

They look at her.

Burke bends to grab a blanket and a massive flaming arrow 
bursts through the roof above his head. Four more pour down 
right after that.

             PRATT
      Two on the South slope!

Pratt aims... fires...

EXT. SETTLEMENT - SOUTH SLOPE - DAY

A quick break in the fog reveals the TWO NAVAJOS who just 
shot the arrows scampering back up the hill to get to the 
ridge. They both drop as Pratts bullets chew through their 
backs.

The mist moves in and covers them.

INT. BARN - DAY

Cooney and Pratt return more fire. The barn has become an 
inferno.

             BURKE
      Pull back! 

Pratt and Cooney race out back.

Burke grabs the frail woman as the roof above her starts to 
collapse. Gus runs over to help him and together they get her 
outside.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY

As the men head to a grove of willows for cover, another 
flock of flaming arrows slice through the fog and hit another 
barn lighting it like tinder.

The men settle under the willows, find cover behind some 
rocks and a small berm, and watch as a few more arrows rain 
down randomly but fall short of them. They appear safe where 
they are.

             BURKE
      Lets start building a trench. I 
      want it four feet deep in a semi 
      circle. Well hang the blankets to 
      stop any arrows. 

             COONEY
      That was good shootin there, 
      Pratt.

             PRATT
      Sons a bitches gonna make it real 
      pest-like just how you said, Gus.

             GUS
      Yep. 

The men start softening up the earth by clawing into it with 
their sabers, hands and small pick axes they carry.

Cuddy looks over at the maiden laying beneath the willow... 
his mind racing... then he lifts his axe and drives it into 
the soft earth.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. SETTLEMENT - WILLOW GROVE - DAY (LATER)

The fog over the camp has thinned out.

The men are deep into the digging of the trench and have set 
up a system of fencing made with branches from which hang 
Navajo blankets to ward off the arrows.

The Navajo woman, half drugged to sleep, lies on blankets 
beneath a willow tree.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. SETTLEMENT - WILLOW GROVE - DAY (LATER)

Late afternoon. The fog has burned off.

Cooney and Cuddys work on the trench is almost complete. 

Gus and Burke have constructed a small tent made of scavenged 
canvas and set it up under the cover of two willows, walled 
by blankets.

Pratt and Doc keep watch.


EXT. SETTLEMENT - WILLOW GROVE - NIGHT

Doc, Cuddy, Cooney and Pratt man the trench. Doc pours 
whiskey in his coffee.

             DOC
      I got half a mind to grab my share 
      a that gold and make a run for it 
      on my own.

             COONEY
      Where you gonna get on foot?

             DOC
      Outta here! Take my chance out 
      there rather die in this here hole.

             CUDDY
      Dont start with that talk! Company 
      A will be here. Tomorrow night this 
      time well be headin home.

             DOC
      And what if they dont show up? 
      What you gonna do then?

             CUDDY
      No need thinking up bad on it now.

             DOC
      Might be too late then. I aint 
      certain these Navis aint gonna 
      charge down here in hundreds and 
      kill us dead. What the hell does 
      Gus know anyway? I dont trust him 
      a shit anymore!

             PRATT
      You better shut that mouth a yours, 
      Doc.

This stuns the group. Doc is taken aback.

             PRATT 
      What happened to you? You was good 
      once, now you heckin all the time 
      like an old lady. That drink is 
      taking yer balls from you. You 
      wanna go? Take yer gold and git! 
      Good luck to ya.

             DOC
      Aint my fault you dumb as a shit 
      and cant see we doomed...

Before he can finish the thought Pratt is on his feet, the 
barrel of his revolver pressed against Docs forehead. The 
men shout out but dont move.

             PRATT
      You dont know me by now, Doc? 
      After all we been through? You 
      think you can talk to me like that 
      without me blowin a hole through 
      yer head? 

Doc is terrified - he knows Pratt is nuts...

             PRATT 
      I dont give two shits. Ill kill 
      you quick as anything else.

             DOC
      Jesus Pratt Im sorry! Take that 
      thing off me!

             CUDDY
      Cmon Pratt. Thats Doc we talkin 
      about here. Cmon put that away.

             COONEY
      Calm down, Pratt. Its OK. Its 
      OK...

Doc looks into Pratts dead eyes... his fear grows...

             DOC
      Please Pratt... Im sorry.

A long beat and then Pratt holsters his weapon, turns and 
goes back to his post.

Doc is shaken; but his fear is quickly displaced by pure 
hatred.

The men dont know what to say. They sit there in awkward 
silence...

INT. WOMANS TENT - NIGHT - SAME

Burke and Gus look down at the woman. Shes sweating 
profusely. Burke puts a cool rag on her head and she opens 
her eyes - looks at him uncertainly...

             BURKE
      Gus...

Gus bends down and looks at her...

             GUS
      What the hell is that?

             BURKE
      I dont know.

Burke turns her head softly to look at her more closely - in 
particular at her left eye which is now blood red.

             BURKE 
      Maybe there was venom on the arrow 
      point.

             GUS
      If there was, well know soon. She 
      wont make it the night.

The woman starts to shiver with fever. Burke grabs two more 
blankets and covers her up.

             BURKE
      How old are your girls now?

Gus is caught off guard by the question...

             GUS
      Eight.

             BURKE
      See em much?

Gus doesnt want to talk about this...

             GUS
      No.

        (beat)
      They went to live on a reservation 
      with my sister-in-law when Singing 
      Wind died.

Burke turns to Gus...

             BURKE
      I didnt know she died. Im sorry.

Gus nods. We can see hes not over it.

             GUS
      The screaming woke me up. Most 
      awful screams I ever heard. I was 
      breaking in a new mule in on the 
      grazing field and was takin a nap. 
      I come running back to the house 
      and found her there by the fire. 

             GUS 
      On her back. The first one had 
      already come out and was lyin on 
      the ground crying. We call her 
      Dorothea. Singing Wind was having a 
      hard time with the second one... 
      Calle. She finally come but I 
      couldnt stop the bleeding. More 
      blood than I thought a tiny woman 
      like her could ever have.
        (beat)
      Wasnt nothin I could do. Tried... 
      just nothin.
        (beat)
      She used to sit under this pepper 
      tree and sing her songs... the most 
      beautiful voice... I buried her 
      under it.
        (beat)
      I give the girls to her sister to 
      raise. I wouldnt know a shit how 
      to raise up to baby girls. 

Burke nods turns back to the woman. Shes starting to sleep.

             BURKE
      Maybe youre right.

             GUS
      About?

             BURKE
      The gold. Maybe it can do some 
      good.

             GUS
      Might be enough there to wash even 
      this clean.

Burke just looks at his old friend... Not likely...

EXT. SETTLEMENT - NIGHT

Fires rage in an almost continuous circle around the rim of 
the Cup.

The wolves have come out again and are picking at the bodies.

EXT. TRENCH - NIGHT

Pratt watches the ridge. Cooney takes a sip of whiskey and 
passes it over to Pratt who declines. 

EXT. BEHIND THE TRENCH - NIGHT

Cuddy pisses near the willows and cranes his neck to try and 
see the woman but cant from where he is.

He finishes up, thinks and then goes to her make-shift tent.

He pulls two blankets aside with his fingers and peeks in - 
sees the maiden lit by the orange flush of the fire.

Her fever is high. Sweat beads on her dark skin as she 
writhes and moans in delirium. Burkes jacket slides off her 
shoulder exposing the stiff mound of juvenile breast and 
dark, hard nipple.

Her thin arms are raised over her head, clawing at the 
nothing around her - her thighs opening and closing as she 
undulates wet and serpentine.

Cuddy watches her - desire and shame filling his face - then  
wills himself away and walks off into the dark - his mind 
churning with her almost woman body. He begins rubbing at his 
crotch... 

INT. TENT - NIGHT

Cuddy approaches the young woman cautiously - as if 
hypnotized by her fever glistening form and her blood red 
eye. He steps forward slowly, in his outstretched hand, a 
canteen.

In a fit of twists and sighs she notices him and fixes her 
dark eyes on his - her mouth hangs open - she reaches towards 
him for the water.

Cuddy brings it to her, unscrews it and pours it in her 
mouth. She pulls the canteen away from him and ingests the 
water in desperate gulps. Her body convulses as it freezes 
with fever.

When the water is finished she drops the canteen to the 
ground and lies there very still - never taking her eyes off 
of Cuddy.

She starts to calm down. Her look softens and then she turns 
on her side to sleep exposing the naked curves of her ass and 
thighs.

Cuddy bites at his lip as he looks her over. He notices 
something - on the small of her back is a fresh brand burnt 
into her flesh - a circle with a line through it diagonally 
while another line runs through it vertically and forks into 
an inverted Y shaped prong at the bottom.

Cuddy sits on the bed of hay beside her to look at it closer. 
He touches it lightly with his finger and when he does she 
looks over her shoulder at him with glassy eyes.

He stares back and gets the subtlest traces of a smile on her 
lips - then she turns away from him and lays her head on her 
arm.

He thinks a few agonizing beats... then... rolls over and 
spoons the woman. She doesnt resist.

He slips his large calloused hands between the soft wet 
warmth of her thighs and gets no reaction from her.

His fingers find her center and enter her. The woman lets out 
a sigh. Cuddy begins to massage her genitals. Her legs part 
ever so slightly... is it permission?

Cuddy begins to snort with short breaths as he works at her 
more vigorously. He pulls his hand out and inspects it in the 
light.

             CUDDY
      You a virgin...

He quickly unbuckles his pants and pulls them down. He turns 
her roughly on her back and looks at her... again he senses 
the faintest grin... lost in his lust and abandon he forces 
himself into her.

She makes no sound but arches her back and Cuddy pounds away 
at her - air hissing out between his clenched teeth as he 
pins her shoulders down hard and thrusts into her.

She begins to tremble... slowly at first and then with more 
violence. Her mouth starts to foam. Cuddy notices and doesnt 
know what to make of it so he clamps his massive hand over 
it.

The woman stares into him as she convulses wildly. Cuddy 
shuts his eyes and grunts his sex into her tight body.

When he opens his eyes he is stunned to see blood tearing 
down from her blood red eyes and sluicing from her nose and 
ears.

He stops - pulls his hands off her shoulders - she bolts 
halfway up and vomits clabbered blood in his face.

Cuddy is blinded for a moment and stunned -  as the woman 
starts screaming hysterically. She lurches forward and bites 
viciously into his forearm. He screams. She wont let go!

Without thinking, blood still in his eyes Cuddy begins to 
punch down at her - bashing into her shrieking head but his 
fists cant silence her. 

He tries to clear the blood from his eyes - and she bites him 
again.

Cuddy grabs her forehead and jaw and snaps them in opposite 
directions cracking her neck quiet.

Cuddy heaves for breaths while he spits clumps of her dark 
blood out of his mouth and rubs it free from his eyes.

Burke and Gus run in - they see her dead and both of them 
covered in blood.

             GUS
      God dammit Cuddy!

             BURKE
      What the hell are you doin in 
      here!? What did you do to her?

Cuddy stumbles to his feet and tries to pick up his pants. 
Her blood still making it hard for him to see - his arm 
bleeding...

             CUDDY
      She wanted me to and then she 
      attacked me...

             BURKE
      I oughtta have you shot! Ive 
      turned my back on your lechery in 
      the past but this is...!

Cuddy is in utter panic...

             CUDDY
      CAPTAIN, I SWEAR THIS WASNT LIKE 
      WHAT I DONE! 

Burke pulls his weapon and slaps Cuddy in the head with the 
butt. Cuddy falls to his knees...

             CUDDY 
      SHE WANTED ME TO DO IT! I SWEAR TO 
      YOU! SHE WANTED ME TO! MY HAND TO 
      GOD!

Gus looks over the woman... can see shes dead.

             GUS
      You killed her, Cud.

Cuddy falls to all fours confused and crying...

             CUDDY
      This was different. I swear it was! 
      She wanted it... she really did. 
      She was trapping me to attack. 

Cuddy punches the ground, sobbing and frustrated...

             CUDDY 
      SHE WAS OUT TO KILL ME! I SEEN HER 
      EYES! SHE KNEW WHAT SHE WAS DOING! 
      SHE KNEW!!!!!! SHE WAS LIKE A 
      DEMON. I SAW IT IN HER FACE!

Burke looks at him with disgust and turns to Gus:

             BURKE
      Get Doc. Have him bring soothing 
      syrup.

Gus nods and leaves.

Cuddy looks up at Burke with a crazed look.

             CUDDY
      You got to believe me, Cap.... This 
      wasnt like what I done before. I 
      know Im bad. Bad all the way in. 
      But this time... I was just 
      watching her and she made her 
      clothes off and smiled at me. Right 
      at my eyes. She wanted me to be in 
      her. She was a virgin.

Cuddy holds up his blood stained fingers. Burke is repulsed 
by Cuddy and cant even look at him.

             CUDDY 
      She wanted me to do it!

             BURKE
      Cuddy! Shut your mouth!

The man gets to his knees and tries to make sense of what has 
happened.

Doc enters, assess the body of the Navajo - no loss to him - 
and walks right past Burke to get to Cuddy.

             CUDDY
      Doc I swear to you it aint how it 
      looks...


Doc kneels down beside him and puts a comforting hand on him.

             CUDDY 
      She wanted it first.. and then she 
      got possessed like some demon and 
      attacked me. Bit right through my 
      arm. I was defending myself... ya 
      know...?

Doc removes a bottle of soothing syrup from his pocket and 
pours a large dose of it in a tin cup, offers it to Cuddy.

             DOC
      I know it aint your fault, 
      Cuthbert. I know it. I know how 
      these little Indian whores can be. 
      The power they can hold over a man. 
      I believe you, Cuthbert.

Cuddy is relieved to hear someone take his side.

             DOC 
      I need you to rest up now. So take 
      this here soothing syrup. This got 
      enough morphine and opium powder to 
      put you down. You get yer rest and 
      Ill take care of this here arm for 
      you. OK?

Cuddy nods. Doc hands him the cup and he drinks from it until 
its done.

             DOC 
        (over his shoulder)
      Get me some clean blankets, a 
      bucket of fresh water and some 
      cloth, please.

Burke and Gus leave.

The drugs go to work fast on the exhausted Cuddy. His eyes 
turn glassy and he moves over to another bundle of loose hay 
and lies down.

Doc helps him get comfortable.

             DOC 
      You lay down there and be 
      comfortable. Ill clean you all up. 
      Youre OK, Cud. 

Cuddy looks up as he starts to lose consciousness...

             CUDDY
      Thank you, Doc. Thanks for 
      believing me. Thats the whole 
      truth Im speaking at ya.

Doc nods and Cuddy drifts off.

             DOC
      I know it is, Cuthbert. You get 
      some sleep. Everythings fine.

Doc moves into the light and we notice for the first time 
that he is sweating heavily. When the light illuminates his 
face partially it reveals that his left eye is blood red.

             DOC 
      Everythings alright.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAWN

Morning. The camp is already thick with fog which muffles all 
sounds to near silence except for one crows desperate 
squawks.

Burke crawls over to where Gus is, settles down beside him. 
Burke checks his pocket watch.

             BURKE
      If Company A is coming... they 
      oughtta be here in about six hours.

             GUS
      Machaqua wont let is down.

             BURKE
      Im making a fall back plan just in 
      case.

Burke and Gus exchange a glance. Gus needs to believe in his 
scout, and Burke understands that. Yet, Gus nods:

             GUS
      I suppose such a plan cant hurt.

They look out over the destruction and rotting corpses.

             GUS 
      We aint gettin far without 
      horses.

             BURKE
      Agreed. But we cant stay here 
      either. Were already low on ammo. 

             BURKE
      If Machaqua didnt make it out of 
      the Cup alive... if he didnt 
      connect with Company A... it could 
      be a few more days before anyone 
      comes looking for us. Thats if 
      they ever do. They may think we 
      failed and died stirring up a 
      hornets nest. May be best for them 
      to let the Navajo calm down before 
      they send more US troops to look 
      for us.
        (beat)
      Now... theres a depression - looks 
      like a cave - on the north slope...

             GUS
      I seen it.

             BURKE
      We could take cover there - sit it 
      out and hope. But for how long?

Gus shakes his head.

             BURKE 
      Right. I say we make a run for the 
      Howitzer. Use it to blast our way 
      out of the cup and make it over the 
      ridge and down to the flats. We 
      take our chances there. Hell we may 
      even be able to connect with 
      Company A ourselves. It aint 
      perfect but its something.

Gus kicks the idea around in his mind...

             PRATT
      Captain!

Burke crawls toward Pratt - passes Cuddy, still in his 
soothing syrup-induced coma, out cold, covered in sweat and 
blankets in the trench. Pratt nods toward Doc, who shakes 
violently in a semi sleep, moaning, sweating and mumbling in 
his sleep.

             PRATT 
      I cant wake him.

             BURKE
      Whats he sayin?

             PRATT
      Nonsense. Sounds like hes talking 
      in tongues.

Burke gets down close to Doc and looks him over... puts a 
hand on his chest...

             BURKE
      My god! Hes on fire! Coonz give me 
      a few more blankets and get some 
      cold rags from the river!

Cooney hustles over with the blankets and hands them to Burke 
and Pratt.

             COONEY
      He dont look good does he?

Burke puts the blanket on him...

             BURKE
      No he dont... 

             PRATT
      Ya think he caught something from 
      that squaw? She had a fever like 
      this.

             BURKE
      Could be. But maybe Doc was right 
      and there was some kind of poison 
      on the arrow tip and he got some on 
      him too.. 

Cooney looks down at Doc with concern, makes the sign of the 
cross for him... 

             COONEY
      Its the damndest thing. Ill get 
      those rags.

... and a bullet explodes out of Cooneys throat - blood 
splatters Burkes face like a spiders crewelwork.

Cooney stiffens, dead on his feet and gets hit with three 
more shots in lightning quick succession before he can even 
fall.

Gus fires through breaks in the fog at figures halfway up the 
mountain in retreat.

Pratt stands and fires off five shots in anger. Burke grabs 
him and pulls him into the trench.

             BURKE
     		 Stay down! 


Burke drags Cooneys dead body off of Doc - wipes Cooneys 
blood from his face and reloads.

             GUS
      Is Coonz dead?

             BURKE
      Yeah!

The earth around them erupts! Geysers of dirt and flung 
corpses rocket-thrust high into the air then drop back down 
through the fog.

Its a mortar attack!

             PRATT
      They got the Howitzer! 

             GUS
      We gotta get out of here! 

Another explosion just behind them sends debris and stones 
everywhere, pelting the men who crouch low and cover.

In the middle of the mayhem Doc, crazed with fever, crawls 
out of the trench. His eyes are blood red. He screams in 
agony while holding his stomach and head.

He stands in the open - the world bursting apart around him.

             BURKE
      Doc! Get down! Get down!

Doc turns and looks at Burke - his monstrous appearance sends 
a chill through the men - and then he stumbles off into the 
fog - and is gone.

             BURKE 
        (to Gus)
      We gotta get back to that cave! The 
      North slope! Now!

             GUS
      You take Cuddy. Ill be there.

Gus takes off after Doc. Burke motions for Pratt -

Another mortar impacts near them knocking them off their 
feet. When the dust settles, they grab a half-awake Cuddy, 
who is just beginning to emerge from his drugged state, and 
get him to his knees.

He moans out in discomfort as the men struggle to drag the 
big man safely along the trench.

             BURKE
      Its OK, Cud. Youre OK!

             PRATT
      Try to move yer feet, Cud!

             CUDDY
      I dont feel right!

             PRATT
      Yer gonna be alright soon as the 
      syrup wears off! Come on! Try to 
      walk a little!

Cuddy tries...

             BURKE
      Thats it! Good Cuddy! Good!

Another mortar explodes - showering dirt and bones down. The 
men push on until they reach the end of the trench. Burke 
looks out over the large patch of earth they must traverse to 
make it to the caves.

             BURKE 
      Its all in the open but we have 
      the fog as cover. You see where 
      were heading?

Pratt nods...

             PRATT
      Beats dying in a trench! Lets go!

Burke yells into Cuddys ear...

             BURKE
      Try to run Cud!

             CUDDY
      Im sick...

             BURKE
      Well be safe soon and you can 
      sleep again! Alright? 
        (to Pratt)
      We stay low until the next round, 
      then we run while they reload!

             PRATT
      Unless the next one lands on us!

The next one lands fifty feet from them in the trench where 
they just were.

             BURKE
      Git!

The men stumble up and out of the trench with Cuddy 
struggling to keep up. They run across the open field, 
vanishing in and out of fog banks.

Their hearts pounding - Cooney vomits as he stumbles along - 
but they keep going.

Forty yards behind them a mortar hits - its blast almost 
shoving them off their feet as its force pushes them forward.

They are almost at the foot of the north slope when another 
mortar slams into the earth knocking them down.

They begin to crawl forward.

             BURKE 
      Keep going! Were almost there! 
      Keep pushing Cud! Dont you quit on 
      me!

Pratt and Burke reach the foot of the hill but Cuddy is a 
good ways behind them. Without a word they run back for him, 
grab him by the arms and drag him along the hard earth.

Another explosion drops them. Cuddy screams! Hes been hit 
with shrapnel in his thigh. He wails in agony as they drag 
him to the slope and up to a small cave 20 feet up the 
mountain.

They pull Cuddy inside and away from the mouth of the cave.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - ELSEWHERE - DAY (SAME)

The bombardment has stopped. Gus crouches from rock to rock 
looking for Doc.

             GUS
      Doc!

Nothing...

             GUS 
      Doc! Come on! We gotta get out of 
      here!

He hears something banging around in the barn where they 
found the gold. 

Gus scampers over to the barn. He looks through some slats 
and sees Doc on all fours inside.


Gus moves around to the side to enter. And a bullet smashes 
the wood right near his head. He drops to his stomach. Two 
more bullets chase him inside and just miss.

INT. BARN - DAY

Gus finds Doc in the back of the barn.

             GUS
      Doc! We gotta get out here! They 
      saw me come in! Theyre gonna 
      mortar us!

Gus runs over to Doc who is vomiting dark, syrupy blood onto 
the sacks they had bundled with all the gold and jewels. He 
trembles as his body violently purges itself.

             DOC
        (a hoarse, demonic growl)
      That red nigger done this! She gave 
      Cuddy this. He gave me it. There 
      was something in her blood... she 
      has some pox... thats why she was 
      branded... they sent her down here 
      to do this to us. It must be 
      contagious... we all got the pox 
      now!

He vomits again. Turns and looks over his shoulder - blood is 
trickling from his tear ducts, nostrils and ears...

             DOC 
      I told him to go! We could have 
      been rich! I told him to kill her! 
      Burke done this to us!

A horrible spasm takes hold of Doc and he screams in agony 
and collapses. 

Gus looks at him in horror...

             DOC 
      Kill me, Gus! Dont let me die like 
      a dog! KILL ME!

Doc writhes in agony, coughing up chunks of clotted blood... 
Gus watches him suffer...

             DOC 
      You bastard! Youd let me suffer! 
      Youd put a sick horse down before 
      youd end my suffering! You always 
      had it in for me!

He writhes in more agony... 

             DOC 
      You showed that Navi whore more 
      mercy than me! Your own breed! You 
      aint worth a shit you red-nigger 
      screwing son of a bitch! 

Doc pulls a gun out from under him and lifts it at Gus.

Out of pure reflex Gus fires - bursting a hole right through 
the bridge of Docs nose. 

Doc falls backwards, dead. 

Gus watches him bleed out a beat then slumps to his knees 
beside Docs body. 

INT. CAVE - DAY

Dark, moist, cramped - Cuddy is moaning out in agony.

Burke pins Cuddys shoulders down and Pratt grabs his leg to 
examine the shrapnel wound - lights a match, holds it near 
Cuddys leg to see.

Its grim. A thick shark-like bite of flesh is missing on the 
back side of Cuddys upper thigh. Hes bleeding badly.

Pratt gives Burke a concerned look.

             PRATT
      It went clean through, Cud. Youll 
      be OK. 
        (whispers to Burke)
      We cant get his blood on us. Its 
      poisoned. 

Cuddy begins to shake and foam at the mouth. Burke struggles 
to hold him still.

             BURKE
      Easy, Cudd. The painll pass! Well 
      get you some more of that syrup!

The shaking gets even worse... Cuddy stiffens with a seizure. 
His head shoots up, his eyes open - Burke and Pratt see it - 
both his eyes are blood red.

             PRATT
      You see his eyes!?

             BURKE
      The squaw had it! So did Doc!

             PRATT
      Shit! 

             BURKE
      Cuddy calm down!

Cuddy now begins to violently fight his restraints...

             PRATT
      We cant help him!

Cuddy grabs Burke by the throat with one massive hand and 
begins to choke him. Burke tries to fight him off, but cant. 

Pratt loses his grip - Cuddy breaks free - his hand still in 
a death grip around Burke.

Pratt begins beating Cuddy with the butt of his sidearm but 
to no effect.

Cuddy has almost superhuman strength as the illness rages 
through him.

Again Pratt cracks Cuddys head with the but of his gun. 
Cuddy is stunned for a second...

Burke breaks free but Cuddy goes after him and slams Burke 
into the cave wall.

Pratt jumps on Cuddys back, and the men fight for their 
lives in the dark, tight space...

Cuddy slams Burke - almost unconscious - into the wall. Burke 
drops to the ground.

Cuddy turns on Pratt.

The big man is a monster of oozing blood, phlegm and 
psychotic rage.

Pratt goes for his gun but Cuddy quickly gets on top of Pratt 
and pins Pratts arms to his side with his legs. Sitting atop 
his chest he starts bludgeoning Pratts face with his massive 
hands...

His infected blood and mucus drip in long chords onto Pratts 
horrified face... Pratt desperately tries to keep it out of 
his mouth but some of it gets in.

Pratt desperately reaches for his gun but his hands are 
pinned and all he can do is touch it with his fingertips...

Cuddy slams Pratts head into the ground and tries to squeeze 
the last breath from Pratts throat...

Just as Pratt begins to go limp Burke fires his pistol into 
the base of Cuddys skull. 

Cuddy collapses onto Pratt who, weak and drained, fights to 
get out from under him. 

Gasping for air, Pratt rolls over onto his stomach and 
frantically tries to wipe Cuddys blood off him.

Burke stands over Cuddys dead body, shaken by what he has 
just had to do. He looks at Pratt - helplessly trying to wipe 
the blood away... a fearless warrior suddenly looking so 
pathetic...

             PRATT 
      I gotta get it off! I gotta get it 
      off me! I aint gettin it! I aint 
      come this far to die like some 
      animal!

Burke points the gun at Pratt... 

             PRATT 
      Captain?

             BURKE
      His bloods all over you! In your 
      mouth! Im sorry, Ebenezer... but I 
      cant see you go like Cuddy.

Pratt tries to gather himself... his life is about to end... 

             PRATT
      Aint that a shit? One little squaw 
      done to us what a thousand of 
      braves couldnt.

             BURKE
      Im so sorry...

Pratt gets to his knees, closes his eyes and outstretches his 
arms in a crucified gesture of supplication...

             PRATT
      Not my face, sir. Make it quick and 
      clean.
        (calmed by deep 
         acceptance)
      Well... lets call it a life.

Burke fires into Pratts heart killing him instantly. 

Burke stands, shocked, for a few beats, drops his revolver 
then slowly walks to the back of the cave... and vomits.

He slumps, buries his head in his hands... when...

...a lone gunshot echoes in dampening waves through the Cup. 
Burke goes to the mouth of the cave and peers out.

EXT. FLATS - DAY

Gus, carrying two sacks of gold and jewels - walks with 
trance-like determination across the mangled earth.

He advances at a steady pace - bullets piercing the ground 
beside him.

INT. CAVE - DAY

Burke pulls Gus to the back of the cave.

             BURKE
      Would have been easier if you 
      wasnt weighed down... 

             GUS
      Wouldnt have been worth it then.

Gus takes in the moist-fresh corpses. He looks down at 
Cuddys body.

             BURKE
      Went crazy with fever. Foaming at 
      the mouth. Eyes got red like the 
      girls. Tried to kill both of us. 
        (beat)
      Ive never had to kill my own 
      before.

Gus looks at Pratt - the black and ruptured hole at his 
heart, his blood drenched face, his mouth and eyes open wide 
in death, his swollen tongue protruding. Gus notices that 
Pratt doesnt have the blood red eye yet. He looks at Burke.

             BURKE 
      He saved my life once... I couldnt 
      bare to see him go mad like them -  
      bleeding out in agony. He deserved 
      better than that.

Gus nods...

             BURKE 
      What about Doc?

             GUS
      He done the same. Went lunatic. 
      Like he was possessed a somethin. 
      Pulled a gun to kill me.
        (beat)
      Had to be done, Cy. All of em. We 
      gotta think no more on it. Just had 
      to be done, thats all.

Gus drops the sacks of gold on the ground. 

             GUS 
      I say we wait for Company A. They 
      aint here by nightfall we make a 
      break for it. The Navis may not 
      notice us slippin outta here one 
      at a time in the dark. We make for 
      the flats. Just like you said. 
      Beats dying in here.

Burke doesnt respond - just looks at the bodies of his 
friends laying in their own blood beside bags of loot...

INT. CAVE - DAY (LATER)

The two men sit in the dark mouth of the cave. Gus immersed 
in dividing the loot up evenly... Burke detached and staring 
down at the shadows pouring slow as spilt honey across the 
flats below.

INT. CAVE - DAY (LATER)

Gus checks his canteen, packs the last cans of beans into his 
jacket and pants.

Burke holds his sidearm across the palm of both hands, 
studies it with a curious reverence as if it were the gaping 
skull of poor Yorick freshly unearthed.

INT. CAVE - DAY (LATER)

Burke sits in the dark of the cave while Gus keeps watch near 
the mouth swatting at the flies which Pratt and Cuddys 
corpses are starting to attract.

INT. CAVE - SUNSET

Gus naps while Burke keeps watch. 

Burke watches Gus sleep - a conflicted look on his face.

EXT. DEVILS CUP - NIGHT

The last neon smears of sunset vanish over the lip of the Cup 
dropping the entire settlement into darkness.

All the Navajo campfires that lined the rim of the Cup are 
gone.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

Burke and Gus stare out at the settlement and the ridge.

             GUS
      Fires are out?

Burke doesnt respond, just stares off lost in thought.

             GUS 
      Maybe they think were dead.
        (beat)
      Or... maybe they see Company A 
      coming...

             BURKE
      Company A aint coming, Augustus. 
      You know that.

Gus looks at him...

             BURKE 
      Machaqua probably died twenty 
      minutes after he left our sight. We 
      aint gettin out of here. Maybe we 
      aint supposed to.

             GUS
      What the hell you talkin about, 
      Cyrus?

             BURKE
      We were doomed the minute we came 
      down that slope and done what we 
      done. 

             GUS
      Thats horseshit! 

             BURKE
      Maybe Babazorka and his clan 
      werent living here - maybe they 
      were quarantined here... like 
      lepers in some jungle.

             GUS
      Wes safe! We didnt get no blood 
      on us!

             BURKE
      It aint just in the blood, 
      Augustus. Its in everything and 
      its in us. Just a matter a time... 

             GUS
      You aint no doctor to know on 
      this!

             BURKE
      Babazorka was right. Anything born 
      of blood ends in blood. Thats the 
      consequences of what we done. I 
      accept it.

             GUS
      Well I dont! Thats shit youre 
      talking and I dont subscribe to 
      it! 

             BURKE
      I aint leavin here, Gus.

             GUS
      You lost yer mind? Dont talk this 
      nonsense now Cyrus! We gotta git 
      while we still can...

             BURKE
      We leave this Cup, the pox comes 
      with us. You willin to do that?
        (beat)
      Im not. I done enough killin to 
      spend a million years in hell. Im 
      done. This ends for me. Might be 
      too late. But it ends.

             GUS
      I dont care a shit who gets what 
      as long as my girls are taken care 
      of! And if yous right about us 
      havin it and dyin...


Gus realizes something... pulls his revolver, holds it on 
Burke...

             GUS 
      You aint gonna stop me, Cyrus. You 
      been like kin to me for almost 
      twenty years but Ill kill ya flat 
      if you get between me and gettin 
      this loot to my girls.

Burke stares at his friend... Gus is wild eyed, desperate...

             GUS 
      Them girls haunt me... every day a 
      my life. Out there on that 
      reservation in Oklahoma. Everyone 
      starvin. Full of disease. A 
      terrible place, a reservation. 
        (beat)
      I cant have them there. 
      They aint known nothin but 
      sufferin. I want that to end. 

Gus looks to the piles of loot.

             GUS 
      This here will make me able to. I 
      may catch twenty arrows the minute 
      I step outta this cave... but I 
      gotta try.

And Burke walks up to Gus - presses his chest against the 
barrel of the gun... places his hand on it... and gently 
pushes it aside.  Then he rips the chevrons off his own 
sleeves and throws them on the floor... and hands his gun 
belt and sword to Gus.

             GUS
      Whats all this?

             BURKE
      Im resigning my commission. To 
      you.
        (beat)
      I dont want to die a soldier.

             GUS
      Hell, Cyrus... I aint in the Army 
      no more...

But Burke is adamant:

             BURKE
      I, Cyrus P. Burke, Captain, Company 
      G, First Dragoons, do hereby resign 
      my commission. Effective 
      immediately. This day, April 7, 
      1859.
        (beat)
      When I was a boy I always thought 
      if a good man killed a bad man then 
      the killin was good. But now... 
      either way... its just... murder.
        (beat)
      Terrible thing to come to your end 
      and realize your whole life was 
      wrong.
        (beat)
      Guess the only thing worse... is 
      never realizing it.

             GUS
      Ill make sure your family gets 
      your end.

             BURKE
      You tell Ethan I resigned. Tell him 
      I died a civilian. 
        (beat)
      OK?

             GUS
      You have my word.

Gus looks around at the dead bodies in the murky cave...

The two old friends share a last look...

             BURKE
      Good luck, Augustus.

They shake hands. Gus hefts the loot, turns, walks out of the 
cave and is gone.

Burke watches him go until he vanishes from sight in the deep 
night beyond the cave.

             THACKER 
      His Excellency, President Buchanan. 
      Dear Sir, It is with vaulted pride 
      that I report that justice has been 
      served and that Babazorka - the 
      leader and symbol of the Din 
      people - is dead. 


Burke heads to the back of the cave, into the dark... sits... 
waits for it... a gallows serenity taking over him.

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY (A FEW DAYS LATER)

Company A has finally arrived. Its commander, LT. HENRY 
HARPER (40) dismounts and walks amongst the ruins of the camp 
and its rotting corpses - through a scene of almost biblical 
apocalypse. 

             THACKER 
      The Navajo leader, well armed and 
      protected by fifty of his finest 
      braves put up a ferocious 
      resistance, but his force was 
      overwhelmed by the brave actions of 
      just seven extraordinary men from 
      the First Regiment of Dragoons, 
      Company G. 

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY (A BIT LATER)

Harper and his SERGEANT examine the decomposing and half 
eaten bodies of Babazorka and his sons. 

             THACKER 
      But as is the case with any 
      military campaign, our victories 
      are most often bittersweet. 

EXT. SETTLEMENT - DAY (LATER)

Dragoons from Company A drag the rotting corpses of their 
comrades from Company G to the center of the settlement and 
line the bodies in a neat row. 

             THACKER 
      It is with a deeply wounded heart 
      and the most sincere regret, that I 
      have the misfortune to inform you 
      that each and every one of these 
      fearless heros have made the 
      ultimate sacrifice for their 
      country and were killed in this 
      most noble assault. They were...

CAMERA GLIDES OVER

The grotesque corpses of...

             THACKER 
      Major Solomon Trigwell...

Trigwell... 

Cooney...

Doc...

Cuddy...

Pratt... 

             THACKER 
      Sergeant Callum Cooney...

             THACKER 
      Dr. Bartholomew Birch...

             THACKER 
      Sergeant Cuthbert Morton

             THACKER 
      Sergeant Ebeneezer Pratt...

             THACKER 
      ... and Captain Cyrus P. Burke.

Finally Burke - his mouth and blood-hemorrhaged eyes burst 
open in a terrifying mask of pure horror. 

CAMERA PUSHES IN 

On Burkes face - a hieroglyphic of the agonizing death he 
suffered.

             THACKER 
      The remains of Augustus Canfield, 
      the expeditions scout and, himself, 
      a former Dragoon who served under 
      me, sadly - were never found. But 
      knowing the man as I did - you can 
      rest assured that his actions were 
      no less brave nor selfless.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

CAMERA GLIDES LOW OVER THE SAND

Footprints - and scattered alongside and looking very out of 
place: a gold ceremonial bracelet, a string of sapphires, a 
broach made of emeralds, a priceless Navajo blanket with a 
blood stain, a cluster of gold coins... 

Then - the sound of teeth-gnashing moans is heard... gets 
louder as we approach...

CAMERA TILTS UP TO REVEAL

Gus, weak and shivering, slumped against a lone mesquite tree 
and sweating profusely in its shade. The bags of loot lie 
spilt beside him.

             THACKER 
      We give thanks to the men who 
      carried out this mission, for they 
      exemplify the professionalism, 
      patriotism, and unparalleled 
      courage of those who serve our 
      country and represent the very best  
      America has to offer.

Gus writhes in pain as he carves into his forearm with a 
Bowie knife. Blood streams down his hand into the sand. He 
finishes cutting into his flesh and drops the knife...

CAMERA PUSHES IN SLOWLY - CLOSER AND CLOSER

... it is the same symbol that the young Indian girl had 
branded on her back.

             THACKER 
      I therefore ask that they may be 
      given the highest honors affordable 
      by the United States Army - the 
      Certificate of Merit, posthumously - 
      so that their selfless acts may 
      never be forgotten by our grateful 
      nation.

Gus braces himself as he rides out a grueling wave of 
abdominal pain that finally doubles him over.

CAMERA PUSHES IN EVEN CLOSER ON GUS FACE

His eyes are clamped shut in pain and blood begins to trickle 
from out of his nose. He leans his head back against the 
tree.

And he opens his eyes. They are blood red.

ARIEL SHOT

CAMERA RISES UP ABOVE the mesquite tree INTO THE SKY - 


CAMERA DRIFTS AWAY heading South - OVER acres of barren 
desert... to Devils Cup.

             THACKER 
      The death of Babazorka marks the 
      most significant achievement to 
      date in our nations effort to 
      defeat the Navajo. But his death 
      does not mark the end of our 
      effort. There is no doubt that the 
      Navajo will continue to pursue 
      attacks against us until they 
      submit to our will... or are made 
      extinct by the vigilance and 
      resolve of the American soldier. 
      May god bless our troops. And may 
      god bless the United States of 
      America.

When the CAMERA REACHES THE CENTER of the Cup it reveals the 
shocking topography of the place:

A circle with a line through it diagonally while another line 
runs through it vertically and forks into an inverted Y 
shaped prong at the bottom...

             THACKER 
      With great respect, your obedient 
      servant always - Monroe Thacker. 
      General, Commanding. New Mexico 
      Territory.

... all this forming the exact same symbol the squaw had 
branded into her skin and that Gus carved in his arm.

INT. THACKERS QUARTERS - DAY

Thacker sits by the window looking out blindly towards Canyon 
de Chelly.

CAMERA PUSHES IN TIGHT on his taut, conflicted face as his 
nearly useless eyes look right into us. They...

DISSOLVE TO:

EYES CHISELED OUT OF GRANITE

EXT. NEWARK, NEW JERSEY - MOUNT PLEASANT CEMETERY - DAY 

PULL BACK TO REVEAL the pained FACE OF CHRIST. 

PULL BACK FURTHER TO REVEAL HIS TORSO AND OUTSTRETCHED ARMS.

The statue sits above a family crypt.

CAMERA CRAWLS DOWN THE STONE ROBES OF CHRIST, OVER HIS 
SANDALED FEET AND DOWN TO...

Cyrus P. Burke
Captain
CO G 1st. Dragoons
Born November 11, 1814 
Died April 7, 1859
Awarded Certificate of Merit
For acts of bravery - Battle of La Taza del Diablo

CAMERA CONTINUES TO CRAWL DOWN THE CRYPT...

Fidelia Alma Burke
Born September 22, 1820
Died December 31, 1880
Beloved Wife and Mother

CAMERA CRAWLS DOWN EVEN LOWER TO REVEAL...

Ethan P. Burke
Corporal
New Mexico Volunteer Cavalry Regiment
Born April 17, 1845
Died November 25, 1864
Killed by Comanche Warriors 
Battle of Adobe Walls

SMASH TO BLACK:

THE END


