                   
                   
                   
                
                   
                   
              written by 
                   
             Jordan Mechner                        

THE SLOW BEAT OF WAR DRUMS.

We’re moving over the surface of a very cool relief MAP.

The European continent lies in darkness.  Only the great 
empire of the Caliphs is bathed in a golden GLOW -- stretching 
from Spain across North Africa, the Arabian peninsula, and the 
vast land mass of Central Asia, to the western edge of China.

TITLE OVER:

THE NINTH CENTURY

As we HOME IN on the Himalayan mountains -- the eastern edge 
of the region of light -- the map becomes REAL.  We’re flying 
through mist and craggy peaks, fog clearing to reveal...

EXT.  ARMY CAMP - NIGHT

A medieval PERSIAN ARMY camped on a forbidding mountain 
slope, twelve thousand feet high.  HUNDREDS OF WARRIORS sleep 
(or try to) on the cold ground.

A group of battle-scarred SOLDIERS cluster around a game of 
medieval BACKGAMMON, kibitzing and making side bets.

A PAIR OF DICE

is thrown by a GAMBLING SOLDIER.  Double sixes.  He grins, 
revealing rotted and missing teeth, and makes his play.

With a triumphant leer, he produces a golden bangle and adds 
it to the heap of trinkets beside the board.  All eyes turn 
to his opponent...

DASTAN,

who sits calmly with his back to us.  We haven’t seen his face 
yet, but his very stillness sets him apart from the other men.  
Though he’s as grimy and battle-worn as they are, his armor 
and dress are of distinctly higher quality.

Dastan unfastens his own studded-leather wrist guard.  
Displays it for all to see; drops it on the pile.

The men crane eagerly as Dastan ROLLS...

                                      2.

Three.  The worst roll possible.

             GAMBLING SOLDIER 
      Ha!

He snatches up the dice and ROLLS to confirm his own victory.  
As he reaches to rake in his winnings, he stops short:

THE POINT OF A SWORD

quivers inches from his face.

             DASTAN
	(O.S.)
      We’re not finished.

The gambler raises his eyes from the naked blade to its 
owner.  And now we see Dastan’s face:  

Early 20’s, with the slim bearing of a natural athlete, he’s 
of a nobler stamp than this gang of common soldiers, yet 
completely at ease in their midst.  His most salient quality: 
he never knows when he’s beaten.

             GAMBLING SOLDIER
      My lord, you’ve nothing left to 
      bet.

Dastan draws a JEWELED DAGGER from its sheath.

             DASTAN
      I bet this.  It belonged to the 
      greatest of the Turanian warriors.

Dastan confidently chucks the dagger on the pile of loot.  
His friends try to dissuade him.  AD LIB:  “You’ve lost 
enough for one night...”

             GAMBLING SOLDIER
      A roll of the dice?

             DASTAN
      No.  The Challenge of Kwarzim.  One 
      try for all I’ve lost.

The Gambling Soldier looks intrigued... then nods acceptance.  
Whatever the Challenge of Kwarzim is, he likes the odds.

The soldiers back away, clearing a circle around the two men, 
while the challenge is prepared.  The last soldier steps 
back, having completed the setup:

Ten backgammon stones lie in a row along Dastan’s sword.

All eyes are on Dastan.

                                      3.

             SUPPORTIVE SOLDIER
      Take your time.  Don’t rush it!

Dastan concentrates...  The men hold their breath.

In a single swift motion, Dastan FLIPS the sword in his hand, 
like a chef tossing a skillet.

Incredibly, all ten stones land on the other side of his 
blade... except one, which TEETERS on edge.  Everyone holds 
their breath as Dastan struggles to retain it, without losing 
the other nine --

             HERALD
	(O.S.)
      Prince Dastan!

Dastan looks up, distracted -- then back to his sword, too 
late:  First one, then ALL the stones hit the dirt.

A HERALD arrives at a breathless gallop.

             HERALD
	(CONT’D)
      My lord, your brothers summon you.

             DASTAN
      It’s the middle of the night.

He realizes from the Herald’s face:  This is serious.

                                  CUT TO:

INT.  PERSIAN ARMY TENT - NIGHT

Lanterns illuminate a warm interior, rich with gold and 
splendid tapestries.  A respite from the rigors of the 
battlefield, the royal tent is like a movable palace.

NIZAM, the king’s Grand Vizier, a robust man in his sixties, 
addresses the FOUR PRINCES.  Dastan is the youngest.  

             NIZAM
      For years we have fought the mighty 
      armies of Turan, driven them from 
      our land.  But our true enemy hides 
      in the darkness:  Alamut.

Nizam points to a spot on a parchment map with Arabic 
calligraphy.  The four brothers crane to see.

             DASTAN
        (objecting)
      Our father did not send us to fight 
      Alamut.

                                      4.

             NIZAM
      The King your father has not heard 
      the confessions of our captured 
      prisoners.  My lords, there is no 
      doubt -- Alamut has been supplying 
      our enemy.

He appeals to the TWIN PRINCES -- FARHAD and FARHAN, though 
only they know which is which.  Groomed to the nines, they 
share an aristocratic disdain for the mud and muck of battle.

             FARHAD
      Does Alamut have treasure?

             FARHAN
      He’s only asking because it has 
      been a long campaign...

             FARHAD
      We’re thinking of the men.

             FARHAN
      Exactly.

             NIZAM
      Treasure.  Food.  Women.  All lie 
      within those walls.

The Twins look eagerly to TUS, the eldest brother.  Solid and 
stout in his mid-thirties, he’s clearly the leader.  Tus 
frowns, undecided.  It’s Dastan who speaks up:

             DASTAN
      Do we fight for plunder -- or for 
      glory?

             NIZAM
      Are the two incompatible?
        (to Tus)
      My prince, we are at the gates of 
      Alamut.  If we do not strike, the 
      dawn will reveal us -- our chance 
      will be lost.  You must decide.

             TUS
      You say Alamut is guilty.  Where is 
      the proof?

             NIZAM
      In their citadel we will find the 
      proof you seek.  Their secret 
      forges.  Swords, spears -- weapons 
      that in Turanian hands slew our 
      brave Persian warriors.

Dastan shakes his head -- he likes to fight as much as 
anyone, but this doesn’t sound right to him.

                                      5.

             DASTAN
      The men aren’t looking for new 
      enemies to fight.  They want to go 
      home.  That’s what they’ve been 
      fighting for.

             NIZAM
      Dastan, you are close to your men.  
      But never forget you are a prince -- 
      and a prince must lead.
        (to all four of them)
      My lords, I have served your father 
      since we were children.  Never have 
      I known him to run from a battle.

All eyes are on Tus.  A decent man, he wants to do what’s 
right -- but once committed, his decision is harsh and 
uncompromising.

             TUS
      Then let their fortress come down.

EXT.  ROCKY SLOPE - SUNRISE

A SERIES OF SHOTS, building to a crescendo --

Footsoldiers on the move.  Catapults pushed on wheels.
The Persian Cavalry on horseback.

CLOSE at first, then WIDER, revealing an ever-greater number 
of soldiers as the army’s advance gains momentum...

THE PERSIAN ARMY

emerges from the fog.  Thousands of men and horses.  A 
stunning, fearsome sight.

Ahead, in the shadow of the mountain, a massive fortress 
rises from the mist like the home of the gods...

THE CITADEL OF ALAMUT.  Ancient, mysterious and impregnable.

The common soldiers at Dastan’s side look shaken, and make 
superstitious gestures to ward off evil.

             FEARFUL SOLDIER
      They say the Alamut are sorcerers.  
      Black magic.

                                      6.

             DASTAN
      I expect they’re flesh and bone, 
      like us.

Dastan rides ahead to join his older brothers on the ridge -- 
completing a quartet of horsemen:

THE KING’S FOUR SONS

take in Alamut for the first time with their own eyes.

             FARHAD
      We’re going to get dirty, aren’t we.

             DASTAN
      You only get dirty if you actually 
      fight.  Do that, and I’ll polish 
      your armor for you.

             FARHAN
        (looks Dastan up and down)
      You’d do better to polish your own.

             TUS
      Come.  Let’s make our father proud.

They gallop off, leaving Nizam on the ridge.  The gleam of 
satisfaction in Nizam’s eyes suggests his true nature:  A 
master manipulator, adept at pulling the strings of power.

INT.  BEDROOM IN ROYAL PALACE - SUNRISE

Gossamer curtains billow in the breeze.  A girl tosses in 
fitful sleep.  Smooth limbs, long black hair -- the darkness 
offers only a tantalizing hint of the beauty that is TAMINA.

A GONG rings out.  Tamina awakens, alarmed.

EXT.  RAMPARTS - SUNRISE

A SENTRY beats a giant GONG.  ALAMUT SOLDIERS run past 
SHOUTING in Foreign.

EXT.  BELOW THE CITADEL - SUNRISE  

THE PERSIAN ARMY charges up the wide shaly slope.  The time 
for stealth is past.

THEIR POV: A few panicked figures dart about on the ramparts.

                                      7.

Tus, galloping ahead, lifts his sword and lets out a WAR CRY.  
From the ranks rises a blood-curdling NOISE as thousands of 
voices join him.  Then...

A FLAMING ARROW is fired from the ramparts.  All eyes turn 
skyward to follow its arc.

At its apex, the arrow suddenly EXPLODES into a shower of 
brilliant white fireworks, illuminating the attacking army.

DASTAN

is mesmerized; the Persians have never seen gunpowder before.

Suddenly, an ARROW fells the man next to him.  Dastan 
instinctively raises his shield, blocking another ARROW.

Dastan’s eagle eye spots ALAMUT ARCHERS hidden among the 
rocks above.  They’re clad in black, like ninjas.

             DASTAN
      There!

Persian archers return fire.  Tus, in the vanguard, shouts --

             TUS
      To the walls!  Attack!

EXT.  CITADEL - SUNRISE

Like the ocean tide crashing against a sea-wall, the first 
wave of footsoldiers reaches the citadel.  Ladders are thrown 
up; men scale the walls --

ALAMUT SOLDIERS, in precise formation, rise from hiding to 
meet them with arrows and burning oil.  The Persians are 
caught by surprise, faced with a style of combat they’ve 
never encountered.  Men and ladders fall.

             TUS
      A trap!  They were ready for us!

             NIZAM
      There is your proof.  Innocent 
      people would have been taken by 
      surprise.

The battlefield is chaos.  All around, men are falling, hit 
by arrows.  Dastan spots the problem -- ninja-like ALAMUT 
SABOTEURS darting like shadows among the troops.

             DASTAN
      The enemy is here!

                                      8.

Dastan gallops toward a SABOTEUR who’s just doused a catapult 
with oil.  Leaping from horseback onto the catapult, he 
STRIKES the torch from the man’s hand before he can light it.

They CLASH SWORDS.  The Saboteur, an intimidating spectre 
swathed in black, expects to dispatch Dastan easily, and is 
surprised to find the young swordsman his equal.

A SECOND SABOTEUR joins in.  Despite Dastan’s skill, the two 
Saboteurs inexorably force him up onto the catapult platform.  
While #1 keeps him busy, #2 lights a torch.  The catapult 
BURSTS INTO FLAMES.

Dastan battles grimly on, heedless of the FLAMES rising 
around him.  At last, he turns the tables and knocks both 
Saboteurs off the platform into the flames.

A moment of satisfaction...

Then Dastan sees the TIE ROPE burning.  Uh-oh.  He looks 
down, realizes what he’s standing on...

Just as the ROPE BURNS THROUGH.

The catapult arm FLINGS Dastan into the air.  He soars toward 
the ramparts...

EXT.  RAMPARTS - DAY

ALAMUT SOLDIERS, fighting off the invaders, look up to see an 
enemy soldier hurtling toward them like a cannonball. 

Whizzing over their heads, Dastan makes a desperate grab at a 
passing canvas awning.  It RIPS -- but slows his flight, as he 
tears through a series of canvas awnings, one after another.

Amazed he’s survived...

Until he runs out of awnings.  Confronted with a FATAL DROP 
to the next rampart, he saves himself by grabbing the torn 
canvas of the last awning.

On the rampart below, a trio of ARCHERS take aim.  Dastan 
dangles in space, a prime target.

Pushing off the stone wall with his feet, he struggles to 
climb the torn canvas.  The first volley of ARROWS barely 
miss him.  Dastan climbs faster.  As he nears the top...

The canvas RIPS -- dropping him further than before and 
SLAMMING him into the wall.  (Thanks to which, the second 
volley misses him too.)

                                      9.

Dastan gets a new idea.  He starts to “run” back and forth 
along the wall, swinging on the canvas to gain momentum.

The cloth RIPS more.  Not good.  He’s hanging by a thread.  

His eye is on a nearby parapet:  If he can swing to it...

EXT.  CITADEL GATE - DAY

Persian soldiers run a BATTERING RAM into the iron gate.

             LEAD SOLDIER
      Ho!

And again.  The battering ram SMASHES through the gate.  The 
triumphant horde STORMS the vaulted entrance --

Only to find themselves confronted by a SECOND GATE at right 
angles to the first.  A TORRENT OF ARROWS is unleashed on 
them from above.  They’re sitting ducks, trapped in the crush 
of men trying to escape.  It’s a slaughter.

EXT.  RAMPART - DAY

Running on the wall, Dastan swings a-l-m-o-s-t within reach 
of the parapet... Just misses it.  He swings back the other 
way; an ARROW grazes him.

Below him, TWO MORE ARCHERS join the firing squad.  They load 
their bows...

Grimly, Dastan backs up as far as he can for the final swing, 
the one that has to make it...

As he’s swinging toward the parapet, his canvas “rope” 
BREAKS.  Dastan sails through the air...

Grabs for the parapet... Misses it... Plummets toward earth...

And, brilliantly, SAVES himself by grabbing a window ledge 
below.  Scrambles through, just escaping the hail of ARROWS.

INT.  GUARD TOWER - DAY

Dastan lands in a stone corridor.  FIVE ALAMUT SOLDIERS 
converge on him.  He draws his sword.

And now we see Dastan fighting in his element.  Slippery as 
an eel, he manages to defend himself against all sides at 
once.  He’s not the biggest or the strongest -- but he has a 
genius for staying alive.

                                      10.

At one point, under double attack, Dastan reaches for his 
dagger -- only to find the sheath empty.  Oh yeah, he lost it 
gambling.  CURSING, he ducks one blow while blocking another.

Dastan runs to the edge, looks down over the parapet.

HIS POV:  The main bridge below, clogged with soldiers.

Beside him, thick rope cables rise from an open SHAFT.

             ALAMUT SOLDIER
	(IN FOREIGN)
      Stop him!

As the soldiers descend on him, Dastan jumps onto the main 
CABLE and does a fireman’s slide to the platform below.

INT.  GUARD CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Dastan lands; GUARDS rush him.  He flips one, sends the next 
PLUMMETING down the shaft -- GRABS a crank lever --

             ALAMUT GUARD
	(IN FOREIGN)
      NO!!

Dastan THROWS the lever, releasing the crank, which TURNS -- 

EXT.  CITADEL ENTRANCE - DAY

A CHEER erupts from the horde of Persian soldiers as the GATE 
RAISES.  Men POUR into the citadel.

EXT.  BELOW THE CITADEL - DAY

Tus stares in disbelief at the bridge emptying of men.

             TUS
      To the bridge!

EXT.  CITADEL - DAY

From all sides, soldiers pour onto the narrow bridge.

EXT.  CITADEL MAIN COURTYARD - DAY

A courtyard of austere Eastern beauty, as exotic to the 
invading troops as it is to us.  At its far end stands an 
imposing temple, guarded by ancient stone lions.  The 
defenders are overwhelmed by the FLOOD of soldiers.

                                      11.

EXT.  CITY STREETS - DAY

Civilians flee SCREAMING through narrow stone streets.

EXT.  INSIDE THE CITADEL - DAY

The Twins fight side by side without breaking a sweat.

Nizam slashes his way through the enemy ranks, wielding two 
swords at once with total mastery.  Equally at home on 
horseback as in his splendid courtier’s robes, he’s worth as 
much in battle as two men half his age.  

Tus, hacking his way to victory, pauses --

             TUS
      Where is Dastan?

EXT.  ANOTHER RAMPART - DAY

Dastan emerges onto a quiet rampart -- a narrow trench 
between two high walls.  The battle has not yet reached this 
part of the castle.

With a sudden CLATTER, a GATE RAISES at the end of the 
rampart.  Who opened it?  There’s no one in sight.  The gate 
leads to the open mountainside, behind the fortress.

Then... HOOFBEATS.  Dastan turns to see a MIGHTY ALAMUT 
WARRIOR galloping toward him on an armored stallion.  A 
helmet conceals his features.

Dastan’s trapped between the walls.  The corridor is too 
narrow for him to dive out of the way.  He’s about to be 
trampled.

The WARRIOR draws a mighty scimitar...

At the last instant, Dastan RUNS straight up the wall like 
Donald O’Connor in “Top Hat” -- and, pushing off with a 
backflip, KNOCKS the warrior half out of the saddle.

The two men GRAPPLE on horseback.  SPARKS fly as armor and 
weapons scrape the stone walls at full gallop.

They fight -- Dastan getting the worse of it, as his more 
heavily-armored opponent POUNDS him mercilessly.  The Alamut 
warrior raises his sword to finish Dastan once and for all...

Dastan throws his arms around the warrior’s waist, DRAGGING 
him from the saddle.  The two men CRASH to the ground.

                                      12.

Dastan fights his way loose.  Only then does he realize that 
the man he is struggling with is dead; an ARROW protrudes 
from his back.  Dastan looks up to see PERSIAN SOLDIERS 
running toward them.

             GAMBLING SOLDIER
      The horse!  Get the horse!

The soldiers run greedily past Dastan after the riderless 
horse, leaving him alone with the fallen warrior.

Dastan removes the warrior’s helmet.  His face is young and 
noble.  His breath comes in gasps.  He’s in agony; worse than 
the mortal wound is the shame of his own failure.  

A light SNOW has begun to fall.  Dastan removes the man’s 
breastplate, to give him air.

The young warrior grasps at Dastan’s arm -- he’s trying to 
say something.  Dastan cranes closer to hear his last words -- 
Too late.  He’s dead.

Dastan slumps into a sitting position, spent.  We HEAR the 
victorious Persian soldiers storming the citadel.

Dastan notices a cloth-wrapped bundle tucked into the dead 
warrior’s waistband, under his armor.  He pulls it out.  
Unwraps it.

It’s a ceremonial DAGGER, with a curved blade and a glass 
handle encrusted with precious stones.  Unimaginably ancient, 
it has an otherworldly feel to it... as if it had been made 
by gods, not men.

The glass handle is half-filled with a fine white sand, so 
unnaturally bright it glows.  Dastan tilts it curiously, the 
way you might tilt an hourglass.

Glad to have it, Dastan sheathes the dagger in his own empty 
scabbard... and turns to see --

TAMINA,

a stunning 19-year-old princess, watching him from an open 
archway off the rampart.

She starts toward Dastan, her dark eyes burning with 
passionate hatred.  Before she gets two steps, offscreen 
SHOUTS freeze her in her tracks --

MORE SOLDIERS are coming, chasing CIVILIANS down the rampart.

When Dastan turns back to the archway, Tamina’s vanished.

                                      13.

He hurries after her, down a stairway to an arcaded courtyard.  
He scans the chaos.  In sudden hope he stops a FLEEING WOMAN -- 
but it’s not her.  Disappointed, he lets the woman go.

EXT.  CITADEL MAIN COURTYARD - DAY

Dastan emerges, disconsolate, into the main courtyard.  He’s 
won the battle but lost the girl.

Dastan spots his brothers and Nizam conferring amidst the 
crowd of soldiers.  Brightening, he approaches.

             NIZAM
        (to Tus)
      It stands to reason that their 
      secret armories are well concealed.  
      Leave me in charge here.  I shall 
      not rest until they are found.

             TUS
        (spotting his brother)
      Dastan.  Where have you been?

             DASTAN
      Tus, I opened the gate!

Tus, in a bad mood, snaps --

             TUS
      Every man here played his part.  
      Don’t take credit for their bravery.

The Twins sneer and turn their back on Dastan.  Resuming 
their previous conversation...

             FARHAD
        (eager for booty)
      Why should Nizam stay?  Why not me?

             FARHAN
      Why not me?

             TUS 
      All of you -- return home.

             NIZAM
      But, my lord --

             TUS
      I myself shall conduct the search 
      for these weapons that you seem so 
      certain are here.

                                      14.

The steel in his tone warns Nizam not to argue further.

             NIZAM
      I hear and I obey, my prince.

Seething with frustration, Nizam glances over at Dastan.  
Dastan has drawn the dagger from its sheath and is admiring 
it, to console himself.

NIZAM’S POV:  THE DAGGER in Dastan’s hands. 

ACROSS THE COURTYARD

An OFFICER inspects a group of captive YOUNG WOMEN the 
soldiers have brought in.  Among them is Tamina, her simple, 
beautiful white dress concealed under a drab cloak.

Tamina evades the Officer’s gaze; he lifts her chin to get a 
good look at her face.

             OFFICER
      Let’s see your hands.

Tamina shows one hand.  The Officer yanks the other into view, 
then gives her a rough whole-body frisk.  Tamina suppresses 
her shame and anger as he moves on to the next girl. 

REVEAL:  Tamina’s palmed the ornate RING she was wearing 
earlier.  She slips it unnoticed into the folds of her cloak.

Dastan, across the courtyard, doesn’t see her.
But she can see him.
And she doesn’t take her eyes off him.

                             TRANSITION TO:

EXT.  CENTRAL ASIAN VALLEY - DAY

A caravan of Persian SOLDIERS, HORSES and CAMELS wends its 
way down from the forbidding, icy mountain peaks.

Dastan sits backward in his saddle, reading a book.  Nizam 
rides up alongside him.

             NIZAM
      Your brothers do you an injustice.  
      You turned the battle.

             DASTAN
      I don’t need their praise.

                                      15.

             NIZAM
      You are wise in war, but not in 
      politics.  One who yearns for 
      greatness will not achieve it by 
      performing deeds no one hears of.

Nizam gestures toward a row of CARTS laden with booty.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      Your brothers bring your father 
      treasures, trophies of war.  What 
      have you to show to earn his favor?

             DASTAN
      My father favors me already -- more 
      than I deserve.

             NIZAM
      I fail to understand.

Dastan puts away his book and turns the right way around in 
the saddle.  

             DASTAN 
      Nizam, why do we win victories?  
      Because we have the greatest army.  
      The army he built, with his life’s 
      blood, starting from nothing -- 
      with every man’s hand turned 
      against him.  That was an 
      accomplishment.  What we do --
        (encompassing the army)
      it’s hardly the stuff of ballads.

             NIZAM
      To be the son of a great king is a 
      destiny most men would envy.

             DASTAN
      Do you know what I want?  To set 
      forth from home with no army, just 
      one horse and a good sword, and no 
      one knowing I am the son of 
      Shahraman.  Then, my achievements 
      may be small -- but they’ll be 
      mine.  And I can bring them home to 
      him with pride.

             NIZAM
        (with a twinkle)
      Dastan, I have misjudged you.  I 
      thought you the most modest of my 
      King’s sons.  In fact, you are the 
      most ambitious.

                                      16.

             DASTAN
      I’m not joking, Nizam.  I will do 
      it.  As soon as we arrive, I’ll ask 
      my father for his blessing.

             NIZAM
      You would do well to bring a gift 
      to show your worth.

             DASTAN
      I have!
        (produces the dagger)
      This belonged to the bravest of all 
      the warriors of Alamut.

Nizam frowns as he examines it.  Hands it back to Dastan.

             NIZAM 
      Dastan, a dagger as a gift is bad 
      luck.

Dastan looks troubled -- he’d forgotten that superstition.  
Nizam reaches into his saddle-bag, pulls out a cloth bundle.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      Here is a robe of Tabriz silk, 
      woven with jewels and embroidered 
      by a tailor whose hand was surely 
      touched by God.  In all my travels 
      I have not seen its equal.

             DASTAN 
      But, Nizam, I have nothing to give 
      you in return.

             NIZAM
      Why not the dagger?  An exchange, 
      not a gift.  No bad luck in that.

Dastan hesitates... He’s tempted.  With decision, he shakes 
his head and hands back the robe.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
        (chiding him)
      Dastan.  As children your father 
      and I were closer than brothers.  
      What greater gift can I offer my 
      King than to help him see the merit 
      of all his sons?

He presses the robe into Dastan’s hands, and rides off.  
Dastan, left holding it, smiles.  Good old Nizam.

                                      17.

As the caravan continues, CAMERA RISES, REVEALING the vast 
desert plain that lies ahead... and, far in the distance, the 
gleaming spires and domes of NASAF.

                             TRANSITION TO:

INT.  BANQUET HALL - DAY

A magnificent palace with high vaulted ceilings and 
elaborately tiled mosaics.  Built in the eighth century, it’s 
still brand new.

MUSICIANS play on flutes and tambourines; beautiful male and 
female SLAVES circulate, serving delicacies to the GUESTS 
(all male) seated on cushions at low tables around the room.

TAMINA

is part of a group of newbie SLAVE GIRLS being prepped by a 
stern MATRON (50’s) who makes last-minute adjustments to each 
girl’s attire, then sends her out with an hors d’oeuvre tray.

The Matron frowns at Tamina’s outfit; tugs at it to reveal 
more cleavage.  Tamina, indignant, seems about to slap her -- 
then, remembering where she is, submits.  Her face burns as 
the Matron sends her forth with a pat on the ass.

WE FOLLOW the slave girls as they mix into the crowd... and 
MOVE PAST them, to the roped-off royal dais where...

DASTAN

tears into a chicken leg with gusto.  A man who enjoys life’s 
pleasures and doesn’t mind a mess.  The Twins, eating with 
elegant delicacy (and attended by two elite HAREM GIRLS, both 
of the same “type”), shoot Dastan twin looks of disgust.

             FARHAD
      You eat like a common foot-soldier.

             DASTAN
      Foot-soldiers know how to enjoy a 
      good meal, when they get one.  
     Bismillah.

TAMINA,

serving tray held precariously high, negotiates the crowd of 
rowdy SOLDIERS outside the VIP area.

She spots Dastan across the room.  An imposing array of 
guards separate them.  Her eyes narrow:  How to get to him?

                                      18.

A soldier makes a sudden grab for Tamina, who quickly dodges, 
bumping into another SLAVE GIRL.  Tamina tries to save the 
tray -- butterfingers!  It CRASHES to the floor.

The other girl way overreacts, nearly prostrating herself as 
she apologizes to Tamina, who tries desperately to shush her.

DASTAN

notices the commotion.  Tamina, realizing he’s spotted her, 
hastily escapes into the throng.

Dastan pushes to the edge of the VIP area, scans the outer 
crowd for Tamina.  He’s lost her -- no, there she is!

Just then a FANFARE OF TRUMPETS heralds the king’s arrival.  
All stand at attention, thwarting Dastan’s pursuit.

             HERALD
      His Majesty Shahraman, Lord of 
      Nasaf, greatest of kings of Persia, 
      Shah-an-shah, King of Kings!

A long procession of COURTIERS and ATTENDANTS begins through 
the great arched doorway.  Dastan sidles up to Nizam. 

             DASTAN
      Nizam, tonight I want you to 
      assemble all the girls we brought 
      from Alamut.

             NIZAM
      All of them, my lord?

             DASTAN
      There’s one in particular.  She’s 
      slender as a reed, with dark eyes 
      and a high bosom.

             NIZAM
      My lord, in your harem are high-
      born beauties of our kingdom, 
      waiting to celebrate your safe 
      return.  It would be unseemly for 
      you to choose an ordinary slave 
      girl over them.

             DASTAN
      It is they who are ordinary.  
      Nizam, she’s the one I want.

KING SHAHRAMAN finally enters with his entourage.  Gray-
bearded in silk robes, he’s the aged ruin of a once-powerful 
warrior.  All bow deeply as he passes.

Right behind the king is his captain of guards, GARSIV (40), 
a battle-scarred veteran.  Fiercely protective, Garsiv sees 
assassins and conspiracies everywhere.  It’s his job.

                                      19.

             SHAHRAMAN
        (embracing Nizam)
      Nizam, my old friend!  Again your 
      wisdom has brought us victory.

             NIZAM
      Not my wisdom.  By your royal farr 
      your sons have brought honor and 
      glory to the banner of Nasaf.

During this, Tamina reappears in the crowd.  She lurks closer 
to the VIP area, seeking a better view.  

             SHAHRAMAN
        (suddenly perturbed)
      Where is my eldest son?

             NIZAM
      Tus has remained to bring order to 
      the lands conquered in your name.  
      His brothers will convey his 
      greetings to you.

The Twins step forward with elaborately ceremonial, 
simultaneous bows -- a bit over the top for Shahraman.

             FARHAD
      My lord and father, to see you is 
      like seeing the sun after the 
      longest night of winter.  Our noble 
      brother has entrusted me -- 

             FARHAN
      Us.

             FARHAD
      -- Has entrusted us with gifts.

On cue, TEN SLAVES enter bearing TEN GOLD PLATTERS laden with 
jewels, their powerful muscles straining under the weight.

             FARHAN
      And I bring gifts as well.

             FARHAD
      We.

             FARHAN
      We bring gifts.

                                      20.

TWENTY MORE SLAVES parade in, bearing TWENTY GOLDEN PLATTERS 
piled even higher than the first.

While heads are turned, Tamina ducks under the rope into the 
VIP area.  A big GUARD notices her standing at his elbow -- 
where did she come from?  Tamina gives him an innocent smile.

             FARHAN
	(CONT’D)
      From Turan and Alamut, out of love 
      for you, we carried the treasure --

             FARHAD
      -- His as well as ours --

             SHAHRAMAN
      Alamut?

             FARHAN
      -- through treacherous mountains, 
      across the burning desert, and --

             SHAHRAMAN
      NIZAM!!!

The Twins quake; did they say something wrong?  Dastan is as 
confused as they are.  Nizam steps forward.

             NIZAM
      O King...?

             SHAHRAMAN
      What are these babbling fools 
      saying?  Did we conquer Alamut?

             NIZAM
      A great victory.  You may be proud 
      of all your sons.

             SHAHRAMAN
      By what right did we attack a 
      peaceful kingdom that has endured 
      inviolate for centuries?  That even 
      the armies of Arabia held sacred?

             NIZAM
      O King, the face Alamut showed the 
      world was but a mask concealing its 
      true nature.  When you learn the 
      truth your rage will know no bounds --  
      But look, your youngest son waits to 
      greet you.  

Shahraman looks at Dastan; his anger melts away.  He has a 
special fondness for this son.  Dastan throws himself into 
his dad’s embrace, hugs him hard.

                                      21.

             SHAHRAMAN
      Dastan.  What mischief have you 
      been up to?

             DASTAN
      Father, I’ve brought you a gift.

             SHAHRAMAN
        (affectionately)
      Do you mean to say you haven’t lost 
      it or gambled it away?

Dastan beckons to a pretty FEMALE SLAVE, who appears carrying 
a cloth bundle -- and in a nifty move, shakes it out, 
UNVEILING the ROBE OF HONOR.  Everyone oohs.

Shahraman takes the robe.  Runs his fingers over the gold-
embroidered silk.  He’s genuinely surprised and touched.

             SHAHRAMAN
	(CONT’D)
      Dastan, this is unlike you.  I 
      shall wear it with pride.

Attendants remove Shahraman’s robe and help him don the new 
one.  The Twins seethe with jealousy at such favoritism.

             DASTAN
        (there’ll never be a 
         better moment)
      Father, I wish to speak to you 
      about a very important matter...

             SHAHRAMAN
      Later, my son.

Shahraman mounts the dais and seats himself on the throne.

             SHAHRAMAN
	(CONT’D)
      Now, Nizam, tell me of Alamut.

Garsiv notices a ripple in the crowd:  Tamina, edging closer 
to the dais.  He frowns -- something about her isn’t quite 
right.  He signals two GUARDS, who quietly converge on her.

             NIZAM
      O King, we have proof beyond doubt 
      that Alamut was secretly supporting 
      -- My King, is something wrong?

The new robe seems to itch Shahraman; he tugs at it irritably.

                                      22.

             SHAHRAMAN
      It’s hot.  Get to the point.

             NIZAM
      We learned from a captured Turanian 
      warrior that...

             DASTAN
      Father?

             SHAHRAMAN
      ...Take off the robe!

Attendants hasten to remove the robe, but cannot.  It won’t 
come off -- it’s glued to his skin.  Shahraman ROARS in pain.

             DASTAN
      Father!!

Shahraman lurches to his feet.  Like a maddened bull, he 
shakes off his attendants, tearing at the robe.  STEAM hisses 
from the burning places where it STICKS to his flesh.

             NIZAM
      Poison!

             SHAHRAMAN
      Take it off!

Tamina -- shocked and horrified, like the rest -- spots the 
two guards pushing through the crowd toward her.

Dastan hurtles to his father’s side.  Catches him as he 
falls, staining his own clothes with blood.  Shahraman is 
dying in agony, with third-degree burns all over his body.

             SHAHRAMAN
	(CONT’D)
      ...My son.

             NIZAM
      Dastan!  You have killed your 
      father!

Dastan stares at Nizam, speechless with horror.

             DASTAN
      No!  Nizam, why--?

             NIZAM
      Seize him!  Take his weapons!

Guards RIP Dastan away from Shahraman.  While Dastan 
struggles, Garsiv and other guards attempt to remove the 
King’s robe, but only intensify his death agony.  

                                      23.

Tamina races toward the dais, where Dastan is fighting to 
break free --

             DASTAN
      FATHER!!!!

Tamina pulls a SWORD from the scabbard of one of the guards 
holding Dastan.  SLASH!  In a trice, two guards are down.

Nizam is caught unawares -- What’s going on?  Who is she?

Tamina tosses an extra sword to the startled Dastan.

             TAMINA
        (re: Shahraman)
      Run -- unless you want to join him.

Still Dastan is unable to tear his eyes from his father.  
Garsiv, captain of guards, lowers Shahraman’s dead body to 
the ground...

Tamina BLOCKS a guard’s blow that would have felled Dastan.  
She’s as good with a sword as she is clumsy with a serving 
tray.  She forcibly grabs Dastan, pushes him through a small 
doorway.  Guards pour after them.

GARSIV

grieves over Shahraman’s corpse.  Nizam bends to whisper in 
his ear...

             NIZAM
      With his last words the King named 
      his assassin.  His son has done 
      this, out of envy and ambition.  

Garsiv gives Nizam a look as if he’s not so sure.  But his 
duty is clear:  Apprehend the fugitives.

EXT.  STABLES - DAY

The setting sun casts a fiery glow on the palace.  Rows of 
stallions rest in their stalls.  Tamina chooses a magnificent 
Arabian thoroughbred.

             DASTAN
      Who are you?  In Alamut, you ran 
      from me.

             TAMINA
      Now we both run.

                                      24.

She mounts her horse -- and spoils what would have been a 
dramatic effect, as her dress SNAGS on her sword.  She 
fumbles impatiently, finally RIPS it clean off.

The guards burst out the doorway.  Dastan moves from the 
thoroughbred he’d first chosen, changes his mind and mounts a 
small, stocky, unimpressive pony.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing?

             DASTAN
      That one’s fast -- but he’s not a 
      mountain horse.

             TAMINA
      Mountain horse?  We’re in the 
      desert!

Just then a dozen of the KING’S HORSEMEN, led by Garsiv, ride 
into the courtyard -- trapping Dastan and Tamina.

They’re the best-trained, most formidable military unit in 
Persia.  Normally, everyone flees from them.  Instead, Dastan 
rides straight at them.

He dodges right -- then left -- and slips by: Magic Johnson 
on horseback.  The resulting moment of disarray lets Tamina 
charge past them on the other side, and out the entrance.

             GARSIV
      Close the gate!

As the GUARDS relay Garsiv’s command like an echo, the dozen 
horsemen turn around as one to give chase.

EXT.  PALACE MAIN GATE - DAY

The two fugitives gallop toward the great, lowering iron 
gate, Garsiv’s posse on their heels.

It looks like the gate will close before Dastan gets there.  
To make certain, four FOOTSOLDIERS range out in front of it, 
with spears raised to impale him if he tries.

Dastan’s eyes narrow.  Redoubling his speed, he ducks down in 
the saddle...

And SHATTERS a spear with his sword, opening a gap in the 
line.  Tamina swings sideways in her saddle, narrowly 
avoiding decapitation as she rides under the closing gate.  
Dastan does the same.  The gate seals in Garsiv’s men.

                                      25.

             GARSIV
      Open the gate!!

The soldiers raise the gate they just closed.  Garsiv’s 
posse, which has swelled to forty riders, charges through.

EXT.  CITY IN THE DESERT - DAY

Dastan and Tamina gallop out of the walled city and strike out 
toward the hills with the king’s men in pursuit.  A gleaming 
river snakes around the city walls.  A yellow haze of heat 
suffuses the surrounding pastureland, criss-crossed by 
aqueducts.  

             DASTAN
      Why are you helping me?

Without answering, Tamina gallops ahead.  The terrain becomes 
hilly; gullies and boulders appear.  Tamina makes a series of 
increasingly risky jumps.  Dastan follows.

The formidable posse thunders after them.  Two horses fall 
jumping a boulder.  The rest make it.

An ARROW whistles past Dastan’s head.  He looks over his 
shoulder, sees the posse gaining on him.  He urges the little 
mountain horse to greater speed; but they’re outclassed.

Inexorably, the first ARCHER draws even with Dastan.  He 
shoots; Dastan drops from sight!  The archer, seeing Dastan’s 
horse riderless, is momentarily confused -- Did he hit him?  
No, Dastan is clinging to the saddle on the other side, 
shielded by the horse’s body.

             GARSIV
      Shoot the horse!

Dastan, half upside-down, registers alarm on hearing this.  
As the archer fires, Dastan pops back up in his saddle and 
pulls up the reins -- causing the arrow to miss.

Dastan escapes into a narrow GULLY, forcing his pursuers to 
follow single file.  Garsiv is among them, grim and 
determined.

Descending the steep gully, Dastan’s mountain horse gains 
back the ground he lost.  Recklessly tackling the treacherous 
slope, he emerges onto a broad plateau -- ahead of Tamina.

Dastan’s pursuers benefit from the shortcut as well.  As they 
pour out of the gully they land right on Tamina.  She weaves, 
trying to shake them, but can’t escape.

                                      26.

Dastan looks back, sees Tamina in trouble.  He slows.  A 
mistake.  Within moments he too is boxed in by soldiers on 
all sides.  He can’t get to Tamina.

To Dastan’s left runs the sheer canyon wall.  As his horse 
draws up alongside it, he STANDS, perching on the saddle like 
a circus rider -- then RUNS up the wall, using the horse’s 
galloping momentum to GRAB an overhanging shrub.  The 
soldiers are left herding a riderless horse.

Dastan launches off the wall and DROPS onto one of the riders 
harassing Tamina, SHOVES him out of the saddle and takes his 
place.  Drawing his sword, he fights his way toward Tamina, 
knocking off the soldiers one by one.

Suddenly Dastan’s trapped between two riders: Garsiv on his 
left, another on his right.  In a blinding series of sword-
clashes, Garsiv forces Dastan to parry repeatedly... leaving 
himself wide open to the soldier on his right.

             TAMINA
      Dastan, look out!

Dastan BLOCKS the right-hand soldier’s blow in the nick of 
time.  Garsiv turns to see Tamina riding up on his own left.

Dastan doesn’t waste a moment.  He scrambles across Garsiv’s 
saddle and joins Tamina on hers.  They take off at a gallop.

             DASTAN
        (self-esteem slightly 
         bruised)
      You ride well -- for a woman.

Tamina’s eyes narrow at the qualification.  But there’s no 
time to retort -- both halves of the posse are closing in on 
them, on a wide shelf of rock that drops off in a SHEER CLIFF.

Dastan spots the mountain horse running loose.  Taking the 
reins from Tamina, he draws up alongside... and JUMPS into 
the saddle.  He reaches out to Tamina.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Come on!  Jump!

             TAMINA
        (her horse is faster)
      Why?!

             DASTAN
      Trust me!

Tamina JUMPS from her horse to his.  Dastan catches her, 
hauls her up into the saddle.

                                      27.

As the soldiers close in, Dastan turns to face the cliff.  

             TAMINA
      What are you doing?!

Dastan sets his jaw; gallops straight toward the edge --

And LEAPS out into empty space.

The cliff is not quite sheer, just very steep.  Incredibly, 
the horse hits the nearly vertical slope at a gallop -- 
STRAIGHT DOWNHILL, like the Man from Snowy River.

All the King’s horses stop at the edge.  Garsiv, in a frenzy, 
BEATS his horse urging it on, but it refuses to continue.

Dastan and Tamina hang on as the surefooted mountain horse 
gallops downhill, skirting rocks and potholes where a single 
misstep could mean death, until they reach the canyon floor.

Garsiv, stranded at the top of the cliff, watches in helpless 
fury as his quarry disappears into the canyon.

                             TRANSITION TO:

EXT.  CANYON FLOOR - SUNSET

A shallow whitewater RIVER rushes between sheer canyon walls.  
The rock face glows orange in the sunset.  They ride, Tamina 
cool and impassive, Dastan thinking hard.

             DASTAN
      Why would Nizam kill my father?

             TAMINA
      The greybeard with two swords is 
      Nizam?

             DASTAN
      He gains nothing by it.
        (turning his suspicions 
         on Tamina)
      Unless he is allied with our enemy?

             TAMINA
      Alamut was not your enemy until you 
      attacked our citadel.

             DASTAN
      Your king was supplying weapons to 
      Turan.

                                      28.

             TAMINA
      Our Law forbids us to take sides in 
      your wars.  Who accuses us?

             DASTAN
        (realizes)
      Nizam.

He looks with new curiosity, and appreciation, at the 
mysterious girl sharing his saddle.  So brave, so beautiful.

He rides ashore at a wide place; dismounts onto a rocky beach.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      If Nizam lied -- if we invaded your 
      kingdom unjustly -- then I owe you...

As he turns back to face Tamina, her SWORD swings to 
decapitate him.  Dastan dodges by sheer reflex; the blow 
glances off his armor, sending him sprawling.

Dastan rolls, avoiding a STAMPING blow from the horse’s 
hooves that would have split his skull.  He scrambles to his 
feet, drawing his sword in time to BLOCK Tamina’s next blow.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t want to fight you!

Tamina jumps down, ATTACKS without mercy.  Dastan, his arm 
deadened from the first hit, struggles to defend himself.

Hard as she tries, Tamina is unable to finish him off.  With 
each failed attack, Dastan recovers ground, until Tamina has 
lost her initial surprise advantage.

Now Dastan counter-attacks, his eyes blazing with anger.  
He’s not trying to kill Tamina -- just disarm her.  His 
strength forces her onto the defensive.  Finally, he STRIKES 
the sword from her hand.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Is this what you want?

Tamina surprises him with a KICK in the belly.  Seizing 
Dastan’s arm, she sweeps his legs out from under him.  They 
hit the ground together, grappling on the riverbank.

Tamina sees an opening; pulls the dagger from Dastan’s belt.  
He grabs her wrist, flips her.  The dagger goes flying.

Tamina pushes him off her, scrambles toward the dagger.  
Dastan gets there first.  He snatches it up --

                                      29.

CLICK!  Grasping it, he’s pressed a JEWEL on the dagger’s 
glass handle.  A trickle of white SAND spills out and lands 
at his feet.  He looks down surprised...

WHAM!!!  THE ENTIRE UNIVERSE WARPS!

TIME slows to a STOP, the dagger frozen in Dastan’s hand.  
The law of physics itself is suspended:  dust and water 
droplets hang in midair.  The only element of the scene that 
remains in motion is the white-glowing sand; as it hits the 
ground, a gust of WIND blows it away...

REWIND!!

TIME RUNS BACKWARD, reversing the previous action.  Faster 
and faster -- Tamina and Dastan fight in reverse, their 
movements accelerating backward in a BLUR -- until --

DASTAN,

staring amazed at the dagger clenched in his hand, suddenly 
relaxes his tight grip.  The instant he releases the jewel, 
the sand stops pouring out -- and

THE REWIND STOPS.

EXT.  CANYON FLOOR - SUNSET [SECOND TIME]

Dastan and Tamina, together again on horseback, ride ashore 
just as they did the first time.  Tamina is repeating:

             TAMINA
      ...forbids us to take sides in your 
      wars.  Who accuses us?

Dastan jumps off the horse in confusion and terror, backs 
away from Tamina as if she’s a witch.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      What’s wrong?

             DASTAN
      You --

Turning, he points to the dusty patch of ground where they 
were just fighting.  Or were they?

Tamina is equally perplexed.  Dastan looks down at his empty 
hand -- then at the dagger, which, inexplicably, is back in 
his belt...

                                      30.

And looks up to see Tamina’s SWORD flashing toward him.
This time it’s not a complete surprise.  Dastan dodges, 
drawing his own sword to face her.

Tamina scowls and ATTACKS with renewed fury, giving it all 
she’s got.  The stronger swordsman, Dastan parries her 
attacks, his advantage increasing with each exchange.  At 
last he KNOCKS Tamina down, kicking her sword out of reach.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
        (doubting his own sanity)
      What just happened?!?

Tamina ROLLS -- snatching up her sword in one fluid movement -- 
JUMPS to her feet, and SLASHES Dastan across the chest.

Dastan looks down at the spreading stain of BLOOD soaking his 
tunic.  He takes a step forward; buckles, falls to his knees.

             TAMINA
      I am Tamina, daughter of Sarkander, 
      King of Alamut.

She takes out the RING she’s kept hidden under her slave-girl 
costume and puts it on her finger.

             DASTAN
        (mortally wounded)
      What... magic...?

He looks down at the dagger in his belt.  Draws it.

             TAMINA
      Give that to me.

Dastan studies the dagger.  The jewel gleams on its hilt, 
just above where a hand would normally grasp the dagger.  But 
if he grasps it this way, as he did when he snatched it up...

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t!

She makes a grab for the dagger -- Dastan presses the jewel.  
CLICK!  Again, sand pours from the handle -- STOPPING TIME.

REWIND!!  Back through time, reversing the preceding action --

This time, Dastan is more aware of what’s happening.  It’s as 
if he’s stepped outside himself, outside space and time, into 
a different dimension from which he can watch the rewind.    
He looks down at the dagger in his hand -- just as the last 
of the sand drains out, leaving the glass handle empty.

                                      31.

EXT.  CANYON FLOOR - SUNSET [THIRD TIME]

TIME RESUMES in the midst of their impassioned battle.

To Dastan’s amazement, his wound has vanished.  Again he 
duels Tamina, and for the third time disarms her -- KNOCKING 
her down and striking the sword from her hand.

             DASTAN
      I don’t want to hurt you.  But if 
      you pick up that sword, I’ll kill 
      you before you wound me again.

             TAMINA
      ‘Again’?

Her gaze flies to the dagger in Dastan’s belt.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      The dagger!  What have you done?!  
      You’ve used up all the sand!

Dastan checks the dagger.  Indeed, its glass handle is empty.  
For this to make sense, he needs to accept the impossible...

A SOUND of approaching HOOFBEATS.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Soldiers!

EXT.  CANYON FLOOR - SUNSET

Garsiv’s horsemen, who have taken the long way down, ride 
through the canyon.

The posse stops by the river.  They’ve lost the trail.

             GARSIV
      Spread out!  They can’t be far.

INT.  CAVE - SUNSET

NOISE of the river outside.  Dastan, Tamina and the horse 
hide inside the cave’s mouth until the HOOFBEATS recede.

             DASTAN
      This dagger is enchanted!

             TAMINA
      No longer.  Its power is gone.

Dastan presses the jewel again, and again.  Nothing happens.

                                      32.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      You held in your hand the gods’ 
      greatest gift.  And you squandered 
      it!

             DASTAN
        (wonderingly)
      A dagger that can turn back time.

             TAMINA 
      It’s our most sacred relic.  My 
      father and brother died to protect 
      it.  

             DASTAN
      Brother?

FLASH CUT:  The Alamut Warrior gallops down the rampart 
toward the open gate, trapping Dastan in between.

             TAMINA
      He was to take it to safety.  

FLASH CUT:  Dastan runs up the wall and knocks the warrior 
from the saddle.  Tamina, in hiding, watches in horror.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Now all is lost -- because of you!

             DASTAN
      Nizam is after the dagger, isn’t 
      he.

             TAMINA
      Yes.  As long as you have it, he’ll 
      never stop hunting you.
        (holds out her hand)
      Give it back to the people you 
      stole it from.

             DASTAN
        (suspicious)
      You said it’s lost its power.

             TAMINA
      It’s sacred to us.  Please.  If you 
      have any shame for what you and 
      your army did...

She steps closer, pushing the “feminine/vulnerable” tactic.

                                      33.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      I too have lost a father and a 
      kingdom.

Dastan touches Tamina’s face, a tender caress.

             DASTAN
      You are more beautiful than all the 
      women of my father’s harem.
        (drops his hand)
      One more reason to beware of you.

He goes out leaving her alone in the cave.

Tamina sets her jaw.  Resolutely, she strides after him -- 
and TRIPS over a stone.  A humiliating moment, which 
fortunately no one but herself is around to witness.

EXT.  CANYON FLOOR - SUNSET

Tamina emerges.  Dastan is already saddling the horse.

             TAMINA
      Where are you going?

             DASTAN
      We’re going.  To my brother Tus, in 
      Alamut.

             TAMINA
      Alamut?!

             DASTAN
      He must be warned of Nizam’s 
      treachery.

             TAMINA
        (in real terror)
      But you can’t!  If Nizam should --

             DASTAN
      If Nizam should what?

Tamina bites her tongue.  She’s almost said too much.  Dastan 
advances on her, sure now she’s hiding something.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      What did you say before?  I ‘used 
      up all the sand’?

             TAMINA
      Yes.  The dagger’s empty -- useless.

                                      34.

             DASTAN
      It wasn’t empty when I found it.

He stares into her eyes, trying to guess what she’s hiding.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Nizam spent his life building power 
      in my father’s court.  He risked 
      all that, for a ‘useless’ dagger?  
      There’s something you’re not 
      telling me.  Show me your hands.

Eager to please, Tamina shows two empty hands.  Dastan grabs 
both her wrists and deftly ties them together.  Over Tamina’s 
protests, he lifts her into the saddle -- his prisoner.  He 
mounts behind her.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      If you won’t tell me the truth, you 
      can tell my brother -- in Alamut.

He spurs the horse and rides off.

INT.  WAR ROOM, PALACE OF NASAF - NIGHT

Garsiv strides in, dusty from the chase and mortified by his 
failure.  Nizam turns expectantly from his conference with 
the Twins.

             GARSIV
      My lords, he has the luck of the 
      devil himself.

Nizam swallows his frustration.  Addressing the Twins --

             NIZAM
      My princes, you face a most 
      delicate decision.

             FARHAD
      I do?

             FARHAN
      What decision?

             NIZAM
      To proclaim your own brother an 
      outlaw... put a price on his 
      head... send Garsiv and myself to 
      comb the mountains until he is 
      found.

Singling out Farhad --

                                      35.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      I would not blame you, Farhad, 
      loving your youngest brother as you 
      do, if your courage faltered before 
      such a drastic step. 

             FARHAD
      Yes... No... Wait.  Why blame me?
        (pointing to Farhan)
      He likes Dastan more than I do.

             FARHAN
      No, I don’t!

             NIZAM
        (smoothly)
      Then you agree.  I bow before your 
      will.  Garsiv, prepare two 
      regiments.  We ride at first light.
        (turning to the Twins)
      Tus is our king now.  Until he 
      returns, you rule Nasaf.

             FARHAD
        (delighted)
      I rule!

             FARHAN
      I rule.

Nizam is about to clarify that he meant both of them... then, 
on second thought, simply settles into a pleased smile.

             NIZAM
      Precisely.

EXT.  MOUNTAIN PASS - DAWN 

With a THUNDER OF HOOVES, SOLDIERS of Nasaf descend on a 
CARAVAN of hundreds of travelers flowing through the pass.

The soldiers start grabbing people, searching for anyone 
remotely matching Dastan or Tamina’s description.

EXT.  MOUNTAINSIDE - DAWN

Dastan and Tamina pause on a ridge to watch the caravan 
below, and more soldiers riding toward the pass.

Intent on the problem, they don’t notice the ARCHER above, 
drawing a bead on them... until Tamina turns with a gasp. 

                                      36.

It’s a 12-year-old SHEPHERD BOY, guarding his flock.

Dastan makes a friendly “excuse us” gesture, and hustles 
Tamina along.  Fiercely scowling, the boy keeps the bow and 
arrow trained on them as they pass. 

Seized by an afterthought, Dastan turns back...

             TAMINA
      What?

                                  CUT TO:

EXT.  MOUNTAINSIDE - DAWN

Now naked, the boy runs toward his hut, shouting --

             SHEPHERD BOY
      Papa!  Papa!

Waving in his hand Dastan’s SILVER BRACELET.

EXT.  MOUNTAIN PASS - DAY

Tamina, dressed as a shepherd boy, and Dastan now ride TWO 
MULES.  Dastan has shed his princely armor and looks like any 
common traveler.  They join the bi-directional throng of 
hundreds of people and animals.   

As they approach the pass, Tamina tenses up on seeing the 
dozen SOLDIERS manning the checkpoint.

             DASTAN
      Don’t worry.  I don’t look like a 
      prince of Nasaf...
        (glances her up and down)
      ...any more than you look like a 
      girl.

Tamina glowers, insulted, but Dastan doesn’t notice.  While 
the soldiers keep a sharp lookout, Dastan and Tamina pass 
right under their noses.

But the dense crowd pushes them apart.  Focused on the danger 
from the soldiers, Dastan realizes too late that he’s been 
separated from Tamina.  Wildly, he looks around, searching --

             TAMINA
      Here I am.

Dastan turns in surprise to see Tamina, on her mule.  She 
could have easily taken the opportunity to escape.  She 
returns his gaze, as if to say:  “See?  You can trust me.”

                                      37.

Ashamed of his paranoid moment, Dastan watches Tamina ride 
past him... Then he looks down at the dagger in his belt.  
His expression darkens with distrust as he realizes:  The 
dagger is the reason she stayed.

WIDE SHOT - THE CARAVAN

Pilgrims, merchants, dervishes, civil servants... Rich and 
poor, worldly and religious, a panorama of medieval Persia, 
flowing through the mountain pass.

EXT.  DESERT - [ANOTHER] DAY

THE BLAZING SUN beats down on the parched earth as the 
caravan crosses the desert.

Pale and weak, Tamina sways in the saddle, tied in place by a 
turban-cloth.  Dastan keeps an anxious eye on her. 

A SERVANT comes up to Dastan -- part of a group of wealthier 
PERSIAN TRAVELERS passing by -- and offers a water-skin.  
Dastan indicates Tamina.  The servant lets her drink.  If the 
sight of her bound wrists surprises him, he doesn’t show it.

Dastan makes a sign of gratitude to the servant’s masters 
riding by.  In that moment we see him and Tamina as they do:  
two paupers who’ll be lucky to survive the journey.

EXT.  MOUNTAINS - [ANOTHER] DAY

Dastan and Tamina (now on foot) look down on their caravan as 
it continues without them.  They’re on their own.  In the 
distance rise the icy peaks of Tamina’s mountain kingdom.

             TAMINA
      We’ve no food or water.

             DASTAN
      God will provide.  Come.  Each day 
      that passes, my brother is in 
      danger.

He unties Tamina’s wrists -- then, evading her stare, moves 
on briskly so it’s not this big deal.  And thus misses the 
look she gives him, which is anything but reassuring.

EXT.  HILLSIDE - DAY

Dastan and Tamina climb a steep little stream until a NOMAD 
CAMP comes into view below.  A dozen tents; mules and oxen.  
Hungrily, Dastan sniffs the cooking aromas.

                                      38.

             DASTAN 
      I told you.  God will provide.

He watches from behind a rock, hiding.

             TAMINA
      You mean to steal these people’s 
      food!

             DASTAN
      They’re bandits.  It all evens out.

             TAMINA
      Bandits?

THEIR POV:  A few NOMAD MEN emerge from a tent.  Ominously, 
the men wear weapons.  The sight chills Tamina.

             DASTAN
      Wait for me here.

He dashes down the hill before Tamina can stop him.

EXT.  NOMAD CAMP - DAY 

Dastan sneaks between the tents.  There are people around, 
but he manages to avoid being seen.  He ducks into a tent.

INT.  NOMAD TENT - DAY 

Dastan checks a few bowls and a copper pot -- all empty.  
Looking around, he spots something hanging in a cloth; sniffs 
it.  Inside is a giant lump of dried buttermilk curd.  He 
tastes it: not bad.  Famished, he shoves a big handful into 
his mouth, takes the rest to go.

Startled by a MOO, he turns to see a CALF watching him from a 
dark corner of the tent.

Dastan and the calf share a moment -- “Okay, you caught me” -- 
then Dastan ducks out.

And back inside in an instant, as FEROCIOUSLY BARKING DOGS 
descend on the tent.  Dastan hastily ties the entrance flap 
shut.  The tent SHAKES as the dogs hurl themselves at it. 

EXT.  NOMAD TENT - DAY 

NOMAD BANDITS, alerted by the BARKING, come to investigate.

                                      39.

Dastan crawls out from under the other side of the tent.  
Spotting a CHICKEN strolling by, Dastan SNATCHES it and 
dashes for the hill.

A six-year-old GYPSY BOY sees him.  SHOUTS at the top of his 
lungs in gypsy language -- “There he goes!”

EXT.  HILLSIDE - DAY 

Tamina sees Dastan running up the hill toward her, chicken 
flapping madly in his grasp, dogs and nomads on his heels.

             DASTAN
      Run!

Tamina hesitates... Turns to run.  And nearly smacks into...

FAROOD

A grizzled gypsy in his fifties.  Two rough-looking BANDITS 
behind him.  Utter incredulity on Farood’s face.

Dastan arrives, stops short on seeing their escape cut off.  
Turning to face the dogs, he reaches for his sword --

             FAROOD
      Out!!

On command, the dogs fall back, snarling.

Farood looks Dastan up and down.  Dastan releases the chicken.

             DASTAN
        (re: Tamina)
      My cousin... He’s hungry. 

             FAROOD
      A man should take care of his 
      family.  I have a family too.  A 
      big family.

Farood indicates the camp below, where a crowd of curious 
NOMAD WOMEN and CHILDREN has gathered to watch.  Among them, 
the little Gypsy Boy, who glares bravely at Dastan.

             DASTAN 
      Did not the Prophet say: ‘Give 
      freely to those in need, for what 
      you give, God will replace?’

             FAROOD
      A scholar!

                                      40.

             DASTAN
      I’m only a poor student from 
      Samarkand.  My name is Ali.
        (before Tamina can speak)
      And this is my cousin, Bukbuk.  
      Alas, he’s mute.

Tamina gapes in outrage.

             FAROOD
      I am Farood.  These are my people; 
      what is mine is theirs.  Ali of 
      Samarkand, I will make you a bargain: 
      Give me that fine sword you’re 
      wearing, and I give you the chicken.  

             DASTAN
      A sword is worth more than a chicken.

             FAROOD
      A chicken is worth more to a hungry 
      thief than a sword is to a dead one.

             DASTAN
      The worth of a sword depends on 
      who’s wearing it.  To gain one sword 
      and one chicken, at a cost of --
        (surveys the opposition)
      eight men... Ten if I’m lucky... is 
      hardly taking care of one’s family.

Farood rubs his beard thoughtfully.

             FAROOD
      You have a high opinion of your own 
      swordsmanship, Ali of Samarkand.  
      Shall we put it to the test?

A GIANT BANDIT steps forward.  Seven feet tall and grinning 
evilly.  His friends place TWO SCIMITARS in his hands, which 
he BRANDISHES in a blinding display of speed and skill.

Dastan quickly recalculates the odds.

             DASTAN
      Why risk damaging such fine weapons, 
      when there’s a much easier test of 
      swordsmanship?
        (dramatic pause)
      The Challenge of Kwarzim.

The bandits exchange glances.  They’ve never heard of it.  
Tamina looks as perplexed as they do.

                                      41.

EXT.  NOMAD CAMP - DAY [MINUTES LATER]

Dastan crouches near a tent, hastily trying to fill the 
dagger with SAND from the desert as he presses the jewel 
repeatedly.  It’s not working.

             FAROOD
	(O.S.)
      Ali!  We’re waiting!

             DASTAN
      Just a minute!!

He makes a final desperate attempt, then gives up.  Taking a 
deep breath, he strides into the circle of nomads where --  

TEN COINS of various shapes and sizes wait in a row, placed 
along the flat of Dastan’s sword.

Tamina looks at Dastan in dismay.  He’s going to gamble away 
their only weapons!  Dastan gives her a reassuring look.

He picks up the sword.  Balances... Getting ready...

He catches the unnerving stare of the little Gypsy Boy -- and 
loses his concentration.  False start.  Everyone exhales.

Dastan gives the kid a reproachful look:  “Don’t do that to 
me!”  Gets ready again...

And FLIPS it.

The coins FLY everywhere.  Dastan struggles, manages to 
retain only one on his sword.  It’s a complete disaster.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      It works best with backgammon stones.

             FAROOD
      Come.  We will speak man to man.

Farood squires Dastan away.  Tamina, left alone with a dozen 
nomad bandits all staring at her, tries to strike the 
appropriate “male” attitude.

EXT.  NOMAD CAMP - DAY

Farood and Dastan pause at the edge of camp.

             FAROOD
      May I ask... after I take your sword 
      and send you on your way without a 
      chicken, what is your plan?

                                      42.

             DASTAN
      Without food or weapons, I suppose 
      we’ll die in a few days.

             FAROOD
        (nods in agreement)
      Your destination?

             DASTAN
      Alamut.  To find a cure for the 
      curse that struck my cousin dumb.

             FAROOD
      It’s not often in this wilderness 
      that I meet a man as educated as 
      myself.  Though as you see, I am 
      virile as a bull -- alas, my wives 
      have given me no sons.  Only 
      daughters.  Seven wives; eleven 
      daughters.

Dastan shakes his head in sympathy.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      This is my great sorrow.  All I 
      have learned will die with me, like 
      unpicked grapes that wither on the 
      vine -- for what good is education 
      to a woman?  A man of business 
      needs a protegé -- a partner.  
      Where will I find such a man among 
      this bunch of louts?  
        (waves toward the bandits)
      One might as easily teach a goat to 
      speak.

             DASTAN
      Your daughters are unmarried?

             FAROOD
      They are like eleven moons, each 
      more beautiful than the next.  I 
      have yet to find the man worthy of 
      them.

Dastan looks back toward camp, thinking.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      We travel the same road.  Did not 
      the Prophet say it is a duty to 
      give hospitality to those in need?  

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Tonight, before we strike camp, we 
      will cook the chicken you did not 
      win.  My gift to you and your poor 
      cousin.

It’s the chicken that clinches it -- as Farood knows.

                                      43.

             DASTAN
      And my sword?

             FAROOD
      My sword.  You may carry it, as 
      long as you are in my caravan.  
      What is in my caravan is mine; it 
      pleases me for you to carry it.

Farood strides off, leaving Dastan bemused.  Tamina, 
outraged, comes up to him.

             TAMINA
      You can’t seriously mean for us to 
      travel with these people.

             DASTAN
      Why not?

             TAMINA
      They’re gypsies!  They’d sell us 
      out for a handful of copper.

             DASTAN
      Shh!  You’re mute.

Left alone to simmer, Tamina noices a female nomad (HALEEMA) 
gazing at her.  Haleema, big enough to snap Tamina like a 
toothpick, smiles coquettishly.  Tamina scowls and looks 
away.  Haleema’s smile broadens:  She’s in love.

EXT.  MOUNTAINS - DAY 

A SCOUT PATROL of half a dozen men rides down from the 
mountains to rejoin A FULL REGIMENT of the Persian army --
hundreds of horsemen with a well-equipped supply train.

NIZAM,

riding in comfort in a covered carriage, looks up as the 
curtain parts.  It’s Garsiv, showing him -- Dastan’s 
bracelet.

             GARSIV
      A shepherd in the Alburz pass says 
      his son traded his clothes for it.  
      To a man and a woman.

                                      44.

             NIZAM
      The Alburz pass... They’re going to 
      Alamut.  Garsiv, I fear greatly for 
      our King.  We must get there first!

THE REGIMENT

redoubles its speed, horses kicking up the dust at a 
relentless pace.

EXT.  MOUNTAINS - [THE NEXT] DAY

The NOMAD CARAVAN wends its way along a precarious mountain 
path, pack animals carrying the rolled-up tents and mats. 

Tamina watches Dastan, up ahead, showing off by doing 
handsprings between two MULES.  The nomads, including the 
little boy, LAUGH and applaud.  Grinning proudly, Dastan falls 
back to rejoin Tamina.

             TAMINA
      How nice.  You’ve found friends on 
      your own level.

             DASTAN
      At least gypsies know how to have fun.

             TAMINA
      I was talking about the mules.

She rides off.  Dastan’s smile disappears.

Hearing muffled LAUGHTER, Dastan turns to see a dozen GYPSY 
WOMEN watching him.  He gives them a friendly wave.  They 
GIGGLE and whisper behind their veils.  Exotically beautiful, 
they range in age from ten to thirty.

Dastan rides over to join Farood.

             DASTAN
        (re: the women)
      You choose your words well.  A moon 
      shines at night, but even daylight 
      cannot veil its beauty.
        (off Farood’s confusion)
      Your daughters.

             FAROOD
      Oh, those are not my daughters!  I 
      wouldn’t let them dress like that.  
      Those are my daughters.

Dastan follows his gesture, sees...

                                      45.

FAROOD’S ELEVEN DAUGHTERS

riding in a tight group.  Strong as men and twice as homely, 
they glare at Dastan from their mules.  (Haleema among them.)

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      I’ve brought them up properly.  
      Hard workers -- and every one a 
      virgin.

Dastan stares at the daughters.  The daughters stare coldly 
back at him.  Any one of them could break him in two.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      As my partner you could become a 
      rich man very quickly.  Perhaps you 
      could afford to marry all my 
      daughters.

Leaning in conspiratorially --

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Do you wish to know the secret of 
      my succcess?  War.
        (confidentially)
      Alamut has fallen to a foreign 
      army.  A great piece of luck!  Not 
      for them -- for us.  War is hard on 
      soldiers, and common people.  But 
      for men of vision -- war is an 
      opportunity!  Salt, cloth, things 
      no one thinks of twice in time of 
      peace -- overnight the price goes 
      up tenfold.  This is why Farood 
      will take his tribe to Alamut!
        (a wink re: the daughters)
      Think about my offer.

Beaming, he claps Dastan on the back, and rides off.  Dastan 
looks guiltily in Tamina’s direction.

TAMINA,

riding separately, is distracted from her brooding thoughts 
by Haleema -- who offers her a water flask.

Tamina shakes her head, attempting to simultaneously convey 
masculinity, lack of interest, and muteness.  Haleema 
insists.  Tamina gives in and drinks from the flask.

Farood’s other ten daughters HOOT with delight, startling 
Tamina into a coughing fit.  Haleema beams adoringly.  
Apparently, sharing water is significant in nomad courtship.

                                      46.

             DASTAN
        (riding past her)
      Good, you’ve found a friend too!

EXT.  MOUNTAIN PASS - [ANOTHER] DAY

The nomad caravan climbs toward the pass.

Dastan pauses, hearing a distant noise behind them.  The 
noise grows into a THUNDER.  Moments later, HORSEMEN appear.  
A cavalry regiment.

The nomads stop, alarmed.  By now, they can see the banners.

             DASTAN
      Soldiers of Nasaf.

He pulls Tamina aside.  The soldiers CHARGE past in a cloud 
of dust, nearly forcing the gypsy caravan off the road.

             FAROOD
        (spits)
      Wherever their horses take them, 
      they think they own the land, the 
      sky itself.  They should stay home 
      in Nasaf.

Dastan, having kept his head down to avoid being recognized, 
now glares coldly after the retreating regiment.

As the caravan resumes its climb, Tamina draws up beside 
Dastan.  Out of the nomads’ earshot -- 

             DASTAN 
      Those are Nizam’s men.  They’ll 
      reach Alamut days before us.

             TAMINA
      Dastan, if you go to Alamut, you 
      will be captured.
        (enticingly)
      Why not just ride... far away?

             DASTAN
      Would you have me abandon my 
      kingdom?  Wander the world alone?

             TAMINA
      You wouldn’t be alone.  We both 
      have no home.

Her steady gaze holds a clear promise.  It takes Dastan’s 
breath away.  But...

                                      47.

             DASTAN
      My brother is in danger.  I must 
      warn him of Nizam’s treachery.

             TAMINA
      It’s you who should fear Nizam.  
      You have the one thing he wants.

Dastan’s expression hardens.

             DASTAN
      So that’s what you’re afraid of!  
      That Nizam will get the dagger.

             TAMINA
      Not only that.

             DASTAN
      If you want to run, run.  I won’t 
      abandon my brother.

He rides ahead, leaving Tamina frustrated.

FAROOD,

at a distance, watches with a frown.  That didn’t look like 
the kind of conversation you’d have with a mute person.

EXT.  CARAVANSARY - SUNSET

Nestled in the mountain pass, one of a cluster of 
establishments catering to travelers.  The nomads feed and 
water their animals at the large central trough, while in the 
surrounding BAZAAR merchants hawk their wares.

This is the crossroads of the world.  The locals are 
Mongolian, and wear the boots and fur hats of the steppe; the 
other travelers run the gamut of the Silk Road, from Arab to 
Chinese.

As Tamina struggles with a heavy water bucket, Haleema 
effortlessly takes it from her, and with a sweet parting 
remark in nomad-speak, carries it away.  Farood translates:

             FAROOD
      She says your eyes tell her what is 
      in your heart, without speaking.
        (to Ali)
      Ali, you’d better move fast.  Your 
      cousin is small -- but he’s quick.

Farood JOLTS Tamina with a cheerful back-slap, and moves on.  
Dastan is suddenly chilled by the sight of...

                                      48.

A GROUP OF NASAF SOLDIERS

bullying their way through the bazaar, questioning the 
MERCHANTS, who plead ignorance.  Their leader is Garsiv -- 
the relentless captain of guards who led the horseback chase.

Tamina sees them too.  Thinking fast, Dastan grabs Farood and 
guides him toward the nearest inn, to escape the soldiers.

             DASTAN
      Come, Farood.  Let’s eat; I’m 
      starving.

             FAROOD
      These places are too expensive!

             DASTAN
      I have money.  And we need to talk 
      seriously.  I’ve been thinking 
      about your offer...

             FAROOD
      You have money??

As Dastan pushes Farood and Tamina into the inn --

INT.  INN - SUNSET

A female DANCER in her sixties gyrates listlessly to rustic 
MUSICIANS’ drums.  The tables are crowded with diverse 
travelers -- not a woman among them.  Farood, Dastan and 
Tamina share theirs with a group of NEPALESE TRADERS.

             DASTAN
      Farood, my friend... the thing 
      is... I swore long ago never to 
      marry.

             FAROOD
      Never marry?

             DASTAN
      Women’s love is fleeting, like the 
      morning dew.  Not solid like the 
      friendship of men.

Turning as if to include Tamina in the conversation --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Did not the poet say:  ‘If you 
      strive for wisdom, seek a woman’s 
      counsel -- then do the opposite.’

                                      49.

             FAROOD
      ‘To resist women is to obey God!’

Dastan checks Tamina’s reaction, is pleased to see her 
glaring at him.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Love is the surest path to misery.  
      But marriage is a good thing.  I 
      have had seven wives, and none ever 
      got the best of me.

             DASTAN
      I choose to play it safe.  ‘Live 
      with a woman as in a travelers’ 
      inn.  In the morning you depart...’

             DASTAN AND FAROOD
        (in unison)
      ‘...And another one comes in.’

Getting up, Farood laughs and claps Dastan on the back.  
Tamina’s look could kill.

             FAROOD
      Don’t move.

Farood goes to get drinks.  Scanning the room, Dastan 
notices...

LENK, the wizened Mongolian innkeeper, carrying a caged 
pigeon through a doorway into a back room.

             DASTAN
      Pigeons.
        (excited; off Tamina’s 
         questioning look)
      They have carrier pigeons here.

             TAMINA
        (urgently)
      Dastan, let’s go.  Now.  We’re not 
      safe here.

             DASTAN
      Cover for me.

He goes after Lenk, ignoring Tamina’s protest.

INT.  INN, BACK ROOM - NIGHT 

A wall of PIGEONS in cages.  Lenk sits scratching numbers in 
a ledger.  He continues to write as Dastan approaches.

                                      50.

             DASTAN
     Salaam alaikum.  I see you are not 
      only an innkeeper, but a keeper of 
      pigeons trusted by kings and 
      generals.

Lenk looks up slowly.  Takes him in.

             LENK
      Which are you?  A king or a general?

             DASTAN
      I am a humble scholar with an 
      urgent message for the prince who
      has conquered Alamut.

             LENK
      I have pigeons of Alamut, fed on 
      sweet honey in the King’s palace.  
      Here they taste honey once a month, 
      and of a poorer grade.  If I 
      release them they will fly like 
      arrows from a bow, to the sweetest 
      home they have ever known.

Dastan, anxious to get back to Farood, grabs Lenk’s quill 
brush and begins writing quickly on a tiny scrap of paper.

             DASTAN
      I need to send this message tonight.

EXT.  BAZAAR / INN - NIGHT

Garsiv and his soldiers meet a CARRIAGE borne on poles by six 
men.  The men lower the carriage and Nizam steps out.

             GARSIV
      My lord, no sign of Dastan.

             NIZAM
      Be vigilant, Garsiv.  A man who 
      murders his own father is capable 
      of anything.

INT.  INN, BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Dastan’s impatient, Lenk lecturing...

             LENK
      To raise a carrier pigeon is costly, 
      beyond the means of a scholar.  
      First, the pigeon must be...

                                      51.

Before he can explain the entire pigeon-breeding process, 
Dastan pulls out a coin purse and SLAPS it on the table.

             DASTAN
      There’s a hundred dinars.  That 
      should buy a whole coop of pigeons 
      and a jar of Damascus honey to feed 
      them.  Do we have a deal?

Lenk picks up the purse.  Its weight triggers new respect.

Just then Farood bursts in.  He’s followed by Tamina, who 
makes “sorry” eyes at Dastan.

             FAROOD
      There you are!  

He strides up to Dastan, who hastily palms his paper scroll.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Are you sending a message by pigeon?

             DASTAN
      I... yes.

             FAROOD
      You should have asked me.  In all 
      the markets from Bukhara to 
      Baghdad, no one drives a harder 
      bargain than Farood!  What’s this?
        (grabs the purse, shakes 
         out the coins)
      Have you lost your mind?
        (to Lenk)
      Ten dinars.

             LENK
      The price has already been agreed.

             DASTAN
      It’s true.

             FAROOD
      Rich as a prince or poor as a 
      beggar, one doesn’t pay three times 
      the going rate!  Fifty dinars.

             LENK
      One hundred dinars.

             FAROOD
      You are a thief, not an innkeeper!  
      Come, we’re leaving.

                                      52.

Farood grabs Dastan and hustles him out.

OUTSIDE THE DOORWAY

Dastan stops Farood.

             DASTAN
      Farood, I need to send this message!

             FAROOD
      Oh, he’ll come running after us and 
      take the fifty dinars, wait and see.

Dastan whisks the purse from Farood and reenters the back.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      No, he must come to us!
        (in frustration)
      These scholars will never 
      understand the simplest things!

INT.  BACK ROOM - DAY

Dastan hurries to the desk, Tamina right behind him.

             DASTAN
      I accept.  One hundred dinars.

He puts the money in front of Lenk -- who, offended, doesn’t 
look up from his writing --

             LENK
      No deal.

             DASTAN
      All right then, name your price.

             LENK
      There is no price!  Am I a beggar, 
      to take insults from a gypsy?

Dastan is desperate -- he’s really screwed.

             TAMINA
      Suppose I ask you.

Lenk’s pen freezes at the sound of the sweet, feminine voice.  
He looks up to see where it came from:  The shepherd boy?

Tamina removes her turban.  Shakes loose her long dark hair.  
Lenk’s whole manner changes, from brusque to courtly.

                                      53.

             LENK
      For you, the price is one hundred 
      dinars... and one dance for my 
      guests.

             DASTAN
        (instantly)
      Done.

Tamina looks at him in shock and betrayal.

A FLAPPING OF WINGS

as the PIGEON, released by the PIGEON HANDLER, takes flight.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT.  ROOF - NIGHT 

Lenk and Dastan watch the bird disappear into the night sky.  

INT.  BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Dastan descends the stairs from the roof.  He pauses guiltily 
outside a CURTAINED doorway.

             DASTAN
      It must feel good to get out of 
      those rags.

             TAMINA’S VOICE
        (coldly, from within)
      Go away.

Dastan sighs and does as requested.

INT.  INN - NIGHT

Dastan pulls up an ottoman behind Farood’s.

             FAROOD
      I don’t want to pry into your 
      business -- but, my friend -- you 
      got the worst of that bargain.

             DASTAN
        (his eyes on the stage)
      Maybe not the absolute worst.

Just then, the musicians strike up a rousing DANCE RHYTHM.  
The customers lift their heads expectantly.

                                      54.

The musicians continue... and continue.  Still the stage 
remains empty.  The BAND LEADER beckons furiously toward 
backstage; gives the crowd a phony grin.

At that moment, the FRONT DOOR OPENS.  Dastan turns to see

NIZAM, GARSIV AND SIX SOLDIERS

enter, with a blast of cold air from outside.  The soldiers 
take several tables, displacing the locals, so that Nizam can 
sit in comfort.

Dastan turns pale on seeing Nizam.  He wants to warn Tamina -- 
but there’s no time.  He settles for slouching down in his 
seat, out of Nizam’s sight-line.

This time Farood definitely notices Dastan’s reaction.  He 
looks from the soldiers to Dastan, and back again.  Starting 
to put two and two together.

ON STAGE

Tamina edges into view.  She wears a veil, and holds a scarf 
in each hand, as is traditional in Mongolian yak-herding 
regions.  She looks as if she wants to sink into the floor.  
Someone backstage SHOVES her on -- she reacts angrily.

DASTAN

winces.  The crowd is starting to mutter.  He glances 
nervously to see if Nizam’s noticed.

NIZAM AND GARSIV

Far from suspicious, Nizam seems perversely amused by the 
spectacle onstage.  Garsiv is embarrassed.

             GARSIV
      My lord, this is a low, common 
      place -- not worthy of your...

             NIZAM
      Garsiv, you have no romance in your 
      soul.  The girl is uncommonly 
      lovely.  A pity she can’t dance.

DASTAN,

hiding behind Farood, frantically gestures to Tamina to 
“dance.”  She glares back at him.  He models, more 
explicitly, that she needs to move her hips.  Then he sees 
Farood looking at him.

                                      55.

             DASTAN
        (”grooving”)
      The music is good, isn’t it?

TAMINA

ventures a timid dance step.  The crowd BOOS.  Someone throws 
a chicken bone at the stage.

Dastan makes more emphatic “dance” gestures for Tamina behind 
Farood’s back, indicating the soldiers with his eyes.

Tamina looks.  Registers Nizam’s presence.

Tamina’s expression becomes cunning.  Glaring defiantly at 
Dastan, she shakes her booty in the manner he advised.  The 
crowd HOOTS and applauds.  The band leader, relieved, kicks 
the music up a notch.

Tamina DANCES, with plenty of hip gyrations and scarf-
swirling.  Her eyes glint with mischief and revenge.

Nizam is riveted -- gripped by total, utter lust.

Farood chooses this moment to rise.  Dastan, intent on 
watching Tamina, barely notices Farood melt into the crowd.  

With an eye on the soldiers, Tamina dances off the stage, 
cutting a swath through the room -- straight toward Dastan.  
Alarmed, Dastan ducks under the table, baffling his neighbors.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      I think I dropped some...

Tamina pulls Dastan to his feet.  She dances seductively 
around him.  Her hands caress his body, without actually 
touching.  Her breath sears his cheek through the veil.  

THE NOMADS AND YAK HERDERS

stare open-mouthed.  They’ve never seen anything like this.  
Some DISAPPROVING TRADERS actually walk out.  The gypsy boy, 
his sight blocked by grownups, strains for a better view.   

NIZAM

speaks to Garsiv, without taking his eyes off Tamina:

             NIZAM
      Whatever that girl costs -- pay it.

             GARSIV
      Yes, my lord.

                                      56.

FAROOD,

meanwhile, has edged up to Lenk, the innkeeper.

             FAROOD
      Those soldiers.  In the 
      marketplace.  Do you know who they 
      were looking for?

             LENK 
        (watching the dancer)
      I mind my own business.

             FAROOD
      I heard a merchant mention a 
      reward.  A thousand dinars.  That’s 
      good business... for the man who 
      can give them what they seek.

Lenk plays deaf, communicating clear disdain for the gypsy.

TAMINA AND DASTAN

She’s outdoing herself, making Dastan the target of an erotic 
floor show that has riveted the whole room’s attention.  He 
hisses out of the corner of his mouth --

             DASTAN 
      That’s enough!

Tamina keeps it up, smiling wickedly; she draws a gossamer 
scarf across Dastan’s face.  He’s sweating bullets.

Before he’s quite realized what’s happening, she’s drawn the 
DAGGER from his belt -- wrapping it in several turns of her 
scarf -- and is dancing away.

Outraged, Dastan starts to go after her -- then stops.  He 
can’t risk blowing his cover in front of the soldiers.

Tamina dances back to the stage; she’s got what she wanted.  
With a final flourish of scarves, she disappears through the 
curtain.

The room ERUPTS.  They’ll be talking about this for months.

DASTAN,

glowering, jumps to his feet.  He makes a beeline for the 
stage, but his way is blocked by the CROWD of Tamina’s 
admirers wanting to go backstage -- Lenk patiently handling 
inquiries, MERCHANTS thrusting COIN PURSES at him --

Frustrated, Dastan does a 180, and pushes out the front door. 

                                      57.

FAROOD

sees Dastan go.  Eyes hard with purpose, he steps forward...

GARSIV

threads his way back through the crowd to the soldiers.

             GARSIV
      Find out where that girl went!

EXT.  BAZAAR - NIGHT

Tamina hurries down alleys, glancing over her shoulder.  
MONGOLIAN MEN, loitering in groups in the darkness, notice.

DASTAN

climbs onto a rooftop -- and higher, until he has a vantage 
point of the surrounding streets and alleys.

Nimble as a cat, he runs and jumps from one rooftop to the 
next, scanning all the while for a glimpse of his prey.  His 
face is grim with anger and resolve.

EXT.  INN - NIGHT

The Nasaf soldiers emerge from the inn and mount their 
horses.  A crowd of curious PATRONS follows them out.

The soldiers ride off through the bazaar.  The crowd BUZZES:  
What’s going on?  The dancing girl’s disappeared?

EXT.  BAZAAR / ROOFTOPS - NIGHT

Dastan spots the soldiers on horseback, fanning through the 
streets below.  He’s got to reach Tamina first.

At last he spots her, in the darkness of an alleyway.  She’s 
untying someone’s pony to steal it.

With reckless speed, Dastan slides down a series of ladders, 
awnings and drainpipes --

TAMINA,

just mounting the pony, looks up startled as Dastan LANDS on 
top of her, tackling her to the ground.

They roll together -- Tamina draws the dagger -- Dastan 
wrenches it from her grasp.  Now he’s mad.

                                      58.

             DASTAN
      What are you going to do?  Kill me?  
      Again?  

Taking in the mountains with an angry sweep of his arm --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Where would you go?  You’d die!  
      Don’t you understand that?

             TAMINA
      Yes!  I’d die, and the dagger would 
      be safe.  From you.
        (furiously)
      Why should I trust you?  You 
      plundered our city.  You call 
      yourself a king’s son, but you’re 
      no better than a thief and a 
      gypsy.  A real king cares for his 
      people.  My people have no one -- 
      no one but me.

Tamina stalks off.  And ruins her exit by snagging her dress 
on a ladder, knocked askew by Dastan’s descent.  He tries to 
help.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Leave me alone!

Angrily she tries to yank free, but only succeeds in RIPPING 
the dress worse.  Suddenly they’re face to face -- Tamina 
with her hair down, half-disrobed --

Dastan speaks from the heart, raw and unplanned --

             DASTAN
      I wish I were a gypsy, instead of a 
      king’s son.  When you asked me to 
      ride off with you, I’d have given 
      you a different answer.

They stare deep into each other’s eyes...

A FOOTSTEP.  Both whirl to see Farood staring slack-jawed.

Farood looks at Tamina -- her face dirty and unveiled, she’s 
clearly the “shepherd boy” -- then, accusingly, at Dastan.  
His suspicions are confirmed.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Farood... I can explain.

Just then, the six Nasaf soldiers ride up behind Farood.  
They take in the scene.

                                      59.

Dastan and Tamina are frozen:  They’re caught!

It’s Farood who rises to the occasion.  Turning to the 
soldiers, he appeals to them as men of the world --

             FAROOD
      Come!  Can’t two young people have a 
      little privacy!  We may wish we were 
      in his shoes, but fair’s fair!

It breaks the tension.  The soldiers LAUGH and, making ribald 
remarks among themselves, turn around and ride back toward 
town... followed by Farood, who can be heard to mutter 
wistfully...

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      A thousand dinars.

Dastan and Tamina watch until the soldiers are out of sight.  
Then, before Dastan can speak, Tamina snatches up her torn 
clothes and runs off into the woods.

Dastan slumps with a sigh.  Once again, he’s got the dagger 
but lost the girl.

INT.  CARRIAGE - NIGHT

Nizam sits in his luxurious carriage, quietly waiting.

He looks up expectantly as a SOLDIER parts the curtain.

             SOLDIER
      My lord -- the dancing girl.

The soldier ushers the girl into the carriage.  Nizam’s 
excitement vanishes when he sees her face.

She’s the sixty-year-old dancer we first saw onstage.  She 
gives Nizam a toothless grin.

             NIZAM 
      Garsiv!!

EXT.  STEPPE - DAY [MORNING] 

The pigeon soars overhead, winging toward home, when --

The razor-sharp talons of a FALCON slam into it in mid-
flight.  The birds plummet together to earth.

On a distant ridge, a hunting party of MONGOL TRIBESMEN ride 
toward the landing site.

                                      60.

THE DEAD PIGEON

is retrieved by a MONGOL HUNTER whose fellows crowd around 
curiously, speaking a guttural Foreign dialect.

At first they’re disappointed by the bird’s small size -- 
then they notice the scroll under its wing.  They exchange a 
look:  Uh-oh.

EXT.  MOUNTAINS - [ANOTHER] DAY

The nomad caravan struggles uphill against freezing WIND and 
SNOW.  (Tamina is a shepherd-boy again.)

Dastan sees Tamina having a hard time; rides over to help her.  
She rides on stoically, too proud to accept his help.  Haleema 
intervenes, putting a blanket around Tamina’s shoulders to 
warm her.

EXT.  CITADEL OF ALAMUT - [ANOTHER] DAY 

Nizam, Garsiv and their regiment ride in through the gates.

Tus awaits them, trembling with emotion.  Nizam dismounts, 
his expression sorrowful and compassionate.

             TUS
      Nizam, tell me it’s not true.  My 
      brother did not kill our father.

             NIZAM
      Nor would I believe it, had I not 
      seen it with my own eyes.  Would 
      that I had died rather than live to 
      witness such a deed... My King.

Nizam prostrates himself before Tus.

EXT.  VALLEY - DAY

From a distance, we see the Mongol Tribesmen in discussion 
with a PERSIAN MERCHANT.

The negotiations finished, the merchant rides on with his 
party; the tribesmen ride back toward the mountains.

MOVE IN until the Merchant is upon us and we can see, worn 
around his neck for safe-keeping -- Dastan’s scroll.

                                      61.

EXT.  CITADEL OF ALAMUT - [ANOTHER] DAY

A MASSIVE EXCAVATION PROJECT is under way in the main 
courtyard.  HUNDREDS OF SLAVES overseen by soldiers dig a pit 
in the demolished temple entrance.

ARCHERS posted on the walls stand guard while, under the 
overseers’ whips, SLAVES with pick-axes chip away at the 
gaping hole in the stone plaza.  Ropes and pulleys haul up 
debris, which slaves cart off in wheelbarrows.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Tus and Nizam surveying the excavations from a battlement.  
Nearby stand Garsiv and bodyguards.

             TUS
      We should be home, in Nasaf.  This 
      search has cost us too many lives 
      already -- and we’ve found nothing.

             NIZAM
      My lord, the blood our men have 
      shed is itself proof the armories 
      are here.  Why else would these 
      people build such defenses -- booby-
      trap their own citadel -- if not to 
      hide some great secret?  Only be 
      patient, my King.

An OFFICER approaches down the battlement.  Far behind him 
waits the Persian Merchant, under armed escort.

             OFFICER
      This merchant has a message.  Says 
      it came from a royal carrier pigeon. 

Nizam takes the scroll.  Unrolls it.  His face remains 
impassive; he pockets the message.

             NIZAM
      The man did well.  Reward him.
        (to Tus)
      My lord, as I feared.  Your brother 
      -- may his name be cursed -- has 
      been spotted on the road to Alamut.  
      You are in danger.
        (to Garsiv)
      Garsiv, double the guard around the 
      King.  This time we will be ready.

                                      62.

EXT.  CITADEL BRIDGE / GATE - DAY

Occupied by the Persian army, the citadel of Alamut stands 
exposed in broad daylight and shorn of its mystery.

SOLDIERS stationed at the entrance do a thorough job of 
checking everyone who goes in or out.  Farood and his nomads 
wait on the bridge for their turn.

             FAROOD
      We who have crossed the Hindu Kush 
      and endured every hardship of God’s 
      creation -- now we wait.

Dastan and Tamina exchange nervous glances:  Exposed like 
this, they’re in the greatest danger yet.

             DASTAN
      Farood, there’s something I have to 
      tell you.  When we met --

             FAROOD
      Nonsense.  You have nothing to tell 
      me.  Ali, my friend, I have been 
      thinking of the tale of Layla and 
      Majnun -- the young scholar who 
      abducted his beloved from her 
      husband’s home.

             DASTAN
        (perplexed)
      He did not abduct her.  Majnun 
      spent his life pining for Layla, 
      and died a wanderer in the desert.

             FAROOD
      Ah well, you are more educated than 
      I.  In the version I heard, they 
      escaped together -- under the noses 
      of her husband’s men.

             DASTAN
      How did they do that?

             FAROOD
      His friends created a disturbance 
      while the lovers slipped through 
      the gates.

Dastan glances at the checkpoint.  Their turn is coming up.

                                      63.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Ali, I am not a man to pry into 
      matters that do not concern me.  
      But I advise you to consider my 
      version of the story.
        (into Dastan’s ear)
      Anyway, do you really think I would 
      let my daughters marry such a man -- 
      a womanizer with no respect for the 
      law?

Before Dastan can reply, Farood hurries to intercept a 
SOLDIER who is just lifting the tarp covering the wagon:

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Ah, ah!  Please!  You may search 
      me, and every member of my tribe -- 
      but to search that wagon is a 
      waste of time.

             SOLDIER
      Stand back.

The soldiers restrain Farood, who becomes agitated.

             FAROOD
      Why do you not search the camels 
      and the mules?  Why this absurd 
      fascination with that cart?  Take 
      your hands off me!

Dastan nudges Tamina.  They edge around the commotion, while 
Farood struggles like a madman in the soldiers’ grip.

The soldiers SLASH the tarp and RIP it from the cart.  
CHICKENS FLY OUT into their faces.  The nomads race to catch 
the escaping poultry. 

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Now who will compensate me for my 
      chickens?  Tie the cloth!  In God’s 
      name, tie it before they all escape!

Dastan sees the gypsy boy watching him.  He winks and waves 
goodbye, and slips through the gate with Tamina.  Haleema, 
bereft, wants to follow -- but her sisters hold her back.

EXT.  COURTYARD - DAY

Tamina rips off the turban and ties her hair in the more 
feminine, local fashion.  Hiding behind a low wall, they 
watch the excavation -- Dastan curiously, Tamina with horror.

                                      64.

             TAMINA
      They’ve breached the temple.

Dastan scans the battlements.  Suddenly he points.

             DASTAN
      There!

HIS POV:  FORTY ARMED HORSEMEN assembling on the far side of 
the courtyard, with banner and drums.

Tus descends the staircase with Garsiv and soldiers.  The 
sight of his brother excites and gladdens Dastan.

As Tus mounts his horse, Garsiv steps aside, unblocking 
Dastan’s view of someone else.  Dastan’s face hardens.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Nizam.  Tus didn’t get my message.

             TAMINA
      Or he didn’t believe it.

Nizam exchanges last words with Tus, who rides off.  The royal 
party thunders across the courtyard and out the main gate.

             DASTAN
      One horse per man, no supplies.  
      He’ll be back by nightfall.

Dastan and Tamina are pale and silent, thinking their 
separate thoughts.  Suddenly Dastan turns on Tamina.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      What are they digging for?  What’s 
      Nizam after?  

             TAMINA
      I... I don’t know.

             DASTAN
      Oh yes you do, and you’re going to 
      tell me!

Desperately, Tamina abandons all guile.

             TAMINA 
      Please.  We must flee.  The temple 
      is defiled; your brother is in 
      Nizam’s power.  If the dagger 
      should fall into his hands now...

             DASTAN
      What would he do with it?

                                      65.

Tamina stares at him in anguish.  Unable to answer, she 
escapes into a doorway.  Dastan pursues her.

INT.  DOORWAY - DAY

Tamina is in shadow, against a tiled wall.  The atmosphere is 
hushed and secret.

             DASTAN
      If you want me on your side, then 
      tell me:  What’s under this temple?

Long silence.  It seems Tamina isn’t going to answer.

             TAMINA
      ‘The sun god looked down and saw 
      the wickedness of man, and the 
      light became darkness in his sight.  
      He sent a great sand storm to 
      destroy every living thing, wipe 
      clean the face of earth.’

Dastan shivers.  The recitation has an otherworldly quality; 
it’s coming from a Tamina he doesn’t know.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      ‘But the Great Mother said to the 
      sun god:  “Who are you to destroy 
      my creation?”  And she blew the 
      sands into an Hourglass so strong 
      no sword nor spear could break it.  
      And thus she spoke:  ”These are the 
      Sands of Time.  As you decreed, all 
      that lives shall die -- but not at 
      once.  Rather day by day, hour by 
      hour, as the sand flows through the 
      hourglass, so shall life slip away 
      from all my children.  When it is 
      empty, then and only then shall the 
      face of earth be cold and dead 
      forevermore.’”

Her words die away into reverential silence -- which Dastan 
breaks.

             DASTAN
      First of all, there is only one 
      God.  Second, the way I heard it, 
      it was a flood, not a sand storm.

             TAMINA
      You asked me what lies beneath our 
      temple.

                                      66.

             DASTAN
      You’re telling me Nizam destroyed 
      two kingdoms... sacrificed my 
      father... for an hourglass?

             TAMINA
      The hourglass.  For ten thousand 
      years the Sands of Time have rested 
      here in Alamut.  They are the time 
      of all mankind.  The dagger is the 
      key -- the only key, entrusted to 
      us by the gods.  The only blade 
      that can break the glass.

With desperate urgency --

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Now do you see?  Our lives, our 
      kingdoms mean nothing.  By bringing 
      the dagger here, we’ve put Time 
      itself in danger.  That’s why we 
      must flee.

Dastan walks to the doorway, stands thinking.  Outside, in 
the blazing sun, the back-breaking labor continues.

             DASTAN
      We can fill it.

             TAMINA
      What?!

             DASTAN
      If I fill the dagger with sand from 
      the hourglass, I can turn back time.  
      Right?

             TAMINA
      One minute’s worth.  How will that 
      help us?

             DASTAN
      Between me and my brother is an 
      entire army.  I’ll be dead before I 
      get near him.  But with a dagger 
      that can turn back time -- I might 
      just have a chance.

             TAMINA
      It’s out of the question.  Even our 
      high priestess is forbidden to 
      approach the Hourglass except in --

                                      67.

             DASTAN
      Superstition.  If Nizam isn’t 
      frightened by your rules, why should 
      we be?

He steps closer, persuading --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Tamina, I give you my word my 
      brother is an honorable man.  When 
      he learns the truth, our army will 
      leave your city.  And I’ll give you 
      the dagger.  I swear it on the 
      honor of Nasaf.

That’s a significant promise.  Tamina absorbs it.

             TAMINA
      Your brother is king.  Don’t make 
      promises you can’t keep.

             DASTAN
      When I was ten, my father bought a 
      stallion so wild, none of our 
      warriors dared ride it.  I was sure 
      I could.
        (beat)
      The warriors were right.  It was Tus 
      who jumped into the ring.  Pulled me 
      out from under the stamping hooves 
      before they crushed my skull.  He 
      broke an arm and two ribs; I got off 
      with a few scratches.  Since then 
      we’ve had our differences... but 
      he’d still give his life for me, and 
      I for him.

             TAMINA
      If we should fail...

             DASTAN
      ‘If we should fail’!  A week ago, 
      your plan was ‘die in the desert.’  
      Look how far we’ve gotten!
        (persuasive)
      What if we succeed?  That’s what 
      you should be thinking.  You’ll 
      deliver your people from slavery, 
      make the Sands safe for all time.  
      Tamina -- you’re a king’s daughter.  
      Giving up is not a plan.

Tamina meets his gaze.  In her eyes, a glimmer of new hope... 
and resolve.

                                      68.

EXT.  COURTYARD - DAY

PICKAXES SWING rhythmically, chopping at the ancient stone... 
Overseers CRACK their WHIPS... And through it all strides the 
impresario who has set this vast undertaking in motion.

             NIZAM
      Faster!  Tell them if they don’t 
      break through by nightfall, their 
      wives and children will dig in 
      their place!

EXT.  TEMPLE - DAY

With soldiers everywhere, the city’s street life is subdued.  
Dastan notices they’re heading away from the excavation site.  

             DASTAN
      Where are we going?

             TAMINA
      They’re digging straight down to 
      the hourglass.  They don’t know 
      about the secret entrance.

             DASTAN
      How do you know about it?

             TAMINA
      Every day, since I was ten years 
      old, instead of riding or playing 
      with my brothers, they made me come 
      here.  Be still, be quiet, stand 
      straight.  For hours.  Repeating 
      everything by heart, over and over.

             DASTAN
        (realizing)
      You’re the High Priestess.

Tamina leads the way into a side doorway of the temple, 
behind the backs of the SOLDIERS on guard.  Dastan follows.

INT.  TEMPLE - DAY

The ancient walls contain carvings and paintings, foreign to 
Dastan’s eyes.  The temple has been ruthlessly sacked.  
Tamina’s silent outrage mounts... until suddenly, at the 
doorway to a stairwell, she stops to face Dastan. 

                                      69.

             TAMINA 
      Dastan.  Swear to me you will keep 
      your promise.

             DASTAN
      I swear!  Why do women always think 
      the value of a man’s word increases 
      the more times he repeats himself?

             TAMINA
      All right.  

             DASTAN
      When we men settle a question, it’s 
      settled.  We don’t feel compelled to 
      constantly revisit it like anxious --

             TAMINA
      I said all right!

             DASTAN
      All right, then.
        (about to expand further)
      All right.

INT.  STAIRWELL / UNDERGROUND CORRIDOR - DAY

Dastan follows Tamina down the stairwell.  As they emerge 
into a narrow torchlit corridor, Tamina turns pale and ducks 
back out of sight.

             TAMINA
      Oh, no.

Dastan peers around the corner.

HIS POV:  A tiled wall has been demolished, EXPOSING a 
passageway.  The boarded-up opening is guarded by SOLDIERS.

             DASTAN
      Your secret entrance isn’t so 
      secret.

Tamina is silent, processing this latest outrage.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Only three men on guard.

Just then, the CLATTER of more soldiers coming downstairs.  
Dastan slumps:  He can’t get a break.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Push me.

                                      70.

             TAMINA
      What?

Dastan seizes her in a drunken embrace.  Instinctively, Tamina 
gives him a mighty push.  Dastan trips and half-falls down the 
stairs, as THREE MORE SOLDIERS arrive.

             DASTAN 
        (slurring his words)
      Hey!  You did that on purpose!

             TAMINA
        (catching on)
      Touch me again and I’ll kill you!  
      You -- smelly drunk!

             SOLDIER IN CHARGE
      What’s going on here?

             DASTAN
      She pushed me!

             TAMINA
      He told me my husband was down here 
      with my sister!  It was just a 
      trick to get me to follow him!

             SOLDIER IN CHARGE
      The temple is off limits.  I could 
      have you put to death.

             DASTAN
      I didn’t touch her!  All I said was --

             GAMBLING SOLDIER
      Dastan?!

Dastan looks up, startled, to recognize the Gambling Soldier 
who beat him at backgammon.

Before Dastan can speak, Tamina’s SWORD slashes across the 
Soldier-in-Charge’s body.  As he crumples, dead on his feet, 
she whirls to the Gambling Soldier --

             DASTAN
      NO!!

Dastan blocks Tamina’s sword as it SLASHES -- saving the 
Gambling Soldier’s life.  She gives him a look of outrage.

The men descend on them.  Dastan jumps to Tamina’s defense, 
battling to protect her -- while protecting the soldiers from 
her.  He’s fighting to disarm and wound rather than kill, all 
the while shouting --

                                      71.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Run!  Run away!!

But the soldiers don’t run.  Even as more of them fall 
wounded, the rest fight on.

In despair, Dastan spots a support propping up the ceiling.  
He grabs Tamina, hurls her out of the way, and STRIKES at it 
with his sword.  The passageway COLLAPSES in a rain of 
debris, temporarily separating them from the soldiers.

Dastan and Tamina sprint down the corridor to the boarded-up 
entrance.  Tamina’s furious.

             TAMINA
      Congratulations.  Now they know 
      we’re here.

INT.  SECRET PASSAGEWAY ENTRANCE

Dastan pries off a board and slips through, followed by 
Tamina.  Their torches illuminate a musty passageway, far 
more ancient than the temple built over it.  Hushed, echoing.  
An underground RIVER flows somewhere just out of sight.

Tamina recites a PRAYER in ancient Foreign, praising the gods 
and asking permission to enter.  Dastan shifts uncomfortably 
and looks elsewhere.

Carved into the stone wall is an enormous LION FACE, 
primitive and terrifying.  Intrigued by what looks like BLOOD 
around its jaws, Dastan peers closer.  Tamina yanks him back.

             TAMINA 
      This isn’t a game.  This place is 
      sacred.  There’s a ritual for how 
      you approach it.  The sun god will 
      be angry if we don’t show respect.

             DASTAN
      Your sun god is a lion?
        (off her exasperated look)
      All right!  I’ll just follow you.

As they pass the lion, Tamina keeps her back to the opposite 
wall, giving the snarling face a wide berth... all the while 
uttering respectful PRAYERS and making little bows toward it.  
Dastan rolls his eyes, and half-heartedly follows suit.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      I wonder why that entrance wasn’t 
      better guarded.

                                      72.

Tamina’s torch illuminates the stone floor as they go.  She 
grabs Dastan to stop him from stepping in a certain place.

             TAMINA
      Do you see that black paving-stone?

Dastan looks closely; he can make out a few faded flakes of 
what might have been black paint, a thousand years ago.

             DASTAN
      I wouldn’t call it black.  Maybe it’s 
      a little bit darker than the others.

             TAMINA
      We’re in the sun god’s temple.  The 
      black stones represent man’s 
      wickedness, the greed and selfishness 
      that brought the sandstorm on us.  We 
      don’t step on the black stones.

             DASTAN 
      All right, look.  I don’t want to 
      disrespect your religion.  It’s 
      just that we may not have time to 
      follow every little superstition...

             TAMINA
      Dastan!

Her eyes flash dangerously.  Dastan backs down.

             DASTAN
      All right.  No black stones.
        (under his breath)
      Why did I want her to come along?

As they go, Dastan notices the signs of soldiers’ recent 
activity:  Crates, ropes, newly built scaffolding.  And... 
sinister dark stains on the stone walls and floor.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Blood.

Tamina stops him with a hand on his arm.  The passageway ends 
abruptly in a vast, dark underground LAKE.

             DASTAN
      Now what?
        (off Tamina’s dismay)
      Please don’t tell me we have to 
      swim to the hourglass.

                                      73.

             TAMINA
      This wasn’t underwater the last 
      time I was here.  I told you, the 
      sun god protects our temple.  Your 
      soldiers desecrated it.  

Dastan gazes out at the water, thinking.  Then he DIVES in.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Wait!

INT.  UNDERWATER PASSAGEWAYS

Dastan swims past submerged ancient murals.  Tamina catches 
up, swimming behind him.

Tamina tugs at Dastan’s heel to save him from a wrong turn; 
fast-kicks past him, showing the correct path.

Tamina’s trouser leg snags on something sharp.  She THRASHES, 
stuck.  Dastan arrives, RIPS her free --

THE BLOATED FACE OF A DROWNED SOLDIER POPS UP IN FRONT OF HER!

Tamina kicks toward the surface in terror.  But there is no 
surface; the water fills the passage to the top.  Dastan 
grabs her, guides her along until --

Gasping for breath, they surface in an AIR POCKET.

             DASTAN
      So this is as far as they got.  I’m 
      starting to understand why they’re 
      digging from above.

             TAMINA
      I know where we are.

She DIVES UNDERWATER again before Dastan can stop her.  
Moments later, with a great, hidden GRINDING of stone sliding 
against stone, the WATER DRAINS from the passageway.

Tamina surfaces beside Dastan.  They tread water until 
they’re standing on solid ground.  Tamina makes a quick bow 
and PRAYER of thanks to a stone lion carved in the wall.  She 
catches Dastan staring at her admiringly.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      What?

             DASTAN
      Nothing.

                                      74.

Tamina gives herself a quick check-over.  Is Dastan starting 
to respect her, or is it just her clinging wet clothes?

EXT.  COURTYARD - DAY

Nizam turns from the dig as Garsiv, very pale, strides to 
meet him.  Behind Garsiv waits the Gambling Soldier.

             GARSIV
      My lord.  Dastan is here -- in 
      Alamut.

INT.  BROKEN BRIDGE CHASM

Tamina and Dastan approach the water-filled CHASM where the 
rope bridge used to be.  Remnants of rope dangle uselessly 
from either side.  The rock wall has partially collapsed, 
smashing the bridge and flooding the chasm with water.  

             DASTAN
      Sun god?

             TAMINA
      They must have weakened that wall 
      with their digging.  Now we can’t 
      get across.

Dastan’s eyes rove to the far wall.

             DASTAN
      I think I can.

             TAMINA
      How?

Dastan backs up for a running start.  Tamina grabs him.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t be a fool.  You can’t jump 
      that far.

             DASTAN
      I know that.  I’m not crazy.

Before Tamina can stop him, he SPRINTS toward the edge... but 
instead of jumping the gap, he RUNS ALONG THE WALL for a good 
20 feet... until inevitably, gravity catches up with him, his 
feet slip-slide, and he starts to fall.

Dastan PUSHES OFF the wall with his feet, propelling himself 
across the gap -- GRABS a crevice in the rock wall opposite, 
barely saving himself from the plunge --

                                      75.

-- as SPIKES spring up below, breaking the surface of the 
muddy water covering the bottom of the pit.  Tamina GASPS!

Dastan begins to rock-climb across the wall, using the most 
miniscule hand and footholds.  He nearly falls -- more SPIKES 
spring up below -- but he hangs on, keeps going.  Tamina 
watches, her heart in her mouth.

At last Dastan reaches the far wall.  It’s sheer, not a 
handhold in sight.  He gropes for one anyway.  His hand SLIPS 
on the slick rock.

Tamina’s dying... She can’t believe he’s made it this far.

The chasm is too wide at this end for Dastan to jump back to 
the opposite wall.  Nevertheless, he braces his feet against 
the rock -- and LAUNCHES himself out into space.

Sailing over the pit... He’ll fall short of the wall...

He GRABS the end of the broken rope bridge as he falls past 
it.  Hangs on, twisting and dangling.  It holds.

Dastan climbs up the rope bridge to safety.  Brushes himself 
off, shouts reproachfully at Tamina across the chasm --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      You could have warned me about the 
      spikes!

             TAMINA
      How do I get across?

Dastan looks around.  The realization grows on both of them:  
There’s no way Tamina can do what he just did.

             DASTAN
      We’ll figure something out.

But his self-assurance rings hollow and they both know it.

             TAMINA 
      No.  You’re almost there.
        (Dastan looks at her)
      In the top of the hourglass is all 
      time yet to come.  In the bottom is 
      time past.  Between the two, it 
      narrows to the width of a single 
      moment: the Now.  That is where you 
      must insert the dagger’s handle.

             DASTAN
      You have to do it.  You’re the high 
      priestess.  

                                      76.

             TAMINA
      Hold the dagger by the blade.  The 
      handle will catch the sand as it 
      falls.  This is important:  The blade 
      must never touch the hourglass.

Their eyes meet across the chasm.  Both acknowledging the 
trust she’s just placed in him.  And the possibility that 
this may be the last time they see each other.

             DASTAN
      Just make sure you’re here when I 
      get back.  

He disappears.  Tamina watches him go.  Suddenly, she calls --

             TAMINA
      Watch out for the black stones!!

Her voice dies away in the silence.  Then, hearing an ECHO of 
distant noise, she glances nervously over her shoulder...

INT.  TEMPLE STAIRWELL - DAY

Nizam and Garsiv stand by as dozens of PERSIAN SOLDIERS pour 
past them down the stairwell.  Garsiv’s face is pale. 

             GARSIV
      These men go to their deaths.

             NIZAM
      As long as Dastan dies, their 
      sacrifice will not be in vain.

Not for the first time, Garsiv gives Nizam a strange look:  
Who is this cold and ruthless man whose orders he follows 
unquestioningly?

INT.  UNDERGROUND CORRIDOR

Soldiers swarm into the boarded-up passageway like a medieval 
SWAT team on the worst mission of all time.

INT.  HOURGLASS PASSAGEWAY

Dastan threads his way through a narrow corridor, stepping 
over the occasional black tile.  With each step he takes, 
nothing happens, and he grows more confident.

He comes to another stone LION like the first.  Sighing, he 
does as Tamina did, placing his back to the opposite wall.

                                      77.

             DASTAN
      Lion, I cannot bow down before you, 
      for no one deserves worship but God.  
      But I do respect you, as a lion -- 
      and I ask you not to bite me.

Pleased with this compromise, Dastan passes the lion.  

And catches himself just about to step on a faded, black-
painted stone.

He frowns; examines it.  Looks around for traps.  None he can 
see.

Looking ahead, he realizes that half the paving stones in the 
corridor ahead of him are black.

INT.  BROKEN BRIDGE CHASM

By now Tamina can clearly hear the echoing SHOUTS and 
FOOTSTEPS of the soldiers coming.  Where’s Dastan??

INT.  HOURGLASS PASSAGEWAY

Dastan, faced with the black stones, sighs.

             DASTAN
      God forgive me -- but she believes 
      in it, so what am I to do?

With a martyred air, he hop-scotches down the corridor, from 
one safe stone to the next, until he reaches the alcove at 
the passageway’s midpoint.

As he pauses to take a breather before the final section, his 
eye is drawn by a painted MURAL, circa 300 B.C., depicting 
the great sandstorm.

DASTAN STARES AT THE MURAL, TRANSFIXED.

With awe and wonder he experiences its full religious impact.  

An angry sun god with the head of a lion... Multitudes 
cowering before the destructive power of the sandstorm, a 
blinding blast from the heavens... The hourglass, handed down 
to earth by a benevolent earth mother.

For the first time he entertains the possibility that he may 
be in over his head.

                                      78.

INT.  SECRET PASSAGEWAY ENTRANCE

Soldiers stampede down the corridor.  We HEAR, rather than 
see, the fast-whipping SCYTHE BLADES and ensuing SCREAMS of 
agony -- ominously, suggesting how the bloodstains on the 
walls got there.  The survivors keep going.

INT. HOURGLASS PASSAGEWAY

Dastan looks ahead.  The second half of the passageway is 
filled with even more black stones than the first.  He gulps.

Carefully, he hops between the increasingly scarce non-black 
stones.  To avoid getting stranded, he’s forced to start 
using the walls, clinging to them like a rock-climber.   

At last, the end of the black tiles comes into sight.  
Gritting his teeth, he PUSHES off the wall with his feet, 
JUMPS through the air, straining for distance --

He’s not going to make it.  Switching his landing to a dive 
at the last instant, he hits the floor with both hands 
instead of his feet, tumbles -- and clears it!

Exhaling in relief, he gets to his feet...

And hears an ominous “snick” he’s never heard before.  
Looking down, he sees he’s standing right on a BLACK STONE.

He looks around for bad consequences.  Doesn’t see any.

             DASTAN
      Sorry, lion.

THWIPP!!  A SCYTHE comes swinging down from the ceiling 
behind him.  Dastan JUMPS ASIDE, barely escaping being 
bisected vertically -- only to land on another black stone.

FWIPP!  A HORIZONTAL SCYTHE whips out from the wall at knee 
level.  The blade just misses him as he JUMPS BACK --

Triggering TWO MORE HORIZONTAL SCYTHES on the opposite wall, 
one at neck level, one waist-high.  He escapes both by 
THROWING HIMSELF FLAT -- 

-- Lands face down, only to hear the telltale “snick” of his 
weight depressing yet another black stone.  Uh-oh...

Dastan ROLLS out of the way of one VERTICAL SCYTHE that whips 
up out of the floor -- lifts his legs just in time to escape 
castration by ANOTHER -- and SOMERSAULTS past a third.

                                      79.

He lands in a crouch, looking around in wild terror.  
Miraculously, he’s survived it all.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
        (very fast, heartfelt)
      There is no god but God, the 
      Almighty, all-compassionate and all-
      merciful.  Praise be to God; You 
      alone do we worship; Guide us on 
      the straight path; Amen.
        (quick afterthought, just 
         in case)
      And no disrespect to the lion.

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER

Dastan advances into a silent, natural cavern.

A WATERFALL cascades down a sheer rock face into the darkness 
of an ABYSS.  We HEAR, rather than see, the underground RIVER 
rushing far below.

Towering at the edge of the abyss stands a titanic HOURGLASS.  
It seems to have grown out of the rock, like the stalactites 
and stalagmites that surround it.  The only source of 
illumination is the hourglass itself: it holds THOUSANDS OF 
TONS of the glowing white sand.

Fascinated, Dastan approaches the hourglass.  Stares at the 
vast accumulation of sand on the other side.  Thousands or 
millions of years’ worth -- there’s no way to fathom it.

He places his palm against the thick glass.  It sets up a 
faint harmonic VIBRATION, like the ringing of a wine-glass.  
He jerks his hand away --

But the RINGING continues, until the cavern itself starts to 
shake.  ROCKS rain from above.  Dastan looks around 
apprehensively.  Mercifully, the noise fades away to silence.

Dastan looks up.  An ascending rock promontory leads to the 
neck of the hourglass.

INT.  FORMERLY SUBMERGED CORRIDOR

As the SWAT team RACES through the now-dry corridor, WATER 
starts to POUR in, filling it again.  About a dozen men make 
it through before the rising water SWEEPS AWAY those bringing 
up the rear.  The casualty rate on this mission is ghastly.

                                      80.

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER 

Dastan climbs the rock stairs.  Darkness shrouds his path at 
first; soon, he begins to SEE the trickle of falling sand 
deep within the hourglass.

Dastan’s climb ends in a flat outcropping of rock.  Above him 
looms the gigantic upper part of the hourglass, a vast 
glowing reservoir of sand.

Dastan lies down flat on the rock.  Crawls forward until his 
head and shoulders are over the edge of the abyss (it feels 
more dangerous than it is) and he can reach the neck of the 
hourglass.

He draws the dagger.  Holding it as Tamina instructed, by the 
blade, he brings its handle to within an inch of the glass.

             DASTAN
      God is great.  Bismillah.

He pushes the dagger forward, with no idea what will happen.

The dagger’s handle penetrates the thick glass, instantly 
rendered liquid as quicksilver.  Dastan’s so startled he 
jerks it right back out again -- rendering its glass handle 
once more miraculously intact.

Deliberately, Dastan repeats the action.  This time, he holds 
the dagger inside the hourglass, to catch the falling sand.

Slowly, before his eyes, the glass handle starts to fill...

EXT.  COURTYARD / IN THE PIT - DAY 

A pick-axe BREAKS THROUGH the rock shelf, triggering a 
LANDSLIDE beneath the diggers’ feet.  With SHOUTS of alarm, 
they SLIDE toward the bottom; their fellow diggers catch 
them, hanging on for dear life, and pull them to safety.

INT.  BROKEN BRIDGE CHASM

Tamina is startled to see new CRACKS appear in the rock wall 
above the chasm.  WATER trickles through, suggesting a 
significant pressure build-up on the other side.

Tamina backs away... Looks over her shoulder.  She can HEAR 
the SOLDIERS coming, almost on top of her now.

The water BURSTS part of the wall, pours through in a torrent.

                                      81.

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER

Dastan realizes he’s been holding his breath.  With a gasp, 
he pulls the dagger back.  It’s full of the glowing sand.

The hourglass is as solid as if it had never been touched.

INT.  HOURGLASS PASSAGEWAY

Dastan hop-scotches back through the corridor, nimbly 
avoiding the black stones.

Until, hurrying past the stone lion, he forgets to hug the 
opposite wall.  Serrated IRON JAWS swing out from the 
horizontal slit of the lion’s mouth.  Dastan HURDLES over the 
jaws as they CRUNCH together like a giant bear-trap.

As Dastan runs, the corridor floor COLLAPSES under him.  
Desperately he increases his speed.  He can already see the 
broken bridge ahead.  In a few more strides, there’ll be no 
floor left to run on.  He makes a heroic RUNNING JUMP...

... Out into space, above the yawning chasm where the floor 
fell in...

... And falls short.  He can’t believe it.  After everything 
he’s been through, this is how it ends -- Plunging toward 
certain death on the JAGGED SPIKES below!

As he’s about to be impaled, he SNATCHES the dagger from its 
sheath --

BOOM!!!  TIME STOPS -- the spikes inches from Dastan’s chest, 
the entire scene frozen except for the SAND spilling from the 
dagger in Dastan’s hand... his finger on the jewel.  The sand 
blows away like ash in the wind.

REWIND!!

TIME RUNS BACKWARD.  Dastan FLIES up away from the spikes, 
the corridor floor reassembling under his feet as he RUNS 
backward, JUMPS backward over the lion-jaws as they OPEN --

-- Until the instant his hand releases the jewel.

INT.  HOURGLASS PASSAGEWAY [SECOND TIME]

This time, Dastan runs to one side as he passes the lion-
jaws.  And he’s through, safely skirting all the traps.

                                      82.

INT.  BROKEN BRIDGE CHASM

WATER GUSHES in, swelling the already-flooded pit... while 
NEW CRACKS pop up everywhere in the stressed rock wall.  
Tamina sees Dastan appear on the far side of the chasm.

             TAMINA
      Hurry!!

The rock wall is a DAM ready to BURST -- 

The SWAT team bursts in.  In the nick of time, Tamina 
scrambles down the dangling rope-bridge remnants and clings 
to her side of the pit, hidden from the soldiers’ view.

             SOLDIER
        (sees Dastan)
      There!

Dastan, on his side of the chasm, freezes.  Rapidly he takes 
in the scene:  Archers drawing their bows... The water 
churning below him... The dam about to burst.

He looks at the dagger in his hand...

TAMINA

From the ropes, she watches Dastan, on the far side of the 
chasm, DIVE into the water.  He SWIMS across, past swirling 
currents, falling ROCKS, and the ARROWS raining down on 
him... then disappears underwater.

Tamina watches in suspense.  Did he survive?

Suddenly Dastan surfaces right in front of her.

             DASTAN
      Take a deep breath.

He grabs Tamina and pulls her down into the water.  ARROWS 
just miss them.

UNDERWATER:  Dastan swims with Tamina, ARROWS slicing past 
them through the water --

THE DAM BURSTS!  The wall caves in, a THUNDER of ROCK and 
WATER that buries the soldiers and seals the chamber forever!

UNDERWATER:  The explosive current propels Dastan and Tamina 
through a stone-walled channel -- Dastan takes Tamina’s hand, 
KICKS upward toward the LIGHT --

                                      83.

EXT.  RIVER - DAY 

Dastan and Tamina SURFACE in the river, below the citadel 
wall.  The water’s churning surface barely suggests the 
ongoing, cataclysmic upheaval beneath.

             TAMINA 
      You used the dagger, didn’t you!

Battered, half-dead with exhaustion, Dastan hoists himself 
onto the embankment.  He reaches to help Tamina up.  Angrily 
she shakes him off.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      One minute.  We have one minute of 
      sand to get to your brother.  And 
      you’ve already used half of it!

Dastan looks at the dagger -- it’s half empty.

             DASTAN
      I don’t think I used that much.

Just then, he dodges instinctively as an ARROW misses his 
head by inches, imbeds in the wall behind him.  Defensively, 
before Tamina can accuse him --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      It missed by itself!

ARCHERS assemble on the ramparts above.  Dastan and Tamina 
race up the stone steps of the embankment.

             TAMINA
      I just had the strangest feeling 
      we’ve done this before...

Dastan suddenly grabs her, yanks her back.

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      What?

             DASTAN
      Wait.

In the next instant, a volley of ARROWS shoot past right in 
front of Tamina.  Dastan releases her.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Now.

As they continue their dash up the stairs --

                                      84.

             TAMINA
      You did it again, didn’t you!?

             DASTAN
      That time I did.  Trust me, you 
      weren’t any happier the other way.

EXT.  COURTYARD - DAY

As SOLDIERS run toward the embankment, Nizam turns on Garsiv.

             NIZAM
      Bring all the patrols inside the 
      walls.  I want every man we have to 
      join the hunt.

             GARSIV
      Your Excellency...

             NIZAM
      Garsiv, do you not understand?  
      First he killed his father.  Now 
      his brother stands between him and 
      the throne.  We must stop him!

EXT.  OLD CITY / MEDINA - DAY 

Dastan and Tamina race through a warren of empty streets.  We 
HEAR SOLDIERS in pursuit, seemingly on all sides.  

             DASTAN
      We can’t keep running forever.  We 
      need to find someplace to hide.

             TAMINA
      I know a place.

She ducks down an alley.  Dastan follows her into...

             DASTAN
      Oh, no.

EXT.  MARKETPLACE - DAY

It’s Dastan’s nightmare:  A crowded, bustling SOUK.  SOLDIERS 
everywhere.  Sure enough, one spots them, points --

             SOLDIER
      You!  Stop!

                                      85.

Tamina grabs Dastan’s hand, pulls him past a rice stand.  She 
knows exactly where she’s going.  Dastan bumps into the stand 
-- which COLLAPSES, to the RICE SELLER’S horror.

             DASTAN
      Sorry!

Dastan and Tamina chart a crazy course through the crowded maze 
of the souk.  The chaos they leave in their wake hampers their 
pursuit by a growing mob of SOLDIERS.

EXT.  OLD CITY / MEDINA - DAY

Tamina pauses to orient herself.  They’re in the residential 
quarter adjoining the market.  She ducks into a doorway.

INT.  HUMBLE HOME - DAY

A poor FAMILY in the midst of their meal looks up startled at 
the intrusion of two ragged fugitives.

             DASTAN
     Salaam.

             TAMINA
	(IN FOREIGN)
      [local greeting]  May we use your 
      stairs to the roof?

The family MATRIARCH starts chewing them out in Foreign.

             DASTAN 
      What’s she saying?  Tell her we 
      want to go out the back way.

The woman’s tirade escalates:  “The soldiers will kill us -- 
Look, I have children -- Get out!”  Her DAUGHTER joins in...

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, this is no good.

Suddenly Tamina shows the RING on her hand for all to see.

The whole family goes silent, staring at it.  At once, they 
all prostrate themselves before Tamina.

Dastan’s jaw drops.  OK, she really is the king’s daughter.

Tamina orders:  “Get up!”  The family hastens to comply, 
ushering her to a SIDE DOORWAY to steep narrow steps.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks.

                                      86.

The Matriarch stops Tamina.  Bowing profusely, with repeated 
suspicious glances at Dastan, she launches into a litany of 
their suffering under the occupation, capped with a heartfelt 
plea.  Listening, Tamina turns pale.  With gravely royal 
demeanor, she pats the woman’s hand, saying “Bless you.”

And turning away, KNOCKS her forehead on the low ceiling.  
Dastan, having foreseen this, helps guide her through.

INT.  STAIRS / ROOFTOPS - DAY

As Tamina and Dastan hurry up the steps --

             DASTAN
      What did she say to you?

             TAMINA
      Things haven’t been easy for her.

Dastan feels the evasion like a slap in the face.  He thought 
they were a team -- now she’s hiding things from him?

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER - DAY

The majestic hourglass sits in silent darkness.

Suddenly, a PICK breaks through the roof.  A shaft of SUNLIGHT 
illuminates the chamber that has been dark for centuries.

SHOUTS of excitement from the workers above.  More picks chip 
at the hole, raining down rocks and debris --

THE HOURGLASS:  As the rocks strike its surface, it begins to 
RESONATE like a great warning bell.

EXT.  ROOFTOPS - DAY

Tamina takes Dastan’s arm, points to the ROYAL PALACE 
standing on the other side of a deep mountain GORGE.  A 
narrow STONE BRIDGE below is the only way across the chasm.

             TAMINA 
      That’s the palace just across that 
      bridge.  I know a place we’ll be --

Dastan TACKLES her to the ground as a SPEAR hurtles through 
the space where they were just standing.

             DASTAN
        (not without pride)
      God, our soldiers are good!

                                      87.

Tamina looks, sees --

A DOZEN SOLDIERS running toward them across the rooftops.  
More on their way, throwing up ladders as they climb.

Dastan yanks Tamina to her feet.  With the army on their 
heels, they improvise a rapid descent via stairs, ladders and 
free-fall to the bridge level.

As they climb down the final ladder (Tamina first), MORE 
SOLDIERS run toward them from the bridge.  Dastan and Tamina 
are trapped between the new arrivals and the soldiers above.

Dastan reaches for his dagger.  Tamina stops him.

             TAMINA
      No.

Dastan grits his teeth.  All right, he’ll do it the hard way.

He PUSHES OFF the wall with the ladder, LANDS in a judo roll 
that FLIPS the ladder over him -- TOSSING Tamina over the 
heads of the soldiers that stand between them and the bridge.  
Dastan keeps his momentum going, POLE-VAULTING over Tamina on 
the ladder.  This master-stroke puts all the soldiers behind 
them, and leaves them with a clear path to the bridge.

             DASTAN
      Run.

EXT.  STONE BRIDGE - DAY

Dastan and Tamina make a mad dash across the bridge.  They’re 
more than halfway there when MORE SOLDIERS appear on the far 
side, led by Garsiv.  Dastan comes to a skidding stop.

He looks around for a way out -- sees none.  They’re trapped 
on a long, narrow stone bridge, between two armies, above a 
vertigo-inducing ravine plunging into the mountain gorge ten 
thousand feet below.

             DASTAN
      Should have used the dagger.

With a communal ROAR, the soldiers CHARGE from both sides.

Dastan swings into action.  Snatching up a ROPE COIL, he 
swiftly TIES it around a parapet of the bridge wall --

-- and draws his SWORD as the soldiers descend on them.

Dastan and Tamina LAUNCH INTO BATTLE.  The combat is insane.  
They’re hopelessly outnumbered -- two against an army.

                                      88.

Dastan sees Garsiv fighting toward him through the crush.  
Vaulting up onto the parapet, Dastan RUNS back along the top 
of the bridge wall the way they came, Tamina on his heels -- 
parrying sword blows, and uncoiling the rope as he runs.

             TAMINA
      You can’t possibly --

             DASTAN
      Hold tight.

Tamina locks her arms around Dastan just in time -- he JUMPS!

THEY PLUMMET ON THE ROPE TOWARDS THE BOTTOMLESS GORGE!

The rope STOPS their fall; they’re SWINGING towards the sheer 
fortress wall on the far side of the bridge -- incredibly, 
straight for a tiny ARCHER’S LOOPHOLE in the sheer fortress 
wall opposite.  Dastan’s aim was brilliant.

But not perfect.

They slam into the wall below the loophole.  It’s just out of 
their reach.  As they start swinging back --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Climb higher!  We’ll make it on the 
      next swing!

Tamina and Dastan desperately climb up a few feet on the 
rope.  ARCHERS on the bridge above them unleash a volley of 
arrows, which miss, but don’t make their task any easier.

They reach the apex of the backswing, begin their return 
toward the loophole.  Dastan reaches out to grab it -- 

Only this time, they don’t even reach the wall.  They’ve lost 
too much momentum.

WIDE SHOT

Dastan and Tamina swing uselessly back and forth, in a 
smaller arc each time.  They’re trapped at the end of the 
rope.  Hanging off a bridge that’s full of soldiers.

Oops.

ON THE BRIDGE

A soldier (we’ll call him the EXECUTIONER) mounts the parapet 
where Dastan’s tied the rope.  He draws a wicked SCIMITAR.  
Checks with Garsiv, who nods: Do it.

The Executioner raises his sword high -- and CHOPS!

                                      89.

DASTAN AND TAMINA

are shaken.  One more cut will sever the rope.

             TAMINA
      All right.  Use the dagger.

             DASTAN
      Oh, I don’t know, I think we can 
      get out of this one.

             TAMINA
      Use the dagger!  Now!!!

The Executioner raises his scimitar for the coup de grace...

Dastan releases one hand from the rope, uses it to pull 
Tamina toward him, and gives her a passionate kiss.

The sword CUTS the rope --
Dastan and Tamina PLUNGE into the abyss --
And Dastan HITS the jewel.

REWIND!!

Reversing through the kiss, and all their back-and-forth 
swings, wider each time, until they land back up on --

EXT.  STONE BRIDGE - DAY [SECOND TIME]

             DASTAN
      Hold tight.

Exactly as before, Tamina locks her arms around Dastan as he 
JUMPS from the parapet.

Only this time, he adjusts his aim, hastily CLIMBING the rope 
as they swing... hits the loophole, grabs and pulls them in!

EXT.  STONE BRIDGE - DAY

Garsiv stares down into the gorge, dumbfounded, at the empty 
rope swinging below the bridge.  They’ve escaped him.

INT.  LOOPHOLE CORRIDOR - DAY

Tamina and Dastan land together on the floor.

             TAMINA
      That was fantastic!

                                      90.

About to get up, Dastan is mesmerized by Tamina’s dark eyes, 
inches from his.  If he were to kiss her now...

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      Dastan!  Did you use the dagger?

             DASTAN
      What?  No!  Of course not.

Tamina faces him.  Looks into his eyes, very serious.

             TAMINA 
      Dastan.  If something should 
      happen... If we should separate...

             DASTAN
      Yes?

             TAMINA
      Give me the dagger now, that I may 
      take it far from Alamut.

             DASTAN
      But I told you!  My brother will 
      set things right.

             TAMINA
      But if you should fail...

             DASTAN
      I will not fail -- if I have the 
      dagger.

Tamina hears the steel in his tone.  About to argue, she 
thinks better of it.

             TAMINA
      Then we won’t separate.

She leads the way.  He hurries after her.

INT.  PALACE BACK STAIRS / CORRIDORS - DAY

Dastan hurries to keep up with Tamina as they race up stairs, 
through corridors, up more stairs.  Soldiers’ VOICES echo, 
seemingly just around the corner, but they meet nobody.

             DASTAN
      I hope you know where you’re going.

Tamina throws open the small wooden door of a supply closet.

                                      91.

INT.  CLOSET / SECRET PASSAGEWAY - DAY

They duck inside.  Tamina closes the door, plunging them into 
DARKNESS.  We HEAR their breathing, rapid and shallow -- the 
CLICK of a hidden catch, another door swinging open --

INT.  SECRET ROOM - SUNSET

Tamina lights a LANTERN.  The room is dark and cozy, rich 
with curtains and draperies.

Dastan looks around with growing recognition.  There’s a tea 
service, silk cushions, a backgammon set.

             DASTAN
      The king’s secret getaway?

             TAMINA
      One of them.

She parts a curtain, revealing a short passageway.  Dastan 
follows her until it dead-ends in a DOOR.  Tamina slides open 
a PEEPHOLE, peers through it.

VIEW THROUGH THE PEEPHOLE

Looking into the royal BATHS.  At first all we see are 
SERVANTS washing the tiled floor.  Then, a SOLDIER moves into 
frame, blocking our view.  Tamina pulls back involuntarily.  
Dastan takes her place.

             DASTAN
      Looks like they’re getting it ready 
      for someone.

             TAMINA
      For the king.

             DASTAN
      Then we have only to wait.  My 
      brother’s been on horseback all day.  
      Whatever else he does, he’ll want a 
      bath.

They return to the secret room.  Dastan goes to the single 
window, opens the shutter.

VIEW FROM SECRET WINDOW - SUNSET

The window looks down on the bridge they just traversed.  
Soldiers run around searching for the escaped fugitives.  

                                      92.

Beyond, FIRES burn in the residential quarter, filling the 
garish sky above the citadel with smoke.  Screams of terror 
mix with the shouts of soldiers searching house-by-house.

Dastan turns to see that Tamina has gone behind a folding 
screen, and is changing clothes.

He looks nervously toward the baths passageway.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      How sure are you that the soldiers 
      don’t know about that door?

             TAMINA
        (from behind the screen)
      My father kept it secret even from 
      his own bodyguards.

             DASTAN
      But you know about it.

             TAMINA
      I was a curious little girl.  I was 
      always going where I wasn’t 
      supposed to.

             DASTAN
      That’s funny, I...

Tamina emerges from behind the screen.  She’s changed into a 
spectacular Oriental gown.  The transformation stuns Dastan. 

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
        (”wow”)
      ...always seemed to be doing... 
      things I wasn’t supposed to... too.

             TAMINA 
        (a mischievous smile)
      Do it again.

             DASTAN
      What?

             TAMINA
      What you did before.

For one panicked moment, Dastan thinks she means the kiss.  
Tamina steps close to him.  Her eyes dancing flirtatiously, 
she draws his sword from its sheath.  

             TAMINA
	(CONT’D)
      We have to pass the time somehow.  
      I want to see you do it.

                                      93.

She places the sword in Dastan’s hand.  Scoops up a handful 
of backgammon stones, lays them along the blade.  Dastan 
catches her spirit.

             DASTAN
      The Challenge of Kwarzim is not 
      undertaken lightly.

             TAMINA
      But, I don’t take it lightly.

She stretches back seductively on the cushions to watch him.

Dastan meets her gaze... then FLIPS THE STONES perfectly.  He 
can’t believe it.  It’s the first time it’s worked.

Dastan flings the sword aside, ATTACKS Tamina with a kiss.  
They roll together with passionate abandon.

Their clothing gets in the way.  Dastan tears off his sword 
belt and dagger, tosses them aside.  Tamina, wasting no time, 
is already pulling off Dastan’s shirt -- when suddenly --

A HORN BLAST outside signals the king’s arrival.

Dastan extricates himself from Tamina’s embrace and scrambles 
to the window.  He’s just in time to see Tus and a half-dozen 
GUARDS coming across the bridge.

             DASTAN
      My brother.

He turns back to Tamina -- but she’s no longer there.

His gaze flies to the door they came in by, just as it closes 
behind her.  Then to his sword belt on the floor.

The dagger’s missing.

Dastan bolts for the door.

INT.  SECRET PASSAGEWAY - SUNSET

Tamina’s flying down the passageway.  Dastan races to catch 
her, TACKLES her just before she escapes.  A brief struggle -- 
then Dastan wrests the dagger from her hand.

             DASTAN 
      I should have known.  Every time 
      you put on a dress, it’s trouble.

                                      94.

             TAMINA
      You don’t understand the danger.  
      If Nizam gets his hands on the 
      dagger -- 

             DASTAN
      I understand.  We are an occupying 
      army.  I am the enemy.  Since we 
      met, all you have done has been in 
      the service of your kingdom.

             TAMINA
      You know that’s not true!

Dastan disengages from her.  Stands with cold disdain.

             DASTAN
      Go back to your people.  And the 
      next time you strike at me, I beg 
      you, use a sword -- not a kiss.

Tamina trembles, about to say something from the heart -- 
then instead, exits the passageway.  No sooner is she gone 
than Dastan’s mask drops, revealing the pain of a betrayed 
lover whose harsh words hurt no one more than himself. 

INT.  ROYAL PALACE - NIGHT

Tus and his bodyguards stride across the great hall.  Nizam 
and Garsiv hurry to meet him.

             NIZAM
      My King.  Praise God you’re safe.

             TUS
      I gave no order to burn the city!

             NIZAM
      My lord, your brother is here.  
      With the daughter of your enemy.  
      The people of this city will take 
      their side.

The news rocks Tus.  He turns to Garsiv for confirmation.

             GARSIV
        (reluctantly)
      O King, it is true, the girl who 
      escaped with him from Nasaf is 
      their leader.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      95.

INT.  ROYAL BATHS - NIGHT

STEAM fills the room.  Under the GUARDS’ watchful gaze, male 
ATTENDANTS prepare the bath in a centuries-old Eastern ritual.

DASTAN,

watching through the peephole from the other side, rehearses 
nervously under his breath:

             DASTAN
      ‘It was not I who killed our 
      father.’  Can’t start with that.  
      ‘My brother, it is I, Dastan.  I 
      come to you in peace...’  No time 
      for that; get to the point!  ‘My 
      brother...’  That’s a good start.

Inside, the guards show the attendants out.  Moments later, 
Tus enters.  The guards exit, leaving him alone to his bath.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      ‘My brother...’  ‘My noble 
      brother...’

THE SECRET ENTRANCE

invisible in the tiled wall, opens.  Dastan’s face passes 
silently behind the steam, then is lost in the fog.

Tus takes off his robe.  Lowers himself into the steaming 
bath.  RINSES his face and hair, luxuriating in a sensation 
that anyone who’s spent a day horseback-riding in armor can 
appreciate.  He closes his eyes...

He feels an unaccustomed draft.  Frowns.  Opens his eyes...

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      My noble brother.

Tus splashes to his feet, waist-high in the water.

             TUS
      GUARDS!!

             DASTAN
      No!

             TUS
      GUARDS!!!



Dastan throws his sword aside.  Holds up his hands -- unarmed.

                                      96.

             DASTAN
      You have nothing to fear from me.  
      What Nizam told you is a lie.  He 
      killed Father.  It was Nizam who 
      gave me the poisoned robe.

The GUARDS burst in and seize Dastan.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Tus, Nizam deceived us all.  He made 
      us conquer Alamut so he could possess 
      its secrets!  And if you try to stop 
      him, he will kill you too!

             TUS
      Enough!!!

Everyone falls silent.  Dastan ceases struggling in the 
guards’ grasp, waits in suspense for Tus’s next words.

             TUS
	(CONT’D)
      We are brothers.  Since childhood 
      I’ve known you as I know myself.  I 
      can tell by how artfully you’ve 
      rehearsed your speech that you are 
      lying. 
        (to the guards)
      Take him to Nizam.

Tus turns away as the guards drag Dastan off.

             DASTAN
      No!  Tus, listen to me, I’m not 
      making this up!  TUS!!

Tus never looks back.  Dastan appeals to the guards:

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      I beg you.  One minute.  Let me 
      speak to him.  As you love him, as 
      you loved your king --

The CAPTAIN of the guards PUNCHES him in the head.

             CAPTAIN
      Shut up, you.

Now Dastan’s mad.  With a herculean effort, he yanks free, 
just long enough to draw the dagger from his belt --

             GUARD
      He’s got a knife!

-- and HITS the jewel.  BOOM!!  TIME STANDS STILL.

                                      97.

REWIND!

INT.  ROYAL BATHS - NIGHT [SECOND TIME]

Tus takes off his robe, lowers himself into the steaming 
bath.  RINSES his face and hair, just as he did before.

A NOISE makes Tus turn.  Dastan has just BARRICADED the door 
with a medieval two-by-four.  Tus splashes to his feet.  This 
time, the first thing Dastan does is throw his sword away.

             DASTAN
      Tus, don’t call the guards yet.  
      Listen to me.

             TUS
      GUARDS!!

Dastan winces; continues, improvising --

             DASTAN
      Beneath this citadel is an ancient, 
      mystical force beyond anything you 
      can imagine.  It’s the hourglass 
      that contains the Sands of Time.

SOUNDS of the guards beating at the barricaded door --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      This dagger holds only a minute’s 
      worth of the sand.

He draws the dagger, forgetting it’s a weapon too --

             TUS
      Coward!  Do you attack me thus, 
      unarmed?

             DASTAN
      No!

Hastily turning the dagger around --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      This is what Nizam is after.  He’ll 
      stop at nothing to possess it.
        (it’s not going well)
      He has spilled blood, he has led 
      our army falsely against a kingdom 
      that has done us no wrong.  To hide 
      his lies, he murdered our father, 
      and threw the blame on me.

                                      98.

The door gives way; the guards BURST in.  Dastan doesn’t have 
to wait for Tus’s verdict to know he’s blown it.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
        (angry with himself)
      Damn it!

He jumps back, using the dagger to hold the guards at bay.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Stand back!  I warn you!

The guards hesitate, perplexed.  In a second they’ll realize 
there’s no real threat, and rush him.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      I need a minute.  Just give me a 
      minute to think.

He looks at the dagger in his hand -- nearly empty.  Just 
enough sand for one last rewind.

Suddenly, desperately, he looks at Tus.  He knows what to do.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Tus, this is no ordinary dagger.  
      Touch this jewel on its handle, and 
      you will learn Alamut’s greatest 
      secret.

             TUS
        (to the guards)
      Enough!  Take him to Nizam.

As the guards move forward, Dastan swiftly brings the 
dagger’s blade to his own throat.  Again, they hesitate.

             DASTAN
        (to Tus)
      If you won’t believe me, then our 
      kingdom is forfeit.  Our honor is 
      forfeit.  And I’m better off dead.

Dastan PLUNGES the dagger into his own heart.  Under the 
guards’ astonished stares, he crumples to his knees.  Blood 
appears on his lips.  He falls dead.

Tus shakes off the guard who’s just helped him put on his 
robe.  He advances toward his brother’s body.

             CAPTAIN
      My lord, if it’s a trick...

                                      99.

Tus turns Dastan over.  He’s dead, the hilt of the dagger 
protruding from his chest.  Tus pulls it out.  The blade is 
wet with blood.

Tus examines the dagger.  The unearthly, glowing white sand 
inside its handle.  For a moment we think he’s going to do 
something with it -- but he just lays the dagger beside 
Dastan on the tiled floor.

             CAPTAIN
	(CONT’D)
      Get Nizam.

A YOUNG GUARD hurries off.  The Captain tries to escort Tus 
out, but Tus lingers, troubled.

             TUS
      He took his own life.

             CAPTAIN
      A coward’s way out.

             TUS
      My brother was no coward.

Curious, he picks up the dagger again.  Presses the jewel...

TIME STOPS!  The last sands fall from the dagger; a draft 
blows them away through the steam frozen in midair...

REWIND!

INT.  ROYAL BATHS - NIGHT [THIRD TIME]

The guards close in on Dastan, just as they did before.  Tus 
whirls, bewildered by deja vu:  What’s happening here?  

As he did before, Dastan dramatically holds the dagger to his 
own throat -- unaware that the final rewind has already 
happened, and that the dagger is empty.

             DASTAN
      If you won’t believe me, then our 
      kingdom is forfeit.  Our honor is 
      forfeit.  And I’m better off dead.

Tus lunges at Dastan, GRABS his arm just in time to prevent 
him from stabbing himself.  The guards pull them apart.

             TUS
      Let him go!!

Cowed by the royal command in his voice, the guards obey.

                                     100.

             DASTAN
      Thanks, brother.

             TUS
        (in wonderment)
      You were dead.  I saw the blood.

             DASTAN
      Blood?  What blood?

Perplexed, he looks down at the dagger in his hand.  He 
nearly faints on seeing that it’s empty.  Tus, overcome by 
emotion, clasps Dastan in a warm embrace.

             TUS
      My brother.  On the day we left for 
      war, our father told me: ‘A king 
      should listen always to the voice of 
      reason -- but also listen to your 
      heart.’  My heart knew you could not 
      have done what they accused you of.  
      I should have listened.     

             DASTAN
        (still shaky)
      Remember that next time.

             TUS
        (to the Young Guard)
      Find Garsiv.  Have him assemble all 
      the commanders in my chambers.  The 
      Grand Vizier Nizam too.

The Young Guard (the same one who would have gone to fetch 
Nizam) hurries out.  Tus takes Dastan’s sword from the guard 
holding it, puts it in his brother’s hands.

             TUS
	(CONT’D)
      Be ready.  Nizam won’t give up 
      without a fight.

EXT.  OLD CITY - NIGHT

Tamina, cloaked, hurries down the alley and, with a glance 
over her shoulder, slips into the doorway of the family she 
and Dastan visited earlier.

INT.  HUMBLE HOME - NIGHT

Tamina enters.  The house is empty and dark.

                                     101.

             TAMINA
	(IN FOREIGN)
      Hello?  Hello?

Tamina’s gaze falls on an overturned jug lying on the floor 
near the family table.  Something’s not right...

An interior DOOR opens; Tamina whirls to see SOLDIERS.  A 
trap!  She turns to flee -- MORE SOLDIERS block the exit.  

EXT.  STONE BRIDGE - NIGHT

THUNDER rumbles in an ominous sky.  Tus and Dastan stride 
across the bridge, accompanied by a dozen guards with TORCHES.

Nizam and SIX ELITE GUARDS appear at the end of the bridge.

             TUS
      Keep your swords sheathed.  

As the two groups come together, Nizam speaks first.

             NIZAM
      O King!

             TUS
      Grand Vizier Nizam, I arrest you for 
      treason!  Any man who lifts a sword 
      in his defense is also a traitor!

To Tus’s astonishment, his own guards grab him and Dastan.  
They’re quickly disarmed, hands bound behind their backs, 
pushed to their knees, RAGING --

             TUS
	(CONT’D)
      Who dares lay a hand on Tus, son of 
      Shahraman, your king?

             NIZAM
      O King, O Prince, I am the shadow 
      of the reflection of your 
      greatness.  How could I oppose you?

As he speaks, Nizam plucks the dagger from Dastan’s belt.  
Tucks it into his own belt.  He stoops to pick up Dastan’s 
fallen sword; caresses the blade.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      The accident of birth that bestowed 
      royal farr on the house of 
      Shahraman... and not the house of 
      Nizam... makes me your humble 
      servant.  As I was your father’s 
      humble servant.

                                     102.

He lifts Dastan’s sword high above his head.

             DASTAN
      Nizam!  NO!!!!

Nizam brings the sword SLASHING down.  We don’t see the 
impact -- only the men’s reactions.

Tus lies dead on the stone bridge, a spreading pool of blood 
beneath him.  It is RAINING lightly.

Nizam throws the sword down.  It clatters next to Dastan.

             NIZAM
      Your sword.

A DETACHMENT OF SOLDIERS appears at the far end of the 
bridge, including Garsiv and the Young Guard Tus sent to 
fetch him.  They escort Tamina as their prisoner.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      Ho!  Help!  Murder!!

Dastan opens his mouth to protest.  The guards SILENCE him 
with a rain of kicks and blows.  As the soldiers arrive on 
the scene, Nizam steps forward in apparent anguish.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      God help us!  We arrived too late.  
      Our King is dead -- slain by 
      Dastan, who killed his father.

Tamina spots the dagger in Nizam’s belt.

             TAMINA
      No!!

Dastan tries to speak.  The guards redouble their blows, as 
if venting their rage upon their king’s murderer.  Garsiv and 
the new arrivals are too stunned to mind.

             GARSIV
        (grieving)
      My King, I failed you.  There is no 
      God but God, the almighty, the all-
      merciful.

             TAMINA
      He’s lying!  Dastan is innocent!

Her words are swallowed in the angry MURMUR that rises from 
the troops.  Nizam steps in before it can get ugly.

                                     103.

             NIZAM
      I shall take charge of questioning 
      Dastan and his accomplice.  You may 
      be certain I will find out the full 
      extent of this conspiracy.

Nizam’s guards take charge of Tamina, hustle her and Dastan 
along the bridge, drowning their protests... leaving Garsiv 
staring down at Tus’s body in the rain.

INT.  DUNGEON - NIGHT

Tamina and Dastan are shoved by Nizam’s guards into a cell 
and chained to the wall.  The guards exit.

Dastan, bloody and beaten, manages to eke out the words --

             DASTAN
      Tamina, I’m sorry.

             NIZAM
      You should be.

They both whirl to see Nizam in the doorway.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      I have known you since you were a 
      child.  Never have I seen one more 
      ungrateful or more selfish.  Your 
      father loved you best of all his 
      sons -- what others strive whole 
      lifetimes to attain was yours for 
      the asking.  And you squandered it.

During this speech, he advances, until his face is inches 
from Dastan’s.

             DASTAN
      Well, since we’re being honest -- 
      you have the breath of a dog.

             NIZAM
      To kill you would be a kindness you 
      do not deserve.  I shall obliterate 
      you.  A man cannot die who has 
      never lived.

He takes the dagger from his waistband.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      You stood before the hourglass with 
      the dagger in your hand.  

                                     104.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      The one blade capable of penetrating 
      the glass nothing in heaven or earth 
      can break.  And the limit of your 
      ambition was to turn back time sixty 
      seconds.  A trick for a street 
      magician.  I will turn back time... 
      Sixty years.

             TAMINA
      No.  It’s forbidden!

Nizam ignores her; continues speaking to Dastan --

             NIZAM
      Sixty years since the divine right of 
      kingship was granted to the house of 
      Shahraman.  Sixty years of sand... 
      that now will blow away like so much 
      dust.  I was a child then, as your 
      father was; I had the understanding 
      of a child.  Had I known what I know 
      now, I could have acted.  An accident 
      at play.  Children are fragile; they 
      die so easily.

             TAMINA
      No!

             NIZAM
      On such small things empires turn.  
      And so in my fifteenth year, when 
      al-Ma’mun defeated al-Amin, and 
      Babak’s head rolled in the sand at 
      Samarra, I -- not Shahraman -- 
      shall be seated on the throne of 
      Nasaf.  And what a king I shall be!

             TAMINA
      Nizam, the sand is the time of 
      mankind.  It’s all the time we have.

             NIZAM
      What do I care for mankind?  My 
      time is now. 

             DASTAN
      Nizam, I always wondered what drives 
      a man like you.  Now, after all this 
      time, I understand.  You’re 
      completely insane.

             NIZAM
      On the contrary, I shall be the 
      wisest and most prudent of kings.  

                                     105.

             NIZAM
	(CONT'D)
      I will lay in stores of grain before 
      the famine, I will build high walls 
      when there is yet no enemy in sight.  
      Under my reign Persia shall rise 
      again to be a great empire... and I 
      will be Shah-an-Shah, King of Kings, 
      God among men.  It is unfortunate 
      that you will not be born to reap 
      this golden age.
        (to Tamina)
      But you shall be.  You shall grow, 
      and ripen... until the day I honor 
      your family by making you mine.

Tamina wrenches away from Nizam in revulsion.  Dastan flips 
out, HURLS himself SHOUTING against his chains.  Nizam bows 
mockingly to Dastan.

             NIZAM
	(CONT’D)
      O Prince, I am the slave of the 
      shadow of your greatness.

Guards unchain Tamina and escort her out.  As Nizam leaves 
with her, Dastan RAGES harder than ever.

             DASTAN
      Nizam!  Nizam!  NIZAM!!!

He ducks under one of the chains, turning himself around so 
he’s facing the wall with his arms crossed.  He repeats the 
maneuver, each time giving the chains another twist, until 
he’s close enough to brace his feet against the wall.  Then 
PULLS until he’s SCREAMING in agony.

INT.  DUNGEON - NIGHT [LATER]

Dastan is barely conscious.  His chains haven’t budged.

The distant NOISE of a door closing half-rouses him.  
Dastan’s lips are parched, his eyes glassy and delirious.

             DASTAN
      Tamina... Tamina...

Nizam’s elite guards enter and unchain him from the wall.  
Dastan is limp and unresisting, unaware of what’s happening.

INT.  DUNGEON CORRIDOR - NIGHT

OTHER PRISONERS stare through the bars as the guards drag 
Dastan to his execution.  The cells are packed with MEN OF 
ALAMUT, sullen and fierce.

                                     106.

Farood, slumped disconsolately in a cell with the other 
nomads, is appalled to recognize Dastan.  He comes to the 
bars.  Dastan is too far gone to react.

             FAROOD
      Ali?!  They got you too?
        (grieved)
      Ali, I am sorry!  We never should 
      have come to this city!

As Dastan passes, Farood grips the bars, shouts --

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Tell your Layla that Farood is 
      sorry!

Dastan SPRINGS into action, revealing that his helplessness 
was an act.  Using his chains as a weapon and a shield, he 
ATTACKS the guards escorting him.  More GUARDS pour in, 
SHOUTING for backup.  The prisoners rush to the bars; their 
SHOUTS add to the fearsome din.  

Dastan is a one-man army, fighting six at once in the narrow 
corridor.  Unable to rid himself of his chains, he loops them 
over a ceiling hook and becomes a circus acrobat, spinning 
and KICKING off the walls to clobber one guard after another.

The little Gypsy Boy stares with open-mouthed hero worship.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Ali, you amaze me!

One unlucky guard, flung against the bars, is grabbed by 
Farood’s daughters, who tie him in place with his own turban.

             DASTAN
      Get his keys!

Nomad hands reach through the bars, frisk the guard.

             FAROOD
      Nothing!

Dastan clobbers another guard, sends him Farood’s way.  The 
nomad women frisk the guard -- no luck.  More soldiers 
arrive, making things hotter for Dastan every moment.  

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Try the fat one there!

                                  CUT TO:

                                     107.

EXT.  COURTYARD - NIGHT

Nizam, Tamina and guards stride across the courtyard toward 
the excavation pit.  Guards wait by an iron CAGE that stands 
ready with ropes.  With a visceral shock Tamina sees that the 
pit is open, exposed to the sky.

INT.  DUNGEON CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Dastan fights desperately, outnumbered.  Farood comes up 
triumphantly holding KEYS.

             FAROOD
      I got it!

             DASTAN
      So open something!!

Farood methodically tries one key after the next to open the 
nomads’ cell, while Dastan battles to stay alive.

             FAROOD
      Tell me, Ali, what was your crime?

Dastan doesn’t have time to breathe, much less answer, as he 
dodges a killing blow from another guard.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Ah, your hands are full.  Then I 
      will tell you how I came to be in 
      this awful place.

Dastan’s in trouble, three guards strangling him with his own 
chains...

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      The poet spoke truly when he said: 
      ‘Fortune’s wheel lifts us up, only 
      to dash us from a greater height.’  
      Imagine, Farood was a man of 
      property, with three stalls in the 
      marketplace! -- Ah, here it is.

Farood unlocks the cell.  The nomads SWARM out and overwhelm 
the guards, rescuing Dastan in the nick of time.

FAROOD’S DAUGHTERS,

led by Haleema, finish off the last few guards with savage 
gusto.  The Gypsy Boy joins in, hitting a guard with a toy 
wooden sword.

                                     108.

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      You see?  I told you they were 
      strong!
        (unlocking Dastan’s 
         chains)
      As I was saying -- I could not sell 
      fast enough.  All we brought with 
      us -- salt, chickens, figs -- all 
      disappeared.  I could have set 
      twice, three times the price.  A 
      failure of imagination.

Dastan, Farood and the nomads hurry down the corridor, past 
cells packed with men of Alamut who RATTLE the bars and SHOUT 
in Foreign at the escaping prisoners.

Dastan pauses on the threshold of freedom.  Looks back.  
Farood looks worried.  This is their chance to escape -- why 
the hesitation?

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Ali -- come!

             DASTAN
        (with growing resolve)
      No.  These men are prisoners 
      because of me.  I am a king’s son.

             FAROOD
        (nods understandingly)
      A blow on the head can cause such 
      delusions.  Fresh air and freedom 
      are the cure.

He pulls at Dastan’s arm.  Dastan shakes his head.

             DASTAN
      Tamina was right.  They have no one 
      but me.

To Farood’s horror, Dastan takes the keys and unlocks the 
first cell.  With a ROAR, the prisoners charge out.  Dastan 
climbs onto a barrel and shouts over the commotion:

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Men of Alamut, hear me!  It is 
      Dastan, prince of Nasaf, who calls 
      to you!

Farood winces -- this delusion is worse than he thought.
The men of Alamut react with angry mutters that swell 
dangerously.

                                     109.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Well may you hate me -- as a 
      foreigner -- as an invader.  Were 
      I in your place, my blood would 
      cry out for vengeance for your 
      conquered land.

Farood is startled, as it dawns on him... Dastan is a prince!  
His expression transforms, shines with hero-worship.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Yet my land too is conquered -- 
      from within, by a vile usurper.  
      Help me defeat him, and I will give 
      you back your kingdom.  I swear it 
      in the name of my father Shahraman!

Dastan pauses for effect.  Farood whispers in his ear:

             FAROOD
      Ali, they don’t understand your 
      language.

Dismayed, Dastan surveys his audience, realizes it’s true.

At that moment, several of the Alamut men succeed in SMASHING 
open the door to an ARMORY.  SPEARS and WEAPONS are passed 
out as fast as the crowd can absorb them.  Dastan and Farood 
are surrounded by a hostile mob, their escape cut off.

Just then, a batallion of Nasaf SOLDIERS charge in, diverting 
the prisoners’ attention.  A full-scale BATTLE erupts between 
the men of Alamut and their erstwhile captors.

             DASTAN
        (with hand gestures)
      Fight them!  No, them!

             FAROOD
      Ali!  Well said.  Now let’s get out 
      of here.

This time Dastan doesn’t argue.  Taking advantage of the 
confusion, he slips out through the melee with Farood.

EXT.  EMBANKMENT - NIGHT

Dastan, Farood and the nomads emerge through a narrow doorway 
onto the citadel embankment, above the RIVER.  Farood pauses 
to feel the cool fresh air on his face. 

                                     110.

             FAROOD
      Ahh.  So, to continue:  There I 
      was, an honest merchant, when I see 
      three soldiers watching me.

             DASTAN
      Look out!!

He pushes Farood down just in time to dodge a hail of ARROWS.  
NASAF SOLDIERS on horseback ride to intercept them.

Dastan and the nomad bandits throw themselves into the 
pitched battle.  They’re desperately outnumbered, the Giant 
Bandit fighting three soldiers at once.  He plucks one from 
the saddle, hurls him to an icy fate in the river below.

Farood continues his narrative to Dastan while fighting, 
seemingly unconcerned that they’re likely to die any moment:

             FAROOD
      So I say ‘Salaam!  God’s blessings 
      be upon you,’ I say, ‘Would you 
      care to buy some salt?’

Dastan’s eye is on a new wave of NASAF SOLDIERS, galloping 
toward them -- now they’re really doomed --

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      And the first one, a big ugly 
      fellow, answers -- Not ‘Salaam’; 
      not ‘God’s blessings be upon you 
      too’; but --

With a ROAR, the just-liberated men of Alamut surge out of 
the prison doorway, joining the battle in the nick of time.

Dastan, hard pressed, has just fought off two soldiers, when 
a stallion REARS right beside him.  It’s Garsiv on horseback, 
pinning Dastan against the edge of the embankment.

             DASTAN
      Garsiv!

Garsiv’s sword FLASHES down; Dastan blocks it.  He slips on 
the wet stone, nearly falls off the edge.

On foot, Dastan faces Garsiv, dreading this battle.  Death is 
in the man’s eyes:  His only purpose left in life is to 
avenge the two kings who died on his watch.  

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Garsiv, it wasn’t me!

                                     111.

Makes no difference.  Garsiv launches the attack on Dastan 
with everything he’s got.

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER - NIGHT

THUNDER rolls in the distance.  Nizam, Tamina and guards 
descend in the cage lowered by ropes like gods from the 
machine.

The cage arrives; guards open the door for Nizam.  The rain 
has swollen the underground waterfall into a torrent.

             NIZAM 
      The Sands of Time.

With shining eyes, Nizam advances toward the hourglass.  The 
dagger gleams in his waistband...

EXT.  EMBANKMENT - NIGHT

Dastan defends himself as best he can -- but with each blow 
from spear, sword, and iron hooves, his chances get slimmer.

Garsiv knocks Dastan’s sword from his hand, sends him 
sprawling.  Here’s his chance to finish him once and for all.  
Garsiv REARS on horseback, raising his spear.  Dastan is 
helpless to ward off the inevitable blow --

The spear never descends.  A glassy look comes into Garsiv’s 
eyes.  He FALLS from the saddle, revealing Farood behind him.  
A look of hurt petulance on Farood’s face.

             FAROOD
      These soldiers are just like the 
      ones who were rude to me in the 
      marketplace.  As I was saying --

Dastan snatches up his fallen sword.  Mounts Garsiv’s horse, 
fights it under control.

             DASTAN
      Farood.  Hold them as long as you 
      can.

             FAROOD
        (offended)
      Of course, now you’re a king’s son, 
      what do you care for the story of a 
      common man?

             DASTAN
      Farood!  She is down there.

                                     112.

             FAROOD
      Your Layla?!  Why didn’t you say 
      so?

As Dastan rides off --

             FAROOD
	(CONT’D)
      Ali!  Remember -- your sword 
      belongs to me!

Dastan smiles, nods goodbye.  And gallops across the 
courtyard toward the excavation pit, as Farood and the men of 
Alamut keep the soldiers busy.

A YOUNG ALAMUT MAN -- slender and boyish, vaguely resembling 
Tamina -- is in trouble, fighting a much larger Nasaf 
soldier.  He is astonished to find his assailant LIFTED 
overhead, and hurled out of range.

His savior, Haleema, gives him a wink:  “I’ll protect you” -- 
and pitches into battle with renewed vigor.

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER - NIGHT

Nizam reaches the hourglass.  Stares fascinated at the bright 
SAND, sitting inches from his face.  Raises the dagger...

             TAMINA
      Nizam, the sand is a gift from the 
      gods.  Please do not break the 
      glass.  I’ll do anything you ask; 
      I’ll be your wife.  

             NIZAM
      You are afraid.

             TAMINA
      Yes.

             NIZAM
      That is why I brought you down here.  
      Had you no fear, I would have 
      doubted I was on the right path.

Satisfied, he raises the dagger to strike the hourglass...

Suddenly, with a great RATTLING noise, the cage SHOOTS up 
toward the sky.  Nizam turns -- and Dastan CLOBBERS him with 
both feet, a human counterweight descending on the other end 
of the rope.  Nizam is sent SPRAWLING.

                                     113.

             DASTAN
      I am the slave of the shadow of 
      your greatness.

Nizam gets to his feet, scowling.  Tucks the dagger back into 
his waistband, and draws both his swords.  Dastan grins and 
draws his one.  The two men square off to duel.

Tamina’s Guard #1 is torn:  help his boss, or guard the girl?  
That’s all the opening Tamina needs.  She throws her manacled 
wrists around the guard’s neck, strangling him with the chain 
-- then bangs his head against Guard #2 to K.O. them both.

EXT.  EXCAVATION PIT - NIGHT

Above, Farood and the bandits fight a losing battle against 
the soldiers, trying to prevent them from entering the pit.

INT.  HOURGLASS CHAMBER - NIGHT

Tamina unlocks her chains with a key taken from fallen guard 
#1.  Guard #3 is charging toward her -- she SWINGS the chain, 
wrapping it around his ankles, and drops him.

Guard #4 rushes Dastan from behind.  Dastan relieves him of 
his sword, sends him plunging into the abyss.  Tosses the 
extra sword to Tamina, simultaneously clobbering Guard #5 
with his own.  All so he can re-focus on his duel with Nizam.

Nizam is a master swordsman, whose two-sword technique makes 
him virtually unbeatable.  Trapped against the edge of the 
abyss, Dastan is driven inexorably back toward the hourglass.

At the last second, Dastan DUCKS instead of blocking.  
Nizam’s sword CLANGS against the hourglass.

It gives Dastan an idea.  On purpose, he strikes the 
unbreakable hourglass with his OWN SWORD.  Nizam is perplexed 
-- What’s he up to?

Again and again, Dastan strikes the hourglass, until it’s 
RINGING like a bell -- a deafening vibration that makes the 
guards cover their ears, and the cavern itself TREMBLE.  
Chunks of rock rain down from the walls.

Nizam looks around uneasily...

Dastan DIVES at Nizam, ROLLS under his slashing sword, and 
SNATCHES the dagger from Nizam’s waistband as he comes up.

Nizam turns white.

                                     114.

Dastan sees Tamina across the cavern, free of the guards.  
He’s about to TOSS the dagger to her -- then hesitates, 
remembering she’s dexterity-challenged.

No choice.  He tosses it anyway.

THE DAGGER IN THE AIR

A soaring arc...

Tamina, getting ready... keeping her eye on it... not the 
easiest catch in the world...

She SNAGS it out of the air.
Of course.  She’s only clumsy when it doesn’t count.
A brief moment of perfect joy...

-- until a falling chunk of ROCK smashes away the FLOOR at 
her feet.  Tamina FALLS into the abyss -- manages to save 
herself only by stabbing the dagger into the rock ledge.

             DASTAN
      Hold on!!

Tamina dangles precariously.  The thundering waterfall below 
her suggests how far she has to fall.  The dagger scrapes the 
rock as she struggles to pull herself to safety.

Dastan runs, makes a mighty LEAP toward Tamina -- just as the 
ledge CRUMBLES and she falls.  His outstretched hand grabs 
the only thing he can:  The dagger -- by the blade.

Dastan grimaces in pain.  His grip tightens on the blade; 
he’s bearing Tamina’s entire weight.  A thin line of blood 
trickles from his fist.

             TAMINA
      It’s all right.  The dagger will 
      fall with me.

             DASTAN
      No.

He won’t give up.  His every muscle strains to lift her.

Tamina registers that Dastan isn’t going to let go.  That he 
loves her.  With the knowledge comes peace, even happiness.  
She’s going to die, but she trusts him to do the right thing.

             TAMINA
      We’ve won.

Dastan sees the beatific look in her eyes.  It terrifies him.

                                     115.

             DASTAN
      No!  Tamina!

She lets go of the dagger.  And PLUNGES into the abyss.

Dastan, with a choked gasp of disbelief, is left holding the 
dagger.  The empty dagger.

He stares down into the thundering blackness below.  He knows 
Tamina wanted him to throw the dagger after her.

He looks up at the hourglass.  His expression contorts with 
rage and determination.  He can’t let her die.

With a superhuman effort, Dastan LEAPS across the gap in the 
crumbling floor.  Lands on the rock stairs that lead up to 
the neck of the hourglass, where he refilled the dagger once 
before.

As he starts to climb --

Nizam’s SWORD strikes him down from behind.  A terrible, 
mortal blow.  Nizam plucks the dagger from Dastan’s hand 
before it can fall into the abyss.

             NIZAM
      She is not dead.  She has yet to be 
      born.  She shall live -- for me.  
      All this... and you... shall be a 
      dream no one will remember.  

Nizam turns to face the hourglass.  Raises the dagger --

With the last of his strength Dastan LUNGES, grabs Nizam’s 
hand just as he brings the dagger down.  Too late.  Nizam 
STRIKES the dagger into the glass blade-first --

TIME STOPS!

Falling rocks and water frozen in midair, Dastan and Nizam 
grappling like two statues, faces contorted --

In the silence resounds a booming NOISE, like ice cracking.  
The CRACK spreads across the surface of the hourglass from 
the point where the dagger penetrated it.  And --

SAND starts to pour from the crack.

TIME RUNS BACKWARD!  Rocks and water fly back upward, fallen 
guards reappear -- the REWIND ACCELERATING as the crack in 
the hourglass widens, the glowing white SAND pouring out at 
ever-faster rate --

                                     116.

DASTAN AND NIZAM

are untouched in the eye of the storm, in the blinding LIGHT 
of the hourglass.  Both their hands are on the dagger.

THE REWIND

becomes a blur through which we catch quick glimpses of 
action:  Dastan and Tamina battling guards in the hourglass 
chamber; Dastan fighting Garsiv; Tus’s murder on the bridge --

All the while, SAND keeps pouring from the hourglass -- now 
in a torrent, swept by the gathering WIND into a blinding 
SANDSTORM that fills the chamber with WHITE LIGHT.

DASTAN,

as if stunned by a concussion, shakes himself awake to 
realize he’s there with Nizam, in the bright ROARING center 
of the sandstorm.

Nizam, in ecstasy, holds the dagger in place -- SAND pouring 
out of what is no longer the hourglass, but a CRACK in the 
very surface of the universe.  The wind sweeps up the sand as 
it pours out, adding to the storm.

Savagely, Nizam pries Dastan’s hand from the dagger.  Dastan 
hangs on, too weak to fight back.  The wind RIPS at him; if 
he lets go, he’ll be sucked into oblivion.

Nizam gives Dastan a sharp elbow.  Dastan loses his grip and 
is nearly swept off by the wind -- but keeps his hold.

Dastan looks down, sees blood soaking his tunic.  His life is 
ebbing away; he can’t hang on much longer.

Then, out of the maelstrom of events REWINDING all around 
them, an IMPLOSION of light in the dawn sky attracts Dastan’s 
attention.  Hazily looking up, he sees a FLAMING ARROW arcing 
backward through the sky: The opening battle. 

Dastan summons the last of his strength and will.  Bearing 
down on Nizam’s arm, he PULLS OUT THE DAGGER.

In that instant, the crack in the hourglass REPAIRS ITSELF.  
Before Nizam can recover, the SANDSTORM sweeps both him and 
Dastan into the void.

For a few moments, SAND is all we see and hear.
Then, little by little...

THE SANDSTORM STARTS TO CLEAR.

                                     117.

Dastan looks around.  At first he can’t tell where he is.  
The sand is everywhere.  In his teeth, in his hair.  He 
searches himself for the dagger.  He doesn’t have it.

Gradually, he starts to make out other figures nearby.  
Persian soldiers, SHOUTING in the wind.  Horses WHINNY in 
terror as their riders try to control them.

With a shock of dread, Dastan realizes --

EXT.  BELOW THE CITADEL - SUNRISE

He’s too late.  We’re reliving the opening battle.  The 
Persian army is already charging toward Alamut -- repeating 
their mistake with the inexorability of a nightmare.

             DASTAN
      No.  No!!

EXT.  RAMPARTS - SUNRISE

Lashed by SAND and WIND, the Alamut Sentry grabs a stick and 
beats the GONG in warning as he did the first time.

INT.  TAMINA’S BEDROOM - SUNRISE

The GONG awakens Tamina.  SAND is blowing into the room.

EXT.  BELOW THE CITADEL - SUNRISE

Tus raises his sword and lets out a WAR CRY, exactly 
repeating his action of the opening sequence.  From the ranks 
rises a blood-curdling NOISE as thousands of voices join him.

Only one thing has changed:  Dastan.  Outwardly, he’s the 
same man who rode into battle in the opening sequence.  But 
in his face is a new maturity, the resolve that comes with 
the acceptance of responsibility.

Dastan looks toward the ramparts, just in time to see the 
FLAMING ARROW launched into the air.

             DASTAN 
      No.

He rides toward Tus, shouting --

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Tus!  Call off the attack!

                                     118.

The arrow EXPLODES into a shower of brilliant fireworks, 
illuminating the scene like a lightning flash.

Nizam, on horseback, appears suddenly blocking Dastan’s way.  
He STRIKES, nearly knocking Dastan off his horse.

A barrage of ARROWS from the rocks catches the charging 
Persian soldiers by surprise, as Alamut archers rise from 
hiding, taking advantage of the flare to find their targets.

Dastan tries to ride past Nizam.  Again Nizam bars his path.  
Only these two men know what’s at stake in this battle.  
Nizam can’t let Dastan live.

They CLASH on horseback -- Dastan blocks Nizam’s double-
bladed attack.  And the duel begins... while around them, the 
charge disintegrates into a nightmare, as it did once before.

Tus, in the vanguard, is aghast to see the battle plan 
unraveling.  Looking around, he sees --

Dastan and Nizam dueling.

Tus’s face contorts in anger.

             TUS
      Dastan.

He knows of only one reason Dastan would fight Nizam:  
Injured pride at having been removed from command.  Dastan’s 
immaturity is jeopardizing the battle.  Enraged, Tus rides 
toward them.

NIZAM AND DASTAN

Nizam uses both swords and every trick in the book.  Dastan 
can’t get off the defensive.

A growing circle of onlookers gathers around them, uncertain 
whether to intervene.

             NIZAM
        (to the men)
      Traitor!  The King’s son would 
      betray us to our enemy!

             DASTAN 
      He’s lying!

The battlefield around them is chaos -- soldiers felled by 
arrows, catapults erupting in FLAMES.

                                     119.

Nizam’s six elite guards ride toward the dueling pair.  A 
handful of common footsoldiers block their way with SPEARS, 
ensuring it stays a fair fight.

             GAMBLING SOLDIER
      Oh no you don’t.

Impatient to end the fight, Dastan stands up on his saddle 
and LAUNCHES himself at Nizam, knocking him off his horse.  
They roll together on the ground.  Nizam lands on his back, 
Dastan straddling him, sword raised --

Tus arrives on horseback, forces his way through the circle.

             TUS
      Hold!!  HOLD!!!

Dastan freezes, inches from killing Nizam.  He can’t disobey 
his brother.

Nizam’s right hand creeps along the ground, toward his sword 
that landed inches away...

             DASTAN
      Tus, call off the attack!  It’s a 
      trick.  Nizam lied to us.

             NIZAM
      We can win!  Dastan is a traitor.

             TUS
      Dastan, put down your sword.

             DASTAN
      No.

Tus can’t believe Dastan’s insubordination.

             TUS
      What did you say?

             DASTAN
      We have no reason to attack Alamut.  
      Our victory will bring us disaster.  

Menacingly, Tus draws his own sword.

             TUS
      We are at war -- and I command.  
      Put down your sword.

The threat is clear.  Still Dastan hesitates.

                                     120.

Nizam sees his chance.  His right hand closes on his sword 
hilt; he SWINGS upward toward Dastan’s neck --

Dastan sees the sword coming, BLOCKS it --

As Nizam expected:  He strikes left-handed with his OTHER 
SWORD toward Dastan’s exposed torso --

With blinding speed Dastan turns, BLOCKS the second blow, and 
DRIVES his sword like a stake into Nizam’s heart.

The men watching are stunned.  Nizam can’t believe it either.

             NIZAM
      You!

He coughs.  And then he’s dead.

Dastan HURLS his sword away from him; it sticks quivering in 
the frozen ground.  He stands to face Tus.

             DASTAN
      Kill me if you must.  But call off 
      the attack -- for Alamut is 
      blameless.

Dastan advances, making it easier for Tus to kill him.

             DASTAN
	(CONT’D)
      Tus, do you remember Father’s words 
      to you on the day we left for war?  
      ‘A king must listen always to the 
      voice of reason.’

             TUS
        (mystified)
      How could you...

             DASTAN
      ‘...But also listen to your heart.’

Tus stares at him.  Dastan meets his gaze, calmly resolute.

Tus senses the difference in Dastan.  This is not the younger 
brother he knew.  It’s as if Dastan has matured overnight.

Tus turns and shouts to the troops --

             TUS 
      Halt!  Retreat!

His order echoes through the ranks, repeated by the 
commanders at every level.

                                     121.

EXT.  BATTLEMENT - SUNRISE  

The Fearsome Alamut Warrior (Tamina’s brother) mounts his 
horse.  The KING OF ALAMUT takes the DAGGER from an ornate 
box held by PRIESTS, and is about to entrust it to his son --

Just then, he’s distracted by the SHOUTS of Alamut soldiers 
bringing news at a run.

The King steps to the parapet, looks down.

Below, the great wave of men moving toward the castle has 
stopped.  The Persian army is turning around.

The King looks at the dagger in his hand... utters a silent 
PRAYER of thanks, and replaces it in its box.

EXT.  RAMPART - SUNRISE  

Tamina, in her nightgown, watches through a loophole as the 
army vanishes into the mist.  Her young face reflects wonder, 
mystery, and a vague sense of the danger she’s just escaped.

INT.  ALAMUT THRONE ROOM - [LATER THAT] DAY 

A Persian delegation marches into the throne room:  Tus, the 
Twins, Dastan, and forty soldiers; past ALAMUT SOLDIERS 
standing at attention.

The King of Alamut awaits them on a dais.  Tus bows.

             TUS
      From my father, King Shahraman.

An ATTENDANT steps forward bearing a chest; an INTERPRETER 
repeats Tus’s words in Foreign.

Dastan stands behind his three older brothers, the focus of 
no one’s attention.  As the formalities drone on, he scans 
the hall... Until he spots her.

Tamina.  Resplendent in full regalia, she’s part of a group 
of NOBLEWOMEN and attendants stationed at the side of the 
hall.  Her attention is focused on the ceremony.

Dastan edges toward her.  Along the way, he steps on a few 
toes, attracting glares:  Who does this guy think he is?

Tamina is distracted by a CLATTER:  Dastan has knocked over 
an array of spears, and is making things worse by trying to 
help the servants straighten it up.

                                     122.

A stern OLD WOMAN at Tamina’s elbow redirects her attention 
to the stage.  Such things are beneath a princess’s notice.

Tamina obeys... but after a moment, her eyes drift back 
curiously to see who caused the commotion.  Dastan, in the 
crowd, catches her eye and gives a little WAVE.

Tamina turns pale and snaps her attention back to the dais.

But she can’t help herself... She looks back.  Dastan is 
threading his way through the crowd, coming straight toward 
her!  Mortified, she looks away -- too late.

             DASTAN
      Your Highness.  My name is Dastan, 
      son of Shahraman.

The noblewomen are scandalized.  Tamina’s chaperone hustles 
her away; ALAMUT GUARDS close ranks between Dastan and the 
group of women.  Dastan can’t go further without creating an 
international incident.  He’s left alone and frustrated.

On the dais, Tus and the King of Alamut embrace in ritual 
friendship.  A murmur runs through the crowd; heads bow.

The Twins lean together for a private aside.

             FARHAD
      I hope he doesn’t make us marry his 
      daughter.

             FARHAN
      Make you marry her.

             FARHAD
      No, you.

Dastan, overhearing, perks up.  He looks after Tamina --

Who, just at that moment, glances back over her shoulder as 
she’s being hustled off.  For an instant her eyes meet 
Dastan’s.  Then she’s gone.

DASTAN:  A glimmer of hope comes into his eyes.  A crafty 
look that spells trouble.

CUT TO BLACK.

                 THE END

