              PURE O

         Written by Kate Trefry

Lee Stobby - Manager
Caliber Media
lee@calibermediaco.com 
310-786-9210


EXT. DORM ROOFTOP - DAY
A beautiful, sunlit smile. This smile belongs to MARIE ASTOR 
(20). She squints into the setting sun, her smile broadening. 
Over this, a loud CLICK, then the scratchy sound of white 
noise. The voice that follows is tinny and recorded sounding. 

             MARIE
      I was twenty years old when I lost 
      my mind. 

INT. MARIES DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Marie types furiously at her computer, immersed in writing.

             MARIE
      They dont like to call it that, 
      though. The shrinks, I mean. They 
      call it blossoming. My disorder 
      blossomed. Like a rose, or a 
      maiden. 

INT. NYU CLASSROOM - DAY

Marie aloud reads from the piece she was working on. The 
professor looks around at the entranced class and smiles. 

             MARIE
      I would call it more like a free 
      fall into infinite darkness. But 
      maybe thats why Im not a doctor. 

EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - NIGHT

Marie and her friend MADISON (21) run wildly through falling 
snow toward a yellow cab that glows in the twilight.

             MARIE
      Shrinks are good like that, coming 
      up with poetic euphemisms to talk 
      about awful things. But in a way, 
      this one actually makes sense.

INT. LOFT PARTY - NIGHT

Marie recklessly makes out with a guy.

             MARIE
      It blossomed alright. The way mold 
      does on fruit. 

INT. THE BOWERY BALLROOM - NIGHT

Marie dances (terribly) in a crowd to an indie-pop band.

             MARIE
      Or a wildfire does in the forest. 

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Marie holds Madisons hair back as she VOMITS in a toilet. 

             MARIE
      It bloomed in my mind the way any 
      disease does in a body.

EXT. DORM ROOFTOP - DAY

Marie is back at the rooftop party. Her smile breaks into a 
wild laugh. She leans on Madison, doubled over with laughter. 

             MARIE
      Then it ate me alive. 

INT. MARIES DORM ROOM - DAY

An incessant BEEPING.

Marie sits on the floor in a hoodie, knees drawn up to her 
chin. She lifts her hooded head to reveal a pale, tired face.

The BEEPING comes from an alarm clock beside her: 5:55am. She 
SMACKS it and theres an almost subliminal FLICKER of images: 

The FLASH of a blade, a SPLAT of red hitting Maries face.

Hands shaking, she pulls a PILL BOTTLE from her hoodie. The 
morning light gleams off the label:

TYLER DICKERMAN

XANAX: TAKE 1 TABLET DAILY

Marie shakes the last FIVE PILLS into her palm and throws 
them back, then rolls the empty bottle under her bed where it 
CLACKS against other empties.

She shuffles to the kitchen, tripping over stacks of 
notebooks on the floor, and opens a silverware drawer. Its 
full of SPOONS and SEAFOAM GREEN CRAYONS. She puts FIVE 
CRAYONS in her hoodie pocket.

The kitchen table is a disaster of papers crowned a thick, 
worn notebook. Marie reaches for it, then JERKS away, wiping 
her hand on her pants. She walks out, leaving it behind.

INT. NYU BUILDING - DAY

Security guards flank a long line of students waiting to go 
through a METAL DETECTOR. Marie stares straight ahead as she 
passes POSTERS for CONFLICT RESOLUTION MEETINGS and C HALL 
SUPPORT GROUPS, and FLYERS for a MENTAL HEALTH STUDY.

INT. NYU CLASSROOM - DAY

Marie sits near the back of the room, her eyes glazed over. 
Beside her is Madison, dressed like a sexy librarian in 
glasses and an unbuttoned button up. Madison openly gawks at 
the professor, MR. BROWN (42): short, homely, unbearably 
charismatic. He looks around the class as he talks.

             MR. BROWN
      Were getting close, boys and 
      girls. Graduation, in its many 
      splendored horror, is mere months 
      away. If fact, some of you-

His gaze momentarily settles on Marie with a wink.

             MR. BROWN
      -May already be receiving letters 
      of inquiry from magazines and 
      publishing houses. This final 
      semester of Creative Writing can 
      transform your thesis from jello 
      bullshit into steel latticework-but 
      only if youre willing to work for 
      it. So dig deep. Get dirty. Its 
      the last thing youll write in 
      college. Make it count.

Madison leans over and whispers to Marie.

             MADISON
      So help me god, I am going to have 
      sex with that man.  

             MR. BROWN
      Okay. Lets take a look at the new 
      chapter of Madisons Gothic 
      werewolf parable A Death in The 
      Woods.

Madison blushes as she fishes out a slim packet of paper. 
Maries hands dont leave her hoodie pocket.

             MADISON
        (Whispering)
      Did you forget to print again?

Marie nods vaguely, her eyes glazing over from the drugs. 

             MR. BROWN
      Madison, why dont we start with 
      you reading across the page, and 
      Marie, can you be our monster?

EXT. STREET - DAY

Marie walks quickly away from campus, her hands shoved in her 
hoodie pocket. A student handing out MENTAL HEALTH STUDY 
FLYERS shoves one at her. She dodges him. 

INT. NYU CLASSROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK) 

Madison reads aloud, following the words with a sharp PENCIL 
that SCRITCHES along the page. Marie turns to her, eyes 
weirdly glazed. Suddenly, Madison CHOKES.

EXT. STREET - DAY (PRESENT)

Marie hears the BUZZ of a walkie-talkie and looks over to see 
two security guards eyeing her aggressively. She speeds up, 
sweat forming on her forehead. 

             MADISON
        (Whispering)
      Marie.

INT. NYU CLASSROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)

BLOOD dribbles from Madisons lips. Marie looks down at her 
hands, gripping the PENCIL, sticky with blood. 

EXT. STREET-DAY (PRESENT)

Marie takes her hands out of her hoodie pocket. Clean.

             VOICE
      Marie!


Marie looks up to see BRIT (22), a tall blonde, good-looking, but definitely not the brains of this operation. 

             BRIT
      Holy shit, Marie, where have you 
      been? Everyones looking for you. 

Marie looks dazed. She murmurs...

             MARIE
      Because of Madison?

             BRIT
      What happened to Madison? 

             MADISON
      Yeah what did happen to Madison? 

Marie wheels around to see Madison standing, furious, but 
uninjured.

             MADISON
      Oh wait, I know-she was super 
      humiliated because Marie fell 
      asleep in class. While reading her 
      thesis. OUT LOUD.

INT. NYU CLASSROOM-DAY (FLASHBACK)

Marie jolts awake, sweaty and incoherent, to find the whole 
class staring at her eerily. 

EXT. STREET - DAY (PRESENT)

Marie almost laughs, looking deeply relieved. Madison glares.

             MARIE
      Sorry, Mad, its not you, Im just-

             MADISON
      So hung over? Yeah. I could tell. 

             BRIT
      Hey guess what, you guys?

Marie lights a cigarette.

             MADISON
      Ew, when did you start smoking 
      again?

Marie shrugs. 

             BRIT
      Yeah, gross, Marie. Guess what, 
      though?

             MADISON
      You better quit before summer, I 
      heard it makes you snore-

             BRIT
      Oh. My God, who cares? Guess what-

             MADISON
      What, Brit? Jesus!

             BRIT
      Ty Dickerman got expelled.

             MARIE
      WHA-

Marie starts violently COUGHING and drops her cigarette.

             BRIT
      Crazy, right? Derek has O Chem with 
      Tys roommate, Robby, and he said 
      this morning him and everyone he 
      dealt to got expelled in some kind 
      of like, sting op! Thats why I was 
      looking for you, Marie! Didnt you 
      guys used to make out or something?

Madison rolls her eyes.

             MADISON
      Ugh. That kid was a fucking train 
      wreck. And now everyonell wanna 
      talk about it at Conflict 
      Resolution-Hey where are you going?

Marie is jogging away from them. She yells back.

             MARIE
      I gotta go!

             BRIT
      You coming to ConRez later?

Marie says nothing, but breaks into a run. 

INT. MARIES DORM ROOM- DAY

Marie explodes into her room and frantically searches under 
her bed, sifting through DOZENS OF BOTTLES: all Xanax, all 
prescribed to Tyler Dickerman, all empty. She digs through 
her trash-a stray bottle! She grabs it--

Empty.

             MARIE
      Good.

Her heart POUNDS in her head. She paces, counting, tripping 
over BOOKS, slipping on PAPERS, a sheen of sweat forming on 
her face. She shuts her eyes, a FLICKER:

A BLADE SLASHES, spraying BLOOD. A SCREAM, then a CHOKE. 
KNIFE again. BLOOD again. KNIFE again. BLOOD-KNIFE-BLOOD-

She rushes out of her room, SLAMMING the door. 

INT. NYU DORM HALLWAY - DAY

Marie KNOCKS on a door five times, then five more, then five-

             ROBBY
      Hes not here, Marie.

             MARIE
      I know, Robby. Can I just come in? 

INT. ROBBY AND TYLERS DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Marie is slumped on the floor beside a haggard looking ROBBY 
(22). One side of the room is depressingly bare: stripped 
bed, tacks in the wall where posters were. Robby sighs.

             ROBBY
      Now theyre going to give me new 
      fucking roommate...

             MARIE
        (Distracted)
      How can no one else be holding?

             ROBBY
      You dont get it, do you? Everyone 
      got expelled. And even if theres a 
      few that didnt, no ones gonna be 
      selling on this campus a for long, 
      long time. 

Marie rubs her eyes roughly. 

             MARIE
      Well, how did Ty get his shit?

             ROBBY
      He was seeing like, twelve 
      different shrinks, dude. One for 
      every prescription. Memorized all 
      the symptoms and everything.

             MARIE
      And they just gave him drugs? What 
      did he tell them?

INT. NYU STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES - DAY 

             MARIE
      Im just really stressed out, you 
      know?

Marie smiles nervously at the man-child sitting across from 
her. A piece of paper taped to his desk tells us this is JAKE 
LUDEN, (26, looks 15) He shuffles through a stack of papers, 
overwhelmed. A POSTER of the ABC's of violent warning signs 
droops on the wall behind him.

             JAKE
      Yeah, totally. Weve gotten a lot 
      of that in the last few months. 
      Ever since The C Hall Incident--ah!

He pulls out a sheet of paper triumphantly.

             JAKE
      Ok. Here we go. Are you currently 
      pregnant?

             MARIE
      Um, no. 

             JAKE
      Are you currently having 
      unprotected oral, anal, or vaginal-

             MARIE
      -No. 

             JAKE
      Do you do any illegal drugs?

             MARIE
      No.


             JAKE
      About how many times a week?

             MARIE
      I just told you I dont do drugs.

             JAKE
      Ha! Tried to trick you. Old psych 
      trick. Well. New to me. But old to 
      the...world. Anyway. Where were we? 
      Oh, have you ever attempted 
      suicide?

             MARIE
      No. Im just stressed. Maybe you 
      could give me something to...take 
      the edge off? 

             JAKE
      Actually, Im not technically a 
      doctor. Im more of a graduate 
      student. So I cant legally 
      prescribe medication yet. But, have 
      you tried going to ConRez?

She stands up. 

             MARIE
      This was a mistake. 

             JAKE
      Wait! 

Jake rapidly digs through his avalanche of papers again.

             JAKE
      I know someone who can help you. 

He finally locates and hands her a business card. She reads:

             MARIE
      River Mackey?

             JAKE
      Head of Counseling. Hes all about 
      that, yknow taking the edge off.

INT. RIVER MACKEYS OFFICE-DAY

NEW AGEY CHANTING MUSIC plays. Sage burns in a bowl. Marie 
skeptically eyeballs a dreamcatcher dangling by a window.

             RIVER
      See, each of these extensions holds 
      a crystal that aligns with one of 
      the body's seven chakras.

She looks back to RIVER MACKEY (55): his braided gray hair  
and flannel shirt in clear defiance of NYU teacher dress 
code. He holds a bizarre, spider-legged contraption.

             MARIE
      Oh. Great. 

             RIVER
      We'll work on brow chakra first. It 
      regulates what you feel as 
      intuition. Then we'll do heart 
      chakra. Guess what it controls. 

             MARIE
      Love?

             RIVER
      No! Circulation!

He laughs.

             RIVER
      No, Im just pulling your leg. Its 
      love. Anyway. Lets get started.

He holds the device up to Marie's face and turns it on. It 
CLACKS loudly, flashing a blinding purple light. 

             RIVER
      You feel that?!

             MARIE
        (Squinting)
      Yeah!...So youre not really a 
      prescription drug kind of guy, huh?

             RIVER
      Absolutely not! I leave the poison 
      to hacks like that pervert 
      Schneeding!

INT. DR. SCHNEEDING'S OFFICE - DAY

Marie sits in a huge armchair across from DR. PAT SCHNEEDING, 
DIRECTOR OF PSYCHOLOGY (59); a walrus of a man with 
distracting tufts of hair protruding from his nose and ears. 

             SCHNEEDING
      You remind me of a certain Freudian 
      case study...The Rat Man.

             MARIE
      I remind you of The Rat Man?

             SCHNEEDING
      Mmm. He was haunted by grotesque 
      nightmares of people having their 
      anuses eaten by rats. A form of 
      torture, used during The 
      Inquisition, I believe. They would 
      strap a box of starving rats to 
      your anus or testicles and let them 
      eat through your skin.

             MARIE
      Holy shit.

             SCHNEEDING
      You may not curse in here. But yes, 
      it was barbaric.

             MARIE
      What happened to him?

             SCHNEEDING
      With psychoanalysis, Freud 
      discovered the root of his fixation 
      was a repressed memory of being 
      punished for sexual exploration. 

             MARIE
      So he was cured?

             SCHNEEDING
      Actually, he was killed in combat 
      in World War I a few months later, 
      so there could be no long term 
      follow up. 

             MARIE
      Of course.

             SCHNEEDING
      Now in your case, I believe youre 
      projecting a fear of intimacy onto 
      the people around you. Youre 
      afraid of the physical reality of 
      intercourse,the penetration or 
      stabbing- 

He waggles his eyebrows at her meaningfully.

             SCHNEEDING
      -so you have created a reverse 
      scenario, wherein you have the 
      power to penetrate. Its about both 
      desiring control and fearing it. 

Long pause. 

             MARIE
      Oh. So...can you prescribe Xanax 
      for that?

He raises an eyebrow as he reaches for a prescription pad.

             SCHNEEDING
      I could. 

Maries face lights up as he begins SCRIBBLING on the page.

             SCHNEEDING
      But, due to a recent scandal 
      involving students dealing 
      pharmaceuticals, I'm prescribing 
      psychoanalysis instead, with...

He tears off the page and hands it to her. 

             SCHNEEDING
      ...one of our most promising 
      graduate students.

Marie looks down and reads:

JAKE LUDEN

INT. NYU STUDENT SERVICES BULDING HALLWAY - DAY 

Marie storms into the hallway, crumpling up the paper. She 
turns the corner and SMACKS into a thin woman coming the 
other way, spilling PAPERS and PENS on the floor. 

             MARIE
      Sorry. 

She helps gather the papers, avoiding touching the pens. As 
she picks up the papers she realizes theyre flyers for the 
mental health study. She reads: 

DEPRESSION? ANXIETY? NIGHTMARES?

NYU Mental Health Services now recruiting students for an 
experimental treatment. Free for accepted participants. Call 
for interview.

Marie looks up at the woman. BLOOD seeps from the stab wound 
Marie just inflicted, GORY PEN still gripped in her hand.

             WOMAN
      Why dont you hang on to that one?

Marie looks down and blinks. Shes holding the FLYER. 

             MARIE
      Sorry. I mean. Thanks. 

Marie shoves it in her pocket and hurries off, leaving the 
woman staring after her.

INT. MARIES DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Marie stares blankly at the Word document on her laptop. All 
it says is: 

A Crime Told Twice

She starts typing: The...

Her hand shakes. She pounds DELETE. The cursor blinks. She 
squeezes her eyes shut-- 

The computer screen types out: MURDERER. Photos pop up, 
BEEPING as they appear: a dorm room roped with police tape, 
BLOOD on the walls. A KNIFE in a Ziplock marked EVIDENCE.

Maries eyes snap open. She lifts her head off her computer. 
The document is unchanged. Her clock BEEPS: 5:55pm.  

Her eyes drift past the screen to an untouched stack of 
homework assignments. On top, a PINK FORM with the heading 
CLASS WITHDRAWAL stands out. She picks it up. Beneath it lies 
a POSTCARD covered in beautiful handwriting.

She replaces the form and picks up the card, reading:

MARIE- HAD A WILD TIME AT CARNEVALE! WISH WE COULD MAKE IT TO 
GRADUATION, BUT PARIS AWAITS! KEEP THAT GPA UP!

XOXO MOM 

PS-THIS PICTURE REMINDED ME OF YOU!

She flips it over. It's a creepy, bird-like Carnevale mask.

BANG!BANG!BANG!

Someone KNOCKS heavily on her door. She tosses the postcard 
down and opens the door. Madison and Brit stand in the hall.

             MADISON
      Oh wow Marie, nice outfit.

             BRIT
      I think you look hot. But like, 
      weird hot. Like, Olsen twin hot.

Marie looks down at her underwear, socks, and hoodie.

             MADISON
      Sure. Or like one those Worm Guys 
      that live on the subway. 

             MARIE
      Theyre called Mole People. And 
      they dont live on the subway, they 
      live in the tunnels-

             MADISON
      Whatever. Anyway, were going out 
      tonight, remember? Hunter and Dave?

             MARIE
      Ah, shit, I totally forgot...I 
      dont know, you guys...

Madison looks crestfallen. 

             MADISON
      Cmonnnnn. Youre the one who said 
      I need to get down with guys my own 
      age. Besides, you never do anything 
      anymore! Itll be good for you. 

Marie looks at her friends worried face and shakes her head.

             MARIE
      Fiiiiiine. 

             MADISON
      YES! And this is a date, okay? Wear 
      something slutty.

Madison shoves a mess of pale crayons off the couch and sits, 
grabbing the postcard off the table. She shakes her head. 

             MADISON
      Is it me, or is it kind of messed 
      up that your mom and stepdad arent 
      coming to graduation?

Marie looks up from digging through piles of clothes on the 
ground and sees her holding the postcard. She shudders.

             MARIE
      Its pretty much par for the course 
      with them. But its okay. Just one 
      less thing to worry about.  

             MADISON
      Maybe youre right. Im still 
      trying to talk my mom out of 
      bringing the cat-Woah.

Marie has stripped her hoodie off to display a fully defined 
set of ribs and bony hips. 

             MARIE
      What?

             MADISON
      Marie...You look...

             BRIT
      Uhhh-mazing! 

             MADISON
      Yeah. You look like a runway model, 
      you bitch. Whats the secret? 

             MARIE
      Self-loathing.

             MADISON
        (Nodding)
      So hot right now. 

Marie slips into a dress, then pulls her hoodie back on over 
it. Madison COUGHS loudly. 

             MARIE
      Now what?

             MADISON
      Uh, nothing. Just, isnt it time to 
      wash that hoodie?

             MARIE
      No. I dont know. Why? 

             BRIT
      You just have so many cute clothes-

             MADISON
      What shes trying to say is, were 
      sick of seeing you lurch around 
      with your hands in that kangaroo 
      pocket like a fucking gollum.


Marie takes hers hands out of the pocket and lets them dangle awkwardly at her sides. She smooths one of the sleeves.

             MARIE
      Im not a gollum...I just like this 
      hoodie. What do you care...

             MADISON 
        (interrupting)
      You need to get boned, Marie. And 
      no ones wants to bone a gollum.

             MARIE
      Well, maybe the gollum doesnt want 
      to bone, either! Maybe gollum just 
      wants to stay home with her cozy 
      hoodie where its nice and quiet-

INT. CAFE HABANA - NIGHT

Marie sits in a DEAFENINGLY LOUD resturant across from HUNTER 
(22), over-confident, and DAVE (21), who is just really 
trying to pull off an ironic mustache. Brit and Madison nod 
approving as Hunter shouts.

             HUNTER
      American novels are so masturbatory 
      now, it just makes you feel like, 
      what ever happened to art for arts 
      sake, you know?

             BRIT
      Totes. 

Marie rolls her eyes and turns to Brit.

             MARIE
      Wheres Dickwad tonight?

             BRIT
      Derek will be meeting up with us 
      later at Bar None. 

             MADISON
      Gross.

             BRIT
        (Hissing)
      Madison, do not disrepect my man.

             MADISON
      He has a fucking ponytail, Brit-

Theyre interrupted as A PLATE OF MEAT is set down on the 
table. Everyone except Marie grabs a KNIFE and starts sawing 
at the RED MEAT. Marie reaches for the pills in her hoodie 
pocket before remembering...she doesnt have any. 

She tosses back the remains of her mojito. Dave notices and 
decides its time to make his big move.

             DAVE
      I really like your style! Its 
      like, Girl with the Dragon Tattoo 
      or something! 

             MARIE
      Thanks. That mustache makes you 
      look like a pederast! 

             DAVE
      What? 

Madison leans over.

             MADISON
      Marie, Hunter interned at the New 
      Yorker!

She looks back to Hunter.

             MADISON
      Professor Brown is having Marie 
      submit her thesis short there.

             BRIT
      Yeah, shes like, a genius. 

             MADISON
      Tell them about your crime story! 

             DAVE
      Yeah, tell us!

Marie shakes her head, embarrassed. 

             MARIE
      Oh, no...

Madison gives her a withering look. 

             MADISON
      Haha-YOURE BEING WEIRD. TELL THEM. 

             MARIE
      Um. Well, its two stories, really.

Maries voice fades, getting lost in WET, GRINDING noise of 
metal on meat. She senselessly reaches for her pills again.

             MARIE
      One told from the perspective of 
      the victim and the other from the, 
      uh, the...um...criminal...

Marie glances around, glimpsing BLEEDING MEAT, GREASY BLADES.

             MARIE
      But I cant...write it...anymore...

She trails off, looking back at Dave, whose shirt is 
unbuttoned at the top, revealing a little triangle of skin-- 

SUDDENLY, she grabs Madisons KNIFE, lunges forward and STABS 
Dave in the patch of skin! BLOOD sprays her face. Brit 
SCREAMS. Daves body crumples as Marie drops the knife and-

             VOICE
      Marie!

Blinks. Dave sits before her, unwounded but weirded-out.

             MARIE
      ...what?

             MADISON
      HE ASKED IF YOU LIKE CHANDLER.

Madison shakes her head.

             MADISON
       She does. She loves Noir.

             MARIE
        (standing up)
      I-I have to go. 

She runs out of the restaurant.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Marie veers into an alley and VOMITS mojito onto the 
pavement.

             WILL
      Woah!

She turns around to see WILL (26), handsome, but shady 
looking in a ratty Knicks hoodie. She wipes her mouth.

             MARIE
      My bad. 

He checks his shoes for barf.

             WILL
      No, thats what I get for lurking 
      in an alley by a college bar-

             MARIE
      Sh!

She holds her hand up and listens: the sound of LOUD TALKING 
AND LAUGHTER gets closer.

             MADISON
      I should go look for her...

Marie shoves Will against the brick wall, leaning back so 
theyre obscured in shadow just as Madison and Brit pass by.

             BRIT
      Bar None closes in an hour! Dereks 
      waiting. Just text her to meet us. 

They pass. Theres a brief silence. 

Will tries to step forward, but she pushes him back again as 
more voices approach.

             DAVE
      ...Fucking weird dude. 

             HUNTER
      Just stick to shots if she shows 
      up. Only way youll get laid with 
      that fucking mustache anyway.

Will looks sideways at Marie and sees her jaw clench as the 
guys shamble past. She exhales and steps forward. Will pulls 
a PACK OF CIGARETTES from his pocket and offers her one.

             WILL
      Like your hoodie. 

Marie glares at him, looking for signs of mockery. When she 
sees none, she takes a cigarette.

             MARIE
       Thank you.

             WILL
      Anyone ever told you youre cute 
      when you puke? 


             MARIE      Every weekend. 

He offers her a light and she glances down at his fingertips-
oddly dusted in pale blue paint. She inhales, eyes narrowing. 

             MARIE
      Youre being pretty cool about 
      this. 

             WILL
      I work at a bar. Ive seen much, 
      much worse. Trust me. Girl vomit is 
      adorable. Especially when its this 
      minty. 

             MARIE
      Whatre you doing out here, anyway? 

He shrugs.

             WILL
      Same thing youre doing. 

             MARIE
      Barfing?

             WILL
      Escaping boredom. 

He takes a drag and she notices a graffiti tag on the wall 
behind him reading: HAND. Its pale blue.

             WILL
      So, should we keep lurking in the 
      alley or do you want to grab some 
      coffee or mouthwash or something? 

             MARIE
      Seriously?

             WILL
      Sure. 

Marie considers him, images flickering through her mind:

They kiss, pressed against the alley wall. Suddenly, Will 
GASPS. A red stain blooms through the Knicks logo. RATS lap 
at BLOOD dripping onto the pavement.

She shivers and tosses her cigarette on the ground.

             MARIE
      Eh. Im not that bored. 

She turns away from him. 

             MARIE
      Thanks for the cigarette, though. 

             WILL
      Wait!

HSSSS. Hes suddenly spray painting the wall with pale blue.

             MARIE
      Hey-

             WILL
      Im Will. And that-

He finishes with a flourish.

             WILL
      Is my phone number. 

She shakes her head and starts walking away.

             MARIE
      Youre insane.

             WILL
      Call me!

She laughs and keeps walking. 

INT. MARIES DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Marie SLAMS her door and collapses in front of her open 
computer. Photos of her with her friends and family fade in 
and out. In the pictures she looks happier, healthier. 

She flicks the mouse. Word document appears. Her hand shakes, 
her need to write palpable. The cursor winks mockingly. 

She SNAPS the computer closed and grabs the WITHDRAWAL FORM. 

INT. NYU CLASSROOM- DAY

Students file past Mr. Brown, handing him outlines for their 
thesis papers. Marie lingers, waiting until everyone else is 
gone, then hands him the withdrawal slip. 

He glances at it and looks at her, incredulous.

             MR. BROWN
      Youre kidding.

             MARIE
      Im sorry.

             MR. BROWN
      Dont apologize to me.

Mr. Brown snatches a PEN out of a PEN HOLDER on his desk 
containing several MARKERS and a PAIR OF SCISSORS

             MR. BROWN
      Im not going to sit here and sweet 
      talk you, Marie. You know how 
      talented you are. But none of that 
      will mean anything if you do this. 
      Understand? 

He looks at her staring blankly past him, the bags under her 
eyes, the hoodie. 

             MR. BROWN
      I mean, is there something you want 
      to talk about?

Marie finally pulls her eyes away from the gleaming SCISSORS.

             MARIE
      No.

 He shakes his head and signs it, muttering. 

             MR. BROWN
      Waste.

EXT. DORM ROOFTOP - DAY

Marie smokes on the deserted roof, now scattered with party 
debris: empty bottles, chairs, strings of unlit Christmas 
lights. She peers over the edge and flicks her cigarette off. 
Its a long, long drop.

             MADISON
      Thought you might be up here.

She jerks around. Madison walks towards her, letting the roof 
door close behind her.

             MADISON
      Cool hanging out with you last 
      night. 

             MARIE
      Sorry. 


Theres a long beat.

             MADISON
      I know you were buying from Ty. 

Maries face registers shame and shock, all at once.

             MADISON
      Im not a fucking idiot, Marie. 
      Youve changed. I mean, you know 
      that, right? You werent always 
      like this. You used to be fun. And 
      funny. We used to actually do shit. 
      And now...I dont know. But 
      whatever youre on, its turning 
      you into a black fucking hole. 

             MARIE
      Jesus Mad, Im not a junkie. Im 
      just...Everything that happened-

Madisons face hardens. 

             MADISON
      Oh my god, dont even say it. 
      Youre not gonna blame this on that 
      chick in C hall again. It was like 
      six months ago! You didnt even 
      know her! Give it a rest! 

             MARIE
      You dont understand...

             MADISON
      I do, actually. Youre using that 
      sick shit as an excuse to slack off 
      and get wasted. Im not gonna lie, 
      Marie, thats pretty fucked up.  

             MARIE
        (Raising her voice)
      Well, I guess Im pretty fucked up 
      then, arent I?

Madison rubs her eyebrow, collecting herself. 

             MADISON
      Look...I just, I dont think we 
      should live together this summer.

Beat. 

             MARIE
      You already found someone else.

             MADISON
      Well, Brit broke up with Dickwad 
      again last night, so...yeah.

Madison bites her lip, looking like she might cry. Instead, 
she hands Marie a piece of paper.

             MADISON
      This was on your door. 

She leaves, her heels CLACKING as she heads to the door. 
Marie watches her go, then looks down and reads the paper:

Ms. Marie Astor,

This letter is to inform you that as of your withdrawal from 
class ENG0323, you are ineligible for student housing. Please 
vacate within 48 hours. 

             MARIE
      Fuck!

She crumples the letter and hurls it off the roof. She sighs.

             MARIE
      Fuck.

INT. MARIES DORM ROOM - LATER

The room is packed up, with everything but her laptop crammed 
into a duffle bag. Marie paces the room with her cellphone 
pressed to her ear. Her voice is high and unnatural.

             MARIE
      Heyyyy mom. Hows Italy? 

Pause.

             MARIE
      Sorry I-No, Im not upset, I 
      understand. No, Im okay, I just...

Marie leans on the window and with her finger marks TALLIES 
OF FIVE on the foggy glass.

             MARIE
      Do you ever think, like...there 
      could be a part of you that youve 
      kept hidden from yourself your 
      whole life? 

             MARIE
      Like maybe, after all this time, 
      you dont really know who you are, 
      what your capable of? You ever 
      worry about...that? 

Silence from the other end. Maries face flushes red. She 
wipes the glass clean with her hand. 

             MARIE
      Aha. Just kidding thats weird. Um, 
      anyway. I was actually wondering...

She spits it out quickly.

             MARIE
      ...doyouhaveAuntGloriasnumber? 

The faint sound of YELLING is audible through the phone.  

             MARIE
      No-no, its for a project--Ok. You 
      know, never mind. Alright, bye. 

Marie opens the laptop and Googles GLORIA NEWBERRY. She 
scrolls past glamorous HEADSHOTS from the 70s, locates a 
PHONE NUMBER, and dials before she can change her mind.

EXT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - DAY

A light snow falls on an address written in seafoam crayon: 
25 GRAMERCY PLACE. Marie looks up at the gilded number in 
front of her: 25.

She swallows, then shakily grasps the BRASS GARGOYLE KNOCKER 
and TAPS five times.

Maries eyes dart around the crowded street wildly, like a 
cornered animal, catching and sticking on certain elements: 

The SILVER TIP of a womans UMBRELLA. A BUS AD FOR A SLASHER 
MOVIE. LAUGHTER as someone exits a BUTCHER SHOP. The TINKTINK 
of a handyman chipping away at a door hinge with an ICE PICK-

She grabs the knocker again, TAPPING: 1, 2, 3-she stops at 
the CLACKING of many deadbolts unlocking. The door cracks 
open, strains of SHOWTUNES drifting out. Suddenly, a darting 
eye surrounded by dramatic false eyelashes peers through. 

             MARIE
      Aunt Gloria? 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - DAY

CABARET plays through an ancient speaker system. 

Marie sets her duffle bag at the base of a sweeping staircase 
and stares up at the kind of vaulted ceilings you never see 
in New York City. The apartment has the faded glory of 
opulence gone to seed. 

             MARIE
        (Calling out)
      Thanks for letting me stay here!

             GLORIA
      Speak up dear! This isnt a studio!

Marie follows the voice into the kitchen where GLORIA (60s) 
dumps a box of cookies onto a plate. Her thin frame is draped 
in a threadbare silk kimono that billows as she spins around- 

She wears an alarming mask of make-up: thick powder, false 
lashes, severely drawn on eyebrows; all framed by an 
elaborate wig. Yet somehow, the family resemblance is clear.

With one hand she offers the plate of COOKIES. With the other 
she holds a cigarette. 

             GLORIA
      Cookie? I made them myself. 

Marie looks past her at the open COOKIE BOX sitting on the 
counter. She accepts a cookie from the plate.

             MARIE
      Thanks. I was just saying how nice 
      it is of you to have me. I know you 
      and my mom dont really...

Gloria waves her hand dismissively. 

             GLORIA
      With you around I can finally get 
      rid of the boy that delivers my 
      groceries. I think hes become 
      obsessed with me. And anyway it can 
      get a little boring around here 
      with just me and Wanda. 

             MARIE
      Oh, is that your...maid? 

             GLORIA
      My god, I havent even introduced 
      you! Damn my manners! WANDA!

The CLICKING of tiny claws hitting the hardwood. Suddenly, 10 
PUGS come rushing around the corner, wagging and WHEEZING 
furiously, followed gimpily by one, extra wheezy 11th PUG.

Gloria cackles with delight at the frantic dogs, which circle 
her, yapping excitedly. 

             GLORIA
        (Commanding)
      Wanda-Sit!

All of the dogs simultaneously sit perfectly still, like 
eleven porcelain statues. 

             GLORIA
        (Explosively)
      Good Wanda! 

They burst back to life, their tails wagging their bodies. 
Gloria doles out treats from the pockets of her kimono.

             MARIE
      Which one is Wanda?

Gloria laughs again. 

             GLORIA
      Let me show you your room. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - LATER 

Marie wanders through the second floor, tapping on a GLASS OF 
WHISKEY and listening to Gloria watch TV in the den below. 

She creeps to Glorias bedroom and tries the handle of the 
closed door. Locked. 

INT. GLORIAS BATHROOM - NIGHT

Marie opens a mirrored medicine cabinet: The sheer number of 
PILLS within takes her breath away. Lexapro, Prozac, Zoloft. 
Anti-depressants, anti-psychotics, even nitroglycerin, its 
all there. Everything except Xanax. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - DAY

Gloria sits at the table with a cigarette dangling from her 
mouth. She holds a pug firmly while she clips its toenails. 
SHOWTUNES blare. Marie wanders in sleepily.

             GLORIA
      I already fired the grocery boy, so 
      theres nothing for breakfast. Only 
      cigarettes.

Gloria pushes a pack of cigarettes and a ZIPPO towards Marie.

             GLORIA
      And coffees on the counter. 

Marie stands and crosses, reaching towards the COFFEE POT, 
then past it, to a KNIFE BLOCK-- 

She turns, clutching a BREAD KNIFE, and SLASHES Glorias 
face! The dogs SNARL. Glorias ruined mouth grins horribly. 

             GLORIA
      Good girl, Wanda.

Gloria releases the dog, her face normal. Marie jerks her 
hand away from the coffee pot. She sits down and lights a 
cigarette, sparking the Zippo in increments of five.

             GLORIA
      Heres a list. If you pick up the 
      groceries, Ill let you keep that 
      lighter.  

             MARIE
      Oh, no, thats okay-

             GLORIA
      Roger Moore gave me that lighter. 
      You go get some scotch and Grape 
      Nuts and Ill give it to you. 

             MARIE
      Honestly-

             GLORIA
      Just take it. Roger was an asshole. 

             MARIE
      Is there anything else I can do?

Gloria seems to consider this.

             GLORIA
      You know, Wanda likes you.

             MARIE
      Oh. I like Wanda, too.

Gloria nods. 

             GLORIA
      Good. Then Ill fire the dog 
      walker, as well. Wanda doesnt seem 
      to care for her, and frankly, 
      neither do I. Theres something a 
      little wormy about her. 

             MARIE
      Wormy?

             GLORIA
      The leash is in the hall. 

Marie nods and takes a drag of her smoke. Gloria stares at 
her expectantly.

             MARIE
      Oh, okay, so like right now? 

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Marie wanders aimlessly through an abandoned, rainy Central 
Park. The Wandas race around, delighted to be unhooked from 
their eleven-pronged leash. Marie picks up a STICK to throw. 

Suddenly, theres the sound of quiet SINGING. Marie freezes. 
A CHILD, (8), in a YELLOW RAIN SLICKER rounds the bend, 
walking toward her. He smiles at the sight of all the dogs. 

Maries hand tightens around the wet bark of the stick. 

The child kneels down to pet a Wanda.

In a flash of movement, Marie LUNGES forward with the STICK, 
SHOVING the child behind a BUSH. He falls back with the STICK 
protruding horribly from the soft skin of his neck. 

He dies quietly, CHOKING on blood. 

Red slides off the yellow slicker, disappearing in the dirt. 

Marie closes her eyes and leans her head back, letting the 
rain wash the blood from her hands and face.

She opens her eyes. The Wandas stare at her curiously. Her 
hands are clean and wet. She looks around. Bushes everywhere. 

Frantically, she looks behind the nearest bush. Nothing-
except-is that a handprint in the wet ground? She looks 
closer. Is it? She hears faint SINGING and wheels around.

Shes alone. 

Marie sways, faint, and abruptly VOMITS. The Wandas gather 
around, eating it. Marie wipes her mouth and immediately 
peers behind another bush. Nothing. 

Far behind Marie, out of her view, a very faintly singing 
spot of YELLOW rounds another bend and disappears. 

Marie straightens up and slowly turns in a circle. 

The park is empty. Bushes stretch out in every direction.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - LATER

Its starting to get dark. Maries in a completely different 
part of the park. She feverishly looks behind another bush. 

Nothing. 

The Wandas whimper, shivering and wet.

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

A disheveled, wild-eyed Marie sits on her bed surrounded by 
every article of clothing she owns. Everything yellow is in 
the trash. She holds a crumpled piece of paper in her hand:

NIGHTMARES? ANXIETY? DEPRESSION?

She stares at it, TAPPING the corner of the page in fives. 

INT. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - DAY

Marie sits on a couch across from GWEN BRIGHTON (34), aka the 
skinny woman from the hall. The office is crowded with stacks 
of files and seems oddly lived-in, almost half office, half 
apartment.

             BRIGHTON
      The goal of the study is to develop 
      a treatment specific to you and 
      compare it with your prior 
      treatment. I see you met with Dr. 
      Schneeding...

             MARIE
      Yeah. He diagnosed me with wanting 
      to penetrate everything. So. Look 
      out. 

Brighton stifles a smile and sets down Maries file.

             BRIGHTON      What do you want to get out of the 
      study?  

             MARIE
      Same as everyone, right? Get 
      better. To be like before. 

             BRIGHTON
      Before the nightmares? 

             MARIE
      Right. 

Brighton makes a note. Marie looks annoyed, uncomfortable.

             MARIE
      What do you want to get out of the 
      study?

Brighton takes off her glasses. She looks at Marie squarely. 

             BRIGHTON
      Good question. I guess you could 
      say the same as you. Same as 
      everyone. I want to get better. 

             MARIE
      Arent you supposed to say you want 
      to help me? 

Brighton shrugs. 

             BRIGHTON
      This isnt a place where we say 
      what were supposed to say. Thats 
      everywhere else. This is where you 
      say what you mean. 

             MARIE
      Well, if were both trying to get 
      better, whos gonna fix us?

Brighton smiles.

             BRIGHTON
      You dont trust me, do you?

Marie is startled. Brighton shrugs. 

             BRIGHTON
      Its okay. You have no reason to. 
      We just met.

             MARIE
      Its not that. I just...I dunno.

She looks away. Brighton TAPS a RED PEN against Maries file.

             BRIGHTON
      Okay. Let me tell you what I think. 

Marie watches the pen uncomfortably. Her hands tremble on the 
arm of her chair.

             BRIGHTON
      I think youre suffering 
      profoundly. Youre underweight, 
      your eyes are bloodshot, your 
      movements are erratic--its 
      obvious. So obvious that I bet the 
      people around you have started to 
      comment, which only causes you to 
      withdraw further, making everything 
      even worse. And all because of the 
      nightmares, right?

Marie nods weakly, trying not to look at the SKIN of 
Brightons neck. TAPTAPTAP. Marie rasps, throat dry:

             MARIE
        (inaudibly)
      Can you...

             BRIGHTON
      But youre not really having 
      nightmares. Are you?

The PEN gleams. The TAPPING gets louder. 

             MARIE
        (whispering)
      Can you...

             BRIGHTON
      Because it doesnt stop when you 
      wake up.

TAPTAPTAP. Its deafening now. Marie clenches her hands.

             BRIGHTON
      It doesnt ever stop, does it?

TAPTAPTAP. Marie closes her eyes, and takes a breath. 

             MARIE
      Can you stop that?

             BRIGHTON
      Sure.

TAPTAP-The tapping stops. Marie opens her eyes. Brightons 
PEN is lodged in her gut.

             BRIGHTON
      So. Im gonna ask you again, and 
      this time I want you to be honest. 
      Why are you here, Marie? 

Marie unclenches her shaky hands, flipping them over and 
over. Clean. She looks at Brighton. Her stomach is fine.

             MARIE
      I think Im a sociopath. 

She starts to cry, shakily sticking her hands out.

             MARIE
      So I was wondering if you can 
      arrest me? Or commit me, at least?

             BRIGHTON
      Arrest you for what?

Marie cries harder.

             MARIE
      Um. I feel like I might have killed 
      someone yesterday. But Im not 
      totally sure? But even if I didnt, 
      Im definitely about to, any 
      second. So-is there any way can you 
      like, Minority Report me so I can 
      just go to jail now, before its 
      too late?

Marie dissolves into a crying mess.

             BRIGHTON
      Marie.

             MARIE
     What?

             BRIGHTON
      Take a deep breath. 

Marie breaths deeply.

A beat.

             BRIGHTON
      First of all, if you killed 
      someone, you would know. And 
      secondly, youre not a sociopath. 

             MARIE
      Im not?

             BRIGHTON
      No. Not even close. The opposite, 
      actually. You have Obsessive 
      Compulsive Disorder. 

             MARIE
        (sniffling)
      No, thats not right. I haven't 
      washed this hoodie in like, four 
      months. I eat stuff after it falls 
      on the floor.

             BRIGHTON
      Germophobia and orderliness are 
      just one facet. Youre part of a 
      purely obsessional subset. Pure 
      O for short. 

             MARIE
      Sounds like a gay bar.

             BRIGHTON
      It means it manifests more 
      mentally, with obsessing, than 
      physically, with compulsions.

             MARIE
      Can you prescribe Xanax for it?

             BRIGHTON
      Taking Xanax for OCD is like 
      putting a band-aid on an infection. 
      You're not fixing it, you're just 
      covering it up. 

Maries shoulders slump. Brighton writes on a prescription 
pad.

             BRIGHTON
      Ill get you started on SSRIs. It 
      wont feel as good as the Xanax, 
      but it will actually help. However. 
      Im only giving you enough 
      medication for five days. 

             BRIGHTON      You want more, you gotta come back 
      and talk to me. Sound fair? 

She tears off the top page of the pad and offers it to Marie. 
Marie makes no move to take it. They stare at each other for 
a moment, then Brighton folds the paper and leans forward. 

             BRIGHTON
      Look, I get it. Its scary. And 
      its hard. And if youre not ready 
      to fight, thats fine, I wont 
      waste my time trying to make you. 
      But I will tell you this: if you 
      think you can outrun this thing, or 
      hide from it, or ignore it...youve 
      got some very dark days ahead. 
      Because sooner or later, youve got 
      to lock horns with it, and it sure 
      as hell doesnt get any easier. But 
      in the end, its up to you. 

A loud KNOCK interrupts. Brighton glances at the door.

             BRIGHTON
      Thats my next appointment. 

Brighton stands, but Marie GRABS the hand holding the 
prescription like shes drowning.

             MARIE
      Wait.

EXT. STREET - DAY

The sun has begun to set, bathing the street in golden light 
as Marie walks toward campus. 

             MARIE
      You can fix it, right?

             BRIGHTON
      Well. Let me put it this way:

She passes Cafe Habana and sees Wills phone number on the 
alley wall. She looks away.

             BRIGHTON
      Theres no going back to the way 
      things were.

She reaches NYU campus and sees a group of students waiting 
for the bus. She spots Madison holding court for a group of 
guys. They laugh at something she says.


             BRIGHTON      But that doesnt mean you cant go 
      forward. 

Marie turns away, heading towards the Student Health Center.

INT. DR. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - NIGHT 

             BRIGHTON
      At the end of the study, youll 
      write up a personal account-

             MARIE
      I cant write.

Brighton looks down at the file in front of her. 

             BRIGHTON
      It says here youre a Creative 
      Writing major.

             MARIE
      I was. But I cant write anymore.

             BRIGHTON
      Whens the last time you wrote 
      something?

             MARIE
      For class, or in general?

             BRIGHTON
      Either.

             MARIE
      Five months.

 Brighton nods and tosses her a BLACK NOTEBOOK. 

             BRIGHTON
      Then thats going to be our way in. 
      Youll start fictional: an alien 
      killing an octopus, Tom killing 
      Jerry, whatever. But over time 
      theyll become more real. More 
      personal.

             MARIE
      Is this because Im a Writing 
      Major? Because I could switch to 
      like, Econ. Bang. Problem solved.  

             BRIGHTON
      If you were Econ Id just make you 
      do it in Excel. Its how the 
      treatment works: we make a list of 
      the things that scare you and then 
      you do them. Over and over again. 

             MARIE
      So its like Fear Factor.

             BRIGHTON
      No, its not like Fear Factor.

             MARIE
      It sounds a lot like Fear Factor.

             BRIGHTON
      Stop stalling and start writing. 

Marie takes out a crayon. Brighton stops her.

             BRIGHTON
      Nope. Thats insane. Youre not 
      writing with that.

Marie hands over the crayon. Brighton gives her the RED PEN. 

             BRIGHTON
      Now write this down: Exposure List, 
      Item #1...

Marie presses the PEN down hard, watching the INK pool.

             BRIGHTON
      Marie.

             MARIE
      Yeah.

             BRIGHTON
      Write it, dont carve it. Thats my 
      good pen. 

The spell is broken. Marie begins to write:

MARIES EXPOSURE LIST:

TITLE CARD: ITEM #1. WRITING. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Marie sits at the kitchen table with the red pen staring down 
at what looks like the rantings of a serial killer: As the 
knife wept blood onto the kitchen floor, Gloria finally 
understood what she had been all along: a monst-

             GLORIA
      What are you doing?

Marie snaps up to see Gloria looming in front of her.

             MARIE
      Oh shit, You scared me.

Gloria glances down at the page and arches a painted eyebrow.

             GLORIA
      Likewise.

             MARIE
      No, Im just...its for school...

Gloria sits beside her, lighting a cigarette. 

             GLORIA
      Uh-huh. Looks fun. You want help?

             MARIE
      Um...okay, sure. Whats another 
      word for monster?

             GLORIA
      Anomaly. Mutant. Fiend.

Marie writes furiously.

             MARIE
      Woah, slow down. 

             GLORIA
      Gorgon. Demon. Sheila.

             MARIE
      Sheila? Whos Sheila? 

             GLORIA
      My mother. 

             MARIE
      Oh.

             GLORIA
      Your mom didnt tell you much about 
      me, did she?

             MARIE
      Not really.

Gloria nods, stubbing out her cigarette. 

             GLORIA
      Well. Time to feed Wanda.

Marie sits quietly for a moment. She takes out her phone and 
scrolls down her contacts until she reaches MOM. She pauses, 
hovering over the button, then clicks the screen off.

INT. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - NIGHT

A notebook page filled edge to edge with scrawled red ink. 
The page turns to reveal another beneath just like it. 
Brighton finishes while Marie chews her fingernail nervously.

             BRIGHTON
      I love the compulsive. 

             MARIE
      Who?

             BRIGHTON
      Your protagonist, the woman that 
      kills her dogs. I loved that you 
      gave her compulsive traits.

Marie looks troubled. 

             MARIE
      Thanks.

             BRIGHTON
      Actually, you know what? I want to 
      try something. Close your eyes. 

Marie closes her eyes--

INT. MARIES MIND 

Its pitch black. 

             BRIGHTON
      Imagine what your mind might look 
      like if it was a room. 

Still blackness.

             MARIE
      Its just darkness. 

             BRIGHTON
      Turn on the lights. 

Suddenly, florescent lights CLICK on, revealing an endless 
control room, the walls all buttons, computer screens, etc. 

             MARIE
      It looks like...the inside of a 
      rocket ship. 

             BRIGHTON
      Good. Now find your OCD.

Marie notices a FLASHING RED BUTTON. She pushes it. The 
lights go out and are replaced by BLACK LIGHTS, which 
illuminate TEEMING BUGS and CREEPING MOLD coating everything. 

             MARIE
      Its everywhere. Its infected 
      everything. 

             BRIGHTON
      No. Thats what it wants you to 
      think. Your OCD is just a thing. A 
      thing that doesnt belong. Find it. 

She presses the red button again and the lights come back up. 
Suddenly, standing in the middle of the room is a confused, 
bookish looking woman in 1950s style clothing. 

             MARIE
      I think I found her. 

             BRIGHTON
      Shes a woman? 

             MARIE
      I think shes a...librarian? 

The woman nods. 

             BRIGHTON
      Whats her name?

Marie notices a name tag on her dress spelling out:

             MARIE
      Nancy. 


INT. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - NIGHT

Marie opens her eyes.

             BRIGHTON
      When you start to panic, try to 
      remember what Nancy really is. 
      Shes not a demon, or an infection-
      shes a stowaway who doesnt want 
      to be caught. Make sense?

             MARIE
      I think so.

             BRIGHTON
      Good. Lets talk about homework.

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

Wills light blue phone number has been covered up with more 
graffiti and REWRITTEN IN PINK with the words: YOU GONNA CALL 
ME OR WHAT? CIRCLE YES OR NO 

A shadow falls on the wall as Marie walks past. 

             BRIGHTON
      If you let it, this disorder will 
      subdivide your life into smaller 
      and smaller pieces until theres 
      nothing left.

A moment later and shes back again, walking the other 
direction. She pauses at the number, then keeps walking. 

             BRIGHTON
      Your job is to break down those 
      walls and make room again. 

She paces back and forth a few more times, debating. 

             BRIGHTON
      So I want you to think of the last 
      thing OCD prevented you from doing.

 Marie defiantly walks up to the number...

             BRIGHTON
      And do it. 

 And dials. 

EXT. THE EGG ART GALLERY - NIGHT

A very hip art gallery. So hip that it has no sign, just a 
huge, WHITE EGG taking up most of one wall. A long line of 
steampunks snakes along the sidewalk. Near the front, Will 
and Maries hoodies stand out in the sea of odd clothing. 

             WILL
      Im glad you called. Now I can 
      finally get my number off that 
      wall. You wouldnt believe how many 
      crack heads Ive talked to in the 
      last few weeks.

Marie laughs. She looks around at the apparel around them.

             MARIE
      Ive never been to a gallery 
      opening before. I 
      feel...overdressed? 

             WILL
      Yeah, art people are fucking 
      freaks.

The line moves as some weirdoes in ruffled shirts are let in. 
A guy in lensless glasses taking tickets stares at his phone. 

             GLASSES GUY
      Welcome to The Egg.

He glances up and gives them both a disdainful once over.

             GLASSES GUY
      You cant wear that in here. 

             WILL
      Wear what?

             GLASSES GUY
      Hoodies. Not allowed. We have a 
      dress code here. No gym attire. 
      If you want to come in, youll have 
      to take those off.

Will looks to Marie, who is blatantly uncomfortable with the 
idea. He turns back to Glasses Guy.

             WILL
      Cmon man, you just let in a guy 
      dressed like a Civil War reenactor.

             GLASSES GUY
      I really dont have time for this. 
      Either take off your street person 
      clothes or get out of line.

             WILL
       Seriously, man, dont be a dick-

Glasses Guy gestures and two gothy bouncers materialize.

             WILL
      Aw, really? What are they going to 
      do, spook me to death? 

They pull out tazers. Will grabs Maries hand and starts 
backing away.

             WILL
      Okay, yknow what? Fuck you. And 
      fuck your lensless glasses, and 
      fuck your gothy bouncers, and fuck 
      your dumb fucking egg. Were not 
      the weird ones. Youre the weird 
      one. Okay? Youre the weird one.

INT. FRANKIES PUB - LATER

             MARIE
      You didnt have to do that.

             WILL
      He was the weird one. 

A paint marker absently draws A HAND on a vast white surface. 

             WILL
      I thought taking you to an art 
      gallery would make me look 
      sophisticated. I think it worked.

Marie laughs. The two of them sit at a bar covered in BUTCHER 
PAPER littered with doodles from the nights patrons. Will 
shades the fingers of the hand. Marie makes tiny TALLIES.

             WILL
      Art people are all like that. Its 
      part of why I left school.

             MARIE
      Left?

             WILL
      Technically, was asked to leave.


             MARIE
      Let me guess. Vandalism? 

             WILL
      Such an ugly word. I like to think 
      of it more as surprise art! 

Maries phone RINGS. She looks down at the screen. MOM. 
Will abruptly draws an X through the hand.

             WILL
      Do you need to get that?

Marie silences it.

             MARIE
      Nope.

             WILL
      Hey, what are you doing tomorrow?

             MARIE
      No.

             WILL
      No, what?


             MARIE
      No, everything! 

Will looks taken aback. Marie sighs. 

             MARIE
      Look, you seem...sort of nice. 

             WILL
      Thank you?

             MARIE
      So Im just gonna lay it out for 
      you. Because for whatever reason, 
      you seem to think Im some kind of 
      rad, manic pixie dream girl. But in 
      reality, I'm more of a...depressive 
      goblin nightmare lady. 

             WILL
      Youre hardly a lady.

             MARIE
      Im serious. I'm fucked up. Not in 
      a cute, fun, hot-in-bed way. In a 
      nasty way. A way you wouldnt like.

             WILL
      How do you know?

             MARIE
      Trust me. Its not worth it. Coming 
      into my life would be exhausting. 
      Like boarding an airplane. It takes 
      forever, nothing dangerous is 
      allowed in, and once you finally 
      get on board, you realize the hard 
      part hasnt even started yet. You 
      really want to sign up for that?

             WILL
      Yes. 

             MARIE
      No you dont. You need a nice 
      sailboat kind of girl. Breezy. 
      Uncomplicated. I have way too many 
      rules and regulations. 

             WILL
      You know, the funny thing about 
      airplanes is: even though its 
      hard, even though it can be 
      scary...Its still flying. 

He leans in close.

             WILL
      And you cant fly with a sailboat. 

INT. WILLS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Will and Marie make out furiously. 

Wills apartment is a tiny studio lined with cans of SPRAY 
PAINT they keep KNOCKING onto the floor. The neighbor beneath 
POUNDS on his ceiling angrily. 

Will peels off her hoodie. She lays back, looking at the art:  

A series of MELTING NEON SKULLS with the words WHOS LAUGHING 
NOW? scrawled across them in spidery cursive. A disembodied 
eyeball on block lettering spelling out STOP CRYING. 

She looks away. On Wills bedside table are paper stencils 
and SHINY EXACTO KNIVES.

SPLAT. A drop of BLOOD falls from Will lips onto her face. 
His mouth is slack, teeth red. Red words flash through her 
mind in cursive and block letters: MONSTER. KILLER. FREAK. 

INT. MARIES MIND

She shuts her eyes, trying to picture Nancy, but the control 
room of her mind is dominated now by a black doorway, POLICE 
TAPE strung across it, a BLOODY HANDPRINT on the doorframe...

INT. WILLS APPARTMENT - NIGHT

She opens her eyes and starts to hyperventilate.

             MARIE
      I cant do this.

Will can see the tears tremble in her eyes. 

             WILL
      Okay. 

             MARIE
      No, I mean, I really cant do this. 

She sits up, pulling her hoodie back on and puts her hood up. 
Will sits up beside her.  

             MARIE
      Im sorry. 

             WILL
      Its okay. You can make it up to me 
      by telling everyone I have a big 
      penis. 

She laughs.

             MARIE
      Youre funny. 

             WILL
      Youre beautiful. 

             MARIE
      Youre weird.

             WILL
      Youre still beautiful. 

He pauses, trying to figure out what he wants to say.

             WILL
      Okay, so youve got some shit, I 
      get that. But you also have 
      some...balls. And I like that...in 
      a girl?

He looks flustered. She stands up.

             MARIE
      I should go. 

             WILL
      Wait! What Im trying to say 
      is...theres some part of my crazy 
      gets your crazy. So why dont we 
      just...see what happens?

Marie considers him: shirt off, covered in tattoos, 
surrounded by his weird art. She sighs. 

             MARIE
      Just dont try to fix me, Okay?

             WILL
      I never try to fix anything. 

             MARIE
      Dont ask me whats wrong, or if 
      Im okay, or why I do weird things. 

             WILL
      No problem. Stuffs boring anyway. 

             MARIE
      And please, please, dont ask me 
      what Im thinking about. Trust me 
      when I tell you, just this once: 
      you dont want to know. We have to 
      keep it simple-Why are you smiling?

             WILL
      Trust me when I tell you, just this 
      once-

He grabs her hand and pulls her back onto the bed.

             WILL
      I can do simple. 

INT. DR. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - NIGHT

The office looks disorganized, papers and empty coffee cups 
crowd the desk. Brighton rubs her eyes as she passes Maries 
phone back to her, a picture of Will on the screen.

             BRIGHTON
      Not what I had in mind for a 
      homework assignment, but hes cute.

             MARIE
      Yeah. I...um, I have a weird 
      question.

             BRIGHTON
      I probably have a weird answer.

             MARIE
        (Stammering)
      I...uh. I cant...bone. 

Brighton smiles slightly. 

             MARIE
      And...its like the more I want to, 
      the worse it gets. Then I freak 
      out, because I feel like I must be 
      one of those SVU killers thats 
      going to like, bone someone and 
      then kill them, or kill someone and 
      then bone them, and the cops will 
      come and theyll be all disgusted, 
      like My God, theres a pubic hair 
      in the wound! And-

             BRIGHTON
      Totally normal.

             MARIE
      What?

             BRIGHTON
      Well, OCD normal, not normal-
      normal. Its the disorder 
      recognizing a soft spot and trying 
      to exploit it. 

Marie looks at her blankly. 

             BRIGHTON
      It means you like him.

             MARIE
      Well. Makes me feel like a perv.

             BRIGHTON
      I guess well just have to write a 
      story about it, then, wont we? 

             MARIE
      I dont know why I tell you 
      anything.

             BRIGHTON
      Neither do I. And as much as you 
      dont want to hear it, the best 
      thing you can do is tell him-

Marie is vehemently shaking her head. Brighton sighs.

             BRIGHTON
      I know you think you can do this 
      alone. But, honestly, you need to 
      be around other people. If for no 
      other reason than to remind you 
      what a normal life looks like.

Brightons eyes droop for the briefest second, her left thumb 
rubbing the faintest tan line on her bare ring finger. 

             BRIGHTON
      Trust me on this one.

She drops her hand self-consciously, recomposing herself. 

             BRIGHTON
      Anyway. Well get there. In the 
      mean time, I have a super fun 
      activity for you to do instead. 

TITLE CARD: ITEM 2. LISTENING. 

EXT. EAST RIVER BOARDWALK - DAY

Marie grimly walks the Wandas. They bark loudly, but all we 
can hear is the tinny voice speaking through Maries 
headphones over white noise:

             MARIE
      Once upon a time, there was a girl 
      who liked to hurt things.

INT. SUBWAY - NIGHT

Marie nods along absentmindedly as PSYCHO KILLER blasts in 
her headphones. She switches to the next track. Its the 
THEME MUSIC FROM HALLOWEEN. She switches again. Static, then:

             MARIE
      She felt her blade slide between 
      his ribs. Easily, like it was 
      coming home. His screaming turned 
      to a choke as foaming lung blood 
      dotted the sheets...

She sighs and folds her hands to keep them from tapping. 

EXT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Different keys from a massive key ring struggle to unlock all 
the locks while MACK THE KNIFE plays loudly. The door finally 
opens. Marie takes out her headphones. A SCREAM cuts the air.

             MARIE
      Aunt Gloria?!

             GLORIA
      In the den! Watching cinema! 

Marie sighs with relief and winds through the labyrinthine 
apartment talking loudly. 

             MARIE
      Whats the deal with Mack the 
      Knife, anyway? Everyone thinks its 
      so swanky, but the lyrics are like 
      worse than Cannibal Corpse. Right? 
      Im not the weird one here-

INT. GLORIAS DEN - NIGHT

Marie enters the den where her aunt watches a low-budget 
horror movie on TV. 

             GLORIA
      Its a murder ballad from a German 
      opera. Whats Cannibal Corpse?

             MARIE
      Never mind.

Gloria pours a glass of gin and holds it out to her. 

             GLORIA
      Sit down. Have a drink. Grab a 
      Wanda. 

Marie drains the glass and reluctantly sits. The EXTRA WHEEZY 
PUG climbs on her lap and immediately falls asleep. On TV a 
platinum blonde wanders moronically down basement stairs.

             GLORIA
      Look at this jack ass. Lighter 
      their hair, the quicker they die. 
      Psycho started that one, really.


Gloria lights a cigarette and passes it to Marie, then lights another for herself and takes a deep drag. 

             GLORIA
      I knew Alfred, you know. 

             MARIE
      Hitchcock? Youre kidding.  

             GLORIA
      Met him at a party. He wouldnt 
      leave me alone, the old dog. I was 
      just his type back then. 

She waves a hand at the now screaming blonde on screen.

             GLORIA
      Like her. Of course, its all well 
      and fun to direct an actress to 
      play fragile, but when the camera 
      stops rolling, well, Hitch...He 
      wanted a girl who could act crazy, 
      not one that actually was. 

             MARIE
      So what happened?

             GLORIA
      Nothing happened. He moved on to a 
      different blonde. They all did. 
      Even my mother.

She takes another drag.

             GLORIA
      Even yours. 

Theres a heavy pause, and Marie realizes her aunt is drunk. 

             GLORIA
      But youre not a blonde. Youre 
      true blue like me, I can tell. Keep 
      your eye out for those ones, the 
      ones that will stick with you. 
      Might not be as pretty, but those 
      are the good ones. 

She sucks down her gin and gestures towards the screen where 
a long shadow is falling over the blondes teary face.

             GLORIA
      Besides, we all know how the 
      blondes end up. 

She grins crookedly at Marie, who smiles back uneasily.

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Marie scrolls through missed calls on her phone: MOM, 
MADISON, MADISON, NYU...

She sighs and keeps scrolling: MADISON, MOM, NYU, 
MADISON...WILL.

INT. WILLS APPARTMENT- NIGHT

Marie lays in bed beside Will, eyes open and staring. The 
clock reads 6:06 AM. Suddenly, she's over Will, an EXACTO 
KNIFE in hand, blank look on her face. He opens his eyes and 
she brings the blade down, stabbing him with wild ferocity! 

--Marie opens her eyes, covered in sweat. She looks over at 
Will, huddled in a heap with his back to her.

Shivering, she crawls to him, and lowers her face, head 
turns, until her ear a centimeter from his lips. After an 
agonizig moment, she finally hears his SOFT BREATH. 

She sighs with relief.

             WILL
      What are you doing?

She starts. Wills eyes are open. He looks deeply weirded-out

             MARIE
      Nothing. Shhhhh. Go back to sleep.

             WILL
      You go back to sleep. Weirdo. 

She lays back down. She looks at the clock. 6:12 AM. She 
fidgets, then gently takes his pulse. She nods, relieved.  

She looks back over. 6:19 AM. Hes so still. She gingerly 
takes his pulse again. Nods. Still alive. Looks back over...

EXT. NYU HOSPITAL-DAY

Marie and Brighton sit on a bench outside the hospital. Marie 
anxiously avoids looking at the hospital. 

             BRIGHTON
      Hows the boning going?

             MARIE
      Were not so much boning as we 
      are awkwardly making out sometimes 
      while I cry. But. At least I wont 
      get pregnant. 

             BRIGHTON
      At least theres that.

             MARIE
      So...what are we doing here?

             BRIGHTON
      Well. Were doing something 
      different today. 

             MARIE
      Yay.

             BRIGHTON
      Today we talk about your trigger. 
      So close your eyes, and tell me the 
      story of when it started. 

Marie takes a deep breath and closes her eyes. 

INT. MARIES MIND

             MARIE
      Once upon a time, last semester, 
      there were two room mates. Becca 
      and Joanne.

We see two girls decorating a vaguely familiar dorm room.

             MARIE
      They lived in C Hall. 

A dark haired girl sleeps in her narrow bed.

             MARIE
      Everything about them seemed fine. 
      But it wasnt. Because one night, 
      Becca just...

SHINK. A hand pulls a KNIFE from a silverware drawer. 

             MARIE
      Snapped. 

An EXPLOSION of movement as the knife quickly comes down. A 
SCREAM echoes.

             MARIE
      She stabbed her six times before 
      someone got in and stopped her. 

A dorm room roped off by POLICE TAPE. Students sit in a 
hallway, crying.

             MARIE 
      That morning every dorm had an 
      emergency meeting. My RA was crying 
      when she told us, everyone was 
      crying. 

Marie sits with the other students, squinting distractedly at 
figure walking down the hallway towards her. 

             MARIE 
      And I remember suddenly thinking 
      Good. Just the one word. Good. 
      And I thought, The fuck was that? 
      Then I thought Oh my god. Is this 
      what happened to Becca? Is this how 
      it starts?

The figure emerges into the light. Its Nancy, looking eerie 
in the incongruous setting.

             MARIE
      And I guess in a weird way, it was. 

Marie opens her eyes.  

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

             MARIE
      I never met Joanne, but I met Becca 
      once. And she was...she seemed 
      normal, you know? 

Brighton nods, looking far away, lost in thought. 

             BRIGHTON
      She did, didnt she?

Brighton suddenly stands up.

             BRIGHTON
      Come with me. 

Marie follows Brighton as she walks towards the hospital.

             BRIGHTON
      Rebecca Engles is gone. She was 
      sent to a private institution out 
      of state. But Joanne is still being 
      treated. Right here.

Brighton gestures at the hospital. Marie stops.

             MARIE
      Oh, no. No fucking way-

             BRIGHTON
      Marie, I shit on at least a dozen 
      university codes just now by 
      telling you this. Do you know why?

Marie is silent.

             BRIGHTON
      Because Ive failed. Me, and my 
      entire department. We failed. And 
      as a result theres a girl in there 
      who has to go through life looking 
      like science experiment. Weve got 
      the highest prescription drug abuse 
      rates in the country. The highest 
      suicide rate. And now this. The 
      system is not working.

Brighton starts walking again, and Marie matches her.

             BRIGHTON
      Thats why your personal statement 
      is so important. Because it shows 
      the extra money and effort is worth 
      it.

She looks Marie in the eye. 

             BRIGHTON
      Im all in with you, Marie. 

             MARIE
      Lets just hope it works, I guess. 

Brighton smiles. 

             BRIGHTON
      No pressure. 

They stop in front of the hospital. The doors automatically 
open. Inside, the chaos of the ER hums like a hornets nest. 


             BRIGHTON      You should really meet her, one of 
      these days. Shes tough. Like you.

INT. STANDINGS BAR - NIGHT

             MARIE
      I will kill them all, she thought. 

Marie takes out her headphones as she walks into the bar. 
Basketball flickers on ancient TVS. Grime coats everything. 
Two men argue at the bar while Will fiddles with a KEG TAP, 
his back to the door.

             WILL
      Thats it, Ive heard enough. 

The men grow silent. Will doesnt turn around as he struggles 
to untangle a keg hose.

             WILL
      Im giving it to Barry. Pao Gasol 
      might have worse facial hair, but 
      the bottom line is he looks more 
      human than Marshawn. So game over, 
      Barry wins. Now both of you shut up 
      or Ill start charging you for your 
      goddamn refills.  

Marie laughs and Will wheels around. He breaks into a grin.

             WILL
      Youre here! 

             BARRY
      Hey Will, is this your girlfriend? 

             WILL
      Hey Barry, dont you still owe me 
      $50 from fantasy last year?

Barrys smirk falls right off his face.

             WILL
      Yeah. Go back to Googling pictures 
      of Marshawn Lynch, big guy.

Barry turns red. Will ignores him and leans towards Marie.

             WILL
      Guy tipped me 2 bucks last night 
      after drinking about a keg and a 
      half. Anyway. You want a beer? 

             WILL
      Have a beer. And before you ask for 
      a Cosmo or something, we only have 
      beer and very terrible wine, so 
      just take the beer. Also, we have 
      no food. Just these peanuts, which 
      I dont think are safe to eat.

             MARIE
      Impressive.

             WILL
      I know. Sometimes I just like to 
      stand here and...drink it in. 

             MARIE
      Was that a pun? 

             WILL
      Maybe. Anyway, let me give you the 
      tour. 

He waves his arms expansively. 

             WILL
      This is Standings.

He points-

             WILL
      Over there is the bathroom. We only 
      have a Mens, which is both 
      interesting and unique. 

             MARIE
      I can just pee outside. 

Will smiles and gestures up-

             WILL
      There are the TVs.

Starts pouring a beer-

             WILL
      And these are the taps. 

He slides the beer over to Marie. 

             MARIE
      Thanks. 

She takes a sip. He stares at her, grinning.  

             MARIE
      What?

             WILL
      Nothing. I just realized I really 
      hated this place up until like two 
      minutes ago. 

INT. STANDINGS BAR - LATER

Standings is closed and empty except for Will and Marie, who 
sit on the bar smoking cigarettes and eating peanuts. Marie 
looks sadly at shriveled black nut.

             WILL
      Youre breaking my heart with that 
      peanut. Lets order pizza.

             MARIE
      I have Amicis saved in my phone.

She slides it to him and hops off the bar.

             MARIE
      Im going to the Mens. Get 
      breadsticks. No utensils! 

Marie walks into the bathroom and Will picks up her phone. It 
unlocks to an itunes track entitled: KILLER by MARIE. 

INT. STANDINGS BATHROOM - NIGHT

Marie looks at herself in the mirror. She hears her own voice 
faintly, but it must be in her head. 

             MARIE
      I will kill them all. Cut them open 
      and watch them bleed out...

             MARIE
      Shut up, Nancy.

Her voice continues to talk, but she ignores it. She puts on 
lip gloss, takes a deep breath and walks back out.

INT. STANDINGS BAR-NIGHT

Will quickly fumbles her phone, CLATTERING it loudly on the 
bar. He looks at her guiltily as she walks over. 


             MARIE      What?

Will says nothing. She picks up the phone suspiciously and 
looks at the screen. A look of horror crosses her face.  

             MARIE
      Oh. My god.

             WILL
        (Laughing)
      Pretty fucked up, babe.

Her eyes well up with tears.

             MARIE
      Did you call the police?

He laughs, in spite of himself.

             WILL
      No. But I didnt order the pizza 
      yet, either. Dont kill me.

             MARIE
      Are you scared?

             WILL
      Of what, your creepy book on tape? 
      Nah. You should hear my workout 
      mix. Its just a loop of Hitler 
      speeches. Untranslated. Sometimes 
      thats what you need to get really 
      pumped up, you know? 

She buries her face in her hands.

             MARIE
      Jesus. 

             WILL
      I will say that if this was a ploy 
      to get rid of me, it was ingenious, 
      but its not gonna work. 

He takes her hands away from her face and holds them.

             WILL
      I like you. And theres nothing you 
      can do, or say, or put on your iPod 
      thatll change that. You can talk 
      to me, Marie. Im not some college 
      kid. I dont spook easy-

She kisses him, suddenly and violently. 

             WILL
      God, I really gotta stop making you 
      cry every time you see me. 

She kisses him again.

             MARIE
      Its okay. I cry every time I see 
      anyone. 

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Brighton and Marie sit across from each other. Brighton downs 
coffee like water, looking exhausted. Her hands shake 
slightly from over-caffination. A WHITE PLASTIC KNIFE sits on 
the table between them. 

TITLE CARD: ITEM #3. TOUCHING

             MARIE
      What the hell do you expect me to 
      do with that?

Brighton leans in, wide-eyed, and whispers-

             BRIGHTON
      Go on a killing spree. 

Marie leans in, too. 

             MARIE
      Were gonna need a bigger knife.

Brighton laughs. Marie shakes her head.

             MARIE
      Youre sick, you know that? And 
      seriously, why would you bring a 
      weapon to a public place like this?

             BRIGHTON
      I got it here. Over by the 
      condiments. Want to get your own?

Marie looks over to a metal cup holding dozens of plastic 
knives. She shudders, inhaling sharply. 

             MARIE
      I hate you. And I hate this. And I 
      wont be held responsible for 
      whatever happens next. 

             BRIGHTON
      Fine. I take full responsibility. 

Marie plucks the knife off the table and holds it delicately.

             BRIGHTON
      Good. Now, wheres the last place 
      youd want to be with a knife?

INT. SUBWAY - DAY

Marie sits in packed subway car, the knife sticking out of 
her hoodie pocket. She twists her headphone cord anxiously.

             MARIE
      The knife felt light in her wicked 
      hands. She surveyed the subway 
      passengers and thought...

A young guy looks at her and smiles. She looks away. 

             MARIE
      Hell probably be the first to go. 

She leans her head back onto the glass and closes her eyes-

INT. MARIES MIND

Nancy wears safety goggles, a heavy canvas apron, and leather 
gloves. She holds the knife gingerly and flips through a huge 
instruction manual labeled KNIFE PROTOCOL. 

INT. SUBWAY - DAY

Marie opens her eyes and smiles.

INT. WILLS APARTMENT - DAY

Marie lays on Wills bed in her hoodie and underwear flipping 
though a sketchbook. Will SMACKS her butt as he walks by.

             WILL
      You know, I was thinking maybe we 
      could go to your place sometime.

Maries jaw works from within her hoodie. 

             MARIE
      Nope.

             WILL
      What, you live in Jersey or 
      something?

             MARIE
      Just no, okay?

Will gives her a hard look. 

             WILL
      Sorry, too personal? Okay, how 
      bout this for a question: why 
      dont you ever go to class?

Maries face turns red, but she doesnt look up.

             WILL
      Or are you in school at all? Do you 
      even have a place? Am I dating a 
      homeless person? Why dont you ever 
      answer the phone when your mom 
      calls? Is that even your mom, or is 
      some other guy just saved as mom? 
      Cause if it is, thats pretty 
      smart, but you should tell me if 
      youre an orphan. In fact, you just 
      tell me literally anything, because 
      I have no idea who you are.

             MARIE
      You got me. Im a homeless orphan. 
      Now I bet you feel bad. 

             WILL
      Do you not want your friends and 
      family to know youre slummin it 
      with the bartender?

             MARIE
      Stop it. 

             WILL
      No. Just for a second, I want to 
      talk like normal people, without 
      the rules. 

             MARIE
      Well, Im not a normal person, and 
      thats not what you signed up for. 

             WILL
      I know its not what I signed up 
      for! 

             WILL
      But things change, and what worked 
      yesterday doesn't work today.

             MARIE
      Why not?

             WILL
      Because, now I like you and I want 
      to know what the fuck is going on!

She says nothing. Will finally just shakes his head. 

             WILL
      Whatever. I gotta go to work. Lock 
      the door when you leave.

He SLAMS the door. Marie turns back to the book-

RING! 

Marie looks at her phone. MOM. Feeling bold, she answers it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

             MARIE
      Hey mom. 

Beat. 

             MARIE
      I know, sorry, Ive been-WHAT? 

Marie bolts off the bed, eyes wide, and starts to pace.

             MARIE
      I dont understand, why wouldnt 
      you tell me youre coming? Yeah, 
      Im surprised, I just-What is that 
      like, two weeks? 

She leans against the wall and slides onto the floor. 

             MARIE
      No, its good. Im really happy.

She buries her head in her hands. 

             MARIE
      Itll be great. 

INT. NYU STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES - DAY

Marie rushes breathlessly to Brightons door. Shes about to 
open it when she hears MUFFLED SHOUTS within. She pauses.

             VOICE
      ...enrollment to drop twenty 
      percent! At 40K each. You do the 
      math. And you have the nerve to 
      request more money, more staff? 
      Youre lucky to still have a job-

             BRIGHTON
      The presentation will show-

             MADISON
      Marie?

Marie freezes at the voice. She slowly turns around to see...

             MADISON
      Hi...

A very awkward beat. Madison looks like shes been crying.

             MARIE
      Hey...uh...you ok...?

             MADISON
      Not really. This spacey horse-
      whisperer shrink just told me my 
      auras gone bad and I have to stop 
      using microwaves. 

             MARIE
      Oh yeah, I know that guy.

             MADISON
      Hey, um, do you want to like, grab 
      coffee or something-

             VOICE
      Someone's losing their head over 
      it, Gwen. And it sure as hell isnt 
      gonna be me.

The door swings open and a glowering DR. SCHNEEDING storms 
out. Brighton looks hunched, fragile. Her eye catches Marie

             BRIGHTON
      Marie?

             MARIE
      I need to talk to you. 

             BRIGHTON
      Not a good time. 

             MARIE
      Please.

Marie looks at her desperately. Brighton sighs

             BRIGHTON
      Ten minutes. 

Marie turns away from Madison.

             MADISON
      Wait, what are you doing later? 

             MARIE
      -Sorry, Mad, I gotta go... 

             MADISON
        (too loudly)
      I fucked Mr. Brown!

Madison goes red.

             MADISON
      Shit.

She hurries off, her eyes filling with tears. Marie stares a 
moment at Madisons retreating back, then walks into 
Brightons office and shuts the door.

INT. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - DAY

Silence. Marie looks terrified. Brighton looks pissed.

             BRIGHTON
      Lets review. You dropped out. 

             MARIE
      Yes.

             BRIGHTON
      So youre no longer an NYU student. 

             MARIE
      Right. 

             BRIGHTON
      And youve been consistently and 
      systematically lying to me for the 
      entirety of your treatment. 

             MARIE
      Pretty much. 

             BRIGHTON
      Anything else you want to confess? 

             MARIE
      No.

             BRIGHTON
      And now your mom, it turns out, 
      hasnt abandoned you, but is 
      actually coming to see you graduate 
      from the school you recently-
      secretly-dropped out of. And you 
      want me to...what? Lie to her for 
      you? I mean, whats your plan here? 
      You cant seriously expect me to 
      keep treating you-

Brighton looks down at Maries thick file, the crux of her 
study. Her shoulders droop.

             BRIGHTON
      You realize the position youve put 
      me in? 

Brighton looks close to tears. 

             BRIGHTON
      Its over.

             MARIE
      Its not. It cant be. I mean, it 
      works! You were right, we just have 
      to finish it. 

Brighton shakes her head. Marie gets quieter.

             MARIE
      I cant go back to...the way I was. 
      Please. 

A heavy pause. Brighton shakes her head angrily.

             BRIGHTON
      Youre telling your parents. 
      Everything. This is too important 
      to be jeopardized by some 
      dysfunctional family shitstorm. 

             MARIE
      Okay. 

             BRIGHTON
      Say it. Say I will tell them.

             MARIE
      I will tell them.

Brighton angrily writes a note on a post-it. 

             BRIGHTON
      Ill put a note in with the Bursar 
      saying youre on temporary mental 
      health leave. Obviously youll omit 
      this from the personal statement

             MARIE
      Thank you. 

Brighton waves her off, irritated. An unmistakable shift has 
occurred in the relationship.

             BRIGHTON
      Dont fuck with me, Marie. I want 
      honesty from now on, or we are 
      done. Understand?

Marie nods. 

             BRIGHTON
      Go call your parents before I do.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Marie walks up the steps to Glorias apartment with the phone 
glued to her ear. 

             MARIE
      Hey mom, its me, Marie. Your 
      daughter. Um. So. Theres something 
      that...we should talk about...

EXT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - DAY

Marie tries to put her keys in the lock and the door swings 
open. Unlocked. Marie jerks her hand back with a start.

             MARIE
      Anyway so call me back when you get 
      this love you bye. 

She hangs up and steps into the house.

             MARIE
      Aunt Gloria?

Silence. No showtunes, no barking dogs, nothing. Suddenly, 
she notices the half dozen locks hang broken on the frame.

             MARIE
      Gloria!?

She hears the Wandas WHIMPER pitifully from another room. She 
follows the sound upstairs where Glorias door is open a 
crack. Glorias door is never open. Marie pushes on it.

INT. GLORIAS ROOM - DAY

The room is dim, with heavy drapes drawn against the setting 
sun, but Marie can still make out the shapes of the pugs 
huddled together on a massive king bed. 

             MARIE
      Aunt Gloria?

She trips towards the windows and draws the shades, sending 
dust clouds billowing in the cruel shock of sunlight.  

Its a bad episode of Hoarders. Overflowing ashtrays cover 
the floor and bed, competing for space with dog bowls. 

A thick layer of pug hair coats every surface, threatening to 
swallow up the hundreds of lipsticks, powders, and eyebrow 
pencils piled on a long armoire. 

Marie weaves towards the crying dog pile on the bed. All the 
pugs sit anxiously, wagging their tails at Marie. 

All except one. 

There, in the center of the bed, surrounded by her ten 
sisters, lies one dead extra wheezy Wanda.

EXT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Marie pats down the earth atop the tiny grave in the center 
of Glorias front yard. She stands up and brushes the dirt 
off her hands. A neighbor leans on her stoop, yammering.

             NEIGHBOR
      ...she was still screaming when 
      they strapped her in. I thought she 
      was dying until the paramedics told 
      me it was just her dog--

             MARIE
      What hospital did they take her to? 

             NEIGHBOR
      NYU. 

Marie pales. 

             MARIE
      Are you sure?

             NEIGHBOR
      Thats where they always take her

             MARIE
      Thanks.

EXT. NYU MEDICAL CENTER - NIGHT 

Marie sits on the bench outside the hospital. An ambulance 
SIREN screams in the distance. Her phone rings: MOM. 

She silences it and looks back at the door to the ER. The 
SIREN gets louder, and suddenly an ambulance SCREECHES to a 
stop in front of her. PARAMEDICS rapidly unload a BLOODY MAN. 

Marie stands up and walks away. 

EXT. WILLS APPARTMENT-NIGHT

Marie knocks on Wills door five times, then five more, then 
five more-

It opens.

             WILL
      Hey, sorry about-

She kisses him hard, pushing both of them into his apartment 
and SLAMMING the door behind her. 

INT. WILLS APARTMENT-NIGHT

They make out on the bed. Will pulls back for a second. 

             WILL
      Are you sure this is what you want?

Marie shakes her head.

             MARIE
        (Whispering)
      No. 

He pulls away further, but she grabs him. 

             MARIE
      Dont ask me, just do it.

He hesitates. She strips off her hoodie to reveal only a 
black bra. He gets on top of her. 

Skulls LAUGH and melt. Eyeballs weep blood. Marie KNIFES Will 
in his naked, tattooed back. Nancy sits cross-legged and 
blushing amidst blaring ALARMS and flashing red lights. 

INT. WILLS APARTMENT-LATER

They lay in bed. Its weird. 

             WILL
      Can I ask you something?

             MARIE
      I guess so.

             WILL
      Did you throw out all my Exacto 
      knives?

Beat.

Will nods.

             MARIE
      Yeah.

             WILL
      Are you afraid of me?  

             MARIE
      No. 

She clenches her hands into fists, trying not to tap.

             MARIE
      Im afraid of myself.

Will stares up at the ceiling for a moment, understanding the 
implications of this for the first time. 

             MARIE
      Theres something wrong in me.

Her voice breaks.

             WILL
      You know what always makes me feel 
      better?

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Over pitch black theres a metallic RATTLING, then the HISSS 
of an aerosol can as thread of sky blue spray paint arcs 
across a wall. 

             MARIE
      How long have you been doing this?

Marie watches as Will fills in an elaborate bubble letter. 
His movements are fluid and efficient. 

             WILL
      Long time.

             MARIE
      Have you ever been caught?

             WILL
      Not here.

Shes hypnotized as he outlines the word with hot pink.

             MARIE
      Why do you write that word, Hand?

             WILL
      Really, with the questions? Thought 
      we werent doing that.

             MARIE
      Sorry. Was your family, like, 
      killed by a pack of wild hands? 

             WILL
      Red.

             MARIE
      What?

             WILL
      Toss me the red. And keep an eye 
      out for people on their cellphones.

She throws him a red can. Will keeps painting as he talks.

             WILL
      We didnt have art class where I 
      went to school. So I worked at this 
      tattoo shop all through high 
      school. And it was awesome, 
      actually. I just got high and gave 
      my friends tattoos all day. Thought 
      Id do it forever. 

             WILL
      But when I got offered a 
      scholarship to the Art Institute, 
      suddenly it stopped seeming so 
      great. And it was like, shit, maybe 
      I can get the fuck out of here and 
      make a go at it.

He glances back. 

             WILL
      You keeping an eye out?

Marie nods. He goes back to painting.

             WILL
      So. Came to the city for school, 
      and the first day we had 5 minutes 
      to draw our hands. Then we hung 
      them on the wall and the whole 
      class walked through together while 
      the professor critiqued them. So we 
      hung em up, and there was all 
      kinds of shit, photoreal, abstract-
      and then there was me. a preteen 
      whos idea of fine art is Spawn 
      comics.

His wrist twitches, sending a line of red into an H.

             WILL
      Shit.

He grabs the blue and starts fixing the letter. 

             WILL
      The thing is, Spawn had the best 
      illustrators of any comic series 
      ever. But they didnt know that, 
      because they were elitist dicks, 
      and their shit was all just 
      souless, pandering noise. I didnt 
      wanna do that. I wanted to do 
      something that had heart. Art that 
      took balls. So thats what I did. 
      And I wrote hand because...I dunno. 
      Fuck those dicks.  

             MARIE
      But then you got caught.

             WILL
      Yeah. But by then I wanted to.
      Otherwise...Id have to admit it.


             MARIE      Admit what?

He does a finishing touch and steps back. The piece is so 
clean and bright it practically glows in the dark.

             WILL
      That I was scared. 

He turns to her, vulnerable. 

             WILL
      You know?

She looks away uncomfortably. 

             MARIE
      Not really. 

His face falls, then hardens. He laughs, loud and false.

             WILL
      Didnt think so. 

Marie snaps. 

             MARIE
      What do you want from me? Im sick, 
      okay? Is that what you wanna hear? 
      That my brain is a rat nest of 
      unspeakable fucking horror? That I 
      kill you a thousand times a day, 
      and no matter how many times my 
      shrink tells me its not real, I 
      cant shake the feeling that its-

Suddenly, a light in one of the buildings windows comes on. 
Will covers her mouth with his hand. 

             WILL
        (Whispering)
      We gotta go. Now.  

He grabs his BAG OF CANS and gestures Marie to follow him. 
She doesnt move. He looks around desperately. 

             WILL
      What!? Cmon! 

             MARIE
      Ill find my own way home. 

             WILL
      Marie-


Another light goes on in the building. He looks at her sadly, 
then disappears into the shadows. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Its eerily quiet. Marie lies awake on the couch, the 
surviving ten pugs SNORING around her. A shrill RINGING cuts 
the air. Marie follows it to a house phone she never knew 
existed.

             DR. RYAN
      This message is for Marie Astor... 
      Im Dr. Ryan from NYU Psychiatric 
      Ward. You were named emergency 
      contact by one of our patients, Ms. 
      Gloria Newbury. We do need to speak 
      with you before we release her, so 
      please call us at your earliest 
      convenience. 

She looks past the phone to a PACK OF CIGARETTES on a window 
sill. She lights one and leans on the glass, staring at the 
city, SPARKING the Zippo in fives, over and over again.   

INT. DR. BRIGHTONS OFFICE - NIGHT

Brighton looks serious. Marie looks exhausted. 

             BRIGHTON
      Howd your parents take it?

Marie squirms. 

             MARIE
      Uh. Not great. 

             BRIGHTON
      Do you want to talk about it?

Marie avoids her gaze.

             MARIE
      Not really.

             BRIGHTON
      I know it sucks now, but you did 
      the right thing. Im proud of you. 

She beams at Marie, who looks queasy. 

             BRIGHTON
      Anyway. I wish I could go easy on 
      you, today, but we have a big one.

TITLE CARD: ITEM #4 FLOODING

Brighton sets something wrapped in cloth on the table with a 
muffled, metallic CLINK and starts to unwrap it.

             MARIE
      Nonononononono...

Its a knife. A real one. Shiny, sharp, and medium-sized.

             BRIGHTON
      You cant write everything, Marie.

             MARIE
      Yes I can. 

Brighton shakes her head. 

             BRIGHTON
      Some things...you just gotta do. 

Marie looks at her desperately.

             MARIE
      Please-Not today. Im not ready.

Marie shoves her hands into her hoodie pocket and shakes her 
head violently. The walls start to pulse.

             BRIGHTON
      Pick up the knife.

Hands shaking, Marie slowly picks up the knife as if it 
weighs a thousand pounds. Sweat shines on her brow.

             BRIGHTON
      Good. Now hold it like you mean it.

Marie starts to cry a little.

             MARIE
      No...please. Please dont make me 
      do this. Please dont. Please.

Brighton says nothing, but forces Maries hand to point the 
knife out. 

             MARIE
      Stop. Stop. I cant do this. I 
      cant I cant I cant. Please. 

Brighton leans forward until the blade is denting her skin. 
Maries vision narrows with panic.

             BRIGHTON
      Breath.

Maries hand suddenly twitches. Brighton inhales sharply. A 
drop of BLOOD springs from the tip of the knife. 

             MARIE
      Fuck!

The knife CLATTERS to the floor. Marie stands up, swaying.

             BRIGHTON
      Its okay-

             MARIE
      -No its not! I cant do this shit 
      any more. I cant do this.

She bolts out the door, wiping her hands on her hoodie.

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Marie sniffles as she shoves the thick black notebook and 
crimson pen into the trash. She crumples up her exposure list 
and throws it in on top. 

             MARIE
      Fucking quack. 

EXT. STANDINGS BAR - NIGHT

Marie smashes out a cigarette on the ground. Shes pulled 
herself together, but not by much. She walks in and SLAMS the 
door behind her. 

INT. STANDINGS BAR - NIGHT

Barry, Nick, and a few other regulars watch the Knicks on TV. 
Marie collapses on a stool. Will looks at her coolly.

             MARIE
      Yo.

             WILL
      Looking for free beer?

             MARIE
      Why, you looking to get laid?

             WILL
      If I was, I can think of a lot 
      easier ways than this.

             MARIE
      Classy. 

             WILL
      You know what, I actually am. 

             MARIE
      Is that why you left me on a roof 
      in the middle of the night?

             WILL
      You wanted to stay there! 

             MARIE
      I wanted to talk!

             WILL
      Oh, great! Good timing! Sorry I 
      didnt wanna stand around guessing 
      what youre thinking until we got 
      arrested. 

Marie stares daggers at him. He sighs as he pulls a glass out 
from under the bar and starts filling it from the tap. 

             WILL
      Look, you want free drinks and 
      casual sex? Fine. 

He smacks the glass on the counter in front of her. 

             WILL
      But don't act like youre looking 
      for a gentleman, because thats 
      bullshit. You want someone you can 
      use to escape your life. And this 
      is what that looks like.

He nods at the beer. Marie locks eyes with him.

             MARIE
      You got anything stronger?

Marie breaks into a smile. Will pulls a bottle and two shot 
glasses out from under the counter.

             WILL
      It just so happens...

He fills the shots.

             WILL
      For emergencies. 

             MARIE
      My whole fucking life is an 
      emergency.  

             WILL
      Ill drink to that.

They click glasses and drink. She taps the glass down five 
times. Will notices and for the first time, remarks. 

             WILL
      That was weird. 

             MARIE
      Oh buddy. You have no idea. 

             WILL
      Let me guess. You dont wanna talk 
      about it?

             MARIE
      Gimme a couple more of these and 
      ask me again. 

He smiles and refills their shots. They toss back the shots 
and slam the glasses on the table.

INT. STANDINGS BAR-LATER

The bar is empty. Music plays loudly. Marie lies on her back 
on the bar smoking. Will draws on her arm: the silhouette of 
a girl with a rat curled up in her head. Theyre both wasted.

             MARIE
      Hey. 

             WILL
      What.

             MARIE
      Lets go paint something.

Will shakes his head.

             WILL
      Not a good idea to paint wasted. 
      Plus its Saturday, the cops are 
      gonna be out...

             MARIE
      Cmon, please? I need this. 

             WILL
      Why.

             MARIE
      Because. Its fun. Because Ive had 
      a bad week. Because my brain is a 
      goddamned scrolling encyclopedia of 
      ways to kill people, and when we do 
      this dumb shit together-it's not 
      that it goes away-sometimes it gets 
      worse, actually-but I just don't 
      mind it as much.

She looks at him. He puts the lid on his pen, grinning.

             WILL
      I knew you had some romance 
      squirreled away in that little old 
      rat brain.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Will and Marie weave down the street, carrying a BACKPACK of 
conspicuously RATTLING spray cans. Marie suddenly stops dead.

             WILL
      What? 

Marie points to a building ahead with a giant, pure white egg 
shape taking up most of one wall. 

              WILL
      Is that-

             MARIE
     The Egg. 

             WILL
      Aw, our first date. 

They stalk up beside it. Will looks around, squinting, drunk. 

             WILL
      Pretty exposed. Would be a very 
      balls out move. But...

             MARIE
      But...?

             WILL
      But fuck em if they cant take a 
      joke. 

She laughs. He tosses her a can of green. She looks at him.

             WILL
      Well? What are you waiting for? 

             MARIE
      What?

He nods to the wall. 

             MARIE
      Oh, I dont think-

             WILL
      Dont think. 

Marie hesitates, then starts to paint. And paint. And paint. 
Will watches at first, then begins to paint behind her, 
following as she moves across the wall. 

Finally, they both step back and survey their work.

Its a green tally of five, over and over again and a 
stylized, thin fingered hand, reaching, as if trying to grab 
the lines while being buried by them. The effect is intense.

             WILL
      Sactually pretty tight, huh?

A spotlight swings onto them abruptly.

             COP
      Freeze-Dont move you little shits! 

In a flash, Will bolts, dodges into another alley and is 
gone. Marie stumbles and is immediately snagged by a cop. 

             MARIE
      Will!

EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY

Brighton strides angrily out of the police station with Marie 
hurrying along behind her. 

             MARIE
      -community service. But they made 
      me pee in a cup and everything!

Brighton ignores her and walks purposefully towards the 
nearest subway stop. 

             MARIE
      So you wanna get breakfast or 
      something-

Brighton stops suddenly next to the subway staircase and 
holds out a piece of paper.

             BRIGHTON
      Heres a prescription for a month 
      of your SSRIs. That should be 
      enough time for you to find another 
      doctor.

             MARIE
      What?

             BRIGHTON
      Honestly, its my fault. And Im 
      sorry, but this has become 
      completely unprofessional. 

             MARIE
      I thought- 

             BRIGHTON
      You thought, what, that you would 
      just exploit the doctor-patient 
      relationship to avoid getting in 
      trouble with your parents?

             MARIE
      Look, I just got out of jail-

Brighton holds her hand up, shaking her head.

             BRIGHTON
      Did you even tell your parents you 
      dropped out?

             MARIE
      Theyre in Italy-

             BRIGHTON
      Did you tell them or not?

Marie is silent. 

             BRIGHTON
      Jesus fucking Christ. 

             MARIE
      No, wait! Im sorry! Im sorry I 
      ran out last time, Im sorry I 
      lied, Im sorry I fucked up, Ill 
      be better-

             BRIGHTON
      Its too late. 

             MARIE
      You said you would help me.

Brighton shakes her head. 

              BRIGHTON
      I cant. Not any more. 

Brighton turns and heads down the stairs. Marie snaps. 

             MARIE
      Hey, you know what else is pretty 
      unprofessional? Abandoning a 
      patient in the middle of treatment 
      because you suddenly decide your 
      fucking study is more important.  

Brighton stops. 

             MARIE
      Because thats what its all about, 
      isnt it? The study. A happy 
      ending, good PR. Something to make 
      everyone forget that you dropped 
      the ball on a fucking socio. And 
      now you dont need me for your 
      little redemption narrative, so 
      youre done, right? Yeah. Real 
      fucking professional. 

Brighton strides up the stairs and gets in her face.

             BRIGHTON
      You wanna take the gloves off? 
      Fine. Yeah, I fucked up, Marie. But 
      at least I have the guts to take 
      responsibility for it. I dont get 
      the luxury of having a disorder to 
      blame all my bullshit on. You have 
      OCD. Thats tough. But it doesnt 
      mean you can act like a child and 
      expect to be treated like an adult.

Marie is silent, her face burning.

             BRIGHTON
      You had a chance to help people in 
      a meaningful way. But you decided 
      your own little drama was more 
      important. Youre an indulgent, 
      self-destructive little kid. And 
      Im a psychiatrist, not a fucking 
      babysitter.

She storms down the stairs and disappears into a crowd of 
commuters, leaving Marie alone on the sidewalk.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Maries heart BEATS loud as she pushes through the morning 
commuter crowd. Every person she brushes against doubles over 
and crumples to the ground. People continue toward her in a 
steady wall, but behind her lies a carpet of bloody corpses. 

             MARIE
      Good.

Her white plastic knife is covered in blood. Shes a walking 
plague, carnage incarnate. She breaks into a run. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Its dark. The only sound is Maries chewed fingernails 
TAPPING out a staccato pattern onto and empty scotch bottle.

ONETWOTHREEFOURFIVE. ONETWOTHREEFOURFIVE. ONETWOTHREEFOURFIVE 

She TAPS the BOTTLE too hard. It slides off the table and 
SHATTERS on the floor. The Wandas BARK spastically. 

She picks up a long piece of GLASS and approaches the dogs. 
They BARK louder...A Wanda yelps. 

Marie tosses the GLASS in the trash.

             MARIE
      Good.

             MARIE
      Shut up!

She looks at her hands. BLOOD. Squeezes her eyes shut and 
opens them. 

BLOOD. 

Holy shit. The Wandas BARK. Is one missing? She counts: 
1,2,3,4...they run in circles, confusing her...5,6,7,8,9 10?

She looks around: BLOOD on the floor. She looks in the trash. 
BLOOD on the GLASS. She counts and counts and counts-one is 
missing, its dead, she mustve hid it somewhere.

She looks behind curtains, in the fireplace, the oven- No 
Wanda, but everything is covered in BLOOD. She sways, faint. 
She looks at her hands. MORE BLOOD.

INT. GLORIAS BEDROOM - LATER

The light clicks off and on 5 times, then stays on. Marie 
rushes in and starts to search the cluttered room.

She looks under the BED. Nothing. Opens a drawer--She 
freezes. Two dozen PILL BOTTLES glow orange from within.

All Xanax.

Dizzy with relief, she grabs one. Her elbow knocks a tall 
stack of JEWELRY BOXES. She starts re-stacking, then stops, 
overcome with curiosity. She unlatches a box and opens it.

             MARIE
      ...the fuck...

The inside is lined with velvet and divided into three 
sections, intended for earrings, necklaces, and bracelets. 
But instead of jewelry, the box is filled with-

             MARIE
      Hair?

Black EYELASHES, brown EYEBROW HAIRS, and masses of dirty 
blond HAIR, balled up and stuffed in the box. Revolted, she 
drops the box. Unable to stop herself, she opens another box.

Hair.

Another.

Hair. 

Another.

This one is empty, save for a single yellowing PHOTO. She 
takes it out. 

Its a picture of Gloria as a teenager in the 70s. Young, 
beautiful, laughing, she is barely recognizable as the same 
person now. Instead, the resemblance to Marie is uncanny.

Marie looks up and catches a glimpse of herself in the vanity mirror, surrounded by open boxes of hair, her hands bleeding 
from being cut by broken glass, clutching a bottle of Xanax.

             MARIE
      Good. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - DAY

Marie rummages desperately through a wastebasket. 

She finds what shes looking for: a wadded up BALL OF PAPER. 
She smooths the crumpled exposure list out onto the table. 
WRITING, LISTENING, TOUCHING, and FLOODING are all crossed 
out. There is one item left. She circles it with her red pen.

TITLE CARD: ITEM #5. DOING

INT. SUR LA TABLE - DAY

Rows and rows of knives hang on display like cruel icicles. 
Marie stands in the midst of them, transfixed. 

The smooth SHINK of metal on metal snaps her out of it. The 
sound seems to be inside her head, but then she sees the 
source: an employee sharpening a knife. She approaches him 
looking really weird. 

             EMPLOYEE
      Hi there. Can I help you find 
      something? 

SHINK

             MARIE
      Yes. 

He smiles pleasantly. SHINK.

             MARIE
      I need some uh...

--Blood runs down the side of his face where Marie has 
slashed him. He continues to smile. SHINK. Marie flinches.

             EMPLOYEE
      Some...?

             MARIE
      Some uh...

             EMPLOYEE
      You okay, miss?

She closes her eyes tightly. SHINK.

             MARIE
      Some knives. 

SHINK.

INT. MOISHES BUTCHER SHOP - DAY

Skinned animals hang on display, waiting to be butchered. A 
myriad of knives and cleavers cling precariously to a 
magnetic strip along the wall. Marie gapes at all of it. 

             MOISHE
      Vegetarian?

Marie turns away from the carnage to see Moishe the Butcher 
standing behind his counter. He taps out shave and a 
haircut with the tip of his knife on a marble cutting board. 

             MARIE
      What?

             MOISHE 
      The way youre eyeballin the meat, 
      like its about to jump down and 
      grab ya. You a vegetarian?

             MARIE
      Um, kind of. Im trying to...get 
      back into meat, I guess.

             MOISHE 
      Came to the right place. Ive 
      converted more than my share. 
      Vegans even. The way I see it, its 
      not something you ease into. Best 
      to jump in with both feet and get a 
      sampler-veal, lamb, the works. 

He begins grabbing various pieces of meat and wrapping them 
up with paper and twine.

             MOISHE
      Ill give you my special vegetarian 
      discount if you promise not to 
      overcook it. 

             MARIE
      Thank you.

He winks at her.

             MOISHE
      Welcome back.

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - DAY

Marie sits at the kitchen table holding a bloody KNIFE, her 
hands stained red. It seems like a nightmare until she starts 
offering small pieces of raw meat to the Wandas. The listless 
pugs just ignore her. 

             MARIE
      Thats milk fed veal, you know. 

She looks down at the sea of sad puppy eyes.

             MARIE
      Cmon guys, Glorias probably-

At the sound of her name, the dogs WHEEZE hysterically. She 
glances at them and they stare back, bug-eyed, tails wagging. 

             MARIE
      Aw, damn you all. 

INT. NYU MEDICAL CENTER - DAY

The emergency room waiting area. All the sounds and sights of 
misery blend together: a feverish baby CRIES, a man with a 
broken nose SNIFFS back blood, a woman with a dog bite MOANS. 

THERE IS BLOOD EVERYWHERE. Splattered on shirts, seeping 
through band aids, dried on hands. Each image jumps out at 
Marie in rapid succession. 

             NURSE
      Marie Astor?

             MARIE
      Yes!

Marie springs to her feet and approaches the serious looking 
NURSE (40s) at a computer.

             NURSE
      Your aunts been moved from the 
      crisis unit up to Psych Ward. Floor 
      3. Im on my way up there now, if 
      you want to follow me. 


INT. NYU PSYCH WARD - DAY
The nurse leads Marie down a long, beige hallway. Its a 
strangely forced calm compared to the chaos of the ER. They 
stop in front of a closed door.

             NURSE
      Empty your pockets, please. 

Marie begins to turn her pockets inside out.

             NURSE
      Youd be surprised what they can 
      make into a weapon. A good rule of 
      thumb is, dont bring anything you 
      wouldnt be able to board an 
      airplane with.  

Marie pats her hoodie pocket and pulls out a WHITE PLASTIC 
KNIFE. The nurse GASPS and snatches it from her.

             MARIE
      Wow. Im sorry. I...I completely 
      forgot that was in there. 

The nurse glares, but opens the door to the room. 

             NURSE
      Shes on a sedative, so she may not 
      wake up. You have 15 minutes. 

Marie steps into the room and immediately comes back out. 

             MARIE 
        (Whispering)
      Im sorry, theres been a mix up. 
      Im looking for Gloria Newberry. 

The nurse peeks in the door.

             NURSE
      Thats Ms. Newberry. 

             MARIE
      No, it isnt. 

The nurse looks at her strangely. 

             NURSE
      This isnt her first time here. 

INT. GLORIAS HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Marie walks back into the room. It looks like any other 
hospital room, except that every edge and corner has been 
rounded, giving the room a surreal dullness.

             NURSE
      Ill be out here if you need 
      anything.

She hears the door CLICK shut behind her as she sits down by 
the bed and looks at the stranger asleep in front of her. 

Curled into a tiny ball, Gloria cant weigh more than 90 
pounds. Without her wig, make up, and eyelashes, Marie sees 
for the first time her completely bald face, dotted with 
scabs and scars. She looks about a hundred years old. 

Marie covers her mouth to keep from crying out loud. She 
SNIFFS loudly and Gloria slowly opens her eyes and smiles. 
She takes Maries hand in her own. 

             GLORIA
      Can you believe they wont let you 
      smoke in here? 

Marie laughs tearfully. Gloria shakes her head. 

             GLORIA
      And they think Im the crazy one. 

One of the machines hooked up to her DINGS. Gloria doesnt 
seem to notice, but Marie watches as a cloudy fluid of anti-
psychotics drains into Glorias IV. 

             GLORIA
      Hows Wanda? 

             MARIE
      Good. She misses you.

Gloria nods. Her eyes droop as the drugs kick in.

             GLORIA
      I never should have left.

She closes her eyes.

             GLORIA
      It didnt matter anyway, had it in 
      me all along. That fucking curse.

             MARIE
      What curse?

Gloria reopens her eyes, now glazed, lost in memory.

             GLORIA
      Its the blood. Bad blood. Thats 
      what makes us what we are... 

She touches her ruined face.

             GLORIA
      Monsters. 

Glorias nail DIGS into her skin at her temple. Marie grabs 
her hand firmly and presses it onto the bed.

             GLORIA
      She was a seamstress. Sheila, I 
      mean. And when she got in her 
      moods, shed click her scissors. 
      Youd hear them in her pocket, 
      snip, snip snip-then-Shed go off. 
      Cut up what she was working on, cut 
      our clothes. Tried to cut all your 
      moms hair on her tenth birthday.

             MARIE
      Youre kidding.

             GLORIA
      I got home and she had Eva pinned 
      on the kitchen floor. So I knocked 
      her out with a tea kettle.

Marie gives a choking laugh. 

             GLORIA
      I tired to help her off the floor, 
      but Eva wouldnt take my hand. I 
      kept telling her, shes asleep now, 
      dont worry. Then I realized-she 
      wasnt scared of Sheila. She was 
      scared of me. So I left.

Saltwater leaks out onto her bald little face. 

             GLORIA
      I left her there.

Gloria wipes a tear away and starts SCRATCHING at her 
eyebrow. Marie grabs her hand again and pins it down. 

             GLORIA
      But the funny thing is, your mom 
      was okay. She got out, all by 
      herself...And Im still there.

She closes her eyes again.

             GLORIA
      Ill always be there.

She drifts off into a drugged sleep, leaving Marie alone.

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT-DAY

Marie furiously types at her laptop, then stops, hits record 
on her computer, and reads aloud. 

EXT. BAD NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY 

Marie wears an orange reflective vest as she paints over a 
series of SPRAY-PAINTED PENISES scrawled across a boarded up 
liquor store. Next to her another, equally miserable youth 
lethargically paints over the words BUY CRACK.

INT. MANHATTAN ANIMAL CONTROL - DAY

Hundreds of forlorn dogs CRY and BARK. The noise must be 
deafening, but all we can hear is-

             MARIE
      I am a murderous psychopath. I get 
      off on stabbing people.

Marie wears her headphones as she walks amongst the rows of 
strays. She stops in front of a kennel with a tiny black 
PUPPY huddled in the corner. 

             MARIE
      I am a killer. 

EXT. STREET - DAY 

Marie walks toward campus carrying a thick envelope and a 
burned CD labeled PERSONAL STATEMENT. 

As she rounds a corner, she pauses, then walks back. Shes at 
the ally by Cafe Habana. She stares down it for a long 
moment, then keeps walking. 

On the wall where Will first wrote his number is a spray-
painted stencil of two hands forming a heart. 

INT. NYU PSYCH WARD HALLWAY - NIGHT

Marie trundles down the hall to her aunts room wearing her 
hoodie again, her hands shoved in the front pocket.

INT. NYU PSYCH WARD ROOM - NIGHT

She opens the door. Gloria is unwrapping some Nicorette. She 
wears a kimono and costume jewelry, but no wig or makeup.

             MARIE
      Hey.

             GLORIA
      Hey yourself. Did you bring me some 
      more gum? 

             MARIE
      Nope.

Marie unzips her hoodie as her aunt rambles. 

             GLORIA
      Youd think with all the science 
      these days someone would come up 
      with a cigarette-Oh!

Marie has shrugged off her hoodie to reveal the tiny black 
PUPPY. She hands him to Gloria, who looks like she might cry. 

             GLORIA
      Whos this precious princess?

             MARIE
      His names Killer. 

Gloria sets him on the bed.

             GLORIA
      Of course it is. Its about time we 
      had a man around the house. 

Killer immediately pees on the bed and prances to Gloria 
proudly. She cackles with delight.

             GLORIA
      Thats right, honey. You give that 
      lazy nurse something to do.

Killer jumps off the bed and runs laps around the room. 
Gloria throws gum wrappers for the dog and laughs maniacally.


                MARIE      You excited to come home?

             GLORIA
      Im excited to have a smoke and a 
      nice big glass of scotch. 

             MARIE
      My mom and step-dad get into town 
      this week.

             GLORIA
      Want me to see if theyll hold my 
      room for you?

             MARIE
      Hilarious.

Just then, the serious looking nurse pops her head in. Killer 
BARKS crazily at her feet. She gawks in disbelief.

             NURSE
      Absolutely not. 

             GLORIA
      For Christs sake, settle down, 
      Nurse Ratched. Its just a dog. 

             MARIE
      Its my fault, sorry, Nurse Ratched-

             NURSE
      Thats not my name. 

Killer gives a final BARK and speeds out the door into the 
hall. The nurse glares at Marie as she chases the dog. 

             NURSE 
      You have 30 seconds to get control 
      of your animal before I call 
      security. 

             GLORIA
      Oh, can it, Ratched.

INT. NYU PSYCH WARD HALLWAY - NIGHT

Marie chases the puppy as he streaks down the hall and veers 
sharply into a room. 

             MARIE
      Ah, shit! 


INT. NYU PSYCH WARD ROOM 2 - NIGHT

She jogs into the room to find Killer has jumped onto a bed 
where a girl is leaned over petting him, her long hair 
obscuring her face. 

             MARIE
      Im so sorry-

The girl looks over and sweeps her hair back from her face. A 
red scar runs down her jaw. 

INT. MARIES MIND

Joanne is STABBED in her bed. The assailant flickers back and 
forth between being Becca and being Marie.

             MARIE
      Good.

             JOANNE
      Hi.

INT. NYU PSYCH WARD ROOM 2 - NIGHT 

Joanne smiles at her, Angry scars stand out like neon on her 
pale arms and periodically appearing to bleed.

Marie sways on her feet, faint, her vision swimming. 

             JOANNE
      Are you okay?

The walls close in. The room darkens. She staggers forward 
and catches herself on the edge of the bed. 

             JOANNE
      Woah! Here, sit down. 

Joanne offers her hand, and Marie sees her palms bear the 
worst of the scars, deep criss-crossing defensive wounds.

             MARIE
      No, no, I should go. Im sorry. 

             JOANNE
      You can sit for a minute until you 
      feel better. I dont mind. 

             MARIE
      No, I really...

She trails off as she catches a glimpse of a dried out 
bouquet on her bedside table. Beneath it is a folded, 
deflated GET WELL! BALLOON and a dusty stack of CARDS.

             MARIE
      Maybe I will sit for a second, if 
      youre sure you dont mind.

Joannes face brightens.

             JOANNE
      No! Not at all. 

Marie sits on the bed and finds herself staring at the scars, 
which continue to periodically open and bleed. Joanne smiles.

             JOANNE
      The scars, right? Its okay. Im 
      still getting used to them, too. 

             MARIE
      Do they...hurt?

             JOANNE
      Not as much as they used to. 

They sit in silence.  Killer licks Joannes scarred hands 
happily. 

             JOANNE
      You want to see something crazy?

             MARIE
      Sure.

She rolls up her sleeve to display more scars on her 
shoulder. Marie looks away from them. 

             JOANNE
      No, look.

Marie forces her self to look back to her. Joanne is pointing 
to a scar on her biceps. 

             JOANNE
      It looks like a heart, right?

Marie looks closer. Shes right. Its a perfect heart.

             MARIE
      Huh. 

             JOANNE
      I couldnt even look at them at 
      first, I just wore long sleeves and 
      basically cried all day. But after 
      a while I realized that they arent 
      going anywhere, so I should 
      probably get used to them. Thats 
      when I found it. And this one, too.

She flips her arm over and points to curved scar.

             JOANNE
      Its a J. For my name. Joanne. 

Marie touches a jagged, zig-zag scar on Joannes ruined palm.

             MARIE
      M. For Marie. 

             JOANNE
      Nice to meet you.

             MARIE
      Likewise.

Beat.

             JOANNE
      So, what are you in for? 

Marie pauses.

             MARIE
      I have obsessive compulsive 
      disorder. 

Joanne nods knowingly. 

             JOANNE
      My sister has that.

             MARIE
        (astonished)
      Really? 

             JOANNE
      Yeah. Whenever she drove would have 
      to stop like every half mile to 
      make sure she hadnt hit someone. 
      It literally took her hours to get 
      anywhere. Eventually she just 
      started walking. 

             MARIE
      Youre kidding.

             JOANNE
      Nope. I remember one time she was 
      driving me and my brother to see 
      the new Lethal Weapon movie, and 
      out of nowhere just SLAMMED on the 
      breaks and made us get out and look 
      for a body along the road for like 
      two hours. I remember cause we had 
      to see How Stella Got Her Groove 
      Back instead. It was the worst. 

             MARIE
      About four months ago my best 
      friend wasnt answering her phone. 
      And I was so convinced I had 
      somehow murdered her that I got up 
      in the middle of the night, walked 
      across campus, and climbed up the 
      fire escape so I could see in her 
      window. 

             JOANNE
      Was she dead?

             MARIE
      No. Her phone was on silent because 
      she was hooking up with this dude. 
      I think she saw me, too. But we 
      just never talked about it.

Joanne laughs and her face looks younger, more alive.

             JOANNE
      Sorry, I shouldnt laugh.

             MARIE
      Yeah, you should. You really 
      should. 

EXT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

A hand lays a rose on the little mound of dirt.

Gloria steps back, hugs Killer a little too hard and takes a 
huge drag from her cigarette. Beside her, Marie holds Wandas 
leashes. They all stand stoically for a moment of silence. 

             MARIE
      She had a very full life.

             GLORIA
      I wanted to have her cremated.

             MARIE
      Well. Too late now. 

Beat.

             GLORIA
      She was a good dog. 

             MARIE
      One of the best.

Gloria stubs out her cigarette with a sigh.

             GLORIA
      Alright. I need a fucking drink.

INT. GLORIAS APPARTMENT - NIGHT

Gloria still holds Killer in her arms as she rummages through 
the freezer. Tupperware containers full of cubed food keep 
tumbling out onto the floor and startling the Wandas.

Marie sits at the table fumbling with a Swiss Army, trying to 
figure out how to put the blade back down. 

             MARIE
      I dont know what to do about my 
      mom.

             GLORIA
      Wheres my scotch? What the hell is 
      all this shit?

             MARIE
      Ive been practicing cutting stuff. 

             GLORIA
      Congratulations. I think youve got 
      it down.

Gloria SLAMS the freezer shut. Marie keeps fidgiting.

             GLORIA
      Were gonna need more scotch.  

             MARIE
      Were supposed do a graduation 
      dinner on Friday at some nice 
      restaurant. Itll be a shitshow.


             GLORIA
      Ruining a dinner? Ugh, God. Up to 
      you. Youll owe her one.

             MARIE
      What do you mean?

             GLORIA
      Didnt Eva ever tell you what mom 
      did when we ruined dinner?

             MARIE
      No?

             GLORIA
      Whenever we fought at the table, 
      Sheila would make one of us cook 
      for everyone the next night. Shed 
      say, You took this shitty dinner 
      from me, now youre gonna give me 
      one back. 

Gloria nods as she sets Killer down and lights a cigarette.

             GLORIA
      We had some terrible goddamn meals. 
      You ever seen a 14 year-old try to 
      cook a pork roast? Its how I kept 
      my figure through high school. 
      Anyway, maybe you can feed them 
      some of the crap in my freezer-Oh 
      for Christs sake, give me that.

She snaps her fingers. Marie sheepishly sets the knife in her 
palm. Gloria snaps it shut with one hand. 

             GLORIA
      In the mean time-

She fishes a hundred out of her kimono and gives it to Marie

             GLORIA
      Be a doll and go to the liquor 
      store for me. Scotch. Top shelf.

INT. FANCY RESTURANT - NIGHT

Champagne pours into a flute, bubbles spiralling upwards. 

             EVA
      Do you love it?


Marie looks down at a hideous, bird-like Carnevale mask. Maries mom EVA (40s, glamorous) beams expectantly while 
Maries step-dad ANDREW tops off her champagne glass.

             MARIE
      I love it. 

             EVA
      Put it on! 

             MARIE
      Oh...maybe later. 

Andrew laughs at Maries discomfort as he fills her glass. 

             ANDREW
      She might need a few more of these 
      first, honey. 

He winks at Marie and he moves on to her brother DICKEY (16), 
splashing a tiny drop of champagne in his glass. Dickey rolls 
his eyes. Marie counts her fingers beneath the table.

             EVA
      Put it on! Itll be fun!

             ANDREW
      I want to propose a toast. To Marie-

He lifts his glass. Marie clenches her hands under the table.


             MARIE
      Wait! 

They all look at her. 

             MARIE
      I have to say something. 

             DICKEY
      Are you a lesbian?

             EVA
      Dickey!

             DICKEY
      Let her answer, mom!

             MARIE
      I, uh...Ah, fuck it. I dropped out. 

             EVA
      WHAT?

             ANDREW
      Fuck.

Her step-dad sits down heavily.

             DICKEY
      Oh, shit!

             ANDREW
      You watch your mouth!

             DICKEY
      You just said-

             EVA
      YOU DROPPED OUT? 

Marie can only nod.

             EVA
      WHEN?

             MARIE
      ...about three months ago...

             EVA
      THREE MONTHS AGO?

Marie looks down at her hands. 

             EVA
      Wow. Okay. Wait a second. Just-

She blinks rapidly.

             EVA
      Okay, so we fly out here to see you 
      graduate, and instead: SURPRISE!-
      You dropped out? Three fucking 
      months ago? And you tell us at your 
      graduation dinner? Wow. Just, wow.

             MARIE
      I didnt want to...ruin your trip-

             EVA
      Oh, of course. This is our fault 
      right? Because we cant take a 
      vacation any more without the whole 
      fucking world falling apart. 

             ANDREW
      Honey-


Eva holds her hand up and drains her champagne. She sets her glass down with a THWACK. A silver crack spiders up the side. 

             EVA
      Well. Youll just have to reapply 
      and take summer classes. God knows 
      we havent sunk enough money into 
      that school yet. 

             DICKEY
      Wait, how come you dropped out?

             EVA
      Quiet, Dickey.

             MARIE
      No, I want to talk about it. 

             EVA
      I dont care what you want. Its 
      not the time or the place-

Marie ignores her mom and turns to her brother.

             MARIE
      I have OCD, Dickey. 

             ANDREW
      What?

Evas face goes pale, but no ones paying attention

             DICKEY
      Youre like the messiest person I 
      know. I saw you eat an Oreo off the 
      floor. After the dog licked it. 

             MARIE
      Thats what I said. But its a 
      weird subset called Pure O.

Dickey scoffs.

             DICKEY
      Sounds like porno.

             ANDREW
      Dickey, I swear to god-

             MARIE
      Theres something else.

             EVA
      Oh, good, theres more!

             MARIE
      Ive been staying with Aunt Gloria.

Dead silence. Dickey looks around confused.

             DICKEY
      The crazy one?

Eva stands up.

             EVA
      I have to go. 

             MARIE
      Mom-

Eva doesnt look back as she beelines out the door. The table 
sits stunned for a moment. 

             DICKEY
      Way to go, psycho.

             ANDREW

      Shut up.

Andrew turns and looks at her severely, pointing a finger.

             ANDREW
      Fix it. 

The guys watch as Marie makes her way out the door. Andrew 
looks at Dickey for a beat, then dumps Maries champagne into 
his glass with a sigh.  

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Eva sits on a stoop, looking bizarre in her glittering formal 
wear. Marie sits beside her and offers her a cigarette.

             EVA
      Youre smoking now, too? 

             MARIE
      Only on special occasions.

Eva takes a cigarette and lights it. They stare at the street 
for a minute, neither willing to continue the conversation. 

             MARIE
      Im sorry. 

             EVA
      Why didnt you tell me?

             MARIE
      Honestly...I was afraid you were 
      going to react exactly like you 
      did. I thought youd be mad. And I 
      thought youd act like by not 
      talking about it, we could make it 
      disappear. But I already tried that 
      and I'm not doing it any more. 

             EVA
      No. Clearly not. Instead youre 
      just dropping out of college to 
      live with your mentally unstable 
      relative. 

Eva shakes her head, exhaling smoke.

             EVA
      How is Gloria, anyway?

             MARIE
      Pretty good, actually. She wanted 
      me to tell you something.

             EVA
      Im sure-  

             MARIE
      -She said shes sorry. Shes sorry 
      she left you. 

Eva glances at Marie with glittering eyes, realizing that 
everything she had tried to keep from her daughter had been 
revealed. After a long moment, she slowly begins to speak.

             EVA
      I went looking for her. Did she 
      tell you that? 

Marie shakes her head. 

             EVA
      Well, I did. After I graduated. I 
      found her too, stayed with her for 
      a week. And she stole. And lied. 
      And fucked anything that stood too 
      close. She was toxic-screaming and 
      scratching like an animal, then 
      begging for forgiveness like a 
      child. Just like mom.

Marie nods.


             EVA
      By the time I got pregnant with 
      you, she had stopped leaving her 
      house. And, honestly, I felt-felt-

             MARIE
      ...relieved.

Eva looks away. Under the streetlight, she suddenly appears 
old, and tired, the lines on her face more pronounced.

             EVA
      I never bought that loony bullshit 
      about the curse. But when I was in 
      labor, I remember praying the whole 
      time. Praying it would skip you. 
      But I knew, as soon as you were 
      born. You looked just like her. 

Mascara runs from the corner of her eye. Marie hugs her mom.

             EVA
      Its my fault. 

             MARIE
      No its not.

             EVA
      And when you needed me I went to 
      stupid fucking Italy.

             MARIE
      Woah. Hey. Italy is not stupid. 
      What about that super great mask 
      you got there?

             EVA
      You hate it, dont you?

             MARIE
      You know what, I do. I really do. 

Eva laughs and wipes her eyes.

             MARIE
      Its okay, mom. Im okay. And you 
      know whats even crazier? Aunt 
      Glorias kind of okay, too. I mean, 
      you should see her. Shes got hair 
      coming in and everything.  

Eva nods ever so slightly.

             MARIE
      No, I mean seriously, you should 
      see her. She's next door at The 
      Flatiron. 

             EVA
      What?

             MARIE
      Yeah, probably five scotches in by 
      now. Might want to catch her before 
      she switches to gin. Makes her 
      wonky.

Eva looks panicky but makes no move. Marie hears the familiar 
TAPPING, but this time its Evas shoe on the pavement. Marie 
presses her foot on top of Evas. 

             MARIE
      I know you're scared. It's scary. 
      But the scariest part is avoiding 
      it. And as soon as you do this, 
      it's gonna get easier. Trust me. 

Eva takes a deep breath, stands up and walks towards the bar. 

             MARIE
      Mom.

Eva turns and looks at her. 

             MARIE
      Im sorry I ruined dinner. I owe 
      you one. Actually I owe a lot of 
      people one. 

Eva shakes her head, smiling.  

             EVA
      Well, I hope youre a better cook 
      than Gloria was. 

She pushes open the door and steps inside. Marie sits in 
silence for a moment. The door reopens and a bouncer walks 
out. As the door eases shut, we hear Glorias earsplitting 
CACKLE ring out. Marie smiles.

INT. STANDINGS BAR - DAY

Will dries glasses behind the bar, ignoring Barrys ranting. 
He hears the door SHUT and looks up to see Marie. She gives 
him a little wave. He nods at her and looks at Barry. 

                 WILL
      Hey Barry.


             BARRY
 		 What?


             WILL
      Get the fuck out of here.

             BARRY
      What?

             WILL
      You heard me.

             BARRY
      Can I finish my drink at least?

             WILL
      No. 

Barry gives a huff and shuffles past Marie muttering.

             BARRY
      Bros before hos, man...

Marie walks up to the bar and sits down across from Will.

             MARIE
      Poor Barry. 

             WILL
      I really should give him a job. 
      Hes here more than I am.

             MARIE
      Well. At least hes reliable.

Beat. Will looks embarrassed. 

             WILL
      You get community service?

             MARIE
      Yeah. 

             WILL
      They make you paint that wall with 
      the dicks? 

Marie smiles quizzically.


             WILL
      They always send you there the 
      first few times. Part of their 
      Scared Straight bullshit. I'm 
      pretty sure they paint those dicks 
      themselves, too, cause they're 
      always there. 

             MARIE
      How many times have you been 
      arrested?

             WILL
      A lot. A lot of times. 

She nods.

 
             WILL
      Im sorry.


             MARIE
     I know. 

             WILL
      No, I mean, Im really sorry. I 
      have problems. Im working on it. 
      But, I dunno, its...complicated.

             MARIE
      I can do complicated. 

She smiles. They stare at each other for a moment. 

             MARIE
      Oh, I wanted to give you this.

She slides an envelope across the bar. 

             MARIE
      You should come to this weird thing 
      Im doing. Theres going to be 
      food. And drinks. And...dogs. And 
      my parents.

             WILL
      Yikes. 

             MARIE
      I know. Just think about it.

She starts to leave. 

             WILL
      Marie-

She turns around.

             WILL
      Im not mad you threw out my 
      exactos.

She smiles.

             WILL
      And I dont care that you dont 
      like to talk about stuff. The rat 
      brain, the scary mixtape, thats 
      cool too. The thing that made me 
      crazy was that I couldnt get you 
      to trust me. So I did what any 
      responsible, well-adjusted guy 
      would do: I got you drunk, coerced 
      you into vandalizing, and let you 
      get arrested.

He shakes his head. 

             WILL
      Anyway. I started thinking...what 
      the fuck am I doing? This whole art 
      with balls thing...man, painting 
      under bridges at night because 
      youre afraid people wont like 
      your shit if they see it properly 
      lit is, uh, not that ballsy. So. I 
      think its time for me to man up, 
      put on my lensless glasses and ask 
      nicely to paint on the inside of 
      the gallery.

             MARIE
      Does that mean youre done with 
      graffiti?

             WILL
      Pretty done, yeah. 

Marie gives him a strange smile. 

             MARIE
      How done is pretty done?

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Madison sits a stool going through mail. Very nearby Brit and 
DEREK (23, ponytail) aggressively make out on a couch. 

Madison tears open an ENVELOPE with a green thumbprint on the 
outside. She pulls out a CARD and a PHOTOGRAPH falls out. She 
picks it up, looks at it momentarily and starts laughing. 

INT. NYU PSYCH WARD - DAY

Joanne sits in bed next to a huge bouquet of new BALLOONS, 
everything from HAPPY VALENTINES DAY to ITS A BOY. She tears 
open an unmarked ENVELOPE

INT. NYU CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Brighton shakes hands with a group of enthusiastic NYU Mental 
Health employees. Rivers Mackey holds her in an awkward hug. 
Schneeding begrudgingly shakes her hand. Jake Luden babbles 
questions to her. Each holds identical copies of a file: 

RIPPING OFF THE BANDAID: PROPOSED CHANGES BASED ON STUDY OF 
STUDENT X 

Paper clipped to the front of each file is a burned CD 
labeled: A PATIENTS PERSPECTIVE  

Her colleagues leave, but Brighton lingers, looking somber. 
As she stuffs the last file into her bag, she pauses at a 
CARD with a cartoon of a 1950's librarian sporting a name tag 
reading NANCY. A speech bubble reads: 

YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO JOIN MARIE, GLORIA, AND THE 
WANDAS FOR A KILLER FEAST!

Inside the card is the original CD with the words PURE O: A 
PERSONAL STATEMENT scribbled in Maries handwriting. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - NIGHT

SHOWTUNES play loudly. 

Madison and Marie play with Killer until he is run off by a 
barking pack of disgruntled Wandas. 

             MADISON
      Whats your summer thesis called 
      again?

             MARIE
      How To Commit Murder, And Other 
      Impure Thoughts. 


             MADISON
      God, youre weird. Oh, that reminds 
      me, did you hear Mr. Browns car 
      was vandalized?

             MARIE
      Oh no.

             MADISON
      Yeah. Someone spray painted the 
      word TURD in giant green letters 
      across his entire car.

             MARIE
      Wow. Thats pretty fucked up.

Madison smiles.

             MADISON
      Super fucked up.

Marie grins.

             MARIE
      I better go check on the meat.

Marie heads back into the kitchen, snatching a WINE GLASS out 
of Dickeys hand as he shows off a tiny scar to Joanne.

In the dining room. Gloria, wigless with short, soft hair 
coming in, LAUGHS over a stack of OLD PHOTOS with Eva. 

Andrew interrogates Will in a corner over a glass of SCOTCH. 

Someone KNOCKS, but its too noisy for anyone to hear. The 
unlocked door opens and Brighton steps in. She walks through 
the room introducing herself and continues into the kitchen. 

Marie is cutting bread when she sees Brighton. Brighton 
smiles and hands her a copy of the study with THE CD paper 
clipped to the front. We cant hear whats said, we just see 
them hug tightly, Maries KNIFE still clutched in her hand. 

INT. GLORIAS APARTMENT - LATER

Everyone sits at the table talking. In the center is a 
MASSIVE ROAST, surrounded by a rainbow of CUT VEGETABLES. 

Marie stands up from her seat at the head and TAPS her glass 
with a long, sharp knife.

             MARIE
      Before we eat, theres something I 
      want to say. 

Dickey, rosy-cheeked and obviously buzzed, pipes up.

             DICKEY
      Shes a lesbian!

             MARIE
      Besides that, Dick.  

Andrew glares at Dickey and scoots his wine glass away. 

             MARIE
      Everyone sitting at this table 
      tonight is here because at one 
      point...I really thought I might 
      stab them to death. 

People laugh, some more uncomfortably than others. 

             MARIE
      I was afraid of hurting the people 
      that mean the most to me. So I 
      left. And I stayed away you. And I 
      acted badly. And I told myself it 
      was to protect you, but it wasnt. 
      It was to make myself feel better. 
      And it was something that I had 
      been doing for a long time. Long 
      before...all of this. And I would 
      probably still be doing it if it 
      werent for you. So thank you guys.

She raises her glass to Madison.

             MARIE
      For calling me on my shit.

She turns to Gloria. 

             MARIE
      For standing by me.

She toasts her family.

             MARIE
      For having faith in me when I gave 
      you no good reason to.

She looks at Brighton and Joanne.

             MARIE
      And for reminding me not of who I 
      am, but of who I should be. 

She smiles at Will.

             MARIE
      You are the ones that make this 
      fight worth fighting.

She lifts her glass towards the whole of the table.

             MARIE
      And I would not be here without 
      you. 

They CLINK glasses and drink. Marie sits down and surveys the 
table. 

--Everyone is DEAD in their chairs, slumped forward in pools 
of blood, their knives protruding from their backs. 

Nancy stands at the foot of the table in her 1950s Sunday 
best, glass raised. 

             NANCY
      Cheers. 

--Marie blinks. Around the table everyone talks and laughs as 
they eat. Marie smiles and plunges her knife into the meat.

             MARIE
      I was 20 years old when I lost my 
      mind. But I dont like to call it 
      that. I like to think of it the way 
      the shrinks do. Blossoming, they 
      call it. Like a rose or a maiden, 
      like mold on a fruit-like anything 
      that changes. 

CUT TO:

BLACK.

             MARIE
      Like anything that grows. 

Theres a moment of dead air, then a loud CLICK. 

THE END

