             QUEEN OF HEARTS

        Written By Stephanie Shannon

Based on Events, Both Real and Through the Looking Glass

Contact: 

632 Cloverdale Ave, #108
Los Angeles, CA 90036
972-342-1585

                        WGA Registered #1648261


Slowly, over black, the lines of a poem appear in careful 
handwriting:

A Boat beneath a sunny sky

Lingering onward dreamily

In an evening of July

Children Three that nestle near

Eager Eye and Willing Ear

Pleased a simple tale to hear--

Long has paled that sunny sky

Echoes Fade and memories die

Autumn frosts have slain July

Still she haunts me phantom-wise

Alice moving under skies

Never seen by waking eyes

Children yet, the tale to hear

Eager eye and willing ear

Lovingly shall nestle near

In a Wonderland they lie 

Dreaming as the days go by

Dreaming as the summers die: 

Ever drifting down the stream

Lingering in the golden gleam

Life, what is it, but a dream? 

- Lewis Carroll

As each line appears, the lines above fade, leaving only an 
acrostic of the first letters which spell the name: 

ALICE PLEASANCE LIDDELL   

O/S: The sharp screech of a TRAIN WHISTLE rises over the sigh 
and pop of COOLING PISTONS. 

FADE IN:

EXT. OXFORD RAILWAY STATION- 1898- DAY

We move through a churning CLOUD OF STEAM to reveal a train 
pulling into a overcrowded platform choked with several 
groups of men, women and children. Mothers take the hands of 
their little ones, leading them towards waiting horse drawn 
carriages. 

From the air, we see the coaches depart in turn; thick 
arteries of black converging on a distant skyline of dreaming 
spires and sunlit pinnacles. A fairyland rising from the 
endless rolling green. 

INSERT: OXFORD UNIVERSITY 1898

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD- OXFORDSHIRE- DAY

The carriages make their way in slow procession down the 
road. Each carries several CHILDREN, all silent, all dressed 
in Victorian black. 

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH LAWN- JANUARY 1898- DAY

The crowded funeral of a beloved man. An unusually large 
number of small CHILDREN are in attendance, clutching the 
hands of their governesses. We focus on faces aged six to 
twelve as an elderly DEACON delivers a dry eulogy, shouting 
to be heard over the January wind.       

             DEACON
      ...distinguished academically by 
      the publication of “A Syllabus of 
      Plane Algebraical Geometry”, which 
      was followed in 1864 by “The 
      Formulas of Plane Trigonometry”, 
      then by “A Guide to the 
      Mathematical Studentship in 
      Reading”...

A row of REPORTERS sit near the back of the crowd. Among them 
is ELLIOTT SHEPHERD, handsome at 28, head down, taking 
copious notes. 


A GUST OF WIND blows a page from his notebook onto the lawn. 
It’s handed back to him by a SMALL BLONDE GIRL, her eyes red 
and swollen from crying. Her other hand is held tightly by 
her GOVERNESS.  

             DEACON 
      ...And then, in 1865 “The 
      Adventures of Alice in Wonderland” 
      burst upon an astonished world. Few 
      would have imagined that the quiet, 
      reserved bachelor, who all his life 
      was remarkable for his shyness and 
      dislike of publicity, possessed the 
      quality to produce a work which has 
      stood the test of more than 30 
      years and still captivates young 
      and old alike with its quaint and 
      original genius.

The Deacon takes a pause. A row of OXFORD DONS stare 
stoically ahead.

             DECAN
        (closing his book, 
         addressing the crowd)
      Today we regretfully say farewell 
      to England’s Patron Saint of 
      Children. 

The SMALL BLONDE GIRL turns back around, nestling herself to 
her governesses’ side. 

Thick ropes lower a pine coffin into the earth with a  
startling racket. It rocks slightly in the wind.   
       

As the Deacon leads the crowd in prayer, a hundred heads bow 
at once. The smaller children clutch their hands together as 
if kneeling at their own bedside.  

THE BELLS of CHRIST CHURCH CATHEDRAL slowly toll. 

AN OLD WOMAN in the front row (72, still clinging to a bit of 
her former beauty) keeps her head up, bright eyes fixed on 
the casket. This is LORINA LIDDELL.  

As the casket descends beneath the green, Lorina spies a 
family of WHITE RABBITS emerging from a nearby warren. A few 
rise up on their haunches, pink eyes alert, like little 
soldiers in salute.        

Lorina SMILES. 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY-STAIRCASE 7 EVENING

Elliott climbs a tight spiral staircase with a MAID. TWO 
FOXHOUNDS run down the opposite way.  

             MAID
      We’ve never had so many reporters 
      and well wishers milling around 
      here before. You’d think the 
      Archbishop himself had dropped dead 
      in the middle of the Quad. 

At the landing, the maid unlocks the door to ROOM 3 labeled 
“PROFESSOR C.L. DODGSON”. Several FUNERAL WREATHS have been 
laid at its base.  

             MAID 
      Good luck to you. Lord knows I 
      tried to clean up after him, and I 
      would have done, weren’t for him 
      always telling me to have off, 
      ornery old codger... 

             MAID 
        (crossing herself)
      ...God rest his soul.  

Elliott enters the cramped quarters of Dodgson. It’s just the 
sort of mess you’d expect from an eccentric bachelor: 
notebooks and drawings strewn about- the familiar caricatures 
of Tenniel’s illustrations from “Alice in Wonderland”. 
Unwashed tea cups and half eaten pastries. Charts depicting 
exotic Flora and Fauna, dusty illustrated volumes of Natural 
Curiosities. All the while, a CLOCK ticks loudly.   

             MAID 
      Five minutes. And mind you the 
      family’ll be along within the hour 
      so don’t touch anything. I’m only 
      doin’ this outta respect for the 
      Professor. So the world can know 
      his story and all that.  

             ELLIOTT
        (placing a three pound 
         note in her open palm)
      Of course, I won’t be a minute.

Elliott surveys the room. 

             MAID
        (pocketing the money)
      It’s no wonder the poor thing wrote 
      on rabbits in waistcoats and 
      teapots all day long, locked up in 
      this mess, it’d drive any Christian 
      mad as a hatter.  

The Maid closes the door behind her. 

Elliott pulls back the drapes, flooding light into the dusty 
air. He peers down into a pretty little garden below. 

At a cluttered desk, Elliott removes a teacup from a stack of 
PHOTOGRAPHS. Several images, all of little girls, dressed as 
characters in a makeshift studio: Harlequins, Arabian 
thieves, girls in Kimono dresses holding silk fans. They are 
at once haunting and sad.  

He pockets the photos and opens the desk drawer. Inside is a 
DIARY. On the first page, in careful handwriting:  

The Diary of C. L. Dodgson 1856-1865

Elliott turns to the last entry.

             ELLIOTT
        (reading aloud, 
         dramatically)
      5th of September. I saw her again 
      this morning, as I was drawing on 
      the lawn. Sitting in the waning 
      light, she is the star of perfect 
      womanhood. My lady, the.. Queen of 
      my Heart..    

EXT. TOM QUAD- OXFORD - FANTASY- FLASHBACK 

YOUNG LORINA LIDDELL, bathed in a white light, sits alone, 
reading. Across the lawn CHARLES DODGSON, 25, young and 
slender, eyes her as he draws. The sketch is of her, dressed 
as The White Queen. She is ravishing.      

Lorina makes extended eye contact with Charles before a 
bullish MAN appears beside her, leading her inside. The man 
is her husband, HENRY LIDDELL, the Dean of Oxford.  

INT. DODGSON’S STUDY- PRESENT 

Elliott flips the page to find that a large section of the 
DIARY has been RAZORED OUT. It picks up again in JUNE 1865.   

             ELLIOTT
        (sotto)
      The year he published “Alice”. 
      Curiouser and curiouser, eh 
      professor?  

Elliott pulls open the other drawers. Not sure what he’s 
looking for... 

He examines a few charcoal sketches of characters from both 
“Alice” and Carroll’s later poems: The Caterpillar, the Mock 
Turtle, the Jaberwocky. 

He pulls out a carefully folded NEWSPAPER ARTICLE from the 
London Times dated May 1873. 

“Commissioner in Lunacy Murdered” Subtitle: “Attacked by 
Madman at Fisherton House Asylum During Routine Inspection”. 
Underneath, a photo is captioned “Robert Wilfred Skeffington 
Lutwidge, Uncle of Famed Children’s Author Lewis Carroll” 

Elliott opens the paper and out falls yet another PHOTOGRAPH. 
But this one is more striking than the others-- a small, 
blonde girl, about seven years old, dressed as a shoeless 
beggar maid. She leans up against a garden wall, one shoulder 
exposed, her gaze dreamily fixed at a point past the 
photographer. Elliott flips it over to see in the same 
careful handwriting:  

Alice Liddell, aged 6. Beggar Maid. 

             ELLIOTT 
        (sotto)
      Alice. 

A sharp knock at the door

             MAID
      Aren’t you finished in there yet? 
      Mind you, I said don’t touch 
      anything! 

Elliott pockets the photo and diary. 

             ELLIOTT
      Be out in minute Mrs. Steadson! 
      Just packing it away.  

Elliott heads for the door, doubles back and grabs the rest 
of the photographs, attempting to replace the desk as it was. 

The Maid bursts in.

             MAID
      Hurry up, hurry up! The five o’ 
      clock is due any minute, those 
      nieces of his will have my head if 
      they find you here. Go on! Shoo! 

INT- TOM QUAD DORMITORY- DAY

Elliott hurries down the spiral stairwell and out onto the 
lawn. 

INT- TRAIN CAR

Elliott sits, staring out the window as the English 
countryside flies past. 

He takes out the haunting photo of Alice. Stares at it. Turns 
it upside down, so that Alice looks as if she’s falling down.    

             WOMAN
      Sometimes I really believe I did 
      fall down that rabbit hole.  

INT. ALICE LIDDELL’S GARDEN- CUFFNELLS, HAMPSHIRE- 1898

Alice, late 40’s, deep blue eyes and a classic kind of beauty 
that has aged softly and gracefully, sits trimming a white 
rose bush. Elliott sits next to her. An unfinished tea sits 
between them. Alice turns the photograph carefully in her 
white gloved hands. 

             ALICE
      I remember this day. I remember 
      most days I spent with him. He 
      was.. very dear to me.

             ELLIOTT
        (excitedly)
      Well, Carroll immortalized you. To 
      scores of future generations, 
      you’ll always be Alice.  

             ALICE
      Yes, I’ll always be Alice. I’ll 
      always be two sizes too big or too 
      small, forever trapped in 
      Wonderland, chasing rabbits. 
      Forever in a dream.   

A servant, EDITH, picks up the empty tea pot.

             ALICE 
      Why exactly is it that you’ve come 
      here, Mr...

             ELLIOTT
      Shepherd. Elliott Shepherd. 

             ALICE
      Mr. Shepherd, you should know very 
      well I’ve made it my business never 
      to discuss my personal affairs with 
      the press.   

             ELLIOTT
      Yet you agreed to see me. 

             ALICE
      And now that I have my photographs 
      back in my possession I don’t 
      believe there’s anything left for 
      us to say.

             ELLIOTT
      Mrs. Hargreaves, the year Carroll 
      wrote “Alice” has been.. Well 
      there’s hardly any record of it at 
      all. You were there- you helped 
      inspire his, well, rather unlikely 
      genius. You,  your sisters, your 
      father, your mother...

             ALICE 
        (sharply interrupting)
      My mother, Mr. Shepherd, reigned 
      over every man woman and child in 
      Oxford in those days. And that 
      includes your Patron Saint of 
      Children. And all I could do was 
      watch them all fall under her 
      spell. 

Edith sets down a new pot of tea.

             ALICE 
      Thank you.
        (to Elliott)
      It’s getting late. I’m afraid we’ll 
      have to leave it there. Edith will 
      show you out.  

             ELLIOTT
      Mrs. Hargreaves, I...

             ALICE
      Thank you very kindly for returning 
      my photographs to me, Mr. Shepherd, 
      they mean the world to me. I wish 
      you a very pleasant stay in 
      Hampshire.  

Edith escorts a reluctant Elliott back towards the house. 
Alice turns back.  

             ELLIOTT
      Wait. 

Elliott goes back to Alice. He hurriedly writes an address on 
a sheet of his notebook, tears it out.  

             ELLIOTT 
      I’m staying at the Queen’s Head. In 
      town on Harrington Street. That is, 
      if you should think of anything 
      else.  

He allows Edith to lead him back towards the house. Alice 
watches him go. 

INT. ALICE LIDDELL’S DINING ROOM- CUFFNELLS, HAMPSIRE- 1898- 
EVENING

A grand country estate. Alice eats her dinner in silence at 
the end of a long table. Her husband, REGINALD HARGREAVES 
(46), a magistrate with a tall, athletic build, sits at the 
opposite end, equally silent. Edith refills their wine. After 
a moment:   

             REGINALD
      Everything alright? 

             ALICE
        (distracted)
      Oh. Yes. 

             REGINALD
      Edith said you had a caller today. 

             ALICE
      Hm? Oh, the reporter. Pleasant sort 
      of fellow. Came down from Leeds I 
      think.  

             REGINALD
      Well, pleasant or not I expect 
      we’ll be getting a lot of that 
      racket around here now the old 
      bastard’s dead. I don’t want you 
      indulging any more of them. Do you 
      understand me? 

             ALICE
      Yes, of course. He just- caught me 
      off guard I suppose. 

             REGINALD
      Well, I won’t have you mixed up in 
      any more of that nonsense. You know 
      full well our affairs are none of 
      their business.       

Silence.  

             REGINALD 
      Do you hear me, Alice? 

             ALICE
      Hm? Oh yes. Nonsense.  

             REGINALD
      Good girl. 

They continue to eat in silence. 

INT. ALICE LIDDELL’S BEDROOM- NIGHT

Alice lays awake next to her husband, bathed in moonlight. 
Suddenly, she sits up and takes the PHOTOGRAPHS from the back 
of her bedside table. 

EXT. ALICE’S GARDEN- NIGHT

Alice walks down a winding garden path, wearing only her 
nightdress, her hair in a long plait. 

We hear the nocturnal sounds of a garden: crickets and the 
singing of stone fountains.   

Alice comes to a clearing and sits in the grass like a child, 
examining THE PHOTOGRAPHS in the moonlight. She pauses on the 
picture of herself dressed as the beggar child. The more we 
examine the image, the more haunting it becomes.    

And at once the garden becomes eerily quiet. 


The night darkens and the low stone walls close in around 
her. 

The RISING SOUND of an angry and boisterous crowd rumbles in 
the shadows. The yowling and screeching of a hundred voices 
getting closer and more distinct. We can just make out the 
words:  

     VOICE #1: 
  The Queen! The Queen! She’s 
  coming!  

  VOICE #2: 
  (singing)
  Twinkle Twinkle little bat

Alice backs herself against a tree as the flora around her 
begins to GROW at an unnatural rate. Mushroom caps expand 
like swollen sponges, green tendrils snake their way up the 
garden walls. Caterpillars swarm up out of the mossy peat 
like locusts, inching quickly up the groaning fence posts.    

      VOICE #3:
	(singing)
	The Queen of Hearts, She made 
	some tarts all on a summer’s 
	day

	VOICE #4:
	WHO are YOU?

             VOICE #2:
      ...How I wonder where you’re at

      VOICE #3:
	The knave of hearts, he stole 
	the tarts and took them quite 
	away! 

	VOICE #1:
	Get to your places! Everyone 
	to your places!  

              

      VOICE #6:
	We’re ALL mad here

	VOICE #1: 
	Execute them! Execute them 
                     all! 

             VOICE #5:
        (female, rising over the 
         rest)
      OFF WITH THEIR HEADS! 

Close on Alice’s terrified eyes, covering her ears, as the 
din of the crowd RISES and we hear: 

The BANGING OF A GAVEL 

CUT TO BLACK

INT. OXFORD UNIVERSITY- TOM QUAD- 1856- FLASHBACK

A final BANG as two massive oak doors swing open. Two ELDERLY 
DONS in billowing Oxford black, walk briskly down a long, 
cloistered arcade. Their footfalls break the peaceful quiet 
of academia. 

INSERT: OXFORD UNIVERSITY 1856 

As they round the corner, a NOISY CLASSROOM causes them to 
stop in their tracks.    

INT. CLASSROOM- DAY

They enter into:

A classroom in disorder. A half dozen robed YOUNG MEN talk 
raucously, some sitting on their desks. There is no authority 
present. The room goes quiet.    

             ELDERLY DON
      Where is your tutor?  

The students stare blankly. No idea.  

             ELDERLY DON 
      Where is...
        (consulting a list)
      Professor Dodgson? 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- CHARLES’ ROOM- SAME TIME 

An UPSIDE DOWN image of a simple wooden chair in front of a 
white sheet. The image goes in out and out of focus.    

             CHARLES
      Remarkable. 

CHARLES DODGSON, tall, lithe and handsome at 24, wavy hair 
and soft grey eyes, emerges from the black hood of a Double 
Folding BOX CAMERA. He wears a clergyman’s dress: black 
broadcloth and white tie. His UNCLE SKEFFINGTON, 54, 
struggles to read a primitive boxed LIGHT METER and a MANUAL. 
The two are surrounded by a mess of amateur photographic 
equipment: jars of chemicals, glass plates, trays, dishes, 
scales and water. Charles’ hands are covered in black 
residue.    

             CHARLES 
      You said forty five seconds?  

             SKEFFINGTON
        (reading between the meter 
         and manual)
      An approximate measure of forty 
      five seconds, dependent on 
      conditions of weather, sky and the 
      quality of daylight. 

An excited Charles runs to the windows, throwing them open, 
flooding the room with light. 

             CHARLES
        (snapping his fingers)
      Here, grab her.

             SKEFFINGTON
      If you expect the cat to sit still 
      for forty five seconds you’re mad.  

             CHARLES 
      Dinah! There’s a girl.   

             SKEFFINGTON 
      Oh, for Christ’s sake, use a bowl 
      of fruit. Or me. Or anything that 
      won’t claw your damn eyes out.  

Charles grabs a resistant DINAH off the back of an old sofa.  

             CHARLES
        (carrying Dinah, speaking 
         slowly)
      No, uncle, I’ll need you to keep 
      the time. 
        (placing Dinah gently on 
         the chair)
      Now, be a proper lady and sit 
      still. 

Charles slowly backs away and carefully gets under the hood.  

             CHARLES 
        (slowly, quietly)
      Alright. Mark the time. Starting. 

             SKEFFINGTON
      Oh for Heavenssakes, this is non...

             CHARLES
      Now.   

             SKEFFINGTON
        (sighing, extracting a 
         pocket watch)

             SKEFFINGTON
      Half past three, half past three 
      and one..

Charles BURSTS OUT from the hood, knocking over half the 
equipment. Dinah yowls and leaps onto a shelf. 

             CHARLES
      Half...WHAT?!

Charles grabs his robe, frantically searching for his books.  

             CHARLES 
      I’m late! 

             SKEFFINGTON
      So I should see myself to the 
      station, then? 

             CHARLES
      I’m late...I’m late... 

Charles throws his robe halfway on, checks his pocket watch.  

             CHARLES 
      Christ! I’m late! 

             SKEFFINGTON
      Yes, you’ve said that.

             CHARLES
      Uncle, I’m sorry.. here-- 
        (handing him money)
      Go to the Rectory, they’ll arrange 
      a coach. 

He stops at the door.

             CHARLES 
      And thank you for the gift, it’s... 
      remarkable.

EXT. OXFORD GROUNDS 

Charles runs at full tilt across the yard. Lounging students 
turn to watch as he barrels past, leaping over fences and 
garden gates, checking his GOLD POCKET WATCH as he goes. 

EXT. CLOISTERED HALL 

Charles runs full speed, footsteps echoing loudly through the 
corridor. 

INT. CLASSROOM- DAY

Charles bursts in, a complete mess.  

The ELDERLY DON looks up from the desk: he and the class are 
quietly reading. Charles tries to exude some semblance of 
composure. 

             CHARLES
      Thank you, Proctor, I’ll take it 
      from here. 

On his way out, the Proctor checks him at the door, looking 
him up and down. Charles lets him pass without comment. 
Adjusting himself, goes to the front of the room.   

             CHARLES 
        (clears his throat)
      Good afternoon gentlemen. I’m 
      Professor Dodgson. And I will be 
      your tutor for this term. 

An awkward pause.  

             CHARLES 
      Right. 

He turns and writes on the blackboard: 

“a) All children are illogical 

b) Nobody is despised who can manage a crocodile 

c) Illogical persons are despised 

d)?... “ 

The students look at each other. 

             CHARLES 
      In this class we will be examining 
      the subject of logic. 
        (dropping a book on a 
         student’s desk)
      Would you read aloud please? Page 
      seventy-four. ‘Logic as a  
      Mathematical Device’. 

             STUDENT
      Logic can be a recreational tool 
      that can hone both one’s 
      mathematical and reasoning skills. 

             STUDENT
      Once you have mastered the 
      machinery of Symbolic Logic, you 
      will have clearness of thought- the 
      ability to see your way through a 
      puzzle, the ability to detect 
      fallacies and to tear to pieces the 
      flimsy illogical arguments which 
      you will continually encounter in 
      books, in newspapers and even in 
      sermons, and which so easily delude 
      those who have never taken the 
      trouble to master this fascinating 
      Art. 

             CHARLES
      Thank you. Now. Who can answer this 
      riddle? 

After a moment: 

             STUDENT
      Well...it’s nonsense, isn’t it? I 
      mean, there’s no answer at all. 

             CHARLES
      Isn’t there? That is to say, if 
      there isn’t, then by all accounts 
      the answer is not a logical one, 
      and you, being not a child and 
      being not despised (or so I can 
      assume from our very brief 
      acquaintance) you should by process 
      of elimination lack the very 
      faculty to come to such an 
      illogical conclusion.  

The student is at a loss.

             CHARLES 
      And, incidentally, you’re quite 
      right, there’s no answer. 

             CHARLES 
      There is utility in logic. That 
      much is rather obvious to anyone. 
      But in the course of this lecture, 
      I would ask each of you to remember 
      that truth can oftentimes be found 
      where logic cannot. That is to say, 
      in nonsense. In the unanswerable. 
      Even in madness.

A pause as the students take this in, slightly confused. Just 
then the clock tower strikes and the students pack up. 


As they file out, Charles’ friend, ROBINSON Duckworth 
(”DUCKS”), 22, sticks his head through the doorway.  

             DUCKS
      Well they look inspired. Another 
      stimulating lecture, professor?   

             CHARLES
        (packing up)
      It was my first lecture. And I was 
      half an hour late so it’ll be my 
      last if Gaisford hears about it. 

Charles crosses the room to embrace his friend. They haven’t 
seen each other all summer. 

             DUCKS
      Well unless you were doing long 
      division in here with St. Peter 
      himself, I’d say that’s unlikely. 
      The 52nd Dean of Christ Church 
      College is dead.     

             CHARLES
      Dead? 

             DUCKS
      As a doornail.

             CHARLES
      Christ. When?  

             DUCKS
      A few weeks ago in Sansford Lock. 
      Inflammation of the brain, or the 
      liver, or.. whatever.    

Charles goes for the door, Ducks follows him out.

             CHARLES
      Well at least someone had a less 
      productive summer than I did. 

INT. CHRIST CHURCH DINING HALL- EVENING 

A carved hammer beam ceiling arches over a noisy hall looking 
much as it has for the past eight centuries. Stained glass 
and portraits of the college founders dating back to Henry 
VIII look down upon rows of polished benches and a bustling 
sea of black gowns. The benches run perpendicular to the 
“High Table” where the only proper dining chairs are reserved 
for the Dean of Christ Church and his family. 


Charles and Ducks seat themselves with the rest of the 
faculty.

             CHARLES 
      I’m meeting my father tonight. Half 
      past seven and ‘don’t be late’. 

             DUCKS
      Good God. Why on Earth would you do 
      a thing like that? 

             CHARLES
        (with disdain)
      To go over the ‘stipulations of my 
      impending ordination’. 

             DUCKS
      Which are?  

             CHARLES
      Piety, Sobriety, Penitence, 
      Abstinence... they all sort of 
      rhyme together now that I think 
      about it.  

             DUCKS
      Abstinence. No women forever and 
      ever. You really did waste your 
      summer.   

Charles gives him a look as the room goes SILENT. They bow 
their heads with the rest of the hall. 

	   SENIOR SCHOLAR 
	(chanting)
	Benedic, Domine, nos et dona 
	tua quae de largitate tua 
	sumus sumpturi et concde, ut 
	illis salubriter nutriti tibi 
	debitum obesquium praestare 
	valeamus, per Christum 
	Dominum nostrum.  

	DUCKS
	(whispering)
	Honestly I can’t understand 
	why you’re even going through 
	with it. I mean, really, 
	there’s got to be a way to 
	keep your studentship that 
	doesn’t involve sacrificing 
	your immortal soul.  

             SENIOR SCHOLAR/ENTIRE HALL
      Amen. 

The hall erupts with the scraping of silver on pewter.  

             CHARLES
      Ah, but I’m a Dodgson. It’s 
      expected of me.

Suddenly, EVERYONE STANDS to face the front of the room. 
Unsure what’s happening, Ducks and Charles follow suit.

HENRY LIDDELL (44), a tall and imposing man with a formidable 
bearing, has entered the hall. He takes his place at the 
table with his three daughters, EDITH (4), INA (9) and ALICE 
(6). They are joined by his wife, LORINA HANNAH LIDDELL (29). 
Lorina seems to suck the very air out of the room. She is 
stunning.       

Ducks emits a LOW WHISTLE. 

             CHARLES 
        (whispering)
      Who is that? 

A YOUNG PROFESSOR leans in:

             YOUNG PROFESSOR 
      Our new Dean. Henry George Liddell. 
      Came down from Westminster 
      yesterday.       

             DUCKS
        (to Charles)
      Well, things just got a bit more 
      interesting around here didn’t 
      they? 

But Charles is FOCUSED INTENSELY on Lorina. She’s the most 
beautiful woman he’s ever seen. 

Charles’ POV: 

Lorina sitting at the end of the table, correcting Alice’s 
posture. 

Fantasy sequence:

TIME SLOWS DOWN for Charles and THE HALL IS SUDDENLY EMPTY, 
LEAVING ONLY THE PAIR OF THEM.  

LORINA BEGINS TO TRANSFORM INTO A DRAMATICALLY GLAMORIZED 
VERSION OF HERSELF.

The blue pigment of her dress literally melts onto the floor, 
leaving it a pure, shimmering white. Her hair falls from its 
pinning, spilling around her breasts in waves of white 
blonde. Her lips become red and full, her skin more 
porcelain. 

The posts of her chair RAPIDLY GROW AND SPLINTER, forming a 
kind of gnarled throne. Beyond her, SNOW FALLS in SLOW MOTION 
against a blue dusk. 

As her right hand lifts a SCEPTER made of white birch, she 
turns to LOOK DIRECTLY at Charles; a vision of beauty: THE 
WHITE QUEEN. 

             DUCKS
        (distant)
      Dodgson?  

Lorina stands, eyes fixed on Charles.

Gathering her dress, she descends from the platform, gliding 
towards him down the nave. She is light, ethereal.    

CLOSE ON CHARLES. Mesmerized. 

             DUCKS
      Dodgson? Charles! 

We are back in reality. The hall is filled with the scraping 
of chairs as everyone takes their seats. 

             CHARLES
      Yes? 

             DUCKS
      Are you hearing this nonsense?

             ELDERLY PROCTOR
        (muttering into his plate)
      Amending the Greek to English 
      Lexicon...of all the half-cocked, 
      vulgar--

Charles looks back at the Dean’s table. Lorina is silently 
eating. Nothing is out of place. 

Ducks smirks at the Proctor.

             PROCTOR
        (pointing his knife, 
         agitated)
      Laugh if you will, but there hasn’t 
      been a liberal in the Deanery for 
      three hundred years. He’ll undo 
      what his predecessors--    

             CHARLES
        (interrupting)
      Who is she? 

             PROCTOR
      What? 

             CHARLES
      His wife 

             PROCTOR
        (annoyed at being 
         interrupted)
      Oh, no title to speak of.

             CHARLES
      Well where’s she from?

             PROCTOR
      Oh, a rather third rate provincial 
      family down in Lowestoft I think. 
      Still. Beautiful creature. Bit of 
      Spanish blood I’d wager.  

             DUCKS
      Not bad for an old Headmaster, eh? 

             CHARLES
        (still lost)
      No...

Lorina makes brief eye contact with Charles. Just as quickly 
she looks away.  

             DUCKS
        (low to Charles)
      Is everything alright?             

CLOSE ON Charles, stealing a last glance at the Dean’s table.  

             CHARLES
      Yes. Fine. 

INT. OXFORD- CHRIST CHURCH-CHARLES’ CLASSROOM- NIGHT

An empty classroom. Charles stands at his BLACKBOARD, now 
filled up with an endless string of mathematical forumlae. 
Illuminated by candlelight, his hand glides across the board 
with swiftness and precision. He is focused, confident, in 
his element. He pauses.  

Charles collapses in his chair. Exhausted, he runs his 
fingers through his hair and checks his WATCH: A quarter past 
seven. Charles leans back and stares at the rows of empty 
desks before him. The watch ticks softly...  

CUT TO:

TICK TOCK

TICK TOCK

TICK TOCK 

Charles gets up and takes a walk between the aisles.

As his fingertips glide along the desktops, we hear the 
RISING SOUND of CHILDREN CHANTING:     

             CHILDREN’S VOICES
      DoDo Dodgson! DoDo Dodgson!     
      DoDo Dodgson! DoDo Dodgson! 

CUT TO:

INT. RUGBY SCHOOL- CLASSROOM- 1846- FLASHBACK

We are in a different classroom in the middle of a FIGHT. 
It’s chaos as several boys, aged twelve to fourteen, some 
standing on desks, continue to chant:

             CLASS 
      DoDo Dodgson! DoDo Dodgson! 

INT. RUGBY SCHOOL- HALLWAY- 1846- DAY

We follow a black robed SCHOOL TEACHER running down a long 
vaulted hallway. At the classroom door, he fumbles with his 
keys before opening into: 

INT. RUGBY SCHOOL- CLASSROOM- 1846- DAY

It’s pandemonium.  

             CLASS
      Dodo Dodgson! Dodo Dodgson! 

             TEACHER
      Stop this! Immediately! 

The TEACHER runs to the center of the room, pushing aside 
chanting boys as he goes.   

             TEACHER 
      Move aside! All of you!  

             CLASS 
        (faster, louder)
      Dodo Dodgson! Dodo Dodsgon! 

The TEACHER pulls two boys apart

             SECOND TEACHER
      Stop this at once! STOP IT. 

The room goes silent. The two boys glare at one another. The 
bigger of the two, WILLIAM, smirks as the smaller boy, YOUNG 
CHARLES, wipes blood from his nose and teeth. He SPITS a bit 
of BLOOD onto the floor.  

Furious, the teacher grabs both boys by the ears, pulling 
them towards the door. The class re-ups the chant adding in 
CAWING bird-like sounds:

             CLASS
      DODO DODGSON! DODO DODGSON! 

INT. RUGBY SCHOOL- HEADMASTER’S HALLWAY- DAY

Charles and William kneel facing the wall, their hands 
clasped overhead as if chained up in irons. Neither one looks 
at the other. After a moment:  

             WILLIAM
        (turning to Charles, 
         whispering)
      Oy. DoDo Bird. Why don’t you fly 
      away, eh?   

Charles ignores him.

A pause. 

             WILLIAM 
      What’s the matter? Something wrong 
      with your flappers? 

             WILLIAM 
      So is it true? What they say about 
      your father?

A pause. Without looking up:

             CHARLES
      DoDo birds can’t fly you half wit.   

INT. HEADMASTER’S OFFICE- DAY

The room is huge, even by adult standards. Light streams 
though leaded glass above a handsome pine desk. HEADMASTER 
THOMAS ARNOLD sits writing in a LEDGER.   

Charles enters cautiously. 

             ARNOLD 
        (not looking up)
      Close the door. 

Charles closes the door.

             ARNOLD 
      Come forward. 

Charles walks to the desk and clasps his hands behind his 
back.

The headmaster still doesn’t look up. 

             ARNOLD 
      Charles Ludwidge Dodgson. Says 
      here, your father’s a man of the 
      cloth. A High Churchman in fact. Is 
      that correct? 

Charles eyes a small GOLD KEY on a high GLASS SHELF next to 
the desk.

             CHARLES
      Yes headmaster. 

             ARNOLD
      And do you think he’d be pleased to 
      know his eldest son is an 
      aggressive little agitator? A 
      sinful boy flouting God’s law? Hm? 

             CHARLES
      No headmaster.  

             HEADMASTER
        (closing the ledger, 
         looking up)
      No. I expect he would not.  

Arnold takes the key and walks over to a cupboard, unlocking 
it. He takes out a LONG WOODEN BOX. The floor creaks beneath 
him with each careful step. 

He places the box on the desk and opens it, extracting a long 
thin RATTAN CANE. 

             HEADMASTER 
      Assume the position. 

Charles places his trembling hands down on the desk. 

             HEADMASTER 
      Aloud.   

WHACK. The headmaster canes Charles’ hands. HARD.   

CLOSE ON: Charles face, eyes shut tight in agony. 

WHACK

             CHARLES
      One.

             CHARLES 
      Two. 

The Headmaster eyes Charles. Comes down harder.   

WHACK 

             CHARLES 
      Th-Three.

CLOSE ON: Charles’ trembling hands, white knuckles beginning 
to spot with blood. 

CLOSE ON: Arnold’s face, tight with focus. 

WHACK 

WHACK

WHACK 

WHACK

EXT. RUGBY SCHOOL- COURTYARD- DAY

Charles sits alone on a stone bench. A few BLACK RAVENS strut 
and peck around his dangling feet.

In his lap he holds a SKETCH PAD and SATCHEL. 

CLOSE ON: Charles’ bandaged hand as it draws. A bit of blood 
seeps through the white gauze. 

While far from perfect, his technique is surprisingly good. A 
charcoal nub sketches Headmaster Arnold as a BAITED BEAR in a 
medieval arena. Other figures surround him- all clever, 
whimsical caricatures of authority figures: TEACHERS WITH 
ELONGATED NECKS, FAT SOMERSAULTING NUNS, ETC. 

FOOTFALLS echo across the courtyard as a NURSE approaches.

INT. TWO HORSE STAGECOACH- SUNSET

Charles rides in silence. He stares out at a red orb falling 
fast beneath the passing moorlands. Walls of crumbling stone 
divide long sheaths of foxglove laid low by centuries of a 
ceaseless wind. Over it all, a long shadow advances into 
night. 

EXT. DODGSON PARISH GROUNDS- TWILIGHT

Charles walks down a pathway ending in a large VICTORIAN 
GREENHOUSE. He pulls the doors and enters into another world: 
a glass cathedral of Amazonia in artifice. 

INT. ARCHDEACON DODGSON’S PALM HOUSE

The air is oppressively humid. Soaring white rafters carry 
the rapid tick of insects and the occasional sharp fluttering 
of sparrow’s wings. Charles walks up a wide avenue of palms 
to where THE ARCHDEACON DODGSON (46) sits trimming a crop of 
WHITE TIGER LILLIES. He is surrounded by a cloud of tobacco 
smoke so that we BARELY SEE HIS FACE. 

CLOSE ON: Powerful hands, one ornamented with a heavy GOLD 
SIGNET RING, carefully trim the white blooms. 

When the Archdeacon speaks his tone is honeyed, languid and 
dangerous. He commands the room as if he were speaking from 
the pulpit.   

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON
        (without looking at down)
      Explain yourself.

             CHARLES
      They called me a name sir.

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON
      What sort of a name? 

             CHARLES
        (softly)
      A DoDo Bird.

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON
      What? Speak English. 

             CHARLES
        (louder)
      They called me a DoDo Bird, sir. 

The Archdeacon nips off a bloom. Studies it. 

             CHARLES 
      It’s extinct, sir. Endemic to the 
      Mauritius islands. From the family 
      Raphinae. Like a pigeon or a dove, 
      or--  

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON
      Enough. 

Charles looks up as the FLUTTERING OF WINGS crosses overhead. 

CLOSE ON: The Archdeacon nips another flower.   

             ARCHDEACON
      Why would one call you such a thing 
      on your first day of lessons?  

             CHARLES
      I don’t know. 

             ARCHDEACON
      You’re lying.  

CLIP. Another bud falls. 

             CHARLES
      When the teacher asked my name I--

             ARCHDEACON
      Speak up! 

             CHARLES
        (loudly)
      It came out: “D-Do-Dodgson”. Sir.      

             ARCHDEACON
      You mean to say that you stammer. 
      Like a damned fool.    

             CHARLES
      I’m not a fool!  

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON
        (shouting)
      Keep your temper!

Charles swallows his objection. The smoke around the 
Archdeacon thickens.

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON 
      Your mother would have me pardon 
      such-- unnatural behavior. She’d 
      say that you’re only a child. An 
      innocent boy speaking in riddles. 
      But I know that soon enough you’ll 
      be a man. A helpless and pitied 
      man. Reliant on the charity of 
      better men. Crying nonsense in the 
      dark. 

But Charles isn’t listening. The humidity and the cigar smoke 
is making him dizzy and unfocused. His eyes wander to: 

...An Amazon Water Lily floating across a black pool.  

...Thick beads of water dripping from a white Hibiscus 
flower.

...CATERPILLARS and EARTHWORMS slithering through a crop of 
mushrooms. 

...The Archdeacon’s long black robe, forming a SLUG-LIKE TAIL 
draped over the garden wall.  

...Fingerlike curls of TOBACCO SMOKE lingering around his 
SLOW MOVING LIPS:  

             ARCHDEACON
      I said do you understand? Charles! 

CUT TO:

INT. LAMB AND FLAG PUBLIC HOUSE- NIGHT- 1856

             MALE VOICE 
      I said can I help you with anything 
      Professor?  

Charles is back in reality. He’s in the doorway of a cozy 
pub, filled with an equal measure of rowdy young men and the 
staunch “Old Guard” of Oxford, all seeking refuge from the 
snow. 

             BARTENDER
      Sir?  

             DRUNK STUDENT 
      Oy! Shut the door, eh?!

Charles squeezes inside, dusting off snow. 

             CHARLES
      Yes. I mean no. No, I’m meeting 
      someone, thank you.  

Charles removes his hat and scans the room.  

Across the room, The ARCHDEACON (56) sits alone by the fire. 
Ten years later, he’s still a cold and polished man. 

Charles watches the precise way in which he strains his tea: 
the slow, calculated movements of a life built upon order and 
tradition.   

Charles crosses the room and takes a seat across from his 
father.  

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON
        (not looking up)
      You’re late. You’ve lost the watch 
      I gave you. 

Charles extracts his pocket watch, shakes it. 

             ARCHDEACON DODGSON 
      Then you should have it repaired.

Charles puts it back in his vest. He’ll let this one go. 

             ARCHDEACON
      Tell me. How are your studies? I 
      trust you’re prepared for your 
      upcoming examinations. 

             CHARLES
      Exams aren’t for six months.  

             ARCHDEACON
      And your lectures? How do your 
      pupils find you?  

             CHARLES
      Dull as ditchwater, I’m sure. 
        (leaning in)
      Father, why exactly are you here? 
      Or should we debate the weather 
      next or  perhaps the state of my 
      finances? Both are rather abysmal, 
      if you want to know the truth of 
      it.   

The Archdeacon takes out his date book, puts on his reading 
glasses. 

             ARCHDEACON
      As you are very much aware, you are 
      approaching the date of your 
      diaconal ordination.     

Charles leans back. He is very much aware. 

             ARCHDEACON 
      If you are to retain your 
      lectureship, residence at Christ 
      Church and three hundred pounds per 
      annum salary, then you must take 
      the holy orders by the coming 
      summer and, a year hence, priest’s 
      orders. Otherwise...

             CHARLES
      Otherwise I’ll be out of a job.  

             ARCHDEACON
      This new Dean. Liddell. He’ll 
      expect your full compliance on both 
      counts. And beyond that, I need to 
      be sure you understand exactly 
      what’s involved.   

             CHARLES
        (pouring his tea)
      Mmm, the end of my life as I know 
      it. Yes, I think I’ve about got it.  

             ARCHDEACON
      Don’t be stupid. Entering the 
      priesthood is no less than a 
      rebirth. Passage out of the 
      wilderness into a life of-- 

             CHARLES
      Restriction.

             ARCHDEACON
      Order and financial stability.  

             CHARLES
      Starvation. 

             ARCHDEACON
      Salvation. 

             CHARLES
      A life without love--

             ARCHDEACON
      Living with Christ and--    

             CHARLES
        (loudly)
      Dying alone! 

A few of the older patrons look over. The Archdeacon closes 
the book. 

             ARCHDEACON
      I’ll be back tomorrow to make 
      preliminary arrangements with the 
      diocese. In the meantime, I suggest 
      you make good use of your time. 
      Study. Pray. Don’t undo all the 
      good work I’ve done on your 
      account. 

             CHARLES
      I won’t sir.  

The archdeacon stands, gripping Charles on the shoulder as he 
goes. Charles stays, losing himself in the dying fire. 

EXT. OXFORD GROUNDS- RIVER THAMES- DAY

CHARLES and DUCKS walk along the sparkling water under a 
cloudless sky. Boats full of FIT YOUNG MEN: teams from 
various colleges: Magdalen, Balliol, Exeter, glide past, 
COXSWAINS shouting time as they go.      

             DUCKS
      But didn’t he renounce his own 
      studentship to marry and settle 
      down? 

             CHARLES
      Yes, well, it’s a bit more 
      complicated than that. Once I’m 
      ordained, it’ll secure my post here 
      and I’ll be-- set for life I 
      suppose. I won’t be his problem 
      anymore.       

             DUCKS
      Yes, but set for what sort of life? 

             CHARLES
      I don’t know. That’s what I’m 
      afraid of. 

Charles picks up a stick, throws it into the river. 

             CHARLES 
      But, knowing my father I’m sure he 
      has it all worked out in one neat 
      little package.   

             DUCKS
      Oh that reminds me. 

Ducks rustles through his bag, extracts a SMALL PARCEL.  

             DUCKS 
      Before I forget.  

             CHARLES
      What’s this? 

             DUCKS
      Think of it as an early wedding 
      present. 

             CHARLES
      You know, didn’t we just go over 
      this? Yes, that’s right, I’m not 
      getting married. Ever.  

             DUCKS
      Well, you know, married to Christ 
      and all that. 

             CHARLES
      You’re thinking of a nun.  

             DUCKS
      Am I? 

They turn a corner into a long, cloistered passage. Charles 
starts to unwrap the package.  

             DUCKS 
      No don’t open it now! Save it for 
      your birthday, you ponce. 

Charles stops in his tracks. 

             CHARLES
      Alright, I told you-- I don’t want 
      anyone making a fuss over my 
      birthday this year. You remember 
      what happened last year.  

             DUCKS
      No, I can’t say that I do. 

             CHARLES
      My point exactly. And I don’t want 
      you going about announcing it to 
      everyone within earshot again.

             DUCKS
      I didn’t announce it. 

             CHARLES
      The Archangel Gabriel should have 
      been taking notes. I mean it. 
      Tomorrow can come and go like any 
      other day. 

             DUCKS
      Oh come on, it’ll be fun! We’ll get 
      a few of the lads together, round 
      of cards, have a few drinks... 

             CHARLES
      The lads?

             DUCKS
      You know, your friends. 

             CHARLES
      I don’t have any friends. 

             DUCKS
      Can’t imagine why... 

They walk under the stone archway of Tom Gate as the bell 
tower above marks the hour. 

EXT. BODLEIAN LIBRARY- DAY

Charles and Ducks walk up the steps of the library, a domed 
rotunda in the Gothic style. Suddenly, from behind:  

             WOMAN’S VOICE
      Excuse me, gentlemen!   

They turn to see MARY PRICKET (30’s, would be prettier if she 
weren’t a little tired around the eyes) coming up the steps. 

             MARY
      I’m terribly sorry, but could you 
      tell me where I might be able to 
      find the library? I’m afraid I seem 
      to be a bit lost.  

             DUCKS
      What Providence! We just so happen 
      to be standing outside of a library 
      at this very moment. 

             CHARLES
      What he means to say is this is 
      Bodleian Library. Is that the one 
      you’re looking for? 

             MARY
        (rustling through her bag)
      That’ll do fine. Just needing to 
      pick up some poetry for the 
      girls’...

Mary looks up at Charles. She’s struck momentarily by his 
soft eyes, wavy hair. 

             MARY 
      ...the girls’ lessons. 
        (extending her hand)
      Forgive me. I’m governess to the 
      Liddell girls. Mary Prickett.   

             CHARLES
        (shaking)
      Professor Dodgson. And this is Mr. 
      Robinson Duckworth.  

             DUCKS
      Just Ducks. No professor. 

Mary’s eyes linger on Charles. 

             DUCKS 
        (uncomfortable)
      Well, shall we? 

The three of them enter into: 

INT. BODLEIAN LIBRARY- DAY

The monastic quiet of one of the world’s oldest research 
libraries. A domed rotunda filled with rows of leather bound 
volumes shelved beneath round portals of stained glass. Their 
footfalls echo on polished marble.  

             CHARLES
      Poetry, poetry-- this way I 
      believe. 

             DUCKS
        (to Mary)
      So. How is our new Dean and Mrs. 
      Liddell settling into life up at 
      the Deanery so far? 

             MARY
      Oh rather well, I think. The house 
      is first rate compared to 
      Westminster. Of course Mrs. Liddell 
      insists it be immediately 
      refashioned top to bottom all the 
      same.      

Ducks looks Mary up and down as they walk, sizing her up.  

             CHARLES
      Here we are. Poetry. 

They arrive at the Poetry Section. Charles peruses the shelf. 

             CHARLES 
      Anyone in particular?  

             MARY
      Well. I was thinking I’d begin with 
      Ovid or Virgil, you know, the 
      Greeks to start them off. Perhaps 
      Keats and Blake next. Then Shelley 
      and Tennyson if they’ve got any 
      recent editions in from London. 
      That’s probably enough for now I’d 
      say. 

Charles pulls down the books, handing them to Mary.  

             CHARLES
      And I’d say these poor girls have 
      got their work cut out for them.  

             MARY
      Well, that last set is for me.    

Charles looks at Mary, impressed with her academic prowess.   

             DUCKS
      Say, um-  Miss Prickett was it? 

             MARY 
      If you like. The girls call me 
      Pricks. 

             DUCKS
      Alright then, Pricks. If you’re 
      interested, Charles here is having 
      a little 
        (mock whispering)
      Birthday party down at the Bird and 
      Baby on Saturday next. On St. Giles 
      Cross. Do you know it?   

Charles looks at Ducks: “What are you doing?”

             MARY
      The Eagle and Child? I think so, 
      yes. 

             DUCKS
      We’d be delighted to have you if 
      you’re free. Eight o’ clock. And 
      bring a friend. Or two. You know, 
      scullery maids, kitchen girls, et 
      cetera--    

             MARY
      I’ve only just arrived. I’m afraid 
      I haven’t got any friends. 

             DUCKS
      Well all the more reason for you to 
      come! Right Charles? 

             CHARLES
        (forced)
      Oh yes. Absolutely.  

             MARY
      Well. In that case. I suppose I 
      could steal away for an hour or so. 
        (suspicious)
      Thank you. 

             DUCKS
      Splendid! We’ll see you later, 
      then. It was lovely meeting you 
      Miss Prickett.  

             CHARLES
        (shaking her hand)
      Likewise. A good day to you Miss.  

Mary holds Charles’s gaze a bit too long. 

             MARY
      And to you. 


Charles and Ducks walk off, Charles whispering to Ducks as 
they go.  

             CHARLES
      Are you actually incapable of 
      listening to anything I say? 

             DUCKS
      Come off it, are you blind? She 
      fancies you, it’s bloody obvious! 
      Besides we couldn’t very well have 
      it be all stags could we? It’d ruin 
      my reputation.   

Mary watches Charles go, smiling to herself. When they’re out 
of sight she takes another POETRY BOOK off the shelf. She 
looks around and slips it covertly into her pocket.   

EXT. OXFORD- CHRIST CHURCH CATHEDRAL- DAY

Charles crosses the lawn, carrying a BUNDLE OF PHOTOGRAPHIC 
EQUIPMENT under each arm. 

In swift, confident motions, Charles sets up his CAMERA on 
the lawn. Attempting to look professional to whomever might 
be watching, he holds his LIGHT METER aloft, noting the 
measurements in a SMALL NOTEBOOK.    

Satisfied, he disappears under the hood.

CHARLES’ POV (through viewfinder): The UPSIDE DOWN CATHEDRAL 
goes IN AND OUT OF FOCUS.  

Suddenly, something PASSES IN FRONT of the lens, blocking his 
view. 

             CHILD’S VOICE
      What are you doing under there? 

Charles throws off the tarp. The little blonde girl from the  
Dean’s table, ALICE LIDDELL, is standing in front of the lens 
with arms crossed. 

             CHARLES
      I’m making a photograph.

             ALICE
      What’s a photo-graph? 

             CHARLES
      It’s uh.. Well, here.

He lifts her up to look into the lens.

             CHARLES 
      The daylight goes into this box 
      here, and it’s reflected off a 
      little mirror, right about...here. 
      The mirror copies the cathedral 
      onto a plate of glass and once 
      that’s done, the cathedral is 
      trapped inside. 

             ALICE
      Trapped? For how long? 

Charles sets Alice down. 

             CHARLES
      Well... forever.

             ALICE
      That’s impossible. 

             CHARLES
      I assure you Miss--

             ALICE
        (extending her hand)
      Liddell. Alice Pleasance Liddell. 

             CHARLES
      Very pleased to make your 
      acquaintance, Miss Liddell. Charles 
      Lutwidge Dodgson 

They shake, curtly. 

             CHARLES 
      And I assure you it’s entirely 
      possible. In fact, I swear it. On 
      my life. 

             ALICE
        (in awe)
      It’s magic then.

             CHARLES
      A sort of magic. Yes, why not?    

             ALICE
        (excited)
      Do you know any other magic?  

             CHARLES
      I know all sorts of magic. 

             ALICE
      Show me!

             CHARLES
      Oh, I’m afraid I can’t do that. 
      It’s top-secret fairy magic. For 
      royal eyes only.  

             ALICE
      But you must show me! My father’s 
      the Dean of Oxford. That’s like a 
      King. 

             CHARLES
      Goodness gracious, I had no idea! 
      Then you must be a princess.

             ALICE
      Yes!

Charles makes a grand bowing gesture.

             CHARLES
      Your majesty, I must apologize for 
      my most heinous transgression. 
      Please spare me whatever horrible 
      punishment I so justly deserve.  

Alice giggles. Charles looks up from the ground.  

             CHARLES 
      Well, go on then...

             ALICE
      Go on with what? 

             CHARLES
        (whispering)
      My punishment. 

             ALICE
      Oh! Erm...Let’s see.. 

Alice raises her hands, makes a grand sweeping gesture.

             ALICE 
      Off with his head! 

             LORINA
      Alice! 

Lorina comes bounding through the gate. 


             LORINA 
      Alice! My Goodness--

Lorina sweeps Alice up in her arms. 

             LORINA 
      Where on earth have you been? Poor 
      Pricks is in hysterics. 

             LORINA 
        (to Charles)
      I’m so sorry, sir.

             ALICE
      Mother, you spoilt it! He was about 
      to show me some magic.
        (to Charles)
      Go on, sir! Please! 

             LORINA
      I’m terribly sorry if she bothered 
      your-- well whatever fascinating 
      experiment you seem to be 
      conducting.   

             CHARLES
      Not a bother at all. Alice and I 
      were just about to make a 
      photograph, isn’t that right?   

Alice nods excitedly. 

             CHARLES 
        (extending his hand, 
         removing his glove)
      Uh, forgive me. Charles Lutwidge 
      Dodgson. 

             LORINA 
      Lorina Hannah Liddell. I’m sure you 
      know my husband.  

             CHARLES
      Of course. 

An awkward pause. Charles can only smile. This woman makes 
him incredibly nervous. 

             CHARLES 
      Erm- so how is your family enjoying 
      our little corner of the world?   


             LORINA
      Very much, thank you. It’s quite 
      lovely here. 

Lorina sets Alice down, fusses with her dress. 

             LORINA 
      Dodgson...Mathematics. Algebra and 
      Euclidian Geometry. From Croft, 
      yes?    

             CHARLES
      I’m afraid you have me at a loss, 
      Mrs. Liddell. 

             LORINA
      How’s that? 

             CHARLES
      It’s just that you seem to know 
      quite a lot about me and yet I know 
      next to nothing about you.

             LORINA
        (embarrassed)
      Forgive me. I have a habit of 
      familiarizing myself with the 
      faculty. 

             CHARLES
      How very diplomatic. In that case I 
      should like to return the favor and 
      become familiar with you as well.

A moment of electricity between them.  

             ALICE
        (tugging on Lorina’s 
         sleeve)
      Mummy, may I please help Mr. 
      Dodgson with his photo-graph now?    

             LORINA
      Mind your manners, Alice. I think 
      we’ve bothered Mr. Dodgson quite 
      enough. Besides, we haven’t the 
      time. 

Lorina marks the disappointment on Alice’s face. And beyond 
that, there’s something about this man that causes her to 
blurt out quite without thinking...  

             LORINA 
      Though, perhaps---Mr. Dodgson would 
      like to come round for dinner 
      tonight? I’m sure your sisters 
      would enjoy having their own 
      lessons in, uh-- 

             CHARLES
      Photography. But I--

Charles look at Alice. Then to Lorina, stunning in the waning 
light. He loathes dinner parties. But...

             CHARLES 
      I should be delighted.  

             LORINA
      Splendid. Shall we say eight o’ 
      clock? 

             CHARLES
      Looking forward. Until then, Mrs. 
      Liddell.  
      (to Alice) 
      Goodbye, Your Majesty.  

Alice curtesies and hops alongside Lorina as Charles watches 
them go. 

             ALICE
        (distant)
      He knows magic, mummy, the real 
      sort! 

             LORINA
      Does he?  

EXT. DEANERY HOUSE- EVENING 

Charles walks through a little garden gate leading up to a 
grand estate. He stands at the door, anxiously fussing with 
his suit. He checks his pocket watch. Waits. After a moment, 
he knocks. From inside, we hear the barking and scuffing of 
LARGE DOGS.  

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- EVENING

Mary hurries down the foyer. She stops to check herself in 
the mirror. Smooths out her dress. Takes a deep breath. 

EXT. DEANERY HOUSE- EVENING

             MARY
      Mr. Dodgson.   

             CHARLES
      At your service. Lovely to see you 
      again Pricks.   

Charles kisses Mary’s hand and cautiously makes his way down 
a long foyer which is HEAVILY UNDER CONSTRUCTION. Two massive 
BLOODHOUNDS circle and sniff at his feet. WORKERS paint the 
ceiling on high ladders. Tarps cover expensive French 
furniture and imported art. A SPIRAL STAIRCASE in the French 
style is under construction-- the pet project of Lorina’s to 
put her stamp on the medieval residence.  

             LORINA
      Mr. Dodgson! Right on time!

Charles trips over a roll of carpet.

             LORINA 
      Careful, mind your step! Scylla! 
      Charybdis! Come! 

Lorina, dressed to the nines, glides through the chaos. The 
dogs trot back to her side.  

             LORINA 
      Please, you’ll have to forgive this 
      horrid mess, we’ve got them working 
      ‘round the clock I’m afraid.  
        (turning back)
      Well, come in, come in!  

Charles looks up as if something might fall on him at any 
moment and proceeds with caution. 

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- DINING ROOM- EVENING

Close on: Sherry is poured from a decanter into a crystal 
glass.   

             HENRY
      You’ll have to excuse this racket. 
      My wife would have you believe 
      English staircases unfit to courier 
      fashionable company from top to 
      bottom.    

A hand gestures for the pour to stop. Two servants, BETTY 
(20’s) and AGNES (40’s) move around the table clockwise.    

A BOWL of mud colored soup with questionable square chunks is 
placed in front of Charles.   

             BETTY
        (whispering)
      Mock turtle soup, sir. 

HENRY LIDDELL tucks into his dinner, aggressively sawing at a 
cut of meat.   

             LORINA
      Please, Henry. The old place just 
      needed a bit of life is all. I find 
      pre-Jacobean architecture 
      frightfully serious and, well,  
      predictable. Don’t you agree Mr. 
      Dodgson?       

Charles’ attention is focused on the large slobbering dog 
baying for scraps in his lap. Charles tosses it a bit of 
meat. It scampers off.

             CHARLES
      Hm? Oh, yes. Certainly. 

Lorina gives Henry a satisfied look. 

             HENRY
      I should very much like my 
      staircases to be predictable, my 
      dear. 
        (taking a drink, looking 
         up at Lorina)
      I should like anything that holds 
      my house aloft to be “predictable”.  

Lorina glares. Henry goes back to sawing at his plate. 

An awkward pause. Agnes fills Charles’ wine glass.    

             CHARLES
      Well. I for one think that making 
      room for a bit of-- innovation-- is 
      sometimes called for in, well, 
      certain circumstances. Especially 
      now days what with the world 
      changing so very quickly. I think 
      sometimes we find that rather 
      difficult to remember holed up with 
      our heads in books and cloistered 
      away here such as we are. 

             CHARLES
      We forget that every day there are 
      any number of exciting new theories 
      and extraordinary new devices to be 
      kept up with.     

Lorina smiles at Charles, grateful to have someone on her 
side. 

             LORINA
      Well said Mr. Dodgson. 

Charles smiles back. 

             HENRY
        (not looking up)
      Here’s a theory for you Professor: 
      if this house was good enough for 
      fifty two women since the days of 
      Henry the Eighth it is certainly 
      good enough for my wife. 

Alice and her sisters look at one another. Suddenly: 

The SOUND of a SAW and SOMETHING CRASHING UPSTAIRS. A little 
rain of PLASTER falls onto Charles’ dinner plate. He looks 
up. 

             HENRY 
      Now. Tell me, Mr. Dodgson: you’ll 
      be taking your Deacon’s orders 
      before long am I correct?       

             CHARLES
        (eyeing the falling debris 
         on his plate)
      Yes, that’s right sir. 

             HENRY
      Then onto the priesthood is it? 
      Your father must be very pleased. 
      I’ve read his sermons, of course. 
      Remarkably intelligent, articulate 
      man. 

Charles attempts to push the plaster off his venison with a 
fork. 

             CHARLES
      He is that, sir. 

             HENRY
      Quite a legacy to follow, wouldn’t 
      you say? 


             CHARLES
      Uh- Indeed. It is. Sir. 

A beat. 

             CHARLES 
      I’m um- I’m a great admirer of your 
      work as well. I sent away for your 
      “Greek to English Lexicon” when I 
      was a boy at Rugby. Cost me a whole 
      summer’s wages.  

Henry continues eating, no comment.  

Another CRASH upstairs followed by a bigger rain of plaster, 
this time down onto INA’s plate. Lorina motions for Charles 
to get up. Everyone follows suit and moves one place over. 
They sit back down, switch plates and resume eating as if 
this is all quite routine. 

             ALICE
      Papa, Mr. Dodgson showed me how to 
      make a photo-graph today!   

             LORINA
      Yes, it seems our young Mr. 
      Dodgson’s somewhat of a savant with 
      modern mechanicals.   

             HENRY
      You’ve a Daguerreotype? 

             ALICE
      Father, it’s called a photo-graph! 

             HENRY
        (hiding excitement)
      May I see it?     

             CHARLES
      It’s a--slightly different process. 
      But, yes certainly, I’ll bring it 
      by tomorrow. If it’s alright with 
      Mrs. Liddell, of course. 

             ALICE, EDITH AND INA
        (in chorus)
      Yes, mama, please! 

A shower of plaster falls near Henry’s plate. Everyone gets 
up and moves one place down. Sits, switches and resumes. 

             LORINA
      It’s settled then. We’ll set it up 
      over at the Guest House and make a 
      day of it. That’ll be a good bit of 
      fun, won’t it girls?  

Alice and her sisters squirm with excitement. 

Lorina smiles, her eyes lingering on Charles. He smiles back, 
unsure what to make of this family.       

INT. DEANERY KITCHEN- EVENING 

Agnes backs in with a tray of dishes, dropping them off 
beside a red faced COOK scrubbing furiously at the wash 
basin. Mary sits at the table, eating her dinner. Exhausted, 
Agnes plops down across from her. They eat in silence for a 
moment.    

             AGNES
      He’s a pretty one in’t he? 

             MARY
      The professor? I suppose so.  

             AGNES
      I wouldn’t mind an hour or so of 
      some private instruction. Brush up 
      on me figures.  

Agnes saws off a piece of meat, looks up at Mary. 

             AGNES 
      You know?  

She takes the bite, smiles. Mary smiles too, throwing them 
both into a fit of giggles.  

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY 

...A white sheet is shook out with a snap.

...An iron stand clicks together in 3 swift motions. 

...A lens is adjusted, wiped, adjusted again. 

The Deanery Garden has been converted into a makeshift 
studio. Charles fusses with his equipment as Edith and Ina 
run about the yard.  


INT. ALICE’S BEDROOM- DEANERY- DAY

Mary pulls Alice’s dress over her outstretched arms. It’s a 
ragged beggar costume, rather hastily hand sewn. Alice 
squirms impatiently.  

             MARY
      Hold still! 

             ALICE
      Oh please hurry up Pricks! I’m 
      missing it! 

             MARY
      You know you must be the first 
      little girl in history that 
      couldn’t wait to hurry up and sit 
      still all afternoon. There, all 
      finished. 

Alice goes to inspect herself in a FULL LENGTH MIRROR. 

             ALICE
      How do I look?

             MARY
        (rummaging through the 
         costume pile)
      Common. And ridiculous. Now don’t 
      forget your--   

She looks up to find Alice gone. 

             MARY 
      --shoes. 

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY

CAMERA’S POV: An UPSIDE DOWN ALICE dressed as the shoe-less 
beggar child. Her face quivers with the effort of feigning a 
calm detachment well beyond her years.      

             CHARLES
      Forty three, Forty four and forty--
      five! Bravo, Alice, well done!   

Alice hops off the wall. She strains to see inside the 
viewfinder, but isn’t quite tall enough.  

             ALICE
      Let me see! Let me see! 

             CHARLES
      Well, go on then. Take a look. It’s 
      right in here.   

             ALICE
      But I’m too small! Please lift me 
      up!  

             CHARLES
      Well that is a bother isn’t it? If 
      only you could make yourself a 
      little taller.     

             ALICE
      How am I to do that?  

             CHARLES
        (looking around)
      Oh, I’m sure I saw a potion around 
      here someplace for the growing up 
      of little girls. Well, in the 
      meantime--

Alice giggles as Charles lifts her up to see inside the 
camera. 

             CHARLES 
      Now. Who’s next! 

Edith and Ina jump up and down, vying for their new friends’ 
attention. 

A few yards back, Lorina watches from the gate; the easy way 
this strange young man has with her girls. We see the hint of 
a smile before she disappears inside. Charles looks back to 
find her gone.  

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- EVENING- LATER

A chorus of CRICKETS fills the garden. The camera is 
abandoned. Charles and the girls play a game. Alice runs 
barefoot about the yard.  

             MARY
      Girls! Time for supper, come on! 

Mary smiles at Charles before noticing Alice running barefoot 
through the mud. Horrified, she runs over, grabs her by the 
arm.  

             MARY 
      Look at you! My God, you look like 
      a grubby little street urchin.  

             ALICE
      But I am! I’m a beggar maid. I live 
      in the West End, under a little 
      treacle shop. My mother’s a 
      seamstress and my father’s-- 

             MARY
      Your father’s the dean of Oxford 
      and you’re late for supper. Come 
      along, let’s get you out of those 
      rags. 

Mary bustles towards the house. Alice doesn’t follow. 

             MARY 
      Well come along then! Don’t keep 
      your father waiting! 

Alice runs back, gives Charles a kiss. 

             ALICE
      Thank you for my photograph. 

             CHARLES
      Alice!

Alice runs back. 

             CHARLES 
      Don’t listen to Pricks. She’s just 
      cross because she doesn’t have the 
      power to be anything she wishes. 
      But you do. And you’ve got it in 
      spades. If you fancy yourself under 
      a treacle shop, you’ll not let 
      anyone tell you otherwise. You’ll 
      remember that, alright? 

Alice smiles and runs into the house. 

Charles starts to pack up his equipment. Lorina comes out the 
back, carrying a cup of steaming tea with a slice of lemon 
which she hands to Charles. 

             LORINA
      You know, I don’t think I’ve ever 
      seen Alice sit quite that still for 
      anyone. I was afraid you had her 
      under some kind of spell.     

             CHARLES  
      Yes, well I have that effect on 
      people. 
        (taking the tea)

             CHARLES
      You should come by my lectures 
      sometime.   

Lorina laughs, dropping her guard a little. She sits down 
next to him.  

             LORINA
      You have quite a way with them, you 
      know. It’s wonderful. To see them 
      having a little fun for a change.        

             CHARLES
      They’re extraordinarily bright. Mr. 
      Liddell must be very proud. 

Lorina just sips her tea. After a moment:  

             LORINA
      One doesn’t collect many playmates 
      when the school yard is one stodgy 
      university after the other. Moving 
      about every summer like a little 
      tribe of gypsies. At least today 
      they got to dress the part. I’m 
      afraid it can get rather lonely. 
      For them. 

Charles stops packing, sensing her brief vulnerability.  

             CHARLES
      Tell me, Mrs. Liddell. Do you play 
      croquet? 

EXT. TOM QUAD LAWN- MORNING

A mallet hits a ball straight across a smooth lawn. Charles 
holds the follow through. Beside him, Alice holds her mallet 
awkwardly, unsure how to play the game. 

             CHARLES
      Now, look here: hold it like so. 
      Put your thumb here-- there you’ve 
      got it. Now swing.

Alice swings and misses. 

             ALICE
      I can’t do it.  

             CHARLES
      Nonsense. You’ve just got to hold 
      it straight up. Like it’s a-- 


Charles looks over to where a few WATER FOUL are feeding in a 
nearby pond. 

             CHARLES 
      Like it’s a stork. Straight up like 
      a Marabou stork. Or a-- 

             ALICE
      A flamingo! 

             CHARLES
      A flamingo? 

             ALICE
      I saw a picture of one in Boldeian. 
      They live all the way in the 
      Caribbean and they eat shrimps for 
      breakfast, lunch and supper. That’s 
      why they’re so pink. And they stand 
      on one leg all day long like this.     

Alice attempts to balance on one leg, nearly falling over. 

             ALICE 
      It’s quite beyond me how they 
      manage to keep from falling over. 
      But either way, they stand 
      perfectly straight up-- I think 
      they’d make a wonderfully excellent 
      mallet!    

             CHARLES
      Very well. Flamingo it is. So 
      you’ve got to hold your flamingo 
      straight as an arrow. Don’t let it 
      flap about. And you’ve got to be 
      quick and accurate because the ball 
      shan’t stay still for very long. 

             ALICE
      Why not? 

Charles bends down to her level, presenting the ball. 

             CHARLES
      Because it is in fact not an 
      ordinary ball at all, but a very 
      nervous, tucked up little door-
      mouse. 

             ALICE
      No it isn’t, it’s a hedgehog!

             CHARLES
      Hedgehog. Hm. Not bad. 

Charles positions Alice in front of the tee. 

CLOSE ON: Her face steely with concentration. Suddenly...

FLAP FLAP FLAP.

A burst of pink feathers as Alice struggles to control her 
mallet that’s turned in a LIVE FLAMINGO. Laughing, she shakes 
out the disgruntled bird and takes a SWING at a SPINY LITTLE 
BALL, sending it flying. The curled up hedgehog soars over 
the green and is CAUGHT by Lorina. She opens her fist, 
revealing an ORDINARY STRIPED CROQUET BALL.  

             ALICE
      Mummy! Put my hedgehog down at 
      once! You’ll frighten him to death. 

Confused, Lorina sets the ball down. Alice grabs it up and 
runs off, stroking it like a pet.  

             LORINA
      We’re having fun I see. How’s she 
      doing?  

             CHARLES
      Coming right along. She’ll be a 
      regular little expert by teatime.   

Two STUDENTS walk past. One waves in Charles’ direction, 
shouting: 

     STUDENT #1
Happy birthday professor! 

STUDENT #2
Happy birthday, sir! 

Charles pretends not to notice and lines up his next shot. 
Lorina lights up.  

             LORINA
      Why Mr. Dodgson! Is today your 
      birthday?!  

             CHARLES
        (quickly)
      No. 

As Charles is about to swing, Ducks comes up from behind him, 
clapping him on the back. 


             DUCKS
      Ah! There you are! Been looking for 
      you all over. 
        (noticing Lorina)
      Oh, excuse me. Good afternoon Mrs. 
      Liddell. 

             LORINA
      Mr. Duckworth. 

             DUCKS
        (whispering to Charles)
      Just wanted to remind you to bring 
      that...
        (whispers in Charles’ ear)
      ...for tonight. Actually, come to 
      that, better bring two bottles. And 
      I’ve invited the Rutledge sisters, 
      but not Rutledge so don’t say any--      

Lorina furrows her brow. Ducks stops himself.  

             DUCKS 
      We’ll catch up about it later. 
      Lovely to see you Mrs. Liddell.   

Ducks braces Charles and walks off. 

             LORINA
      So it is your birthday then.  

             CHARLES
      No, it isn’t. 

A ELDERLY GROUNDSKEEPER walks past, pushing a wheelbarrow. 

             GROUNDSKEEPER
      A happy birthday to you professor! 
      See you tonight! 

Lorina looks back at Charles. 

             CHARLES
      Well--it is and it isn’t. 

Lorina raises an eyebrow. 

             LORINA
      It is... and it isn’t? 

             CHARLES
      What I mean to say is that it’s 
      sort of my un-birthday. 

             LORINA
      Your un-birthday.  

             CHARLES
      Yes. 

             LORINA
      So you mean like-- every other day? 

             CHARLES
      Well, no, not exactly--  

Alice comes running up and tugs on Lorina’s dress. Charles 
rolls his eyes at his himself, trying to pull it together. 

             ALICE
      Mummy! Did you see! I got my 
      hedgehog all the way there, twelve 
      yards I’d wager! Look!  

             LORINA
      Alice, Mr. Dodgson and I are 
      speaking, don’t be rude. 

Alice stomps off. 

             LORINA 
      You were saying? 

Charles just looks at her and smiles, completely tongue-tied. 

EXT. HIGH STREET- NIGHT

Charles and Ducks ride together in the back of a coach. 

             DUCKS
      Your un-birthday? What the hell 
      does that even mean?  

             CHARLES 
      I don’t know alright! She’s so 
      damned beautiful I couldn’t think!   

             DUCKS
      So you invited her? The Dean’s 
      wife? To the pub? Alone? Are you 
      mad?!  

They coach stops outside THE EAGLE AND CHILD PUBLIC HOUSE. 
They step out. Ducks tosses the cabbie a tip. 

             CHARLES
      Not to worry, she declined ever so 
      politely. Seems the Dean’s away in 
      London at the moment and it 
      “wouldn’t be proper”. 

They stop outside the pub door. Ducks gives him a look.   

             CHARLES 
      Oh, come on, let’s get this over 
      with.    

Charles follows Ducks down the steps and enters into: 

INT. EAGLE AND CHILD PUBLIC HOUSE- ST. GILES, OXFORD- NIGHT

A noisy pub complete with foggy stained glass, low timber 
rafters and a roaring stone hearth. A LARGE GROUP of men 
turns to raise their pints and CHEER. A few clap Charles on 
the back, putting a pint in his hand and shoving him up to 
the bar. A little BAND in the corner strikes up an Irish 
drinking song. 

             CHARLES
        (shouting)
      One or two of the lads, eh?  

INT. MARY PRICKET’S BEDROOM- DEANERY- NIGHT

A bedside clock ticks softly. 

Mary sits at a vanity mirror in a quiet room. She stares 
expressionless at her own reflection. She pinches her checks 
to illicit a little color. She pins her thinning ash blonde 
hair up. Thinks better of it, lets it down again. Frowns. She 
reaches into a drawer, pulls out the BOOK OF POETRY she 
pocketed earlier. 

Mary wraps the BOOK in brown paper, tieing it up with a bit 
of string.  

INT. EAGLE AND CHILD PUB- NIGHT- LATER

The party is in full swing. We follow a TAP BOY carrying A 
TANKARD up from the cellar and pushing his way through the 
thick crowd. He goes behind the bar, passing Charles and his 
friends who are all three sheets to the wind.   

EXT. EAGLE AND CHILD PUB- NIGHT

Mary, hair pinned up and dressed in the finest clothes she 
could borrow, steps down from a coach and hesitates outside 
the door. Steeling herself, she enters into:   

INT. EAGLE AND CHILD PUB- NIGHT

Charles, Ducks and a small group laugh hysterically at the 
bar. Hardly anyone notices as Mary makes her way through the 
crowd. She comes up behind them.    

             MARY
      Happy birthday, professor. 

             CHARLES
        (turning)
      Ah! Mary! My God, what a-- here, 
      have a drink! It’s on the house, 
      right Avery?  

THE BARTENDER, AVERY, gives Charles a look. Charles 
sits/falls down next to Mary, brushing the hair out of his 
face.   

             CHARLES 
      Christ. Mary. So good of you to 
      come. 

He reaches to pour her a drink from a nearby pitcher. 

             CHARLES 
      Now tell me, how ever did you 
      manage to escape our little eaglets 
      tonight? 

             MARY
      Oh, not to worry, sir. They’re safe 
      in the nest. They’ve all been fast 
      asleep since supper. Thanks to you. 

             CHARLES
      Excellent! Anything I can do to 
      make your job a little easier I 
      will do, Mary, you know that. 

Charles takes a drink. 

             MARY
        (extracting the package)
      Oh! I almost forgot. This is for 
      you. 

             CHARLES
      Mary!
        (kissing her cheek)
      Well this was wholly unnecessary. 
      But. I will open it all the same.  

He unwraps it. 

             CHARLES 
      Byron! Brilliant! I’m glad you’re 
      educating me, I’m afraid I’m rather 
      helpless when it comes to Ro...
        (eyeing a passing girl)
      Romantic, um
        (looking back)
      the Romantics.  

             MARY
      You like it then?  

             CHARLES
      Love it. 

             DUCKS
      Oy! Charles!    

A beat. 

Charles turns. Ducks is making his way across the room. 

             DUCKS 
        (indicating THE RUTLEDGE 
         SISTERS in the corner)
      Huxley and I are trying to add two 
      to three over here and we um --

Ducks eyes Mary. She pretends not to be listening. 

             DUCKS 
      Need an expert in the mathematical 
      arts.  

He claps Charles on the back and returns to the girls. 

             CHARLES
      What an idiot. Unbelievable. 

             MARY 
      He’s quite the charmer isn’t he? 
      What’s his concentration?  

             CHARLES
      Bachelor of Arts in Fox Hunting.

Mary smiles, not sure if he’s joking. 

             CHARLES 
        (refilling his drink)
      With honours in gin drinking and 
      card playing I think. It’s a four 
      year program, very exclusive.   

Mary laughs. 

             MARY
      I, um-- I heard you’re coming by 
      again tomorrow? Taking the girls 
      over to Godstow for a picnic is it? 
      Down the river?   

             CHARLES
      Indeed I am. Bright and early! 

             MARY
      You know, they don’t often get the 
      privilege of such a little 
      adventure. Not if Mr. Liddell has 
      anything to say.    

Charles’ demeanor darkens a bit. 

             CHARLES
      Well. That’s certainly a shame 
      isn’t it?    

Charles takes another drink then suddenly struggles to focus 
on Mary intensely. 

             CHARLES 
      Have you done something different 
      with your hair?  

             HUXLEY
      Dodgson! You coming or not!      

             CHARLES
      Christ, I’m terribly sorry. Excuse 
      me darling.  

Charles heads over to his friends, leaving Mary alone at the 
bar. She self consciously takes a sip of her pint.   

EXT. EAGLE AND CHILD PUB- NIGHT- FOUR HOURS LATER

Charles is being helped along by Ducks and Huxley.   

             CHARLES 
      I’m going to walk straight up to my 
      father’s room right now and tell 
      the old bastard that I’m a grown 
      man, and that my decisions are 
      between me and God, and Christ, and 
      the Blessed Virgin-- 

             DUCKS
      Let’s save it for the morning, 
      shall we? 

             CHARLES
      God, Ducks, she’s so beautiful. 

             DUCKS
        (lighting a cigarette)
      The Virgin Mother? 

             CHARLES
      Lorina! 

Ducks stops. He spins Charles to face him. 

             DUCKS
      Alright, now listen. I know what 
      you’re thinking. And you’d do best 
      to forget it. No, listen to me! 
      I’ve been watching Liddell. And 
      I’ve heard things. And I’m asking 
      you to be careful. He’s a dangerous 
      man. Do you understand me?   

             CHARLES 
      I’m not afraid of him. 

They eye each other for a moment. Ducks takes a drag on his 
cigarette. 

             DUCKS
      If he’s the man I think he is. You 
      should be. 

Ducks walks ahead. Charles salutes him and follows. 

From the shadows, Mary watches them go. 

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- MORNING

A knock on the door. Lorina walks down the long foyer, 
pinning her earrings as she goes. She opens the door to find 
a disheveled Charles holding a picnic basket.  

             LORINA
      And how did your un-birthday leave 
      you? 

             CHARLES 
      Quite under-the-weather, I’m 
      afraid. Shall we?   

EXT. FOLEY BRIDGE- DAY

A perfect, golden afternoon. Charles, Lorina and the girls 
walk in single file over a narrow bridge which runs over a 
fast moving river. Charles has exchanged his black 
clergyman’s attire in favor of white flannel trousers. Lorina 
and the girls are in their Sunday best. 

EXT. ISIS RIVER BANK- DAY

Spread out on a picnic blanket, Charles shows the girls how 
to make little PAPER BOATS. 

Charles shoves off and hops into a little rowboat with Ina, 
Edith and Alice. Lorina stays on the bank, waving as they 
float off down the river.  

CUT TO:

INT. ROWBOAT- DAY

Charles rows while nursing a pounding headache in the bright 
afternoon light. Edith makes a daisy chain while Ina, wearing 
reading glasses, is engrossed in a book. 

Alice plops her paper boat into the calm water and pushes it 
along with a stick. Chin in hands, she watches it lazily 
float off.  

Bored, she climbs over to peer into her sister’s book and 
wrinkles her nose. 

             ALICE
      Mr. Dodgson? 

             CHARLES
      Hm? 

             ALICE
      Tell us a story. 

             CHARLES
        (rubbing his temples)
      What sort of a story? 

             ALICE
      A good story. 

Charles looks around. The paper boat floats past a group of 
passing water foul nipping at algae and water bugs. The air 
is hot and still. 

             CHARLES
      Alright. Let’s see. Once upon a 
      time. There was a little girl named 
      Alice.  

Alice smiles, liking this already.   

             CHARLES 
      And. And she was beginning to get 
      very tired of sitting by her sister 
      on the river bank and of having 
      nothing to do. Once or twice she 
      peeped into the book her sister was 
      reading, but it had no pictures or 
      conversations.   

Ina looks up from her book.  

             ALICE
      Well what is the use of a book 
      without pictures or conversations? 

             CHARLES
      Precisely. So she was considering 
      in her own mind (as well she could 
      for the hot day made her feel very 
      sleepy and stupid) whether the 
      pleasure of making a daisy chain 
      was worth the trouble of getting up 
      and picking the daises when 
      something ran very close by her.  

Charles stops rowing. He looks over to the bank to where 
Lorina sits reading, wearing a WHITE DRESS. She looks up at 
Charles, shielding her eyes from the sun.  

             EDITH
      Well. What was it? 

             CHARLES
      ...A rabbit. A snow white rabbit 
      with pink eyes. And there was 
      nothing very remarkable in that, 
      nor did Alice think it so very much 
      out of the way to hear the rabbit 
      say to itself “dear, oh dear! I 
      shall be too late!”  

             INA
      But rabbits can’t be late if 
      they’ve nowhere to go. 

             ALICE
      And they certainly can’t speak! 

             CHARLES 
      But this one could. And when Alice 
      thought it over afterward, it 
      occurred to her that she ought to 
      have wondered at this, but at the 
      time it all seemed quite natural. 
      But when the rabbit actually took a 
      watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, 
      looked at it, and then hurried on, 
      Alice started to her feet. Burning 
      with curiosity, she ran across the 
      field after it, and fortunately was 
      just in time to see it pop down a 
      large rabbit-hole under the hedge. 
      In another moment, down went Alice 
      after it, never once considering 
      how in the world she was to get out 
      again.   

Edith and Alice look at each other, smiling. Ina takes off 
her glasses and puts her book down.   

FADE TO:

INT. WONDERLAND- RABBIT HOLE- DAY- FANTASY

Alice falls slowly through a dark well. The sides of the well 
are filled up with cupboards and pictures hung on pegs. 

             CHARLES
      “I wonder if I shall fall right 
      through the earth! How funny it’ll 
      seem to come out among the people 
      that walk with their heads 
      downwards! 

             CHARLES
      But I shall have to ask them what 
      the name of the country is.” 

INT. ROWBOAT- DAY

Charles continues to row while telling the story. 

             CHARLES
      ‘Please ma’am is this New Zealand 
      or Australia?’ And she tried to 
      curtsey as she spoke. Fancy 
      curtseying as you’re falling 
      through the air! 
        (to Alice)
      Do you think you could manage it?   

Alice laughs, shaking her head. 

INT. WONDERLAND- PASSAGEWAY- FANTASY

A WHITE RABBIT in a red waistcoat runs down a long passage. 

             CHARLES
      There was not a moment to be lost. 
      Away went Alice like the wind, and 
      was just in time to hear the rabbit 
      say, as it turned the corner: 

INT. ROWBOAT- DAY

             CHARLES
        (mimicking the rabbit)
      Oh my ears and whiskers how late 
      it’s getting!  

The girls giggle. The boat glides past us down the river, its 
bow gently parting the sunlit waters as we cut to: 

EXT. GODSTOW RIVERBANK- EVENING

Charles continues the story on a picnic blanket under the 
shade of a haycock. The blanket is strewn with poached 
chicken, half eaten cakes and ginger beer. As he talks, the 
golden evening light moves slowly over the girls, each 
hanging on his every word. 


             CHARLES
      Alice opened the door and found 
      that it lead to a small passage, 
      not much larger than a rat-hole... 

FADE TO: 

INT. WONDERLAND- PASSAGE- FANTASY

Alice pulls a heavy velvet curtain aside, revealing an 
ornately carved little red door. She kneels down to its 
level, feeling its surface with her hand.  

             CHARLES (V.O.)
      ...She knelt down and looked into 
      the loveliest garden you ever saw.

Alice pushes the door open, revealing a BEAUTIFUL LUSH 
GARDEN. 

             CHARLES
      How she longed to get out of that 
      dark hall, and wander among those 
      beds of bright flowers and cool 
      fountains, but she could not even 
      get her head through the doorway...  

EXT. GODSTOW RIVERBANK- EVENING 

Charles continues to talk as the girls listen, spellbound. 

FADE TO: 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- NIGHT

Alice, Edith, and Ina nestle in to Charles’ side on a plush 
red sofa by a roaring fire. As his soft voice continues the 
story he gracefully sketches an image of THE WHITE RABBIT. 

CLOSE ON: Alice, Edith and Ina peering over to look at the 
drawing. 

CLOSE ON: Charles flips through the pages of his SKETCHBOOK 
revealing other drawings: Alice reaching up on tip toes 
towards a high glass table and a golden key, Alice with an 
elongated neck. The girls point, looking up at Charles, 
asking questions.  

Lorina sits across, knitting. She smiles, not able to take 
her eyes off Charles. Charles looks up, meeting her gaze and 
smiling back.  

INT. ROWBOAT- THE NEXT DAY 

Charles, and the Girls row along again, this time with Lorina 
bringing up the aft.  We move across the girls’ faces as they 
react to the twists and turns of the story. Lorina listens, 
no less captivated than her girls. 

             CHARLES
        (rowing)
      ‘You ought to be ashamed of 
      yourself’ said Alice to herself.  

             CHARLES 
        (aside to the girls)
      For you see, she often found that 
      she gave herself very good advice, 
      though she very seldom followed 
      it...  

We move down past Charles, past the boat, past an oar cutting 
the glassy surface of the water. We continue moving under the 
water as it becomes... 

INT- WONDERLAND- CHAMBER- FANTASY

...Rapids running through a narrow passage. We fly over the 
stream till we come to Alice, sitting head tucked into knees 
next to the little door. She is crying GIANT TEARS.

             CHARLES (V.O.)
      But she went on all the same, 
      shedding gallons of tears, until 
      there a large pool all around her, 
      four inches deep and reaching 
      halfway down the hall...    

As the water rises, the DRIP, PATTER, SPLASH of gigantic 
tears escalates at a torrential rate. The floodwaters rush 
through the chamber, rising, rising. A DORMOUSE swims by, 
thrashing in the waves. Alice’s eyes widen in concern.  

Suddenly, a CRACK OF THUNDER brings us: 

EXT. RIVER -DAY 

We are back in the boat. A SUDDEN DOWNPOUR rocks the little 
vessel as a thousand raindrops break the calm surface of the 
river. The girls SCREAM in delight. Lorina laughs in spite of 
herself. Charles grabs his satchel, holding it over the 
girls’ heads with one arm, struggling to row to shore with 
the other.      

EXT. RIVERBANK- DAY

Charles ties up the boat, straining to see past pounding 
sheaths of rain. 

Together, they run back towards the college, Charles 
shielding the girls with his jacket as they go. 

EXT. DEANERY GATE- EVENING  

The rain has stopped. Soaking wet, Charles, Lorina, and the 
girls open the garden gate. Charles and Lorina laugh, sharing 
a joke as they wring out their jackets, books, etc. 

             EDITH
      Mr. Dodgson can come inside, can’t 
      he? To finish some more of the 
      story? 

             LORINA
      I think Mr. Dodgson’s story shall 
      have to wait until next time.  
        INA
But it is next time!

ALICE
Please, just till bedtime!

             LORINA 
      Another day. We’ve had quite enough 
      excitement for this one anyway. 

The girls march grumpily inside the house. Charles and Lorina 
walk in silence, stopping at the door.  

             CHARLES
      Well. Goodnight, Mrs. Liddell.  

             LORINA
        (conflicted)
      Oh get in. You’ll catch your death 
      in that.  

INT. DEANERY GUEST HOUSE- NIGHT

Charles towel dries his hair vigorously. A spare set of 
clothes have been laid out for him on the bed. He finishes 
rubbing his hair, leaving it wildly askew. He tries on the 
jacket. It’s much too big. 

INT. THE GIRL’S ROOM- NIGHT

Lorina tucks in an exhausted Alice. 

             ALICE
      Can’t Mr. Dodgson stay with us? 
      Till father gets back? 

             LORINA
      Alice. You know that wouldn’t be 
      proper. 

             ALICE
      But I don’t care about proper. I 
      want him around always. Like 
      Pricks. Here for breakfast, tea and 
      supper. 

             LORINA
      Get some sleep.   

Lorina kisses Alice, Edith, and Ina in turn. Blows out the 
lights. She lingers a moment, lost in thought.  

INT. DEANERY GUESTHOUSE- NIGHT

Rain comes down hard against heavy leaded glass. Charles 
stands over his camera, still in his own wet clothes, fussing 
with the lens. He doesn’t notice when Lorina comes through 
the door.  

             LORINA
      Henry’s bigger than you. 

Charles looks up, suddenly self conscious of his clinging 
white trousers.  

             LORINA 
      In the shoulders.  

             CHARLES
      Ah, yes. Well. I’ll manage.  

Charles kneels down, checking underneath the camera. 

             LORINA
      All in all, another excellent day 
      for a boat ride, wouldn’t you say?  

             CHARLES
      Yes, well. An ark might have been 
      preferable this time around I 
      think.  

Lorina crosses in front of the camera and sits on the chaise. 
She sits straight up, ankles crossed.   

             LORINA
      You know I never got my turn. 

             CHARLES
      I’m sorry? 

             LORINA
      My turn. That day in the garden. 
      You never took my photograph.  

             CHARLES
      No. I suppose I didn’t. 

             LORINA
      I should very much like to see what 
      all the fuss is about.  

Charles continues to clean the camera. Lorina doesn’t move. 

             CHARLES
      What, right now? 

             LORINA
      Why not? 

Charles stops tinkering, focuses on Lorina. 

             CHARLES
      Alright then. 

He takes off the lens cap. 

             CHARLES 
      But you can’t move. Not one inch.  

             LORINA
      So I suppose that means I’d need to 
      be perfectly comfortable? 

             CHARLES
      That’s right. 

Lorina shifts a little so that her dress falls a bit off her 
shoulder. Her soft features rest on the sidearm of the 
chaise.   

Charles stares for a moment. Then, remembering himself, ducks 
under the hood. 

             CHARLES 
      You’re out of frame. Here. 

He walks over to the couch to position her. They’re closer 
than they’ve ever been. 

Charles adjusts her so she’s sitting up a little straighter. 
Using two fingers, he creases the crinoline hem in her dress 
along the floor in one long, slow motion. He gently places 
her hands just so: one on the sofa arm and one in her lap. 

All the while, his heart races.

His hand lifts her chin by a degree. He looks her straight in 
the eyes. 

             CHARLES 
      Now. Don’t. Move.

He goes back behind the lens. The room is silent save for the 
sound of the pattering rain. 

CLOSE ON: Lorina’s eyes. Clear and focused on Charles. 

CLOSE ON: Charles under the hood: grey eyes fixed on her 
image. 

After a few moments: 

             LORINA
      You’re changing them, you know.  

Charles straightens up. 

             LORINA 
      You have a gift. You do.  You show 
      them something I never could. 
      Something my husband wouldn’t find, 
      even if he had the pure heart to 
      look for it.  

Lorina stands, walks towards him. 

             LORINA 
      You show them a way out. 

She nears Charles. 

INT. GIRL’S BEDROOM- NIGHT 

We move over the girls, all fast asleep. 

             LORINA
      A door without a lock.  

INT. DEANERY- GUESTHOUSE- NIGHT

Charles stands transfixed as she moves around him. 

             LORINA
      A door they can push aside and 
      suddenly, everything is different. 
      There are no more storm clouds, no 
      more rain. 

INT. GIRL’S BEDROOM- NIGHT

The row of paper boats sit drying on the window sill, laced 
with handmade chains of wildflowers.  

             LORINA
      No more loneliness. Just the 
      promise of an endless golden 
      afternoon.   

Alice squirms, dreaming.

             LORINA
      You breathe a single word into 
      their ears and suddenly, this life, 
      this place. All of it falls fast 
      away.  A pinhole, getting smaller 
      and smaller. And, in that moment, 
      even in its smallest measure, all 
      of this becomes the dream.

INT. DEANERY GUEST HOUSE- NIGHT

She walks towards him, eyes full of intent. 

             LORINA
      You show them that. Everyday before 
      my eyes. 

She brushes his wet hair from his eyes.

             LORINA 
      Is it wrong? To envy your own 
      children?   

Their faces almost touch, dripping with a few beads of sweat 
and rainwater. 

A CLOCK CHIMES. Five notes.   

Charles kisses her. Slowly and deeply.  

They stumble backwards, Lorina struggling to undo Charles’ 
clothes. Charles lifts Lorina up, not knowing or caring where 
they will land. They fall onto the sofa, almost laughing. 

MUSIC UP OVER THE FOLLOWING MONTAGE: 

EXT. OPEN FIELD- EVENING

Flying overhead, we soar over Oxfords’ golden domes and 
sunlit spires and out over an open field divided by tilled 
squares of farmland. We fly down to Charles, sitting under a 
tree with the girls, speaking with animated gestures.  

He gestures to the field where GIANT STONE CHESS PIECES have 
appeared on the checkered “board”. A WHITE KNIGHT slides 
powerfully up and across, cutting down grass as it goes. 
Suddenly, the knight and his horse COME TO LIFE. The horse 
rears up as the knight savagely cuts down a COWERING RED 
BISHOP. 

Alice and her sisters watch in awe.    

INT. DEANERY GUEST HOUSE- NIGHT

Charles and Lorina kiss passionately at the door, Charles 
fumbles with the knob. They back into his room and the door 
slams shut again.  

INT. DEANERY CLASSROOM- DAY

We circle around Alice and her sisters nearly falling asleep 
at their desks as an ELDERLY TUTOR recites FRENCH LESSONS. 

Alice spies a WHITE RABBIT in the doorway. She perks up and 
smiles. The rabbit scampers off. The tutor strains to see 
what she’s looking at... 

EXT. OXFORD- PARK- DAY

A dreary afternoon. The girls walk together up a hill, 
brought up by Lorina. Charles comes along from the opposite 
direction.  

Giggling, the girls conspire to hold hands across the path, 
forming a barrier. 

Charles charges the line, popping open his BLACK UMBRELLA at 
the last second. The girls scatter, laughing and clinging to 
his coat. Alice and Edith each take his hands and chatter 
away with him over the hill.   

Lorina follows, smiling to herself. 

INT. DEANERY GUEST HOUSE- NIGHT

We move slowly across a disheveled bed. He and Lorina make 
love. 

EXT. RIVER BANK- DAY

Charles and the girls reenact the Battle of Hastings with 
wooden swords. Suddenly, from behind, a cavalry of white 
horses gallop along the rocky beach, golden banners whipping 
in the wind. One SOLIDER, his face covered in FULL ARMOR 
stops his horse and canters around to face Alice. He lifts 
the visor from his eyes.  

An honored Alice smiles and curtseys.   

EXT. OXFORD UNIVERSITY BOTANICAL GARDENS- DAY

Charles talks as the girls stare with rapt attention. Lorina 
and Henry sit apart from them, reading. As Charles speaks, 
scores of WHITE ROSE BUSHES around the garden quiver and 
become saturated with thin red veins until their color is 
completely crimson. As the roses multiply, the girls look 
around the garden with delight.   

Henry cranes his head around, unsure what everyone is looking 
at. To him, the garden appears completely normal. 

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH LAWN- DAY

Charles sits in the grass, his SKETCHBOOK at his side. He 
watches Lorina from across the lawn. With long, careful 
strokes, he starts to draw.

CLOSE ON: The sketch of Lorina, forming the hauntingly 
beautiful image of the White Queen.  

EXT. RIVER BANK- DAY

Charles and the girls walk along the river under a canopy of 
autumnal colors. As Charles speaks, various characters pass 
them along the way: first THE DUCHESS, ugly and squat in a 
massive V-shaped fur hat and veil, then THE KING OF HEARTS, 
followed by THE TOAD FOOTMAN and FISH FOOTMAN, both dressed 
in livery and white stockings. 

An excited Alice turns around to watch them go, to find they 
have transformed back into regular black robed students and 
professors. An OLD PROFESSOR looks back, sensing her gaze. 
Embarrassed, she runs to catch up with Charles and her 
sisters.    

INT. OXFORD UNIVERSITY NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM- DINOSAUR 
GALLERY- DAY

Two massive oak doors open to reveal a sprawling gallery of 
prehistoric skeletons. Charles and the girls walk past cast 
iron pillars, meandering through the various displays. A 
domed glass roof spills light onto the majestic creatures, 
all towering high above a wonder stricken Alice. 

Charles and Alice come to the massive winged SKELETON OF A 
GREAT ANDEAN CONDOR.  

Holding Alice’s hand, Charles whispers in her ear. At once, 
the skeleton COMES TO LIFE. It shakes it’s head and spreads 
it’s leathery wings: evoking the dragon-like image of the 
JABBERWOCKY. The skeletal creature rears up on his haunches, 
arching it’s long neck towards the ceiling and BREATHING a 
massive burst of FIRE.   

CLOSE ON: Alice’s face. The fire is reflected in her blue 
eyes, wide with disbelief. 

END MUSIC

EXT. DEANERY HOUSE- LORINA AND HENRY’S BEDROOM- NIGHT

Lorina blows out her beside lamp and climbs into bed with 
Henry. Henry continues reading a book, not acknowledging her. 
After a moment, he blows out his own lamp and turns away. 

Lorina stares at the ceiling, wide awake. 

EXT. DEANERY- DAY 

Lorina, Henry, Charles, Mary and The Girls take HIGH TEA on 
an enclosed patio. Henry reads a NEWSPAPER.  

             ALICE
      Mr. Dodgson, can you guess what 
      today is? 

             CHARLES
        (checking his watch)
      I’ll do better than guess... today 
      is the 4th of November.  


Alice cranes her neck to look at THE WATCH. 


             ALICE 
      What a funny watch! Does it tell 
      you the day of the month instead of 
      the O’clock? 

             CHARLES
      It tells me both. In fact it even 
      tells me what year it is. I’d wager 
      your watch can’t do all that. 

             ALICE
      I haven’t got a watch. And besides, 
      why should one need to remember 
      what year it is? It stays the same 
      year for such a long time together.  

             CHARLES
      Well, sometimes I need reminding.  

             ALICE
      You must be dreadfully forgetful. 

             MARY
      Miss Alice. Don’t make such 
      personal remarks. It’s very rude. 

             ALICE
      Forgive me Mr. Dodgson. You see, 
      what I meant to say is that today 
      is my half birthday!  

             CHARLES
      Is that a fact?!

             HENRY
      Alice don’t be ridiculous. One 
      doesn’t celebrate one’s half 
      birthday.  

             LORINA
      Oh now Henry. I’m sure half 
      birthdays must be celebrated in 
      some parts of the world, someplace 
      or another.  

Henry sips his tea, flipping the page of his newspaper.  

             HENRY
        (into his cup)
      Mmm. In the madhouse probably.   

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- AFTERNOON 

We hear the off key banging of A PIANO. Alice practices while 
a TUTOR beats the time. There is a KNOCK AT THE DOOR. Alice 
hops off the bench to run and answer it.   

She finds a ENVELOPE slid under the door SEALED IN WAX. She 
opens it to find an INVITATION. 

“You are hereby cordially invited to celebrate the HALF 
BIRTHDAY of Miss Alice Pleasance Liddell, 6 1/2 as of this 
week-end.  

Deanery Garden- 3 O’clock. No persons of whole ages shall be 
admitted ”   

Alice smiles. 

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY

An outdoor tea party has been set up under a tree with a 
handmade banner reading “HAPPY 1/2 BIRTHDAY ALICE!”

Charles, Ducks and Lorina set the table while Alice, Edith 
and Ina run about with the dogs. Mary brings a tray of TEA 
and BISCUITS out from the house. She sets it down, looking 
rather put off that she has to wait on such a thing.     

CUT TO:

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY

The tea party is in full swing. Alice sits at the head of the 
table, wearing a TOP HAT that’s much too big for her and 
looking delighted. Everyone else wears PAPER HATS.  

Ducks clings the side of his teacup with a spoon. 

             DUCKS
      Here, I’ve got a riddle! 

The table settles down. 

             ALICE
      Oo I love riddles! I can always 
      guess them. 

             DUCKS
      Alright then here it comes- why is 
      a raven like a writing desk? 


Everyone thinks. Edith goes to answer, then thinks better of 
it. 

After a moment: 

             LORINA
      Alright, I give it up. What’s the 
      answer? 

             DUCKS
        (pretending to think)
      You know. I haven’t the slightest 
      idea.  

The girls giggle.    

             INA
        (passes Alice a tray)
      Would you like another biscuit 
      Alice?  

             ALICE
      Well I haven’t had my first biscuit 
      yet so I can’t possibly take more.   

             CHARLES
        (helping himself)
      You mean you can’t take less. It’s 
      very easy to take more than 
      nothing. 

Alice tries to work this out. Lorina smiles. 

EXT. DEANERY GATE- SAME TIME

Henry walks towards the house with two SENIOR STUDENTS who 
take notes as he pontificates about college business. 

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY- SAME TIME

             CHARLES
      Now. I vote the young ladies tell 
      us a story. Ina, you’ll start.  

             INA
      Oh. I’m afraid I don’t know any. 

             CHARLES
      Alright then, I’ll start. Once upon 
      a time there were three little 
      sisters. 

             CHARLES
      And their names were Elsie, Lacie 
      and Tillie. And they lived at the 
      bottom of a well.  

             EDITH
      A well? What were they doing down 
      there?  

             CHARLES 
      Not much of anything I’m afraid.   

             INA
      What did they live on?

             CHARLES
      Whatever they could get. 

             ALICE
      And what-- 

             CHARLES
      Well, it wasn’t a What Well!   

             INA
      Well if it wasn’t a What Well, what 
      kind of well was it then?   

Ina looks confused by her own question.  

             ALICE
      Mr. Dodgson? 

But Charles is now pretending to be fast asleep, snoring 
loudly.  

Edith goes to poke him cautiously. Suddenly, Charles JOLTS 
AWAKE, causing them all to jump with delight.  

             CHARLES
      Where was I? 

Underneath the table, Lorina squeezes Charles’ hand.   

EXT. GARDEN GATE- DAY

Henry and the Students open the gate and continue into the 
garden. Henry stops in his tracks at the SOUND of SINGING.  

Charles is standing up on a chair leading Alice and the girls 
in singing “Twinkle Twinkle Little Bat”. Alice is wearing the 
TOP HAT, Edith is standing on the table. To add to the chaos, 
the DOGS run about the table BARKING excitedly.    

             HENRY
      What’s all this? 

Everyone stops to look at Henry and the Students.     

             HENRY 
        (to the students)
      That’ll be all for today.  

The students leave, eyeing the strange scene. Henry goes over 
to Alice, takes the hat off her head. 

             HENRY 
      Is this my new hat? I bought this 
      in Godstow just last week. Where 
      did you get this? 
        (looking around)
      And why is our good china and 
      silver all out of doors? Lorina, 
      what’s the meaning of this?  

Lorina is at a loss for words. 

             HENRY 
        (to Mary)
      Is this what I pay you for? To let 
      them run about, wild as they 
      please?

             MARY
      I beg your pardon sir, I-- 

             CHARLES
      Now look, this wasn’t her doing. We 
      were just having a little fun, for 
      Alice’s half birthday-- 

             HENRY
        (turning on Charles)
      I say, do you ever go home?  
        (indicating Ducks)
      And who the bloody hell is this?  

             DUCKS
      Duckworth, sir. Third year Master 
      of Arts in-- 

             HENRY
      Oh, nevermind. 
        (to Mary)
      Clean this up. And have that lot 
      help you.  


Henry goes inside, snapping for the dogs to follow him. 
Lorina runs to his side. 

             LORINA
      Henry-- 

             HENRY
      Are you out of your mind? What if 
      I’d been along with the Chancellor? 
      People will think we’re running a 
      goddamned circus up here instead of 
      a university.   

Ducks starts to clean up the table with Mary. 

Alice sits staring down at her tea, looking as if she might 
cry. Charles goes to sit next to her. They’re quiet for a 
moment.   

             CHARLES
      You know, Alice. Sometimes, when we 
      see things a certain way. Others-- 
      well, they might not always see 
      them exactly the same. But that 
      doesn’t mean it’s wrong.    

Alice looks up at him, eyes filled with tears.  

             CHARLES 
      Sometimes you’ve just got to 
      believe that you’re the one who’s 
      got it right. No matter what anyone 
      says.   

Ducks looks up from his cleaning. Alice stays quiet. 

Charles takes his pocket watch and dips it in an empty teacup 
to make her smile. Then he pretends to butter it like it’s a 
biscuit.  

             ALICE
        (smiles)
      That’s not a biscuit, silly, it’s a 
      watch.  

             CHARLES 
      Is it? Oh dear, I’ve gone and mixed 
      them up again, haven’t I? 

From the house, Lorina watches Alice laugh with Charles. Mary 
walks by with a TRAY of dishes, stopping beside her. They 
watch Charles together for a moment.  

             MARY
      I’d take mind to what Mr. Liddell 
      said if I were you ma’am. A young 
      man up here day in and day out. 
      Soon enough it’s not just the 
      children who’ll be making up the 
      stories. 

A pause. Lorina continues to watch Charles.  

             LORINA
      My husband asked you what it is we 
      pay you for. I’d advise you to try 
      and remember it.     

Lorina looks at Mary before walking away. 

Stung, Mary looks back out into the yard. She keeps her eyes 
fixed on Charles. 

INT. DEANERY GUEST HOUSE- AFTERNOON 

Charles and Lorina lie in bed, post-coital. Charles gets up, 
dressing himself. 

             CHARLES
      You know, I always thought I knew 
      exactly how my life would end up. 
      As if I were reading some 
      frightfully dull book and I’d snuck 
      to the last chapter to save myself 
      the bore of reading the whole 
      thing. I’d lecture here till I was 
      too decrepit to stand and then I’d 
      retire, some fossilized old don, 
      shuffling from quadrangle to 
      corridor. Just another bachelor in 
      black to be pitied or ignored by 
      younger, richer men.  

             LORINA
      And now?  

             CHARLES
      And now. Well, I don’t know what’s 
      going to happen. And this time I 
      don’t care to.  

Lorina almost laughs. Charles climbs on top of her.  

             CHARLES 
      What? 

             LORINA 
      This isn’t one of your fantasies, 
      you know. We’re not playing at some 
      invented world without convention 
      or consequence. Every good family 
      in England has an ear to the ground 
      in this place. People will talk. 
      And when they do he’ll do whatever 
      he can to ruin you. Henry may have 
      the personality of a lobster, but 
      he’s ruthless. And he thoroughly 
      enjoys wielding his power, even if 
      it is only bureaucratic. 

             CHARLES
      Well that’s a thoroughly critical 
      assessment of one’s better half. 
      Although--  

Charles kisses her neck. 

             CHARLES 
      He’s not the most social or 
      convivial sort, I’ll give you that.  

Charles brushes the hair from Lorina’s eyes. 

             CHARLES 
      Did you ever love him? 

             LORINA
      Once. Or, I suppose it may have 
      been the idea of him. This 
      brilliant man, this accomplished 
      self-assured pillar of--  

Lorina laughs, no idea what word comes next. 

             LORINA 
      You know, come to that, I think I 
      would have loved the back of a 
      turnip cart all the same if it had 
      carried me away from Lowestroft. 

Lorina wraps her arms around Charles.  

             LORINA 
      When the whispers start, and they 
      will do, there will be a chorus of 
      chattering, squawking old birds in 
      his ear, everywhere he goes. And 
      he’ll do whatever he can to quiet 
      them.       

             CHARLES
      You mean he’ll have both our heads 
      on the chopping block.   

             LORINA
      Unless we’ve already gone away.   

             CHARLES
        (laughing)
      Now who’s the fantasist? 

Charles gets up, dressing.  

             CHARLES 
      Look at us. I’m ready to risk the 
      only life I’ve ever known and now 
      you’re abandoning your own 
      children.    

             LORINA
      You know I’m starting to think you 
      don’t quite understand the sort of 
      man my husband is. If they do start 
      singing in his ear, I’ll lose more 
      than just my children. 

Charles puts his jacket on, does up his collar.   

             LORINA 
      The governess. She’s a pretty bird. 

Charles looks back. 

             LORINA 
      I’ve seen the way she looks at us. 
      At you. Thirty pounds a year 
      doesn’t exactly buy discretion.      

             CHARLES
      And so what if you’re right then? 
      What if this is all just another 
      game of mine that can’t really be 
      won? Or not by men like me anyway.   

Lorina gets out of bed, walks towards him. 

             LORINA
      Perhaps it is. And perhaps men like 
      you should learn their place. 
      Because, like it or not, men like 
      Henry Liddell always get what they 
      want. In the end. 

             CHARLES
      Right.    

He gathers his things to leave. Lorina pulls him back again. 

             LORINA
      But. Then again. So do I. 

She pulls him back into bed, undressing him again. 

             HENRY
      Lorina! 

Charles and Lorina look up. There’s a RAP at the door 
before...

INT. DEANERY GUEST HOUSE- DAY 

Henry comes straight into the room. Lorina is lying on the 
bed. 

             HENRY
      Where the hell have you been? 

             LORINA
        (feigning grogginess)
      Darling. Just having a bit of a lie 
      down. It’s so wonderfully quiet 
      here away from the house.  

             HERNY 
        (lighting a cigarette)
      Yes, well I should think that’s 
      because your daughter has been 
      bloody well squalling at the 
      nursery door for nearly an hour no 
      thanks to you. And I can’t find the 
      damned nanny anywhere. 

Henry shakes out the match. His eyes go to Charles’ camera in 
the far corner of the room. He walks towards it. 

             LORINA
        (going to his side)
      I’ll have the kitchen warm up a bit 
      of milk straight away, that usually 
      does the trick. 

Henry bends down to inspect the camera, momentarily 
fascinated by the device. He breathes smoke into the lens, 
staring at his own reflection. 


In the reflection, we can just see something MOVING behind 
him. Henry turns to look... 

             LORINA 
      Nightmares? 

Henry snaps back around. 

             HENRY
      What? 

             LORINA
      Edith sometimes has terrible 
      nightmares. Poor thing. I’d imagine 
      that’s why she’s carrying on. 

Henry stands up, still eyeing the camera, exhaling smoke.  

             HENRY
      You’ll tell that professor I’m not 
      running a god damned store house in 
      here. Have him come and get this 
      nonsense by the end of the week. 

Henry KICKS at the camera, causing A PART to fall clattering 
to the floor. He leaves, closing the door behind him. Lorina 
exhales. 

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH LAWN- DAY

Charles walks at a rapid clip away from the Deanery garden 
walls, dusting off his suit and adjusting his cufflinks as he 
goes. 

PRE-LAP: A BRASS BAND plays the up-tempo Patriotic tune “The 
March of the British Grenadiers” from a BANDSTAND. 

EXT. HERTFORD BRIDGE- DAY

We come down from a blue sky to a footbridge arching over 
spring blooms and a street swarming with people and activity. 

INSERT: THREE MONTHS LATER     

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- MORNING

Ina, Edith and Alice run up the tight winding stairs, taking 
them two at time, nearly running over a STUDENT coming down 
the opposite way.  

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- MORNING

The girls burst through the door and run over to Charles who 
sits at his desk surrounded by a mess of open text books, 
engrossed in the preparation of a lecture. Alice jumps on the 
bed and throws open the curtains as Ina and Edith run to him, 
shutting his books and grabbing his hand.  

             EDITH 
      Mr. Dodgson! It’s happening! It’s 
      today!  

             INA
      Come quick! Hurry up! 

             CHARLES 
      What’s all this? How did you---

             ALICE
      The Prince and Princess of Wales! 
      They’re here! A real princess! In 
      Oxford! Come on!  

Ina pushes Charles our of his chair as Alice drags him 
towards the door by the arm. Edith hops along excitedly.  

EXT. BAZAAR- DAY 

Charles walks on either side of the girls through a noisy 
bazaar decorated with flowers, patriotic flags and feathers. 
The girls are dressed in their finest. 

A variety of stalls have been erected to celebrate the royal 
visit. The girls gape as they pass an OX being ROASTED WHOLE.  

Charles stops at a stall to buy a DOLL for Alice and picks up 
a NEWSPAPER and DECK OF PLAYING CARDS for himself. 

EXT. TOM QUAD GATES- DAY

Scores of onlookers are assembled in a U-shape on either side 
of the road and in front of a COVERED DAIS under a STRIPED 
RED AWNING. 

A red carpet leads to the dais where HENRY, LORINA and the 
girls stand alongside the assembled CANONS OF CHRIST CHURCH, 
ready to welcome the Royals to Oxford.  

A ROYAL GUN SALUTE rings out as the ROYAL CARRIAGE enters the 
gate. The crowd, including Charles, Mary and Ducks, CHEER and 
WAVE. 


The carriage comes to a full stop at the end of the road. 

Lorina bends down to the girls’ level, fussing with their 
dresses. 

             LORINA
        (whispering)
      Remember, when you meet Her Royal 
      Highness, you must curtsey while 
      thinking what to say. Open your 
      mouth a little wider when you 
      speak, turn out your toes, and you 
      must answer in French if you can’t 
      think of the English for a thing. 
      And always say--

             ALICE, EDITH AND INA 
      “Your Majesty”  

The band strikes up a DRUM ROLL. Lorina, Henry and the girls 
stand as straight up as they possibly can.  

In the crowd, Mary eyes Charles, thoroughly enjoying being so 
close to him. She grabs his arm, leans in to his ear:  

             MARY 
        (whispering)
      Can you imagine it? Being a little 
      girl and meeting a real live Prince 
      and Princess.    

             DUCKS
      Course he can. Charles imagines 
      being a little girl all the time, 
      don’t you old boy?   

Mary and Charles turn to look at Ducks as the drum roll 
finishes and A FULL ORCHESTRA AND CHILDREN’S CHOIR launches 
into the National Anthem “God Save the Queen”. Charles and 
Ducks remove their hats and sing with the rest of the crowd. 

Note: The verses are first sung by a Children’s Choir, then 
repeated by the crowd.    

             CHILDREN’S CHOIR
      God save our gracious Queen. Long 
      live our Noble Queen. God save the 
      Queen 

VOLUNTEERS present arms as the Prince and Princess make their 
way up the aisle towards Henry, Lorina and the girls. 

Mary looks up at Charles. Charles keeps his eyes on Lorina. 

             CROWD AND CHOIR
      God save our gracious Queen/Long 
      live our Noble Queen/God save the 
      Queen

We move across Henry, Lorina and the girls, each curtseying 
to the royals in turn. Alice curtseys so low she looks as if 
she might fall over. 

             CHILDREN’S CHOIR
      Send her victorious/Happy and 
      Glorious/Long to reign over us/God 
      Save the Queen. 

Lorina takes Alice’s hand. Squeezes it. 

Mary looks down at Charles’ hand. Her fingers reach out a 
bit, hesitating. She grabs it. After a moment, Charles gently 
pulls it away. He looks at Mary. She looks mortified.   

             CROWD AND CHOIR
      Send her victorious/Happy and 
      Glorious/Long to reign to over us/ 
      God Save the Queen
       

Henry and Lorina talk with the Royals, shaking hands. Henry 
takes the Princess by the arm, leading her and the Prince off 
the platform. Lorina and the girls follow. 

             CROWD AND CHOIR 
      O Lord Our God Arise/Scatter her 
      Enemies/And make them fall. 
      Confound their politics/Frustrate 
      their knavish tricks/On Thee our 
      Hopes we Fix/God Save us All

Mary pushes her way through the crowd, tears streaming. 

The song ends with a grand flourish of steel drums and the 
crashing of SYMBOLS

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH HALL- NIGHT

A long WHISTLE before a BURST OF COLOR illuminates the night 
sky as several FIREWORKS explode over the hall. Several 
wooden benches have been set up on the lawn. Gas lamps 
illuminate a lavish banquet filled to capacity. 

Henry and  Lorina dine with the royals. Charles sits apart 
with Alice and her sisters.  

             CHARLES
        (voice low)
      Look over there. See those guards? 
      Over by the hedge?   

Charles nods his head towards TWO UNIFORMED FOOTMEN standing 
by the bushes, looking bored. 
        

The girls all turn to look. 

             CHARLES 
      No, don’t look now! They’re hiding. 
      Scared out of their wits. 

             INA 
      They certainly don’t look it. 

             CHARLES
      Well they can’t show it now can 
      they? If the Queen comes and finds 
      out what they’ve done she’ll be in 
      a terrible state. 

             ALICE
        (eyes wide)
      What have they done? 

Charles looks across the table at a plate piled high with 
TARTS. 

             CHARLES
        (leaning in, whispering)
      They stole some tarts. The Queen’s 
      tarts. Right from under her nose. 
      And if she catches them, it’ll be--

Charles makes the “beheading” gesture across his neck. Alice 
gasps. 

             EDITH
      Oh, how dreadfully savage! What a 
      horrid queen. 

             INA
      What Queen? Not Victoria, she’s in 
      London. What’s she the Queen of 
      then? 

Charles gives Ina a “please don’t spoil the game for your 
sisters” look. 

He looks up at Lorina, gorgeous in the flickering gaslight. 

             CHARLES
      The Queen of Hearts. 

Charles takes out the pack of cards. Lays down the QUEEN OF 
HEARTS CARD. 

             CHARLES 
      The Queen of Hearts, she made some 
      tarts all on a summer’s day...

Charles flips over THE KNAVE OF HEARTS CARD and slides it 
next to the QUEEN OF HEARTS

             CHARLES 
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole the 
      tarts and took them quite away.  

Another FIREWORK goes off, illuminating the table and cards. 

Alice looks up to see that all the GUARDS flanking the Royals 
have turned into a row of faceless PLAYING CARDS, fanning out 
before her eyes.  

The Prince and Princess of Wales have turned into the KING 
AND QUEEN OF HEARTS. The Queen laughs wildly with the King in 
the light of the fireworks. As her laughter dies down, she 
turns to look right at Alice. 

Alice stares back, eyes wide. The queen’s face hardens with a 
kind of furious recognition. She POINTS at Alice, opening her 
mouth wide, forming the words:

             QUEEN OF HEARTS
      OFF WITH HER---

The clinging of crystal.  

Everything is as it was. The lawn goes quiet as Henry stands 
to make a toast.  

             HENRY 
      To Britannia. The Empress of Isles, 
      where freedom inhabits and commerce 
      still smiles. And happiness to the 
      royal pair. On behalf of all Christ 
      Church College, I hereby welcome 
      their royal highnesses to Oxford.  
        (raising his glass)
      To Church and Queen! 

             CROWD
      To Church and Queen! 

A round of applause. Lorina and Charles smile at each other 
from across the table. Lorina’s eyes linger on Charles.         

Mary watches the subtle exchange, her face hard with 
determination in the flickering firelight.  

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- MARY’S BEDROOM-NIGHT 

Mary searches frantically through her bookshelf. She pulls 
out a LITTLE RED VOLUME. She flips to the first page. 

“Enoch Arden by Alfred Tennyson, D.C.L. Poet Laureate”

Mary looks up at the sound of barking dogs as Henry, Lorina, 
Charles and the girls come in downstairs. Mary slips the book 
into her dress pocket and goes down to greet them.  

             LORINA
        (taking off Alice’s coat)
      Ah, Mary! There you are. We were 
      looking all over for you. I 
      couldn’t imagine where you’d got 
      to.    

             MARY
      Pardon, just-- a little tired is 
      all, ma’am. Came in to have a lie 
      down. 

             LORINA
      Well, if you’re feeling quite 
      better, could you be a dear and put 
      the tea on?  

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- PARLOUR- EVENING 

Henry sits by the fire, reading, while Lorina occupies 
herself with needlework. Charles and the girls sit together 
on the sofa playing a game. Mary serves everyone a round of 
tea. 

As she passes by a BOOKSHELF, she slips the RED BOOK in 
amongst the leather bound VOLUMES.   

             LORINA
        (putting down her sewing)
      Well girls. I think we’ve all had 
      quite enough excitement for one 
      day. I think it’s time to tell Mr. 
      Dodgson good night. 


             ALICE
      No! Please! I couldn’t possibly go 
      to sleep now. 

             LORINA
      Alice, don’t argue. 

             ALICE
      But I met a princess today! 

             INA
      Really mummy, we’re not tired at 
      all.  

             EDITH
      One more game with Mr. Dodgson, 
      please! 

             MARY
        (handing Edith her tea)
      Oh, now Edith, let’s do something 
      you father would enjoy too. We 
      can’t let Mr. Dodgson have all the 
      fun.  

             ALICE 
        (whispering to Mary)
      But papa doesn’t like games. He 
      only likes boring old poetry. 

             INA
      That’s an idea Alice. Let’s hear 
      some poetry. Just one before bed. 
      That’d be alright, wouldn’t it 
      Mummy? 

             LORINA
      Yes alright. But just one. Then off 
      to bed.  
        (to Henry)
      Henry--

Henry is engrossed in his book. 

             LORINA 
        (louder)
      The girls would like you to read 
      one of your poems aloud, dear. 

Henry takes off his reading glasses, suddenly flummoxed by 
the attention. 

             HENRY
        (re: his book in hand)
      I see. Ovid?    

             ALICE
      No, papa, something modern!

             HENRY
        (going to the shelf)
      No Greeks. Alright--

             MARY
        (loudly)
      What about Tennyson?   

Everyone turns to look at Mary, standing at the back of the 
room holding the tea tray.  

             MARY 
      It’s just--Well, I should think 
      Tennyson modern enough for Miss 
      Alice’s tastes. That is, if it 
      pleases our guest. 

             HENRY
      Tennyson. Our poet laureate. Very 
      good. 

Henry searches for Tennyson in his collection. . 

             MARY 
      “Enoch Arden”  

Again, everyone turns to look at Mary. 

             MARY 
      It’s-- quite new. 

             LORINA
      Why, Mary. I’d no idea you’d an 
      interest in poetry. 

             MARY
      Only a passing interest, ma’am. 

             ALICE
      What’s it about? 

             MARY
        (nervous)
      It’s about-- a sailor, Enoch, who 
      goes missing. And-- and he’s 
      thought to be dead. 

             MARY
      But after ten years he comes home 
      to his old house and looks in the 
      window and sees his wife--and his 
      three children-- in the company of 
      a man, Phillip, who’s taken his 
      place. 

Charles looks at Lorina, nervous, unsure what’s happening. 

             MARY 
        (to Henry)
      “Enoch Arden”

Henry find the little RED BOOK, pulls it out. He settles down 
in his chair by the fire. The dogs stretch out at his feet.   

             HENRY
        (putting on his glasses)
      “Enoch Arden”. By Lord Alfred 
      Tennyson. 

Mary sets down the tea tray, her eyes fixed on Henry. 

             HENRY 
      Long lines of cliff breaking have 
      left a chasm; And in the chasm are 
      foam and yellow sands; Beyond, red 
      roofs about a narrow wharf...

             HENRY 
      ...Enoch cast his strong arms about 
      his wife, And kiss’d his wonder-
      stricken little ones; waved his 
      hand and went away; Ev’n to the 
      last dip of the vanishing sail; She 
      watched it, and departed weeping 
      for him...

FADE TO:

...We move across the girls’ faces as he reads. 

...Across the woodcut illustration of Enoch embracing his 
wife on the wharf. 

...Alice getting sleepy, resting her head on Charles. On his 
other shoulder, Edith does the same.   

The illustration of Phillip, reaching out towards Annie, 
children at her side. 

FADE TO:

             HENRY 
      Then Philip coming somewhat closer 
      spoke; ‘O’ Annie it is beyond all 
      hope, that he who left you ten long 
      years ago should still be living; 
      Perhaps you know what I would have 
      you know-- I wish you for my wife. 
      I frain would prove a father to 
      your children: I do think they love 
      me as a father. And I have loved 
      you longer than you know...

...Charles and Lorina glace at one another...

...Mary, eyes fixed on Henry... 

As the poem comes to and end, Henry slows down, realization 
taking over. 

FADE TO:

             HENRY 
      Now when the dead man come to life 
      beheld his wife; his wife no more, 
      and saw the babes; Hers, yet not 
      his; Upon the other man’s knee...

Henry looks up at Charles nestled between his three 
daughters. 

....At Alice and Edith, asleep at Charles’ side.  

....Then at Lorina, her face betraying her. 

             HENRY 
        (voice breaking)
      And all the warmth, the peace, the 
      happiness; And his own children 
      beautiful; And him, that other, 
      reigning in his place; Lord of his 
      rights; And of...

He looks up, eyes filled with tears.

             HENRY 
      And of his children’s love.

Henry closes the book, takes off his glasses. He rubs his 
face and stares into he fire. 

A long moment. Everyone is quiet.  

             INA
      Papa, are you alrig--

Suddenly, he leaves the room. Lorina runs after him. 

             LORINA
      Henry-- 

The girls look at one another. Charles looks at Mary. 

             MARY
      I think it’s time for you to be 
      going now Professor. 

INT. DEANERY HOUSE- STUDY- NIGHT

Henry sits at his desk, writing. Lorina approaches.  

             LORINA
      Everything alright? 

Henry ignores her, continues writing.  

             LORINA 
      Henry? 

             HENRY
        (folding a letter, not 
         looking up)
      They used to say that our marriage 
      was like something out of the old 
      comedies. Did you know that? 
      ‘What’s he doing, that great man 
      taking a third rate provincial 
      wife?’ they’d say. ‘First rate in 
      beauty’ I’d say. 

Henry casually melts a stick of RED WAX onto the envelope.

             HENRY 
      And you know, at the time I 
      actually believed that was enough.   

Wax drips onto paper, forming a little crimson pool. Lorina 
is silent.   

             HENRY 
        (coolly)
      I want to know why that man is in 
      my house. Day after day. Playing 
      father to my children. You can tell 
      me if you wish. Or I can find out. 

             HENRY 
      Either way, it will all come out 
      the same.  

Henry presses the wax, sealing the letter. He stands and 
walks around the desk, pausing to whisper in her ear:   

             HENRY 
      And you’d do well to remember this 
      my dove: I made you all those years 
      ago. And so help me, if it comes to 
      it now, I will unmake you all the 
      same.    

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- NIGHT

Henry sits, smoking on the lawn. Lorina comes to sit beside 
him. 

             LORINA 
      I didn’t want to alarm you. Not 
      until I knew for sure. 

Henry ignores her. 

             LORINA 
      It all seemed an innocent bit of 
      fun at first, didn’t it? The girls 
      liked him well enough. But then. I 
      started to notice. Little things. 
      The way he looks at Alice.    

Henry looks at Lorina, his interest piqued. 

             LORINA 
      He’s in love with her, Henry. Don’t 
      you see it? Even to being, well, 
      obsessed I’d say. Why, it’s 
      absolutely absurd, a grown man and 
      a child. Just tonight Alice told me 
      herself that he’s begun to frighten 
      her, poor thing. 

Lorina takes Henry’s hand.  

             LORINA 
      So, you can understand now. Why 
      I’ve had to watch him so closely, 
      why he hasn’t given us a moment’s 
      peace. You must do whatever you 
      have to my darling. Whatever it 
      takes. For the sake of our family. 
      He must never come near our 
      children again. 

Alice watches from the hall, clutching the DOLL Charles 
bought her at the bazaar.    

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- DAY

Charles comes up the stairs leafing through mail and unlocks 
his door. He finds THE SEALED LETTER has been slid 
underneath.   

             CHARLES
      I’ve been summoned. 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- DAY- LATER

Ducks paces. Charles sits on the couch, reading the letter.  

             CHARLES
      In two weeks. I’m to appear before 
      The Electors. 

             DUCKS
      The Electors? 

             CHARLES
      Liddell, the twelve Cannons of 
      Christ Church and the Senior 
      Students.  

             DUCKS
      Christ. For what?      

Charles sits, rubbing his hands through his unkept hair.  

             DUCKS 
      Charles. Look at me. What exactly 
      have you done?  

             CHARLES
        (almost laughing)
      I fell all the way down. All the 
      way down to the bottom.

             DUCKS
      You’re not making sense, mate. 

             CHARLES
      No. But that’s finally the point 
      isn’t it? Nothing’s made sense for 
      months. I can’t hardly tell up from 
      down. 

             CHARLES
      Every truth I’ve ever known has 
      gone from peculiar to paradoxical.    

             DUCKS
      Alright, now you’re making less 
      sense. 

             CHARLES
        (tossing him the letter)
      They’re expelling me, Ducks. I 
      didn’t take the Orders. 

             DUCKS
      What? 
        (reading the letter)
      They can’t just expel you! Where 
      would you go? 

Charles stands up again, starts to pace. 

             DUCKS 
      Look, I’m sure this is all just 
      some arcane formality. Tell them 
      the truth. Tell them how you feel 
      and ask for a pardon.   

             CHARLES
      A pardon? You’d have me go before 
      The Electors and ask to waive a 
      binding statue set down by a 
      thousand year old institution for 
      my personal convenience? They’ll 
      think I’ve gone mad. 

             DUCKS
      Well, you’ve said it yourself 
      haven’t you? In your lectures. 
      “Sometimes the greatest truths can 
      be found even in madness.”   

Charles sits, considering this. 

             CHARLES
      I need to come up with a better 
      lecture. 

INT. HIGH STREET SHOP- OXFORD- DAY

Charles enters a tiny shop. He picks out a few items. As he 
pays, he notices: 

...A woman staring at him, then averting her gaze.  

...Two students whispering. 

...The shopkeeper eyeing him with contempt.  

Disturbed, Charles pays and exits onto the street. 

EXT. HIGH STREET- OXFORD- DAY

As Charles walks along the road, students and professors pass 
him on both sides, whispering, turning to look. 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- STAIRWELL- DAY

Charles climbs the stairwell. TWO STUDENTS stop talking to 
stare daggers at him from the landing. 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- CHARLES’ ROOM- DAY

Charles enters with his groceries, visibly disturbed. 

INT. CHRIST CHURCH- CHARLES’ CLASSROOM- DAY   

Charles erases the chalkboard as a few STUDENTS stand and 
filter out-- nearly two thirds of the classroom is empty.   

Charles stands at his desk, writing in a ledger.  

Lorina enters, closing the door carefully behind her. Charles 
looks up, then continues writing. 

             CHARLES
      Turns out not many people care to 
      learn Euclidian geometry under a 
      known solicitor of young girls.  

Lorina walks towards him. 

             LORINA 
      If Henry knew the truth things 
      would be much worse. For both of 
      us.   

Charles starts to pack his satchel. 

             CHARLES
      Really? Worse than forfeiting my 
      very stature and reputation? Losing 
      the only life I’ve ever known? Your 
      dear husband is sacking me based on 
      some outdated, trivial statute.  

             LORINA
      As is his right! 
        (forced)
      He’s my husband. I owe him 
      everything.    

             CHARLES
      And yet he’s given you nothing. 
      Nothing to you, and nothing to your 
      girls. And he never will.

             LORINA
      And who exactly do you think you 
      are? You’re a grown man who plays 
      at fantasies! There are rules in 
      this life and there are 
      consequences. Even my children know 
      that.     

             CHARLES
      Yes and what of your children?

Lorina turns, going towards the door. 

             CHARLES
      What exactly are you going to tell 
      them? More lies is it?    

Lorina reaches the door. 

             CHARLES 
        (loudly)
      Are you blind? He looks at them-- 
      and  sometimes I swear he doesn’t 
      even recognize them! 

Lorina stops. She turns, walking back towards him.  

             LORINA
      I told you there was a time I 
      believed Henry could ride in, cut 
      through the brambles and carry me 
      away. Away from my little house in 
      the country and everything that 
      frightened me. But he only carried 
      me off to places much worse. 

She brushes the hair from his eyes. 

             LORINA 
      Then I met you. I met you the first 
      day you made my daughter smile. 

             LORINA 
      And every day after that I thought, 
      finally here is my White Knight. 
      And you were, for an afternoon. But 
      the day’s nearly over now. My 
      children are growing older and so 
      am I.  

She wipes her eyes, puts on a stiff upper lip. 

             LORINA 
      Anyway, we’ve both had our share of 
      fantasies haven’t we? But. I woke 
      up from mine. 

She kisses him on the cheek. Charles doesn’t move. She 
whispers in his ear: 

             LORINA 
      Wake up Charles.  

She goes to the door, closing it without looking back. 

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH LAWN- DAY

A grey afternoon, just before a rain. Charles walks over the 
little hill. Once again, Alice and her sisters are coming the 
opposite way, with Mary bringing up the rear. Smiling, Alice 
starts to run to him but Mary guides her and the girls off 
the path, away form Charles.  

             MARY
        (calling back)
      Come along! Come on, Alice. 

Alice, Edith and Ina follow Mary, stealing glances back at 
Charles.  

INT. THE GIRL’S ROOM- NIGHT

A rainy night. Lorina reads a typical Victorian children’s 
book. Preaching, unimaginative and didactic.   

Bored, Alice looks out the window. Rain falls in rivulets 
behind the lineup of little PAPER BOATS. 

             CANON
      You swore on your knees to comply 
      with the statues of this university 
      when you signed the Thirty-nine 
      Articles of the Creed of the Church 
      of England.

INT. RADCLIFFE HALL- DAY

Henry Liddell, dressed in black, sits at the top center of 
the room, flanked by SIX CANONS. At the side of the room, 
TWELVE SENIOR STUDENTS are assembled in a stall, holding 
little BLACK SLATES. 

Charles stands below them, hands clasped behind his back.  

             CANON
      In neglecting your sworn duty, you 
      have hereby forfeited your 
      Studentship at Christ Church 
      college and all the rights and 
      privileges therein. Have you 
      anything to say on this account?  

Charles looks at Henry, who looks straight ahead. 

             CANON 
      Mr. Dodgson?   

             CHARLES
      Yes? 

             CANON
      Have you anything to say in your 
      defense?   

             CHARLES
      I’d like to appeal--

As he speaks, the sound of squeaking pencils on slates echoes 
throughout the chamber. The twelve students hastily scribble 
away.  

             CHARLES 
      I’d like to appeal to the Electors 
      that my studentship be considered a 
      “Lay Studentship”. 

             HENRY
      A what?

             CANON
        (leaning in to Henry)
      According to the statue of 1858, 
      the holders of the Lay Studentship 
      shall not be required to take the 
      Holy Orders.  

Charles looks to the stall. The cacophony of squeaking 
pencils stops, save for one student who continues, oblivious 
to his gaze. 

             HENRY
      That is a very interesting 
      assessment of the statute Mr. 
      Dodgson. However, I will remind you 
      that you were nominated for a 
      Clerical Studentship by Cardinal 
      Pusey in the year 1852. In that 
      year the general statue reads thus:  

Henry looks to one of the CANONS who jumps a little and 
unfurls a PARCHMENT SCROLL. 

             CANON
      No person shall be eligible to a 
      Clerical Studentship who shall not 
      either be a Priest or Deacon of the 
      United Church of England and 
      Ireland-- 

As the Canon reads, Charles hears the sound of FLUTTERING 
WINGS. He looks around to see:

The student’s box full is now full of TWELVE LARGE RAVENS in 
WHITE BARRISTERS WIGS. They sit, twittering and dithering 
away.

             CANON 
      --Or declare that he intends to 
      take Holy Orders in the said 
      Church. Every person who shall have 
      made such declaration or who at the 
      time of his election shall be in 
      Deacon’s Orders--

Charles looks straight ahead. Dean Liddell now wears a WHITE 
BARRISTER’S WIG as well, topped with a GOLD CROWN. To the 
right of HENRY/THE KING OF HEARTS, LORINA has appeared as the 
QUEEN OF HEARTS. To Henry’s left, the ARCHDEACON DODGSON has 
also appeared in wig and gown. On either side of them, the 
Canons have turned into a row of FACELESS PLAYING CARDS. The 
ELDERLY CANON is now dressed as a FOOTMAN in archaic livery.

             FOOTMAN
      --Shall be required to take 
      Priests’ Orders within four years 
      after the time at which he shall be 
      of sufficient standing, according 
      to the Statues of the University, 
      to take the Degree of Master of 
      Arts, and--
        (rolling up the scroll)
      ---and in default thereof shall 
      vacate his Studentship. 


The FOOTMAN steps down. 

             HENRY/KING OF HEARTS
      There you have it. There’s the 
      evidence. 
        (raising his GAVEL)
      And now for the sentence! 

             CHARLES
      What? That’s it?!

             LORINA/QUEEN OF HEARTS
        (to the King)
      No my dear! It goes first the 
      sentence, and then the evidence.  

             CHARLES
      But that’s nonsense! 

             LORINA/QUEEN OF HEARTS
      I beg your pardon!

             CHARLES
      The idea of having a sentence 
      first. Besides I haven’t got any 
      evidence. 

             HENRY/KING OF HEARTS
        (to the Jury)
      Write that down. 

             CHARLES
      Wait, I didn’t mean-- 

The squeaking of the slates becomes louder. The “jury” begins 
to flutter and squawk, a din that rises throughout the 
chamber. 

             CHARLES 
      Now hold on!

             LORINA/QUEEN OF HEARTS
      Give your evidence then. And don’t 
      be so nervous, or I’ll have you 
      executed on the spot. 

             CHARLES
      But---

             HENRY/KING OF HEARTS
      You heard the Queen! 
        (to the Footman)
      Call the first witness!  


The “Jury” caws and flutters with more excitement. 

             CANON
      FIRST WITNESS! 

             CHARLES
      But I haven’t got a--!

The footman blows THREE BLASTS on a GOLD TRUMPET.    

The RAVENS squawk louder and louder. 

The KING OF HEARTS calls order with the GAVEL. 

INT. CHARLES DODGSON’S BEDROOM- NIGHT

Charles wakes up. He reaches to his bedside table and looks 
at his pocket watch: 4:00 AM.       

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- HALLWAY- MORNING

Ducks knocks on Charles’ door, holding a BASKET OF BREAD AND 
CHEESES. Charles answers. He looks like hell. Behind him, his 
room is in a similar state. 

Ducks enters and reacts to the mess. 

             DUCKS
        (handing him the basket)
      The maid says you haven’t left for 
      days. Have you been living off tap 
      water and-- 

He picks up an open jar, sniffs it. 

             DUCKS 
      --jam? 

             CHARLES
      What are you doing here? 

             DUCKS
      I can’t stay long. Just making sure 
      you’re not going to off yourself 
      over this business. When’s the 
      hearing anyway?  

             CHARLES
      Tomorrow. 

             DUCKS
      Are you going to... bathe? 


Charles sits, rubs his face in his hands. 


             CHARLES
      What’s the point? What’s the point 
      of even showing up? It doesn’t 
      matter what I say. He’ll get 
      exactly what he wants in the end. 
      Men like him always do anyway.   

             DUCKS
      Well, life’s just not fair now is 
      it? 

             CHARLES
      No. It certainly isn’t. It’s cruel. 
      And it’s ridiculous. And it’s 
      governed by-- by backwards people 
      and backwards principles. And 
      there’s sod all I can do about it. 

             DUCKS
      Yes, I suppose you’re right. 

Ducks goes to leave. 

             DUCKS 
      But, you know, I always find in 
      times like these when things don’t 
      make any kind of sense at all--

Ducks puts on his cap. 

             DUCKS 
      Sometimes you’ve just got to 
      believe you’re the one who’s got it 
      right. 

Charles looks up. 

There’s a KNOCK at the door as a small ENVELOPE is slid under 
it. Ducks goes over to open the door. He looks around. No 
one’s there.  

Charles opens the LETTER addressed to “Mr. C.L. Dodgson”. 
It’s written in a child’s tremulous hand. 

             DUCKS 
      What is it? 

             CHARLES
      Alice. She misses...our adventures. 
      And-- she wants me to write it down 
      for her. 

             DUCKS
        (putting on his gloves)
      Write what down? 

Charles pockets the letter, sees Ducks to the door. 

             CHARLES
      Nothing. Just a little girl in want 
      of a bedtime story.   

Ducks claps Charles on the shoulder.  

             DUCKS
      As if you didn’t have enough 
      problems.  

Ducks closes the door behind him. Charles takes out the 
letter, turns it over in his hands, thinking.  

INT. CHARLES’ BEDROOM- NIGHT

Charles sits at his desk, illuminated by candlelight. He’s 
laid out a few pages of THICK BLANK PAPER before him. He dips 
his pen in ink. Pauses. 

Then, slowly, he begins to scratch out in careful 
handwriting:  

Chapter 1. 

The pen underscores this with a curly trail of ivy leaves. 
Then:  

Down the Rabbit Hole. 

Charles pauses. He begins to sketch an illustration.  

Note: As Charles draws by candlelight, fluid veins of India 
ink bleed and curl, forming text and other illustrations. The 
following are formed in montage over music:

...Alice, sitting bored at her sister’s side. 

...Alice pulling aside a curtain to reveal a door the size of 
a rat hole. 

...Alice swimming in the pool of tears. 

...The Fish Footman handing the Toad Footman a sealed letter 
at the White Rabbit’s doorstep.  

...The Ugly Duchess, clutching a bawling baby

...Alice at the head of the Mad Tea Party. 

...The Hatter’s top hat complete with “In this Style 10%” tag

...Alice holding a flamingo and stepping on a balled up 
hedgehog

Charles stops. He opens his diary and takes out a FOLDED UP 
PIECE OF PAPER. He unfolds it, revealing the creased drawing 
of Lorina as THE WHITE QUEEN. 

Charles dips his pen in RED INK, slowly transforming her into 
THE QUEEN OF HEARTS, mouth wide open, pointing an accusatory 
finger. 

INT. CHARLES’ BEDROOM- NIGHT

Charles paces, reading over the papers and drinking a cup of 
tea.   

He sits at his desk. He begins to write again, but his pen’s 
gone dry. He opens his drawer, searching for a spare inkwell. 

He pulls out the LITTLE WOODEN SWORD. He smiles, remembering 
the day on the river bank. Then, he notices something else...

From the back of the drawer, he pulls out a single 
PHOTOGRAPH. 

INT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY

Henry and Lorina host a lavish garden party. Alice sits bored 
by the gate. 

             DUCKS
      Psst. Alice. Over here. 

Alice turns to see Ducks standing hidden beside a wall.  

             ALICE
      Ducks! 

She runs to him. Ducks places a LETTER in her palm. 

             DUCKS
      Give that to your father, alright? 

             ALICE
      Who shall I say it’s from? 

             DUCKS
      Anyone but me. Here give us a kiss. 

Alice kisses him on the cheek. 

             DUCKS 
      Now go on! 

She scampers off. Ducks watches her go. 

Henry and Lorina stand chatting amongst a group of black 
robed academics. Everyone turns to look as Alice makes her 
way through the crowd, parting Dons and Students like the Red 
Sea. 

             ALICE
      Pardon me...Excuse me... 

Alice tugs on Henry’s trousers and hands him the letter. 
Henry looks thoroughly put off.  

             ALICE 
      It’s for you. 

Alice runs off. Curious, Henry opens it. A few Dons try to 
catch of glimpse of its contents.  

He unfolds the drawing of LORINA as the QUEEN OF HEARTS. 
Inside the drawing is the PHOTOGRAPH OF LORINA LAYING ON THE 
CHAISE, shoulders exposed, gazing seductively into the 
camera. The photo is signed “C.L.D”.   

             LORINA
      Darling? What is it? 

Henry flips the drawing over to find a letter written on the 
back.  

             CHARLES
      My Dear Mr. Liddell... 

INT. CHARLES’ BEDROOM- NIGHT

Charles draws Alice reaching up to a tall table, straining to 
reach a little vile. 

             CHARLES
      I often try to remember the simple 
      rules of life: such as: a red hot 
      poker will burn you if you hold it 
      for too long; and that if you cut 
      your finger very deeply with a 
      knife, it usually bleeds; but it 
      seems I’d all but forgotten that 
      very simple rule: if one drinks 
      uninvited from another man’s table 
      it is almost certain to disagree 
      with you, sooner or later.


Charles writes in the words “DRINK ME” on the vile’s label. 

             CHARLES
      I cannot undo what I have done to 
      fall permanently out of your good 
      graces. But in return for my 
      silence on that matter, I must ask 
      with my whole heart, that you 
      remember why men should covet you. 
      Because you have something of great 
      value. Three girls that need a 
      father’s love.

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY

Henry looks up from the letter to see his girls, playing near 
the garden gate. 

             CHARLES
      You must always gather them around 
      you and make their eyes bright and 
      eager with many a strange tale. 

INT. CHARLES’ BEDROOM- NIGHT

Charles writes “THE END”. He closes the handmade book, 
binding it with a bit of string.  

             CHARLES
      Feel all their simple sorrows and 
      find pleasure in all their simple 
      joys. So that when they are grown, 
      they may keep that loving heart of 
      childhood. And within it, the 
      memory of you, those Lands of 
      Wonder and these happy summer days.          

          Sincerely, Charles L. Dodgson.  

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY

Henry folds up the drawing. A few of the Dons whisper and 
crane their necks, trying to get a peak.  

             LORINA
        (laughing nervously)
      Henry? What is it? 


INT. CHARLES’ CLASSROOM- MORNING

Charles sits writing at his desk. There is a knock at the 
door. 

             CHARLES 
      Come. 

Ducks enters. 

             DUCKS
      Aren’t you supposed to be someplace 
      begging for your livelihood right 
      about now? 

             CHARLES
      The hearing was cancelled.

             DUCKS
      Cancelled? 

             CHARLES
      It seems The Dean had a change of 
      Heart.     

             DUCKS
      Hm.   

A pause. 

             DUCKS 
      You wanted to see me?

             CHARLES
      Oh. Yes. I need you to do me a 
      small favor.  

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH MEADOW- DAY

Charles sits under a large Oak tree next to a little pond. In 
the distance, a two horse carriage comes clopping up the 
road. The carriage comes to stop. Ducks helps out Alice, 
dressed her familiar blue dress and white pinafore.  

She runs to Charles, hugging his neck and nearly knocking him 
over. Ducks stays by the carriage.   

             ALICE
      Mr. Dodgson! You’ve no idea how 
      boring things have got without you. 

             ALICE
      Pricks hardly ever plays games and 
      she’s doesn’t know how to make 
      drawings or paper boats or daisy 
      chains or anything fun!  

             CHARLES
      In that case, I’ve got something 
      for you. And whenever you’re 
      feeling bored again, you’re to look 
      at it and you’re to remember how to 
      have fun. 

             ALICE
      What is it!?

Charles presents her with a GREEN HAND-BOUND MANUSCRIPT. 
Typed block letters spell the title:

 “Alice’s Adventures Underground”. 

             ALICE 
      Alice’s.. Adventures.. Underground.
      My story! You wrote it down! 

She eagerly flips through the pages: takes in the neat 
handwriting, the whimsical drawings. 

             ALICE 
      You never told us how it ends. 

             CHARLES
        (calling to Ducks)
      How long have we got? 

             DUCKS
      I gave the old bat five quid. How 
      much time does that buy?  

             CHARLES
      Just enough! 
        (to Alice)
      To begin at the beginning. 

Alice plops down next to Charles. He opens the book. 

             CHARLES 
      Chapter One. Down the rabbit hole.  

CUT TO: 


EXT. CHRIST CHURCH MEADOW- EVENING

The evening light filters through the trees. The shadows of 
fluttering autumn leaves dance over Alice’s eyes, nearly 
closed. Ducks is asleep in the carriage.  

             CHARLES
      So she sat on, with closed eyes, 
      and half believed herself back in 
      Wonderland, though she knew she had 
      but to open them again, and all 
      would change to dull reality-- 

Alice looks about her. At the long Cotton Grass, rustling a 
little in the breeze. At the sheep and cattle grazing in the 
fields beyond.

             CHARLES
      The rattling teacups would change 
      to tinkling sheep-bells and the 
      Queen’s shrill cries to the voice 
      of the shepherd boy, and the lowing 
      of the cattle in the distance would 
      take the place of the Mock Turtle’s 
      heavy sobs-- 

Alice shifts a little, nestling herself to Charles’ side. 

In the carriage, Ducks wakes up and checks the time.     

             CHARLES 
      Lastly, she pictured to herself how 
      she would, in the after-time, be 
      herself a grown woman; and how she 
      would, through all her riper years, 
      keep the memory of her own child-
      life and the happy summer days. 

Charles closes the book. Alice looks up. Her face is 
contorted in confusion.  

             CHARLES 
      Well? Out with it. 

             ALICE
      It’s wonderful.  

             CHARLES
      But. You don’t like the ending.  

             ALICE
      Well-- it’s just quite unlike any 
      fairy tale I’ve ever heard.

             CHARLES
      How’s  that? 

             ALICE
      Well, for instance, why does no one 
      come down to rescue her?   

             CHARLES
      Well. That’s simple. Alice didn’t 
      need any rescuing. She outwitted 
      the lot of them all by herself. 
      Even when things made no right 
      sense at all.      

             ALICE
      But it’s not a proper fairy tale 
      without a prince in the end. 
        (yawning)
      Or even a knight! 

             CHARLES
      Then it’s not a proper fairy tale. 
      Alice made it through Wonderland 
      quite well enough. All on her own. 
      Without anyone to carry her.    

             ALICE
      She must have been very clever 
      then. 

             CHARLES
      Yes, very clever. And very brave.   

Charles kisses the top of her head as the sun sinks fast over 
the open field. 

INT. CARRIAGE- EVENING 

Charles places Alice in the back of the carriage. She’s 
nearly asleep and still clutching the BOOK.  

The carriage clops away. Charles stands under the Oak Tree, 
waving as it goes. Alice sits up and looks out the back, 
waving back to him. 

When she sits back down, she runs her hand over THE BOOK 
before closing her eyes to sleep again. 

FADE TO BLACK.

EXT. ALICE’S GARDEN- HAMPSHIRE- 1898- MORNING

             REGINALD
      Alice! 

Close on ADULT ALICE’s eyes fluttering open. She looks about 
her. She slept out in the garden all night. 

             REGINALD
      What the Devil are you doing out 
      here? Get up! 

Alice squints up at Reginald in the bright morning light. 

             ALICE
      I’m sorry. I don’t know how ---

             REGINALD
      Are you quite aware that God and 
      everyone from Southampton to 
      Basingstoke can see you out here? 
      They’re liable to think you’re 
      drunk or-- hysterical. Or both! In 
      case you hadn’t heard, the whole 
      world’s got its eyes on us at the 
      moment and that’ll be the last 
      thing we need. 

Reginald heads towards the house. He stops and looks back. 
Alice hasn’t moved. 

             REGINALD 
      Well come on then! Do you expect me 
      to carry you? 

Alice looks at her husband: red faced and pointing towards 
the house. Something clicks.  
       

Alice gets up and walks straight past him towards the house. 
A trace of defiance in her stride.  

             REGINALD 
        (adjusting his cufflinks)
      Right. 

INT. ALICE’S BEDROOM- DAY

Reginald enters the room to find Alice changed and pinning 
her hat in front of a MIRROR. 


             REGINALD
      What’s gotten into you lately? Was 
      it that reporter fellow? What 
      exactly did he say to you?    

Alice ignores him. 

             REGINALD 
      You know, I’d half hoped now that 
      he’s underground we might finally 
      put all this behind us.

Alice goes to cupboard, lifts a panel. She takes out a 
PACKAGE WRAPPED IN SILK. 

             REGINALD 
      Maybe have a go at a normal life 
      for a change.  

Alice walks past him, carrying the PACKAGE.  

             REGINALD 
      Alice?!

EXT. ALICE’S ESTATE- CIRCULAR DRIVE-  DAY

Alice gets into a coach, helped in by a valet. 

             ALICE
        (to the driver)
      The Queen’s Head Inn please, 
      Thomas. 

The coach takes off. Reginald comes running out of the house.   

             REGINALD
      Alice! Where are you going?! Come 
      back here! Do you hear me!    

INT. QUEEN’S HEAD INN- ELLIOTT’S ROOM- HAMPSHIRE TOWNSHIP- 
1898- DAY. 

Elliott sits at a table, typing on a TYPEWRITER. Newspaper 
articles, notes and books are strewn about him. He looks up 
at A KNOCK at the door. He goes to answer it. Alice stands 
there, holding the package. 

             ELLIOTT
      Mrs. Hargreaves. 


             ALICE
      Now. What exactly did you want to 
      know? 

CUT TO:

INT. QUEEN’S HEAD INN- ELLIOTT’S ROOM- LATER 

Alice sits across from Elliott, drinking tea. She unwraps the 
SILK PACKAGE. It’s the original manuscript of “Alice” Charles 
gave her. She runs her fingers over the BOOK.   

             ALICE
      He gave this to me on the last day 
      we ever spoke. Of course, we’d pass 
      each other in town on occasion, or 
      in the corridors, on and off 
      throughout the years. We’d always 
      be polite, say hello, how’s the 
      weather. But. It was never the 
      same.   

Elliott comes around, refills her tea. 

             ELLIOTT
      In the last years of his life, 
      Carroll was quoted as saying his 
      greatest regret was that he 
      wouldn’t live to know the children 
      of future generations who would 
      take their own journeys down the 
      rabbit hole. What do you think he’d 
      tell them if he could? What I mean 
      to say is-- what I think we’d all 
      like to know is-- Well, what’s it 
      about?

             ALICE
      About? 

             ELLIOTT
      Well it can’t be just nonsense can 
      it? Like The Duchess said: ‘every 
      story’s got a moral if only you can 
      find it.’ 

             ALICE
      Why Mr. Shepherd, I should think a 
      highly educated man such as 
      yourself would have worked all of 
      that out already. 

Elliott leans forward, notebook in hand, all ears. 

             ALICE 
      It’s about fun.  

Alice smiles to herself, takes a sip of her tea. 

INT. QUEEN’S HEAD INN- ELLIOTT’S ROOM- LATER

Elliott shows Alice out. On her way out the door she picks up 
Elliott’s copy of “Through the Looking Glass”.  

             ALICE
      Through The Looking Glass. And What 
      Alice Found There. You know, after 
      all these years I never even got a 
      copy of this one. Reg would never 
      allow them in the house. 

Alice runs her hand over the cover. 

             ELLIOTT
      And what did she find? 

             ALICE
      She found. Exactly what she was 
      looking for.  
        (handing him the book)
      A friend. A very dear friend. 

Elliott follows her down the stairs and out into:  

EXT. QUEEN’S HEAD INN- DAY

Alice gathers her dress and goes down the front steps. She is 
helped back into the coach by THOMAS. 

             ALICE
        (calling back)
      Good luck with your story Mr. 
      Shepherd! 

The coach takes off through the crowded streets. Elliott 
watches it go. 

The coach clops along. A MOTOR CAR passes it along the way: 
the mark of a new century just around the bend. 

Alice looks out the back of the carriage. She sees Elliott 
still standing on the steps. Suddenly we see SILENT FLASHES 
of:  

INT. CARRIAGE BACK WINDOW-  OXFORD MEADOWLANDS- DAY- 
FLASHBACK

Charles standing under the oak tree, waving as the carriage 
rattles away from him down the road.  

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH GROUNDS- DAY- FLASHBACK

Charles runs over the hill towards the girls, a flash of his 
black umbrella breaking their ranks, their little hands 
finding his.  

EXT. CHRIST CHURCH GROUNDS- DAY- FLASHBACK

Charles lifts Alice up to look in the camera’s viewfinder. 

EXT. DEANERY GARDEN- DAY- FLASHBACK

Alice, Charles and Ducks singing at the table of the 1/2 
Birthday Tea Party. 

INT. TOM QUAD DORMITORY- NIGHT- FLASHBACK

Charles, nestled between Alice, Ina and Edith as he tells the 
story, leafing through his drawings. 

INT. STAGECOACH- HAMPSHIRE- DAY- 1898

Alice turns around to face the front. 

After a moment, she smiles. 

CUT TO BLACK

FADE UP:

      Charles Dodgson published “Alice’s 
      Adventures in Wonderland” on 
      December 22, 1865 under the pen 
      name “Lewis Carroll”. 

      After the Bible, the Koran and the 
      collected works of Shakespeare, it 
      is the most frequently quoted and 
      best known piece of literature in 
      the world. 


      Charles never took Priest’s orders. 
      He died a bachelor on January 14, 
      1898 at Christ Church, Oxford. 

      “Now...let’s consider who it was 
      that dreamed it all. He was part of 
      my dream of course. But then...I 
      was part of his dream too.” 

      - Lewis Carroll “Through the 
      Looking Glass” 

        
THE END


