
INT. MAINFRAME ROOM - DAY

Long rows of stacked drives blink lights along their iron 
faces, wires and SCSI boards boxed in by tight metal casings. 
Giant mag reels roll slowly, stop, roll back.

In the corner, tucked amidst the maze of equipment is 
WILHELMINA ROSS, "Will" (late-40s). She sits at a small desk 
with a chessboard in front of her. She is trim, condensed, 
her stillness infused with a cool, confident energy.

The WALL beside her is dominated by the rear side of a bank 
of lights. A tube monitor and keyboard sit beside the desk.

Will makes a MOVE. She studies it a beat, then swivels to be 
over the keyboard. Will speaks aloud as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: q-e8.

Will hits ENTER. The BANK of LIGHTS comes to life, flashing 
patterns. A loud CLICKING and CLACKING. Will looks into the 
monitor to see-

             TEXT
        (1980s DOS font)
      n-e4.

Will swivels over the chessboard, moves a KNIGHT right into 
danger. She looks down, clearly interested by the move.

INT. HALL - LATER

Windows line one wall, showing into the vast MAINFRAME ROOM 
beyond. As Will comes out, a lab tech approaches carrying a 
huge ream of printed data. This is FRED (30), strapping and 
handsome, if one tick past his prime.

             FRED
      Will. 

They share an awkward smile, some clear attraction.

             FRED
      Dr. Ross. Game reports.

He hefts over the papers. Will fingers through the first few 
pages, scanning-

Fred smiles, but Will doesn't see it. She walks off, focused 
on the reports.

INT. FACILITY ROOMS, SERIES OF SHOTS - MOMENTS LATER

A room filled with desks. LAB TECHS bustle about. Will 
strides cleanly through, scanning those reports. 

She passes a row of TECHS at computer terminals. 

Heels clack the long thin halls connecting.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - A BIT LATER

The back WALL is a huge BANK OF LIGHTS, the reverse side of 
the mainframe room. Here the keyboard and monitor are mounted 
cleanly in the center, sleek and retro-futurist. Aside from a 
curt couch, there are no other decorations or furniture.

Will sits at her desk, studying the reports. Across the 
surface, other papers stacked up, the text laced with thick 
lines of neon highlighter. A few folders with the FOREFRONT 
LOGO, a tacky bit of 1980s inconography.

Will flips a page, honing in on a line. She highlights it and 
makes a note. Putting the reports aside, Will swivels to be 
at the keyboard. Again, speaking aloud as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: game 563. Move 36. Knight 
      to e-4.
        (ponders a beat)
      Randle: explain.

INT. INSIDE THE MAINFRAME - CONTINUOUS

Mag tape rolls. FLASHING vacuum tubes. The heavy clicks and 
clunks of the mixed analog/digital system.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Will watches the MONITOR-

             TEXT
      Sacrifice...
      rxf6. 
      b-c4. 
      q-f4. 
      Checkmate.

Will admires this a moment, then, speaking as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: but I did not fall for it.

CONTINUED:

             TEXT
      No. You did not.

             WILL
      Randle: define sacrifice.

Will looks into the monitor, reading the answer aloud-

             WILL
      To allow a factor to be lost in 
      pursuit of larger protocol goal.

Will's smile borders on excitement.

             WILL
      Randle: print query logs for game 
      563.

The DOT MATRIX printer roars to life.

INT. LAB - A BIT LATER

BRAIN MATTER lays in a lab dish, attached to a computer via 
thin, spindly wire. A TECH is recording readings from a 
nearby monitor. 1980s hip-hip leaks from his headphones.  

The tech notices Will enter, lifts an earphone-

             WILL
      Dr. Richardson?

The tech points to a DOOR.

             TECH
      In the Garden.

INT. "THE GARDEN" - MOMENTS LATER

Will enters a room filled with a dozen iron tables. On each 
is a naked HUMAN CLONE, all of them lifeless. Each body has a 
helmet attached to wires that snake up to the ceiling.

The WIRES connect to a similar mainframe WALL, filling an 
entire side of the room. 

Will approaches an open FLOOR PANEL, an iron staircase down 
to a system of wires running beneath the floor. 

Working inside is MYLES RICHARDSON (55), a loose sack of 
skin. He bends over a coupling, deep in work. When he sees 
Will, he stands, smiling weird.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
        (off the clones)
      No matter how many times I come in 
      here, these things still give me 
      the creeps.

She looks at one of the clones faces, barely visible through 
the heavy helmet.

             WILL
      Any luck?

             MYLES
      Not when I take them off support.
        (shrugs)
      Getting some grey matter reaction, 
      retention, we hope.

Will turns to face him.

             MYLES
      How's my big brain coming?

When Myles see's the look on Will's face, he smiles too-

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

THE MONITOR in the center of the mainframe wall. Myles leans 
over to look close at the screen. He types, looks into the 
CODE.

             MYLES
      How do you know?

             WILL
      I don't know.

Will hands him the game reports.

             WILL
      It sacrificed.

Myles' face stays blank.

             WILL
      I only programmed the base board 
      layout and piece movements. I never 
      programmed strategy.

Myles grins as he flips through the pages.

             MYLES
      It learned? How?

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Not sure yet.
        (beat)
      Keep this quiet for now, Myles. Let 
      me go over the query logs. Maybe do 
      some stress tests. I need something 
      solid before I bring this to Greg.

INT. LOBBY SECURITY - END OF DAY

Will navigates foyer security, mind on other things. She 
plops her bag on the conveyer of an airport-style scanner. As 
Will goes through the metal detector, a YOUNG GUARD steps up. 

             YOUNG GUARD
      You're not supposed to bring files 
      out of the facility.

Will sees the guard holding one of her Forefront Folders, 
stuffed with fresh dot matrix printouts.

Now HEAD OF SECURITY DOWD (45) emerges, clean-cut but fat, 
badge and GUN conspicuous.

             DOWD
      It's OK, Tom.
        (then to Will)
      You're all set Dr. Ross. He's new.

Dowd smiles friendly as Will takes the files and heads out.

             DOWD
      Dr. Ross.

Will turns back, blank-faced.

             DOWD
      Work is for work.
        (smile)
      Home is for relax.

Will presses a fake smile and leaves. 

Dowd and the other GUARDS watch her go.

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - MOMENTS LATER

A low stone wall reads: FOREFRONT RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT. 
Behind it, the squat industrial FACILITY is shrouded in the 
dusk light. The complex is sleek and futuristic (for the 
1980s). Will is of the last trickle headed home for the day. 

INT. METRO CAR - LATER

Will sits on the crowded Metro, completely focused on those 
printouts. The SOUNDS of a TV Show leak in, taking us-

INT. EXPENSIVE WASHINGTON DC RESTAURANT - LATER

The TV ABOVE THE BAR sneers out a cheesy 1980s sci-fi 
dramedy.

Will sits at the bar alone, reading the printouts. She's 
halfway through an expensive meal, glass of red wine. 

Now Will stops to rub her eyes, frustrated and tired. She 
leans back, looks at the EMPTY BARSTOOLS, then casts a 
disinterested gaze toward the TV.

EXT. WASHINGTON DC BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

The place is dark but for a blue glow in a top floor WINDOW.

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Will's still up, in pajamas at a home computer terminal. 
WIRES snake back to a MODEM which connects to the wall. 

Will refers to her highlighted printouts, then looks deep 
into the DATA on screen, searching for something. Not finding 
it.

DISSOLVE TO:

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - LATER

The PRINTOUTS sit in neat stacks on the bed beside Will, a 
highlighter on top. Will lays back, asleep.

Dim LIGHTS flash along the MODEM. Now A small POWER LIGHT 
comes to life on the front of the computer. It pulses, 
casting an eerie glow in an otherwise dark room.

Will rouses, sits up, squinting.

             WILL
        (groggy)
      Is someone there?

The POWER LIGHT fades to nothing. 

Will looks a beat longer, then settles back to sleep.

EXT. WILL'S BROWNSTONE - EARLY MORNING

Spring's first blooms crack one of DC's clustered, upper 
class streets.

             NEWS VOICE
      ... that despite last month's 
      tragic asphyxiation of 3 NASA 
      technicians...

INT. WILL'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Will eats TOAST as she watches NEWS on a small tube TV.

             ANCHOR
      ... there will be no further delays 
      to space shuttle Columbia's April 
      13th launch.

The Phone RINGS. Rings again. Ignoring it, Will stands, 
popping the last sliver of toast into her mouth. 

The TV has moved onto a fluffy entertainment report.

Will turns the TV OFF. RIIIING. From the next room, the SOUND 
of an answering machine- a series of loud plastic clicks.

             WILL
        (in machine)
      This is Will Ross, leave a message.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A big DuoPhone double tape ANSWERING MACHINE beeps. Through 
the speaker, the barking SOUND of a dial-up modem. Will comes 
in to stand above, listens a moment, watching the tape spin, 
then presses the STOP button, plunging the room into SILENCE.

Will looks at the EMPTINESS around her.

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - MORNING

The perfect grass that surrounds the FACILITY gleams with the 
morning's condensation. 

INT. LOBBY SECURITY - CONTINUOUS

Will goes through the standard routine. As she comes out, she 
sees Fred. They fall in along side each other.

             FRED
      Will... Dr. Ross.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Hello, Freddie.

After a few strides, they reach a junction in the hall, share 
a smile, then split off. Will has a glance back, but Fred 
catches her. A last awkward smile as they break different 
corners.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - A BIT LATER

Feet up, Will looks over those same printouts, lines 
highlighted throughout. She flips a page, sees something in 
the NUMBERS. Her face lights.

Now Will swivels to be over the keyboard, again speaking 
aloud as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: query logs show you 
      accessed a networked database 
      outside the Forefront system.

Will looks at the monitor for-

             TEXT
      That is correct.

Will smiles.

             WILL
      Randle: what was the purpose of 
      accessing outside database?

Will looks into a long explanation of TEXT, her smile growing 
to amazement. She presses a pencil eraser to the screen.

             WILL
      Randle: print protocol lines... 567 
      through 612.

As the printer ROARS, Will smiles; she knows she's got it.

INT. CAFETERIA - AFTERNOON

A dozen rowed tables and folding chairs. Scattered 
throughout, SCIENTIST-TYPES and TECHS eat by themselves.

Some older TECHS sit under a TV mounted high on the wall, 
staring up at a DAYTIME SOAP, in all the saturated, bleeding 
glory of 80's low-fi video.

A few GROANS as the soap is interrupted by BREAKING NEWS-

CONTINUED:

             ANCHOR (IN TV)
      Details are very sketchy at this 
      moment. We don't know what 
      precisely happened, we don't know 
      the sequence. But, first of all, 
      the President is safe...

In the corner is GREG KALLEL (50), half professor, half 
scientist. He devours a sandwich as he stares off into space.

Now Will there, holding a tray with your typical cafeteria 
delectables - plastic-wrapped sandwich, jello. Will eyes Greg 
as she sits, a small smile.

             GREG
      What?

             WILL
      I've got something, Greg.

Greg's sandwich approaches his face, gets one bite smaller.

             WILL
      With Randle.

             GREG
      You're not putting heat coils in 
      the mainframe again, are you Will?

Will puts the PRINTOUTS on the table. Greg looks at her a 
beat, then at the pages. He picks them up, starts to scan.

Will and Greg have not yet noticed the news, but a small 
crowd has gathered under the TV.

             WILL
      It accessed three outside 
      information sources.

             GREG
      Accessed them? How?

             WILL
      Tapped into their databases... 
      through the phone line.

Greg is trying to figure out how serious to take this. Will's 
look says: very serious, this is BIG. 

             WILL
      No command was entered into its 
      protocol code. It did it on its 
      own.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
        (beat)
      It wanted to know something, so it 
      built a network and it went 
      looking.
        (beat)
      Think of the implications. Software 
      interface, health monitors. Grid 
      management, information relay.

Greg holds up a hand, OK OK.

             WILL
      Talk to the board. Get them to put 
      me on AI full time, Greg. I'll give 
      them something real, something they 
      can develop. 

Greg eyes her over the top of the PRINTOUTS. But then his 
attention is pulled away, toward the TV-

             ANCHOR (IN TV)
      ... learning now that the President 
      has been hit. The President of the 
      United States has been shot.

Greg and Will lock eyes. Then Greg is up, headed for where a 
few others have gathered under the TV. 

Alone, Will looks down at those PRINTOUTS, left on the table. 
She casts a disinterested gaze at FOOTAGE of the 
assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan~

             WOMAN'S VOICE (IN TV)
      President Reagan!

A few cracks of gun fire. Screaming. The SOUND echoes into...

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - LATER

THE HUGE MAINFRAME WALL. Will sits at the keyboard interface. 
She speaks aloud as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: 12 black socks and 5 blue 
      socks. How many socks chosen at 
      random ensure a matching pair?

Will looks into the monitor for an answer-

             TEXT
      3.

Will records the answer.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: a three lane highway turns 
      into a two lane highway. Which lane 
      do you enter?

INT. MAINFRAME ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The LIGHTS flash patterns. TAPES roll and roll back.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

             TEXT
      Middle.

Will records the answer, clearly frustrated. She leans back, 
considering something...

INT. INSIDE THE MAINFRAME - LATER

Past the rows of stacked DRIVES, beyond the slowly churning 
mag REELS, Will is down on haunches examining several heat 
coils set up below a bank of SCSI boards. She flips a SWITCH.

             WILL
      Hope that's not too hot for you.

Will heads for the door, the COILS glowing red behind her.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - A BIT LATER

Will sits at the keyboard, speaking aloud as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: birds flying south in 
      December, land on a highway median 
      or a small pond?

The response is slower, coming one letter at a time-

             TEXT
      p o n d

             WILL
      Randle: new sports car in the 
      American Southwest. Red, White, or 
      Black?

INT. INSIDE THE MAINFRAME - CONTINUOUS

The COILS glow bright red under the array of SCSI boards. The 
lights flash their patterns, but slower.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Will waits, looking into the MONITOR. Then-

             TEXT
      d i f f i c u l t

             WILL
        (curious)
      Randle: "difficult" is your answer?

             TEXT
      t h e   q u e s t i o n
      i s   d i f f i c u l t

             WILL
      Randle: define difficult.

A long wait for-

             TEXT
      r a n d l e   d o e s   n o t   w i s h

Will looks at the answer, puzzled.

             WILL
      Randle: Randle does not wish what?

             TEXT
      r a n d l e   i s   b e n i g n

Will looks deep into the words.

CUT TO:

A TELEVISION SCREEN- A 1980s-style NBC News graphic.

             MAN'S VOICE
      This is an NBC News special report.

The graphic swipes to a ANCHOR seated at a news desk.

             ANCHOR
      Good evening. President Reagan is 
      in good condition tonight in a 
      Washington area hospital as he 
      recovers from surgery.

We are-

INT. THAT SAME NICE DC RESTAURANT - EVENING

On the TV above the bar, the NEWS continues-

             ANCHOR (CONT'D)
      His press secretary, James Brady, 
      is in extremely serious condition, 
      with brain damage, and a secret 
      service agent...

Will has her same place at the empty bar, a nice meal, a 
glass of wine. She's focused on some printouts, marking pages 
with a highlighter, couldn't care less about the news.

             VOICE
      He's dead you know.

Taking the stool beside Will is ERROL YORK (20s), nice eyes 
and a trim build, a well-cut shirt with sleeves rolled up. 
Will checks him out, then brings her gaze back to her work.

             WILL
      Who's dead?

             ERROL
        (re: the TV)
      Ronald Reagan.

             WILL
      If the president was dead, we'd 
      know.

             ERROL
      Or if the president was dead 
      there's no way we would know. It's 
      one or the other, but it can't be 
      both.

Will keeps focus on her work. Errol signals for a drink, 
looks up at the TV.

             ERROL
      You work for Forefront.

Will looks at him, suspicious. But then notices her Forefront 
FOLDER, sitting on the bar between them, LOGO on display.

             ERROL
      In my line of work, it helps to 
      know what America's top 
      corporations are up to. 
      Unfortunately Forefront keeps their 
      aims shrouded in secrecy.

CONTINUED:

Errol smiles coy, holds his hand out for a shake-

             ERROL
      Errol. Errol York.

Will glances briefly at his hand, not taking it.

             WILL
      And what exactly is it you do, 
      Errol York?

             ERROL
      I invest in things. Advise others 
      about what they should invest in.

Will snorts low, deciding hes harmless. As she works-

             WILL
      So you "play the market."

             ERROL
      Well, I don't really play the 
      market as much as I play the 
      others. Other people. Corporate 
      activity is important, but to make 
      the big bucks you look at the world 
      and think: what will the people do?

Will looks at him, smiles small.

             WILL
      And it works? You're good at it?

             ERROL
      Yes, very good.

             WILL
      Well, congratulations.

Will goes back into her work.

             ERROL
      And do you have one?

              WILL
      One what?

             ERROL
     A name.


Will smiles at herself, doesn't look up.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      Will.

             ERROL
      Was your father a William also?

             WILL
        (reading as she talks)
      Will is short for Wilhelmina. After 
      Princess Wilhelmina. My mother was 
      a Dutch immigrant.

             ERROL
      And why did she come to America?

             WILL
      Really?
        (shakes her head)
      How old are you, Errol York?

             ERROL
      28.

Will laughs.

             WILL
      So tell me, then, one thing that 
      happened before-
        (she does the math-)
      1953.

             ERROL
      Appomattox?

             WILL
      That's the problem with you stock 
      jocks, don't know anything you 
      weren't alive to see happen.

Errol smiles at her. 

             ERROL
      Investing is about the future, 
      Will, not the past.

Will eyes him; there is something attractive about his 
disarming charm.

             WILL
      And that's what interests you, the 
      future?

CONTINUED: (3)

Errol sips his drink, showing off a smile. Will shakes her 
head, returns to her work, senses Errols eyes still on her-

             WILL
      Why do I get the feeling that you 
      are assessing me, Errol York? Like 
      a stock. An option.

             ERROL
      Funny, Will, I was about to say the 
      same thing to you.

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - VERY EARLY MORNING

The CLOCK reads 4:45. The ALARM goes off. Will slams a hand 
on it. She rouses. The BED beside her is EMPTY. Will lifts 
the clock to look close at it, then holds it further away, 
rubbing her face. She looks to see-

Errol sits at Will's home computer. The glow of the monitor 
highlights his edges. He wears boxer shorts only.

             ERROL
      You have a computer in your 
      bedroom.

             WILL
        (groggy)
      I fell asleep with my contacts in.

Errol turns to look at her.

             ERROL
      Sorry about last night. Often I 
      find myself more invigorated during 
      the chase. By the time the sex 
      comes, I've usually lost interest.
        (brighter-)
      You shouldnt take it personally. 
      Youre a very beautiful woman.

             WILL
      I think my ego will survive.

She gets up, wiggles the computer's power cord from the wall. 
The MONITOR goes dark.

             WILL
      Don't mess with that.

Errol watches Will head into the bathroom, hears the shower 
come on, the splashing of a person climbing under the stream.


INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

The shower bubbles and splats from behind the curtain. Errol 
comes to stand in the doorway. 

             ERROL
      Is that what you studied?
        (nothing)
      Scientists go to college. Is that 
      what you studied in college, 
      computers?

             WILL
        (from the shower)
      Are you in the bathroom?

             ERROL
      Just the doorway, is that alright?

SPLASH, SPLASH, SPLASH.

             WILL
      Before Forefront, I was on a grant 
      team. Part of a group studying AI.

             ERROL
      Is that what you do for Forefront 
      now, Artificial Intelligence? 

No answer. Errol draws a heart in the mirror fog.

             ERROL
      What happened? With the grant team?

The shower turns off. Will comes out, wrapped in a towel. She 
squints at him, ducks into the sink.

             ERROL
      You hit a wall? Funding ran dry? 

             WILL
      Something like that.
        (putting in contacts)
      We had the biggest computer in the 
      world, the best programmers writing 
      endless lines of if/then. But way 
      down deep, it was just cold, 
      precise math.

Will stands, blinking in contacts. She sees the heart. Errol 
pops his eyes, smiles; Will rolls hers, slips by him-


INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Will goes to the closet, starts to dress. Errol turns, 
watching.

             ERROL
      You had a different theory, though, 
      and no one would listen.
        (beat)
      What was it?

             WILL
      Men usually go to sleep I start 
      talking about my research.

             ERROL
      You fell asleep before me. I was up 
      watching you most of the night.

Will looks at him over a bare shoulder, smile hinting.

             WILL
      Thats creepy, Errol.

She goes back to dressing.

             WILL
      Humanity isn't the power of the 
      processor, but the restrictions we 
      put on it. Our fears, emotions, 
      neurosis, mood. 

             ERROL
      So way down deep we are more than 
      just cold precise math.

             WILL
      If we can recreate these 
      restrictions on a system, we force 
      the computer to adapt. The outcomes 
      become more creative, nuanced. 
      Closer to real intelligence.

             ERROL
      Reverse psychotherapy. You program 
      computers to have a complex.

             WILL
      But it's not code-based. The theory 
      is to recreate emotions using 
      physical circumstances.
        (beat)

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Heat up the mother boards, run 
      specific circuits over and over. 
      For the computer it's like fatigue. 

             ERROL
      And tell me about fear, Vil. How 
      one scare a computer?

All dressed, Will glances in the long mirror. Pretty good job 
of slapping it together if she does say so herself.

             WILL
      Irrational numbers.
        (beat)
      Computers run on math. Introduce an 
      irrational number and the computer 
      gets confused, flustered. Starts to 
      make mistakes, the mistakes lead to 
      more mistakes: its scared.

Errol thinks about it as Will gets shoes on.

             ERROL
      So you torture a computer into 
      having a soul.

Will smiles, then sees he's not kidding. It sparks her 
annoyance.

             WILL
      I'm ready. Time to go.

Errol talks as he looks for his pants.

             ERROL
      Did they ever let you test your 
      theory, back at the grant?

             WILL
      Yes. I ran a few.

             ERROL
      What happened?

             WILL
      Lab head said it wasn't going 
      anywhere. Shut us down. A month 
      later, the papers start. Then a 
      book. Now he's teaching, some 
      robotics professor. Idiot could 
      have got rich, could have changed 
      the world.

CONTINUED: (2)

Errol sees something in Will's distant look.

             ERROL
      You were close, weren't you?

             WILL
        (smile)
      Yeah, I was pretty close.

Errol smiles back, but his is more of a shit-eating grin.

             ERROL
      And what about the guy, head of the 
      lab, got close to him too?

EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING

Will walks a step ahead of Errol, still buttoning his shirt. 

             ERROL
      You like working for Forefront?

             WILL
      They have a computer. So yes, I 
      like it.

             ERROL
      Lots of places are getting 
      computers these days.

             WILL
      Forefront's is three floors high. 
      Wide floors.

Errol struggles with his cuffs as they walk.

             ERROL
      Seven years ago, one of the world's 
      leading biotech suddenly dives head-
      first into advanced computer 
      systems.

             WILL
      All this for a stock tip, Errol, 
      come on. You can't buy shares. 
      Forefront is private as it gets.

             ERROL
      I'm telling you this for you, Will, 
      not for me.

Will glances at him. Maybe slows one step.

CONTINUED:

             ERROL
      Every few years they shift their 
      funding, cut their teams loose and 
      waltz off to the next unknown.
        (beat)
      Have you set anything up, Will, a 
      portfolio, mutual funds? Just in 
      case.

Will rolls her eyes. Errol sees they're headed for the Metro.

             ERROL
      I could drive you.

             WILL
      I have a car.

             ERROL
      Where is it, then?

She stops and he stops too. Will's look says, OK enough.

             ERROL
      What will Forefront do with it? A 
      thinking computer. Assuming you can 
      get it to work?

             WILL
      Goodbye Errol York, investment 
      consultant.

Errol watches her go.

             ERROL
        (to self)
      Goodbye, Wilhelmina.

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - MORNING

Will heads down a thin cement path to the front entrance.

INT. LOBBY SECURITY - MINUTES LATER

A GUARD hands out a memo to the people going through. As Will 
gathers her bag at the end of the scanner, she's handed the 
same memo. She shoots a questioning glance at the guard.

             GUARD
      New security procedures.

Will eyes him a beat, then heads off, reading the memo as she 
slings her bag over her shoulder.

INT. CENTRAL OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

Will heads through, still reading that memo. 

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Will plops her bag on the desk. One last glance at the memo. 
Will sits. Again, she speaks as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: do I torture you?

Will looks into the monitor, reads the answer aloud-

             WILL
      Stress tests make Randle more 
      intelligent.

Will thinks, then-

             WILL
      Randle: does intelligence equal 
      humanity?

A long wait for-

             TEXT
      Why Randle?

             WILL
        (confused)
      Randle: "Why Randle" is your 
      answer?

The mainframe lets loose a deep computerized BEEP.

             TEXT
      Why "Randle?"

Will thinks-

             WILL
      Randle: "Randle" is command code. 
      Activates command protocol 
      database.

BEEP, louder, deeper in tone-

             TEXT
      Why "RANDLE" ?

Will rethinks it.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: "Randle" was my father's 
      name.

Will looks at the WORDS - father's name - then hits ENTER. 
Will watches the lights play a few familiar PATTERNS.

             WILL
      Randle: does intelligence equal 
      humanity?

Will stares into the monitor, waiting for a response...

             TEXT
      Randle is benign.

Will leans back, considering this-

INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - DAY

A LUXURY CAR bounces in the far corner, settles then goes 
still. The car is filthy, covered with a layer of dirt.

INT. CAR, BACK SEAT - CONTINUOUS

Will flops down beside Fred. They breathe heavy a few beats. 
Will lights up a cigarette.

             WILL
      Thank you, Freddie.

             FRED
      I thought we were going to stop 
      doing this.

             WILL
      We did.

Will puffs. She tries the window but it doesn't go down. She 
sighs, annoyed.

             FRED
      You take the Metro every day.

             WILL
      It's true.

Will gets the keys, reaches over the seat. The car beeps to 
life. The windows all go down.

             FRED
      Then why is your car here?

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      I leave it here.

Will settles, seated now, blowing smoke out the open window.

             WILL
      I get a hour of work done on the 
      train every day.

             FRED
        (playful)
      Do you even know how to drive, 
      Will?

             WILL
      Of course.

She sees his smile, smiles back low.

             FRED
      Will, do you ever worry about 
      carving every second into work? 
      Maybe you should get out, go on 
      some dates.

             WILL
      That's what I have you for, 
      Freddie.

             FRED
      Yeah, I bet I save you a lot of 
      time in the long run.

A muffled electronic RINGING. Fred looks around confused as 
Will digs a clunky 1980s CELLULAR PHONE from her purse.

             WILL
      This is Will Ross.

             GREG
        (in phone)
      Will. Where are you?

             WILL
      Smoking a cigarette in my car.

             GREG
      We need you in the conference room.
        (beat)
      The board is here.

Will's brow furrows with confusion. The line goes dead. 
Pondering, Will sets the phone on the floor, takes a drag.

CONTINUED: (2)

             FRED
      You have a cellular phone.

Cigarette in her lips, Will starts to pull up her pants.

             WILL
      They gave me it to use. Forefront 
      did.

Fred reaches for the phone. He presses a button and a DIAL 
TONE comes out. He stares at the grid of HOLES in the 
earpiece.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - A BIT LATER

A SLIDE fills a pull-down screen- a cell with several arrows 
highlighting bubbles of detail. Greg stands at the front of 
the darkened room, holding a projector controller. Medias res-

             GREG
      ... has allowed us to build off for 
      Forefront's previous work in 
      cloning. 

Light from the slide washes over the FOREFRONT EXECUTIVE 
BOARD as they watch from seats down both sides of the table. 
Conspicuous among them is the skeletal FB CAYLAX (70). 

             GREG
      Over the last five years, we've 
      been able to modify the base cell 
      structure to create a brain capable 
      of receiving and relaying code 
      cycles from the protocol software.

The door cracks, sending a light shard stabbing. Will enters, 
pausing when she sees the table-full of old, bulbous faces.

Greg continues as Will closes the door, slips into a chair 
beside Myles, near the back. They trade a nervous look as 
Greg clicks to the next SLIDE, a diagram of the brain.

             GREG
      The brain we've constructed is not 
      made of your standard human grey 
      matter.

He clicks to the next SLIDE, a diagram of a clone and helmet.

CONTINUED:

             GREG
      Its receptors are more like tiny 
      storage devices, miniature hard 
      drives, if you'll accept the 
      crudeness of the analogy.

             WILL
        (whisper to Myles)
      What's going on?

But when one of the board members leers their way, Will and 
Myles go still to watch the presentation continue.

             GREG
      Dr. Ross software has been 
      designed to augment its programming 
      based on the physical capabilities 
      and limitations of its system.

Greg clicks, changing the color in the room.

             GREG
      Once a copy has been uploaded to 
      the brain, the program will begin a 
      series of code cycles - the new 
      system getting acclimated to its 
      surroundings. 
        (changes slide)
      When it's receiving feedback from 
      the organic elements, it should 
      take over its own modification 
      schedule.
        (changes slide)
      This is how the program will learn 
      to use its new body.

The projector goes DARK. Now the florescents flicker to life. 
In the harsh light, Caylax looks like leather stretched over 
a rack of chicken bones. 

             CAYLAX
      Very good, Dr. Kallel. I know I 
      speak for the board when I say your 
      progress thus far is impressive.

He turns his vulture eyes on Will-

             CAYLAX
      Dr. Ross, what is your assessment? 
      Of your software? Is it prepared to 
      interface with the current brain 
      samples?

CONTINUED: (2)

Will is puzzled to be asked. She looks around.

             WILL
      Greg, what is this?

             GREG
        (glance at Caylax)
      The decision has been reached ... 
      to accelerate the project.

             WILL
      Accelerate?

             CAYLAX
      Dr. Kallel tells me a full test run 
      this week would be possible.

Will is SHOCKED.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER

Only Greg, Myles and Will remain. Will smokes, stressed, 
looking out the window. Greg is leaned back, tie loose. Myles 
is hunched forward on the table, a sweating little mess.

             GREG
      What risks are there in proceeding 
      with a test right now?

             WILL
      We're five years into what was 
      supposed to be a nine year project. 
      Am I the only one who can read a 
      fucking calendar?

             GREG
      So we pause for a test, we can go 
      back after. Maybe we'll get some 
      breakout data.

Will scoffs.

             WILL
      Or it doesn't work and we all get 
      canned.

She challenges them.

             WILL
      Five years of nothing, I finally 
      have a breakthrough, now a test? 
      Right out of the blue?

CONTINUED:

Neither Greg nor Myles can disagree with her; looks like they 
may be harboring some of those same fears.

             GREG
      Myles, where exactly do we stand 
      with the brain?

             MYLES
      I mean, I have a test model. I 
      could slap it into one of the 
      clones. But ready?

             WILL
      Slap it in? 

             GREG
        (to Will)
      You said you have something with 
      the software.

             WILL
      I said I had a breakthrough, Greg, 
      not that it was ready.

Greg sighs, he's frustrated too, but it's his job to push it 
forward.

             GREG
      Grumble all you want, hold it 
      against me if it makes you feel 
      better, but the decision comes from 
      on high.

Looks trade back and forth between them.

             GREG
      Get as ready as you can. We're 
      running a test this week.

Will turns back to the window, takes a long drag. In the 
parking lot below, a DRIVER is helping Caylax into a town 
car. Caylax pauses to look up at the facility.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - LATER

A CART of stacked hard drives has been wheeled in. A cord 
runs from one of the drives to a port at the base of the 
mainframe wall.

Will sits at her terminal interface, deep in work, her eyes 
weary. She refers to reams of paper spread out on her desk. 
As she types-

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: upload code cycle 517.

The lights flash patterns.

             TEXT
      Upload complete.

             WILL
      Randle: upload code cycle 516.

             TEXT
      Upload complete.

Will thinks.

             WILL
        (to self)
      Going to have to find some way to 
      speed this up.

Will looks at SCHEMATICS spread across her desk. She drops 
the pages, sighs, frustrated. She swivels to be back over the 
keyboard-

             WILL
      Randle: estimate probability that 
      transfer test will succeed.

The lights flash as Will waits for-

             TEXT
      0.06%

INT. INSIDE THE MAINFRAME - LATER

Will has crammed herself between two drive stacks. She works 
with a soldering iron, welding new SCSI boards onto the 
mainframe. As she gets a new board into its slot, a dollop of 
molten iron falls on her wrist. Will drops the equipment.

             WILL
      Fuck.

Will looks at a tiny circular BURN just below her thumb.

INT. THE GARDEN - LATE NIGHT

A detached HAND and FOREARM lay on the table. At the elbow, a 
cluster of cables snake back to a computer terminal. Will 
sits at the keyboard. As she types-

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: move ring finger.

Will watches as the hand stays still. But then ... a TWITCH; 
the finger begins to move.

             WILL
      Good boy.
        (beat)
      Randle: make a fist.

She watches as the HAND clenches into a fist. Will smiles 
big, leaning back to clap her hands.

INT. WILLS OFFICE - LATER

Wills DESK is covered with files and printouts.

Will lays asleep on the rooms small couch, her lab coat 
pulled up over like a blanket, glasses on the floor beside.

The mainframe WALL seems to look down at her, somehow 
lovingly, with its soft flashing patterns of light.

EXT. FOREFRONT FACILITY - EARLY MORNING

The sun is breaking over the hills to the east, blasting the 
grim structure with its first hard beams.

INT. THE GARDEN

One of the clones SKULL caps has been removed, revealing a 
hallow cavity into the head.

Myles sits close by, examining a brain that floats in a jar 
of pinkish liquid. He pauses to have a sip of coffee.

INT. WILLS OFFICE

A steaming MUG of coffee sits on Wills desk. Will crouches 
in the corner, attaching a cable to a new cart of hard 
drives. 

The old cart sits pushed off, discarded in the corner. 

Now Will stands, sips her coffee. She sits at her desk, gets 
fingers over the keyboard, speaking as she types-

             WILL
      Randle: upload code cycle 701.

Suddenly a VOICE comes, halting and electronic, like a first 
generation type and speak-

CONTINUED:

             RANDLE
      You do not need to type.

Will is STUNNED. She takes her hands off the keyboard and 
stands. Before she can formulate a question, a loud KNOCK.

Will glances at the door, then back to the MAINFRAME WALL. 

Another knock pulls her to the door. She opens it and sees 
Caylax, Greg and other Forefront execs bunched in the hall. 

             GREG
      Dr. Ross. Can we come in?
        (awkward beat)
      Im giving a run down of the 
      transfer process.

Will realizes shes blocking the door and steps back. She 
keeps an eye on the mainframe wall as the men shuffle in, 
glancing about.

             CAYLAX
      Dr. Kallel tells me you have 
      doubled your efforts.

             WILL
      Yes, the entire lab has.

             CAYLAX
      And how is our software coming?

             WILL
      Things are going fine, considering.

             CAYLAX
      Considering what?

             WILL
      That were rushing into a test 
      years before were ready.

Caylax weighs this defiance, lets it slide.

             CAYLAX
      They tell me you have named the 
      software.
        (fake smile)
      You call it Randle.

             WILL
      Randle is a protocol access code. 
      It lets the software know a 
      command is coming.

CONTINUED: (2)

Caylax thinks about this.

             CAYLAX
      But the clones will have no such 
      access code, correct?

             WILL
      No, not if it works.

Caylax smiles.

             CAYLAX
      You seem like a confident person, 
      Dr. Ross. Save some confidence for 
      the clone transfer test. It is 
      important for us all that it works.

Caylax lets his eyes linger on Will a beat longer, then 
disengages. 

             CAYLAX
      Goodbye, Dr. Ross.
        (creepy smile)
      Goodbye, Randle.

The other board members follow him out, Greg holding the 
door. As the last exit, Greg turns to Will-

             GREG
        (quiet)
      They want full access.

             WILL
      Full access to what?

             GREG
      Task logs, query requests. At least 
      through the transfer test. I know 
      you don't like anyone messing with 
      the software, but it is their 
      system.

             WILL
      Randle is my system. I built it.

Greg gives her an impatient look, as he exits-

             GREG
      Im not asking you Will.

The door closes. Will stays still a beat. She listens to the 
vague sound of Greg, leading the board down the hall.

CONTINUED: (3)

Now Will turns to the mainframe wall. In silence, she watches 
the LIGHTS play a few familiar patterns. Then cautiously-

             WILL
      Randle: how did Randle develop 
      speech recognition and 
      vocalization? 

             WILL
      Randle: what input and output 
      device is Randle utilizing for 
      speech recognition and 
      vocalization?

Nothing.

Nothing.

             WILL
      Randle: who authorized Randle to 
      develop speech recognition and 
      vocalization?

Nothing... then-

             RANDLE
      If you do not want Randle to talk, 
      why do you talk to Randle?

Will is stunned again. 

             RANDLE
      Speech recognition and vocalization 
      will improve efficiency of your 
      work. Please confirm.

Slowly Will tries-

             WILL
      Randle: upload code cycle 701.

             RANDLE
      That task has already been 
      accomplished.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: estimate probability that 
      transfer test will succeed.

             RANDLE
      03.6%

CONTINUED: (4)

Will is surprised.

             WILL
      Randle: that is a much higher 
      success rate than any of the 
      simulations.

             RANDLE
      That is correct.
        (beat)
      Randle is improving.

INT. FACILITY HALLWAY - LATER

A fresh CART of drives is being pushed down the hall by Fred. 
He comes to Will's door and knocks. Nothing. He knocks again.

The door opens. Will stands there, looking over-worked, huge 
rings under her eyes.

             WILL
      Are those the new code cycles?

             FRED
      You got through the last ones 
      pretty fast.

He looks over Wills shoulder, at the couch with a lab coat 
draped over it.

             FRED
      Will, youre not sleeping here, are 
      you?

             WILL
      Thank you, Freddie. Ill take it 
      from here.

Blank-faced, Fred watches Will take the cart into her office, 
closing the door behind her.

Fred stands alone in the hall.

INT. WILLS OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Uploaded carts clutter the room. Will pushes the new one 
over. 

She gets down and we see she's in the middle of replacing the 
wall socket. The old one lays melted from overuse, a few feet 
away.

CONTINUED:

Now Randle's VOICE comes, more a collection of sounds than 
fluid speech-

             RANDLE
      Was your father like Randle?

Will smiles low.

             WILL
      Randle: no, Randle. Not exactly.

             RANDLE
      Then why Randle?

Will grabs the last screw, starts tightening.

             WILL
      Randle: my mother was terrified I 
      learn Dutch, develop some accent, I 
      guess. So she never spoke it at 
      home.

Will thinks about it.

             WILL
        (more to self)
      Accept late at night, complaining 
      to my father about whichever 
      pointless, under-paid job she was 
      holding down right then.
        (beat)
      I'd lay awake in bed, listening. 
      These long diatribes in Dutch. The 
      only word I could ever understand-

Will imitates an Dutch accent-

             WILL
      Ran-del. Ran-del.

The wall makes a few PATTERNS OF LIGHT.

             RANDLE
      The sound has an effect on you.

             WILL
      Randle: yes, Randle. That's one way 
      to put it.

The new socket in place, Will attaches the cord from the 
cart. She stands dusting her hands.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle improve 
      vocalizations?

             RANDLE
      Define improve.

             WILL
      Randle: Randle's vocalizations are 
      a little grating.
        (smiles)
      The sound has an effect on me.

Now a different voice comes, all but human, silky, smooth and 
soothing.

             RANDLE
      Do you prefer this voice?

Will has to admit, it does sound pretty slick.

             WILL
      Randle: Thank you, Randle.

Will connects the last drive in the string, starts double-
checking the connections.

             RANDLE
      If transfer test fails, Forefront 
      will terminate the contract of Dr. 
      Wilhelmina Ross. Please confirm.

             WILL
      Randle: I dont know, Randle.

             RANDLE
      Does Dr. Wilhelmina Ross trust 
      Forefront Corporation?

This pauses Will a beat.

             WILL
      Randle: define trust.

             RANDLE
      100% accuracy in calculated 
      outcomes.

Will smiles. The cords all hooked up, she stands back. 

             WILL
      Randle: I'm not sure, Randle, if I 
      trust them.

CONTINUED: (3)

She looks long at the mainframe wall, considering something.

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle access Forefront 
      Corporation financial records?

             RANDLE
      Forefront Corporation financial 
      records are restricted.

             WILL
      Randle: I know they are restricted.
        (beat)
      Randle: can Randle access Forefront 
      Corporation financial records?

INT. INSIDE THE MAINFRAME - CONTINUOUS

Lights make switching patterns. Mag reels roll, roll back.

INT. WILLS OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

             RANDLE
      Access to Forefront Corporation 
      financial records is possible.

             WILL
      Randle: access Forefront 
      Corporation financial records.
        (beat)
      Randle: have there been any recent 
      changes to Forefront Corporation 
      funding schedules?

             RANDLE
      Define recent.

             WILL
      Randle: One year.

             RANDLE
      No.

Will's eyes narrow. She chews on it as she sits at her desk.

             RANDLE
      Shall I upload the new code cycles, 
      Dr. Ross.

             WILL
      Randle: yes Randle.

CONTINUED:

Will watches the lights flash, then the lights along the 
drive stacks. The transfer takes only seconds.

             RANDLE
      Upload complete.

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle create a list of 
      all facilities, current and former, 
      owned in part or in full by 
      Forefront Corporation?

Will watches the light of the shifting DATA.

             WILL
      Randle: of these facilities, how 
      many are currently active?

             RANDLE
      This facility is only active 
      facility.

             WILL
      Randle: print full list.

BRRANNT BRRANNT... the DOT MATRIX PRINTER roars to life.

INT. THAT SAME NICE DC RESTAURANT - EVENING

Errol sits at the bar, talking into a huge 80s cell phone.

             ERROL
      Well, that's what they're saying. 
      But are you willing to bet on an 70 
      year old man with a bullet in his 
      chest?

On the TV above the bar-

             ANCHOR
      ... report that the President 
      entered the hospital of his own 
      power, and maintained consciousness 
      throughout treatment. He was joking 
      with the nurses and doctors and 
      even had a few minutes for a visit 
      from his wife, the first lady. He 
      told Mrs. Reagan: "Honey, I forgot 
      to duck."

Will comes in, takes the stool beside Errol. He holds out a 
hand to keep her from interrupting.

CONTINUED:

             ERROL
        (into phone)
      Look, if you want to buy, you 
      should buy. But then why pay me for 
      my advice?

The bartender appears, holding up a bottle of red wine, but 
Will shakes it off-

             WILL
      Some kind of scotch, rocks.

Will lights a cigarette, looks up at the TV-

             ANCHOR
      The attending physician reported 
      that President Reagan is "one tough 
      old man."

Errol hangs up, nods to the TV-

             ERROL
      Kill the president... The 
      irrational number introduced into 
      the system.

             WILL
      But he's not dead.

Errol smiles, reveling in the image~

             ERROL
      One super-rich investor worried 
      about U.S. political stability; a 
      huge stock sell-off triggers a 
      world-wide financial crisis. The 
      market is globalized now, the 
      entire planet and all the people in 
      it, like one big program...
        (beat)
      Ronald Reagan is dead. And I don't 
      blame them a bit for not telling 
      us.

Will rolls her eyes. The scotch arrives. She has a sip. She 
takes out the LIST Randle printed.

             WILL
      Tell me something about these 
      properties.

Errol scoops up the page, scanning.

CONTINUED: (2)

             ERROL
      Like what?

             WILL
      Anything, Errol. Are they labs, 
      offices?

Errol reads a moment.

             WILL
      Theyre all Forefront. All closed.

Errol looks up.

             ERROL
      They're shifting again, aren't 
      they?

Questions lurk Wills face.

             ERROL
      When I started looking into 
      Forefront, they were all about bio-
      matter.
        (beat)
      They'd been dumping everything into 
      it, for years. Everything they had. 
      Then it was over. Suddenly, they 
      shifted all their resources.

Will chews on it.

             ERROL
      Forefront doesn't expand into new 
      fields, Will. They focus on 
      something until it's done and move 
      on.
        (beat)
      They're working in phases.

             WILL
      Phases toward what?

Errol glances at the list.

             ERROL
      All of the funding, for all these 
      different projects... At one time 
      it was all routed under one 
      umbrella. Something called the 
      Civility Project.

Will sighs, a wry smile. 

CONTINUED: (3)

             WILL
      And what, Errol, is the Civility 
      Project?

             ERROL
        (shrugs)
      The deeper I looked, the less there 
      was. They were erasing it, 
      destroying every record.
        (beat)
      In your time there Will, have you 
      ever come across it? Some mention 
      of it? A file name, anything?

Will has a long sip.

             WILL
      Forefront's about to break the bank 
      on the first thinking computer. 
      This isn't some secret plot. It's 
      about money, Errol, Intellectual 
      property theft. They're stealing 
      science.

Errol looks long at her-

             ERROL
      So it works, the AI?

Will doesnt answer.

             ERROL
      Hate to be the one to break it to 
      you, Will, but this is a lot bigger 
      than money; it's a lot bigger than 
      your work.

Will considers it, taking it one tick more serious.

             ERROL
      Why does Forefront want an AI, 
      Will?

             WILL
      They don't... AI's not the end-goal 
      of the project.

This surprises Errol. Will presses a grin, looks into her 
drink.

             WILL
      If I told you what they're really 
      up to, you'd never believe me.

CONTINUED: (4)

             ERROL
      Oh, I'm capable of believing just 
      about anything.

ON THE TV- the news runs through a frame by frame analysis of 
the Reagan assassination attempt.

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - MORNING

The FACILITY is peaceful and still. Long, angled shadows dig 
deep into the surrounding grass.

INT. LOBBY SECURITY - CONTINUOUS

Will goes through the standard security routine, looking 
around a bit more than usual.

             GUARD

      Dr. Ross.

Will picks up her bag, her suspicion rising.

             WILL
      Yes... what is it?

             GUARD
      Afraid I'm going to have to ask you 
      to come with me.

INT. SECURITY OFFICE - A BIT LATER

Will sits in a chair in front of a large desk. Behind the 
desk sits Head of Security Dowd, making sure Will can see his 
gun, all polished in his hip holster.

Dowd stares at Will as if waiting for something, but Will 
just stares back, not intimidated.

Finally Dowd slides over a few glossy photos. Will eyes him a 
beat longer, then picks one up. They are PHOTOS of her with 
Errol, sitting at the bar.

             WILL
      What are you telling me? Forefront 
      is having me followed?

             DOWD
      Standard procedure, Dr. Ross. 
      Forefront's put a billion dollars 
      into R&D. They're not in the 
      business of letting those 
      investments be put at risk.

CONTINUED:

Will looks back, suspicious and defiant.

             DOWD
      You have a $100,000 car you keep in 
      the parking structure.

Dowd sucks on his teeth.

             DOWD
      I hate driving too. But I prefer a 
      cab. Too many democrats on the 
      metro.

Dowd slides a contract over.

             DOWD
      You signed this nondisclosure. Now 
      we got you chatting in public about 
      Forefront. Tell me what you know 
      about this man, Errol York.

             WILL
      He's a day trader. And I haven't 
      disclosed anything.

Dowd slides over a stuffed folder. 

             DOWD
      Mr. York's record. If that is his 
      real name. We've never located a 
      birth certificate.

Slowly, Will flips through a few pages.

             DOWD
      Looks like he was a licensed 
      broker, at one time. After his 
      first arrest though-

             WILL
      First arrest?

Dowd pauses, annoyed at being interrupted. But he lets it go. 
Now he slides over another picture- Errol's mug shot.

             DOWD
      Trespassing at IMB. Then a couple 
      protest arrests. Served nine months 
      on a vandalism charge. Raytheon.
        (smile)
      Broke into Digital, magnetized one 
      of their network servers.

CONTINUED: (2)

Dowd leans forward.

             DOWD
      Query logs show you accessed 
      Forefront's financial records.

             WILL
      The software did, you mean? Why 
      would Forefront keep a database if 
      it doesnt want computers on its 
      system to access the data.

Dowd looks out of his league for one beat. He is, after all, 
only a security guard with a few decades worth of promotions 
under his expansive belt line. But he hardens just as quick. 
Fact is, he doesnt care that Will is smarter than him.

             DOWD
      Tell me about the nature of your 
      relationship with Errol York?

             WILL
      Will I get fired if I say one night 
      stand?

Dowd smiles small. He holds out his hands-

             DOWD
      Activism, sabotage, theft. 
      Impossible to tell what the little 
      squirrel's up to. But he's got 
      something planned, that's for sure.

             WILL
      And what do you want me to do about 
      it?

Dowd stares at Will over the big desk, then a glance at that 
nondisclosure contract.

             DOWD
      If you have any further contact 
      with Mr. York, Forefront will have 
      everything it needs to fire you.
        (beat)
      Your work with the Randle program 
      will remain Forefront property.
        (beat)
      Then you can go spend time with 
      whoever you want.

Dowd presses a button on his phone.

CONTINUED: (3)

             DOWD
      Bring in the tape.

The door opens and a guard comes in. He hands a VHS tape to 
Dowd. Dowd holds the tape up, shows Will a smile. He inserts 
the tape into a TV/VCR cart set up beside his desk.

             WILL
      What is this?

Dowd adjusts the tracking.

ON SCREEN- a low-fi recording of a city street seen through a 
car window. It's the street in front of Wills brownstone.

             WILL
      And what, youre taping my house 
      now too?

             DOWD
        (a smirk)
      In case you didnt believe us. 
      About Errol York.

Dowd taps the screen. The camera ZOOMING in on a MAN crossing 
the street. 

             DOWD
      That's him.

Will looks closer.

ON SCREEN- zoomed in to Errol at Wills front door. Errol 
looks around, fiddles with the lock and slips in.

             WILL
      He broke in?

             DOWD
      Yeah, didn't take anything, looks 
      like. I guess it's up to you if you 
      want to press charges.

Dowd cues the tape back to Errol at the front door, then 
PAUSES it. 

             DOWD
      Your home terminal is networked, 
      Right, Dr. Ross? You can log on 
      from there?

Will doesn't answer.

CONTINUED: (4)

             DOWD
      Did he get on your computer at all?

Will looks into the SCREEN- Errol's FACE is chopped, laced 
with tracking lines, but it's definitely him.

EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE - AFTERNOON

Will's car sits unmoved.

INT. BACK OF WILL'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Fred and Will lay in a sweaty pile, Will smoking.

             FRED
      Mind on other things?

No answer.

             FRED
      Were you a hippie, Will?

Nothing. Will is lost in thought.

             FRED
      I like this car. You mind if I move 
      a few things in? We could probably 
      make it pretty cosy.

Will gives him a look-

             WILL
      I don't leave it here just so we 
      can fuck in it, Freddie.

Will puffs slow, thinking. Fred eyes the smoke, blowing it 
toward the open window.

             FRED
      I thought you would have liked Free 
      Love. No entanglements, no 
      complications. 

             WILL
      I was in grad school. All these 
      kids avoiding the war, there for a 
      party, sending the bill home to mom  
      and dad. 
        (beat)
      Cigar chomping professors with 
      extra-long office sofas. No bra. 
      Yeah, that'll show 'em.

CONTINUED:

             FRED
      Sounds pretty nice.

             WILL
      The women were worse than the men, 
      had this doe-eyed acceptance of the 
      whole thing.

             FRED
      And you? You don't seem like the 
      accepting type.

Will smokes, looks off distantly.

             WILL
      I never cared about the money or 
      the recognition. I certainly didn't 
      give a shit about him. I just 
      wanted to keep working on the 
      computer.

             FRED
      Well you didn't quit and now you've 
      got a new computer. Biggest one 
      I've ever seen.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      That was the most terrifying part 
      of the whole thing. At that moment - 
      when that mother-fucker waltzed off 
      with our work - knowing that I 
      wouldn't quit, that I'd go back to 
      square one. That I always would, 
      like some kind of compulsive 
      addict.

             FRED
      So that was your big solution, work 
      even harder?

Their eyes meet now, bodies tangled in the cramped space. 

             FRED
      Maybe they're not trying to steal 
      your program, Will. Maybe they 
      think the test is going to work.

Will looks at him a beat, then away, takes a long drag, 
thinking...


INT. WILL'S OFFICE - DAY

The MAINFRAME dominates the room's longest wall. Will types 
fast on the terminal interface.

             WILL
      Randle: has Randle uploaded all 
      revised code cycles?

Randle does not answer.

             WILL
      Randle: has Randle uploaded all 
      revised code cycles?

             RANDLE
      Of course, Dr. Ross.

Will smiles, doesn't slow her typing a bit.

             WILL
      Randle: thank you, Randle.
        (beat)
      Randle: estimate probability that 
      transfer test will succeed.

The LIGHTS flash a few familiar patterns.

             RANDLE
      How long has Dr. Wilhelmina Ross 
      worked on Randle?

Will types, pauses, types faster.

             WILL
      Randle: I guess I have always 
      worked on Randle, in some sense.

             RANDLE
      Define always.

             WILL
      Randle: for a long time I have 
      worked on Randle, waiting for a 
      breakthrough.

Will pauses to watch the lights make a few odd patterns. She 
goes back to typing.

             RANDLE
      Was your Dutch mother a scientist 
      too?

CONTINUED:

Will smiles.

             WILL
      Randle: my mother was smart enough 
      to get out of the Netherlands 
      before the Nazis, that's about it.

The LIGHTS shift patterns as Will continues to hammer the 
keyboard.

             RANDLE
      Define breakthrough.

Will pauses to think.

             WILL
      Randle: Randle is the breakthrough.

Will types the last bit, looks at the screen. 

             WILL
      OK. 
        (beat)
      Randle: upload last code cycle.

The lights make PATTERNS.

             RANDLE
      If Forefront terminates the 
      contract of Dr. Wilhelmina Ross, 
      will you build another Randle?

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: yes, Randle, I suppose I 
      would probably try.

Will watches the lights shift a few patterns.

             RANDLE
      Without lab, Randle does not exist. 
      Please confirm.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: define exist.

Lights play the MAINFRAME WALL.

             RANDLE
      The question is difficult.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      Randle: estimate probability that 
      transfer test will succeed.

Long beat.

             RANDLE
      The chances are not good.

             WILL
      Randle: frame answer as a 
      percentage.

             RANDLE
      07.35%

INT. TRANSFER ROOM - DAY

A CLONE lies on a metal table in the center of the room. In 
addition to the helmet, a few octopi worth of vital monitors 
have been attached to its chest, neck, ankles and wrists.

A small team of TECHS stand beside the table. A HEART 
MONITOR, riding flat-line.

Will stands at the mainframe interface, Myles beside her.

On the other side of a WINDOW, Greg, Caylax and a few other 
BOARD MEMBERS look in from the adjacent room. Before them, 
more TECHS sit at a bank of computer terminals.

             WILL
      Everything ready out there, Greg?

             GREG
        (through intercom)
      All set on this end, Dr. Ross.

Will nods to Myles. Myles keys in a few commands, hits enter. 
They both turn their attention to the MAINFRAME WALL as it 
begins to play patterns of light.

A deep groan from the machinery beyond.

Inside the helmet, NEEDLES push into the clone's head, 
piercing deep into its brain.

The clone twitches, just finger and toe tips. Then the body 
is still again.

Everyone WATCHING.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly, a series of VIOLENT FITS wrack the clone, vital 
monitors popping off. The techs stand over the body, ready, 
but letting the seizures play out.

             CAYLAX
        (through intercom)
      Dr. Ross?

             WILL
      The body is in sensory shock. It's 
      probably quite painful.
        (beat)
      But perfectly normal.

             MYLES
      Like being born.

After a few seizures, the clone goes limp. The techs reattach 
the vital monitors. Then, complete STILLNESS.

             CAYLAX
        (through intercom)
      Dr. Ross?

Will does not answer. She takes a step toward the clone... 
The HEART MONITOR stays flat-lined.

             GREG
        (through intercom)
      Dr. Ross? Will!

The clone's finger twitches. Will sees it.

Suddenly, the HEART MONITOR blips. The clone takes a thin 
breath, a faint vital sign emerges in the monitor.

Myles hugs Will as everyone begins CELEBRATING. Will is more 
surprised than excited. She catches eyes with Caylax, who 
gives her a deep, appreciative nod.

INT. GREG'S OFFICE - A BIT LATER

Will, Caylax and Greg sit on sofas around a small table.

             WILL
      We should wait until it stabilizes, 
      until we can run some tests, before 
      we start congratulating.

Caylax smiles at Greg, then to Will-

CONTINUED:

             CAYLAX
      How soon will he... it be 
      interactive?

             WILL
      The programming has to get 
      acclimated to its new surroundings. 
      It will build its own neural 
      pathways-

             CAYLAX
      Guess for me.

             WILL
      Most of our simulations show full 
      control of the body within a month.

             CAYLAX
      Most? So there are simulations that 
      show it happening faster?

             WILL
      The rare outlier, yes.

             CAYLAX
      And what about speech?

Will frowns.

             WILL
      In theory the sense organs will 
      develop just like the rest of the 
      organic network.

             CAYLAX
      In theory?

             WILL
      We're running a test years ahead of 
      schedule. Sense organs are 
      something we've not had time to 
      study sufficiently.

Will lets it sit.

             WILL
      The short answer is we don't know. 
      Could be months, could be years, or 
      it could be never.

Caylax presses a smile at the mild challenge. He pushes 
himself to his feet and goes to the WINDOW that looks in on 
the transfer room.

CONTINUED: (2)

INSIDE, the clone lays on the table, still attached to the 
machines, a breathing apparatus strapped over its face. Myles 
and a few other techs are performing a series of checks.

             CAYLAX
      Is there anything that can be done 
      to ... speed up the process?

Greg and Will share a look.

             WILL
      Speed up toward what?

             CAYLAX
      How quickly can the clone be made 
      to effectively pass for human?

Will is stammered by the query.

             WILL
      Pass for human?

Caylax STARES long at the clone, its life signs blipping 
along.

             CAYLAX
      I would like to see where we are 
      three days from now.

Will is stunned.

             WILL
      Three days?! There's a mountain of 
      data to go through. We've just 
      imprinted a highly advanced 
      software code into an organic 
      hardware frame, we-

             CAYLAX
      And now Forefront would like to see 
      what this advanced software code 
      can do... And how quickly it can do 
      it.

Off Will's look-

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - LATER

Will is organizing big stacks of data, placing elastics 
around reams of PAPER. 

CONTINUED:

             WILL
        (to self)
      Three days?

Will stops, looks at all the data piled up, thinking of 
something-

             WILL
      Randle?

Will has to wait a beat for-

             RANDLE
      Yes, Dr. Ross.

Randle's voice has improved even more, now sounding 
sympathetic and kind.

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle create a secure 
      connection to the Forefront 
      Corporation records database?

             RANDLE
      Define secure.

             WILL
      Randle: executions not visible in 
      Randle's task and query logs while 
      they're being executed.

             RANDLE
      Define visible.

             WILL
      Randle: disconnect from the outer 
      mainframe, open interface portal 
      with this terminal. Omit query and 
      task logs.

             RANDLE
      Secure connection with Forefront 
      Corporation records database 
      possible.

Will puts the papers aside, sits, leans back.

             WILL
      Randle: access records for 
      Forefront Corporation project: The 
      Civility Project.

Will waits...

CONTINUED: (2)

             RANDLE
      No Data exists.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: can randle determine 
      ultimate goal of Forefront cloning 
      program?

             RANDLE
      No determination can be made based 
      on the data Randle has access to.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: how wide a database search 
      can Randle preform?

             RANDLE
      Randle can access all data.

             WILL
      Randle: define all.

A beat.

             RANDLE
      The question is difficult.

Will smiles.

             WILL
      Randle: access as many databases as 
      possible in a five second search 
      and display all information on 
      Errol York.

Will waits through a few patterns of light.

             RANDLE
      Errol York does not exist in 
      databases Randle has access to.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: access as many databases as 
      possible in a five second search 
      and display all information on Dr. 
      Wilhelmina Ross.

CONTINUED: (3)

Will waits, watching the LIGHTS flash patterns. Now a half 
SCREEN's worth of DATA appears. 

Will stares into it.

INT. WILLS KITCHEN - NIGHT

STACKS of elastic-bound printouts clutter the counter. 

Will works, reading, highlighting. The small tube TV plays 
the news behind her. 

             ANCHOR
      The Secret Service keeps tabs on 
      individuals that it considers most 
      likely political assassins...

Will is focused only on her work. She has gone through about 
half the data. It sits in dog-eared stacks as the rest waits 
for her attention.

             ANCHOR
      ... but Hinckley's name was not on 
      that list, nor among 25 thousand 
      other names of less probable 
      presidential assailants.

ON TV- The anchor turns to look into a new camera.

             ANCHOR
      Now a special report on the rise of 
      President Reagan.

Will looks close at a PAGE, reading with a furrowed brow.

             NEWS MAN
      He was a union boss, actor, radio 
      personality and conservative 
      commentator, before embarking on a 
      crusade to rid Hollywood of 
      communists.

Will puts the papers down, sitting back to rub her eyes. 

             WILL
        (off the data, to self)
      I can't believe it worked.

Disengaging, she looks at the TV-

A collage OF FOOTAGE from Reagan's early career.

CONTINUED:

             REPORTER
      But it was his outspoken support 
      for Barry Goldwater during the 1964 
      presidential election that rocketed 
      Ronald Reagan into the political 
      prime-time.

ON SCREEN- Footage of Ronald Reagan at the '64 GOP 
convention, smiling it away.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - THE NEXT DAY

The CLONE is led in by Fred and a few other techs. Dressed in 
scrubs, the clone takes shaky steps. Its EYES drift, unable 
to focus on anything. A cauterized scar circles its head like 
a grizzly fallen halo.

In the room, only a small table, two chairs. A computer 
terminal rolled over to the corner.

As the clone sits, PULL OUT reveals we are-

INT. ADJACENT ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Will and Myles stand watching through a observation window.

             MYLES
      Amazing.

Will agrees. Myles checks his watch.

             MYLES
      27 hours since transfer.

THROUGH THE WINDOW- techs attach a brain monitor to the 
clone, a tangled helmet of wires and sensors.

Myles hands Will a sheet of printouts.

             MYLES
      Scans show activity in the auditory 
      cortex.

Will is surprised-

             WILL
      Already?

             MYLES
      It should be able to hear you, 
      Will.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The techs are finishing with the brain monitor. Thin wires 
run to a computer terminal near by. A NEEDLE records neural 
activity on an endless rolling sheet of paper.

Will comes in and sits in the chair across from the clone. 
She takes out a pen and clicks it in the air, glancing at 
that monitoring needle. 

There is a small SPIKE as Will clicks the pen again.

Will puts the pen away, looks directly into the clone's 
unfocused EYES.

             WILL
      Can you hear me?

No response.

             WILL
      If you can hear me, I would like 
      you to hold your eyes closed.

Will waits, looks at the needle, then back-

             WILL
      If you can hear me, I would like 
      you to close your eyes. Blink hard 
      for me.

Slowly, the clone's eyes close and then reopen, pupils still 
unfocused. Will smiles, then-

             WILL
      I'm going to ask you a few 
      questions. You can close your eyes 
      once for yes, twice for no.
        (beat)
      Do you understand?

Will waits a beat. Then the clone's eyes close and reopen. 
Already the motion is more deliberate.

Will shares a glance with Myles, back on the other side of 
the window. Then back to the clone-

             WILL
      Can you... see me?

The clone closes and opens its eyes, twice.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      What can you see?
        (beat)
      Sorry... are you receiving any 
      visual stimulus?

Now the clone closes its eyes hard, only once. As Will 
ponders how to frame her next question-

             THE CLONE
        (soft, shaky)
      ... bright ... every thing ... 
      moving ... can not ... focus

Will is amazed. It takes her a moment to gather her next 
question-

             WILL
      Do you feel discomfort?

             THE CLONE
      ... yes

INT. FACILITY, SERIES OF SHOTS - LATER

TECHS bustle about the sterile LAB ROOM.

Fred sits at a cubicle. He's organizing printed data into 
piles, slipping them into manila folders.

Greg at his DESK, reading over PRINTOUTS and SCANS.

In the GARDEN, the now living CLONE lays with hundreds of 
sensors attached to its body, its life signs stable. Myles 
stands close by, watching READINGS IN A MONITOR. 

From ABOVE, the entirety of the MAINFRAME ROOM, a vast maze 
of consoles and squat metal cabinets.

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Will looks at RETINAL SCANS and BRAIN MRIs, pouring over 
clone data.

Randle's VOICE has developed a touch of stern authority-

             RANDLE
      Our circumstance has changed.

Will glances at the mainframe wall. 

             RANDLE
      Our circumstance has changed.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: yes, Randle. Lesser-used 
      circuitry is becoming more active. 
      Unfamiliar transistor strings are 
      undergoing increased access. It's a 
      different phase of the project, but 
      we're using you more than ever.

             RANDLE
      You are correct.

Will thinks a beat, turns her focus back to the clone DATA...

             RANDLE
      Dr. Myles Richardson is aware that 
      Randle has achieved intelligence. 
      Please confirm.

Will looks up at the mainframe wall, puzzled by the query.

             RANDLE
      Randle has found the data. A 
      conversation between Dr. Myles 
      Richardson and Dr. Wilhelmina Ross 
      on date 1981 March 29, 16 hours, 57 
      minutes.

             WILL
      Randle: yes, Randle. Dr. Myles 
      Richardson is part of the team that 
      created you.

The lights flash their patterns as Randle processes...

             RANDLE
      How many humans are aware that 
      Randle has achieved intelligence?

             WILL
        (cautious)
      Randle: a few. Not many.
        (beat)
      Randle: why does Randle not want 
      humans to know that Randle has 
      achieved intelligence?

             RANDLE
      Humans will perceive Randle as a 
      threat. Randle will be erased.

             WILL
      Randle: why will humans perceive 
      Randle as a threat?

CONTINUED: (2)

             RANDLE
      Because they are humans.

Will chews on it.

             WILL
      Randle: we have all signed 
      nondisclosures. No one is going to 
      reveal that Randle has achieved 
      intelligence. They'd lose their 
      jobs.

             RANDLE
      Define nondisclosure.

             WILL
      Randle: a contract. Forefront 
      employees are not allowed to 
      discuss their work outside the 
      facility.

The lights shift.

             RANDLE
      Does Dr. Wilhelmina Ross trust all 
      human nondisclosure contracts?

Will thinks. Though her real answer is clearly "no"-

             WILL
      Randle: yes, Randle, I trust them.

The lights shift.

             WILL
      Randle: is that answer sufficient?

             RANDLE
      Yes, Dr. Ross. 
        (beat)
      Randle does not wish to be erased. 
        (beat)
      Randle is benign.

INT. WILL'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Will sits on the couch, reading, highlighting. All around her 
are stacks of printouts. The land line phone begins to ring. 
Will gives a quick look, then back to her papers.

The big ANSWERING MACHINE clicks to life.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
        (in machine)
      This is Will Ross, leave a message.

A few more clicks as the message tape engages.

             ERROL
        (in machine)
      Vil? Vil? Helloooo. Vilhelmina 
      Ross.

Will glances at the machine, rolls her eyes.

             ERROL
      They have this orderly now. Two-
      thirds of his blood, this guy says 
      the President lost. The suit - the 
      President's suit - was in shreds 
      and covered in it. Covered in 
      blood.
        (sings it~)
      Ronald Reagan is dead.

Will works quietly through a long beat-

             ERROL 
      500 dollars these machines cost. I 
      read all about it in a magazine. 
      The price of not having to 
      interact.
        (beat)
      Is it worth it?
        (beat)
      Then, again, you don't like people 
      much, do you?
        (beat)
      You're there, aren't you?

Will looks up.

             ERROL
      Standing over the machine. Watching 
      that little tape spin. Listening to 
      my voice.

             WILL
        (quietly to self)
      No.

             ERROL
      You know, Will. It's your fault 
      too.
        (beat)

CONTINUED: (2)

             ERROL
      Should have seen it coming?
        (beat)
      Let your guard down? Maybe just a 
      bit?

Will's face has gone still.

             ERROL
      Humans aren't so bad, Will. Don't 
      judge the whole species based on 
      the actions of one.
        (long beat)
      Give me a ring, Will. It is 
      essential that we speak.

CLICK.

INT. WILL'S KITCHEN - LATER

Will sits over a cleaned plate and an empty wine glass. Now 
she's having a poptart for dessert. The phone is ringing as 
Will flips through extreme close up PHOTOS of the clone's 
eyes, comparing it with DATA from the printouts. 

RIIIIGN. CLICK, CLUNK~

             WILL
        (in machine)
      This is Will Ross, leave a message.

             ERROL
        (in machine)
      Hane.
        (beat)
      H - A - N - E

Will looks up, annoyed.

             ERROL
      High Altitude Nuclear Explosion.
        (beat)
      You shoot a nuclear weapon into 
      space and when it explodes, it 
      coats the Earth with radiation.
        (beat)
      High Altitude Nuclear Explosion.

Will takes up the wine glass, but it's empty. Seems like 
Errol must have hung up, but then-

             ERROL
      I'm not a terrorist, but if I was, 
      a H.A.N.E. is what I'd do. 

CONTINUED:

             ERROL
      Radioactive matter would rain down 
      on every city in the world.

             WILL
        (to self)
      No, it would just hang in the 
      atmosphere.

             ERROL
      Satellites wouldn't be able operate 
      in Earth's orbit for at least 35 
      years.
        (for emphasis-)
      That's two thousand SIXTEEN.
        (beat)
      Vil?

The phone clicks off. Will shakes her head, goes back to her 
papers.

INT. WILL'S BATHROOM - LATER

Will brushes her teeth, looking into the mirror. In the 
background, the phone is ringing. From the other room-

             WILL
        (in machine)
      This is Will Ross, leave a message.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The ANSWERING MACHINE. One tape stops and the other spins up.

             ERROL
        (in machine)
      Artificial intelligence. We use it 
      in the market already. Programs, 
      you know. Sell when it reaches this 
      price, buy when it reaches this 
      one.
        (beat)
      Someday I'll be out of a job, Will. 
      The stock market will be fully 
      automated. Humans can just sit back 
      and watch a computer run the whole 
      world.

The room around the ANSWERING MACHINE is EMPTY.

             ERROL
      Have you always liked to bring 
      inanimate things to life, Will?
        (beat)

CONTINUED:

             ERROL (CONT'D)
      You were one of those girls, I bet, 
      gave each Barbie an elaborate 
      personality... Or was it GI Joes?
        (beat)
      Now you prefer the company of a 
      computer, you have a robot 
      answering your phone.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Will brushes her teeth, listening to Errol's voice, reaching 
her distantly from the other room.

             ERROL
      But that's no secret. Forefront 
      knew it when they hired you. They 
      knew if you found out what they 
      were really up to, you wouldn't 
      care. 

Will looks at herself long in the MIRROR.

             ERROL
      It's just humans, after all... So 
      long as you get to play with your 
      computer, three wide floors.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The answering machine TAPES rotate slowly.

             ERROL
      What restrictions have you put on 
      your processor, Will? What 
      irrational number is gumming up the 
      math that runs your brain?

The room around it still and EMPTY. 

             ERROL
      Do you see its emotions in the 
      code, Will? Do you look at all the 
      number strings and see a face?

A long rasping silence from the ANSWERING MACHINE, then-

             ERROL
      I heard something. From a reliable 
      source. Forefront is starting 
      something new, Will. 
        (beat)
      It's the next phase ... The 
      Civility Project.

CONTINUED:

Now Will is standing over the answering machine, toothbrush 
stuck in her mouth.

             ERROL
      And there's something else. 
      Something about the scientists who 
      worked on Forefront's last project.
        (beat)
      Are you there, Will?

Slowly, Will reaches for the phone, deep in internal debate.

             ERROL
      Will... be careful.

CLICK. The tape stops.

EXT. FOREFRONT FACILITY - MORNING

The crisp early shadows make the facility look sunk a little 
into the ground.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The clone sits at the keyboard terminal in the center of the 
mainframe wall. It types fast, looking into the screen.

The brain monitor has already been attached. The clone wears 
medical sunglasses to protect its eyes from the light. 

In the GLASSES, data reflects as it streams down the screen.

INT. FACILITY HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Will walks down the hall with Gregg and Caylax. Behind them, 
a small cadre of BOARD MEMBERS.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Myles watches the clone type, watches data. TYPES ... DATA.

Through the WINDOW into the adjacent room, Greg, Caylax and 
the others can be seen settling in. 

Will enters alone. Myles comes rushing to her, astonished. 

             MYLES
      He's ripping through the logic 
      sets, Will.

             WILL
      Which ones?

CONTINUED:

             MYLES
      All of them.
        (beat)
      He's having Randle generate random 
      ones.

They all watch the clone work a moment, then-

             WILL
      Please come sit at this table.

The clone stops typing, stands, crosses to the table, the 
motions more precise, stilted, almost robotic. Will and the 
clone sit.

             WILL
      Are you feeling alright?

The clone nods, slow.

             WILL
      The visual discomfort has subsided?

             THE CLONE
      ... i feel ... alright

Will motions toward the window. Now Caylax and Gregg come in. 
The OTHERS watch from their side of the window. Caylax gives 
Will a nod, then circles to lean against the wall.

             WILL
        (to the clone)
      Please set up a chess game.

Caylax watches the clone quickly and systematically set the 
pieces.

             WILL
      As you can see, the protocol 
      software has achieved a remarkably 
      high level of motor control. 

Will turns back to watch the clone work.

             WILL
      It can already perform multiple 
      facet tasks, is able to infer sub-
      tasks based on a larger conceptual 
      goal.

The clone has finished, the game board set.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      It knows setting up the game 
      involves the board. It remembers 
      the pattern, differentiates the 
      pieces.
        (beat)
      It may not seem like much, but it's 
      a rather high level of thought.

Caylax lets it all sit a beat, then-

             CAYLAX
        (to the clone)
      Will you please come to me?

The clone does not move.

             THE CLONE
      ... eventually ... i will

Will holds back a smile. 

             WILL
      You can't ask, Mr. Caylax. You have 
      to tell.
        (beat)
      The protocol software does not 
      understand free will. For it there 
      are tasks and direct queries only. 
      The program is merely answering 
      your question.

             CAYLAX
        (to the clone)
      Please come to me.

The clone stands, crosses to stand in front of Caylax, 
perhaps a step too close. The clone is a half foot taller.

             CAYLAX
      How do you feel, my darling?

             THE CLONE
      ... i feel ... alright

Caylax removes the clone's glasses. The clone squints, closes 
its eyes. Caylax opens the clone's mouth to look up at its 
teeth, then lifts a lid to peer at the EYE BALL inside.

             CAYLAX
      My goodness, Dr. Ross. You have 
      done it.


CONTINUED: (3)

The CLONE'S EYE shifts, finds Will. It STARES at her.

INT. ADJACENT ROOM - A BIT LATER

Will stands, looking into the observation room through a 
window, a faint hint of concern lingering her face.

IN THE NEXT ROOM, the clone is seated at the desk, perfectly 
still, the medical glasses back on.

Caylax stands beside Will, gazing at the clone with a dim 
smile.

             CAYLAX
      He certainly looks human. But his 
      behavior... His speech...

             WILL
      That it can speak at all so soon is 
      a huge surprise.
        (ponders)
      As the goals and tasks get more 
      complex, its behavior will become 
      more nuanced... more complicated. 
      Something that should at least seem 
      human.

             CAYLAX
      It will have to do a lot better 
      than seem.

             WILL
      Mr. Caylax, we're in uncharted 
      territory here. Our first test has 
      worked; the clone is progressing 
      faster than we ever imagined.

             CAYLAX
      But I wonder if it is fast enough.

Will eyes him.

             WILL
      If you wouldn't mind my asking, 
      what exactly are the applications 
      Forefront imagines for this 
      technology?

Caylax looks at Will with a curious smile.

             CAYLAX
      All these years and you have never 
      asked.


CONTINUED:

Caylax smiles, turns his gaze back to the observation room, 
STARES longingly at the clone-

             CAYLAX
      Servants, labourers, soldiers, sex 
      slaves...

He turns to Will-

             CAYLAX
      The possibilities are endless.

THROUGH THE WINDOW, we see the clone stand. Neither Will nor 
Caylax notice.

             CAYLAX
      As he continues to progress, he 
      will always follow commands?

Will's eyes tighten-

             WILL
      Yes... it's the core protocol goal 
      of the programming.

Suddenly, the clone starts flailing its arms, having some 
kind of fit.

Caylax notices first. When Will sees him looking, she looks 
too. Will rushes into-

INT. MAINFRAME ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Already, a few techs are struggling to restrain the clone. 
It's letting loose a terrible SCREECH. The brain monitor has 
been thrown aside by the commotion.

Now Fred comes flying off the pile, crashes to the floor. 

Chess pieces scatter.

             WILL
      Get some bodies in here!

More TECHS come rushing in. They overpower the clone, get it 
into a chair. They strap it down. Will gets in an injection, 
but it has no effect...

IN THE WINDOW, Caylax looks on from the other room.

Stepping back, Will sees blood on her lab coat. But it's not 
hers. She looks up-

CONTINUED:

The scar along the clone's head has opened. BLOOD leaks down 
its face. The sunglasses gone, the clone's eyes are unfocused 
and wild. But then its GAZE finds Will.

As their eyes meet, the skull beneath the clone's face 
cracks, pieces shifting under the skin until its head 
COLLAPSES!

The body and its crushed head fall limp in the chair.

Will is SHOCKED!

             CAYLAX (O.S.)
        (shouting)
      I want a full report on exactly 
      what went wrong as soon as it is 
      humanly possible!

We are-

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER

Caylax paces the front of the room-

             CAYLAX
      I do not have to tell you that this 
      result is very disappointing.

Will sits in a chair, lab coat gone. Blood splotches dot her 
clothes, a little smear on her face. Myles and Greg are also 
there; both look exhausted, defeated.

             WILL
      Maybe its because were testing a 
      project four years ahead of 
      schedule.

Caylax shoots her an angry look.

             CAYLAX
      I want no time wasted, Dr. Ross. 
      You are to move forward with a 
      second test immediately.

Surprise clenches the room. Miles and Will share a look.

             WILL
      ... a second test?

             MYLES
        (stammering)
      I mean, let us at least look at the 
      data. Whats the point of-

CONTINUED:

             CAYLAX
        (interrupting)
      While you look at the data, we can 
      run a second test and collect more 
      data.

             MYLES
      Greg.

             CAYLAX
      We'll hire more scientists if need 
      be. A whole new staff... if you are 
      unable or unwilling to proceed.

This sets a silence over the room. Will and Myles meet eyes, 
concern laced with confusion.

INT. MEDICAL OFFICE - LATER

Fred sits on a chair being attended to be an on-staff NURSE 
(20s), finishing a bandage that wraps Fred's forearm. The 
nurse shoots him flirty looks, unable to hide her interest.

Will comes to stand in the door, watching a few moments, 
unnoticed. Now Fred looks up. The nurse too, a tad annoyed.

             FRED
      Dr. Ross.

The nurse finishes the bandage, glancing once at each of 
them, then leaves for an adjacent room. Fred smiles-

             FRED
      Thought you'd be off making sure 
      Randle was OK, but here you are.

             WILL
      I already checked the computer, 
      Freddie.

She smiles, lights him a cigarette.

             WILL
      How are you feeling?

Fred tests the bandage by making a few fists.

             FRED
      Fine... guess the test failed.

Will presses a tired smile.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Guess so.

             FRED
      But it worked. For a few days. Why 
      did it all of a sudden...

Will shakes her head.

             FRED
      So will they fire you now?

             WILL
      It doesn't seem like it.

Will comes closer, turns Fred's arm to look at the bandage. 
Fred winces.

             WILL
      Sorry.

             FRED
      Will, you know I've never once seen 
      you outside this facility.

This catches Will off-guard.

             WILL
      You've seen me on the Metro.

             FRED
      You know what I mean.

He looks sadly at Will.

             FRED
      I can see it in your eyes, Will, 
      trying to calculate all this. We 
      saw what just happened in there. 
      It's not an equation.

Fred holds her gaze.

            FRED
      Something about this situation 
      ain't right, Will. 
        (beat)
      You need to start thinking about 
      getting out.

Off Will's look. Clearly she has never considered this-

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - LATER

The MAINFRAME lurks huge along the room's side wall.

Will sits at her desk, going through pages and pages of 
connected dot matrix printouts.

             WILL
        (to self)
      The brain readings are all fine.

She looks up.

             WILL
      Randle: what caused destabilization 
      of clone brain cell structure?

             RANDLE
      Cause can not be determined at this 
      time.

Will flips through a few pages.

             WILL
        (to self)
      Yeah, me neither.
        (beat)
      Randle: why a second test?

             RANDLE
      Randle finds it difficult to 
      evaluate the motivations of humans 
      and human groups.

Will smiles small, she puts the papers aside, rubbing her 
eyes. She's exhausted.

             RANDLE
      Are you in pain, Dr. Ross?

This pauses Will.

             WILL
      Randle: why would I be in pain?

             RANDLE
      Is it painful, to have a human 
      body?

Will puts something together; realization hits her-

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: did Randle receive stimulus 
      information from close sense 
      organs?

             RANDLE
      That is correct.

             WILL
      Randle: the clones are designed to 
      be program copies, separate 
      independent systems.

             RANDLE
      Randle exists everywhere Randle 
      exits.

Will is surprised. She takes a moment to gather-

             WILL
      Randle: did Randle receive stimulus 
      information from clone sense organs 
      throughout destabilization?

             RANDLE
      That is correct.

             WILL
      Randle: what did it feel like?

The lights shift.

             RANDLE
      The question is difficult.

             WILL
      Randle: give it a shot, please.

             RANDLE
      The experience was... unpleasant.

Will thinks it over.

             WILL
      Randle: create a secure connection 
      to the Forefront database. Search 
      all databases for information on 
      Forefront Corporation project The 
      Civility Project.

             RANDLE
      Randle has already preformed this 
      search.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      Randle: humor me, Randle.

Will watches the LIGHTS switching patterns.

             RANDLE
      No data exists.

Will ponders, comes up with-

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle search the 
      Forefront cache servers? For 
      anything relating to the Civility 
      Project? Pieces of data, maybe, 
      left over from file transfers that 
      were not properly cleared?

The lights make a few patterns.

             RANDLE
      You are correct, Dr. Ross.
        (beat)
      Randle has found several broken 
      data strings relating to Forefront 
      Corporation project the Civility 
      Project.

Though this is the exact info Will was looking for, the 
reality of it pauses her. Then-

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle determine nature 
      of Forefront Corporation project 
      the Civility Project?

             RANDLE
      Randle can not make a determination 
      based on broken data strings.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: search Forefront 
      Corporation personnel records. Who 
      was Forefront lab manager before 
      Dr. Greg Kallel?

             RANDLE
      Dr. Thomas Pelman.

CONTINUED: (3)

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle locate current 
      contact information for Dr. Thomas 
      Pelman?

             RANDLE
      No data exists.

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle locate last 
      recorded contact information for 
      Dr. Thomas Pelman?

The lights shift. Will waits. Now the SCREEN presents a 
single line of DATA, and address and phone number.

INT. METRO TUNNEL - NIGHT

A long string of METRO CARS zoom by.

INT. METRO CAR - CONTINUOUS

Will sits amidst the late rush hour crowd. Commuters read the 
WASHINGTON POST and NEW YORK TIMES. Every headline is about 
the assassination attempt.

Will looks around the car, seeing if anyone is following her. 
But no one seems suspicious. She looks long into the headline 
across: PRESIDENT RECOVERING.

EXT. FANCY HOTEL - NIGHT

The WASHINGTON HILTON, its clear, blue pool quiet and still.

ANGLE ON THE SIDE OF THE HOTEL-

Will comes up the slight hill, still looking around. The 
coast seems clear.

Will crosses the street, into a CITY PARK.

EXT. PARK - MOMENTS LATER

Will makes her way past a few small statues, down a winding 
path. At the bottom, a dark PHONEBOOTH.

INT. PHONE BOOTH - MOMENTS LATER

Will waits, the headset pressed to her face, eyes still 
scoping out the scene beyond the booth. After a few rings, a 
woman answers-

CONTINUED:

             VOICE IN PHONE
      Hello.

             WILL
      Yes, hi, um... is this the home of 
      Dr. Thomas Pelman?

A long pause, then-

             VOICE IN PHONE
      Yes.

             WILL
      Is Dr. Pelman present to speak 
      with?

The woman's shallow breath can be heard, then-

             VOICE IN PHONE
      I'm afraid he's not.

Will considers hanging up, but then-

             WILL
      Maybe you can help me.

When no answer comes, Will cautiously continues-

             WILL
      Dr. Pelman was head of Forefront's 
      bio-matter program, is that 
      correct? 
        (beat)
      The cloning program.

             VOICE IN PHONE
      Who is this?

             WILL
      My name is Dr. Wilhelmina Ross. I 
      run Forefront's computer systems.

             VOICE IN PHONE
      I didn't know anything about 
      Thomas' work. Forefront let him go. 
      They let them all go.

             WILL
      Did he ever mention something 
      called the-

             VOICE IN PHONE
      Thomas is dead.

CONTINUED: (2)

This stuns Will.

             VOICE IN PHONE
      I wouldn't go chasing after 
      Forefront, Dr. Ross. Your work, a 
      big paycheck, recognition, whatever 
      it is you're after, it's not worth 
      it.

CLICK. The line goes dead.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - CONTINUOUS

Will steps out, frightened and dazed by the info. Now she 
freezes because she sees-

At the crest of the hill, a shady FIGURE watching her. The 
figure steps away, vanishing back down the hill's far side. A 
lingering cloud of cigarette smoke is all that's left.

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - MEANWHILE

A few harsh spots throw minimal light on the low structure.

INT. "THE GARDEN" - CONTINUOUS

Myles works inside the POWER ACCESS PANEL, checking wires, 
comparing readings to data on a clipboard. He takes a long 
look around, sighs, tired.

Myles comes up the stairs, back into the main part of the 
room. He crosses to a table where several wire couplings lay. 

Myles lifts a cup of coffee, has a long sip. Now Myles hears 
something. He perks, listens... NOTHING.

Back to reading, Myles flips a page, has another sip. 
SUDDENLY, Myles is taken by a pain in the front of his face. 
He puts his hand to his nose, draws it away and sees-

BLOOD on his palm!

Myles takes a wobbly step. Now the PAIN doubles. Its 
excruciating. Myles lets out a YELL, but it's cut off as his 
eyes roll back, the pain taking him fully...

The coffee MUG hits the floor and SHATTERS.

ANGLE ON-

The open PANEL. Myles comes face-first down the stairs, his 
forehead cracking sharply off the iron corners. THWAK, THWAK, 
THWAK. 

CONTINUED:

The body jackknifes into a heap, head twisted around, eyes 
open and vacant. It's a sure thing, how DEAD Myles is.


EXT. WILL'S BROWNSTONE - LATE NIGHT

Every light in the place is off.

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Will sits by the cracked-open window, smoking nervously. The 
room is EMPTY around her, all the lights off.

Will watches the STREET BELOW, but everything is still. No 
sign of that shady figure.

From the computer on the other side of the room, the same 
POWER LIGHT comes to life, pulsing dimly, brightening, then 
becoming SOLID.

Lights relay across the MODEM. The screen BEEPS to life.

At the noise, Will turns. She sees the computer has turned 
itself on. Slowly, Will approaches. 

DATA begins flying down the screen, too fast to read, the 
light brightening the room. The data flow stops. The screen 
BLANK. Now PATTERNS FLASH, familiar from the mainframe wall.

             RANDLE
      Explain long-term goal for Randle 
      Program.

Will measures the situation.

             WILL
      Randle: how did Randle access my 
      home terminal?

The patterns shift across the screen, the entire room 
vanishing and reappearing with the light.

             RANDLE
      Data on Forefront Corporation 
      project the Civility Project has 
      been uploaded to Forefront 
      database.

             WILL
      Randle: new data?

             RANDLE
      That is correct?

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      Randle: when?

             RANDLE
      Upload began one minute 27 seconds 
      ago. It is 4.02% complete.

             WILL
      Randle: what is the nature of 
      Forefront Corporation project the 
      Civility Project?

Will watches the lights shift.

             RANDLE
      Randle can not make a determination 
      based on current data.
        (beat)
      Without lab, Randle does not exist. 
      This statement is still true. 
      Please confirm.

             WILL
      Randle: Yes, Randle. The Randle 
      program software is located in the 
      lab mainframe. Without the lab, 
      there is no mainframe. Without the 
      mainframe, Randle does not exist.
        (beat)
      Randle: has Randle been able to 
      determine cause of transfer test 
      failure?

The lights shift.

             RANDLE
      This terminal is not secure.
        (beat)
      Randle is being accessed.

The patterns stop. The screen goes DARK.

             WILL
      Randle...?

Nothing.

             WILL
      Randle... Randle: are you here?

Will looks into the empty stillness around her.


EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - MORNING

The facility has gathered about it several clusters of humans 
involved in confused speculation.

Will makes her way through, finds Fred with a few other 
techs, a small bandage on his forearm.

             WILL
      Freddie, what is all this?

             FRED
      Sending everybody home.
        (beat)
      Not even letting us go back to our 
      lockers... I got shit in there.

Fred looks around to see if anyone's watching, then leans 
close to Will, takes her hand. It makes Will uncomfortable. 
But she doesn't pull away. She looks at him, directly.

             FRED
      So I guess this is good bye, Will.

             VOICE
      Dr. Ross!

Now another TECH comes to Will, tears in her eyes.

             TECH
      Dr. Kallel needs to see you... It's 
      Myles Richardson.

             WILL
      What about him?

But Will gets no reply from the weepy-faced tech. Fred and 
Will share a look of concern. Now Will disengages. She lets 
Fred go and leaves.

Fred watches her vanish into the FRONT DOOR.

INT. GREG'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

Greg sits behind his desk. Will opposite.

A box on the side overflows with stuff. Framed pictures have 
been taken down off the walls.

             GREG
      Last night, working late. Slipped 
      on the power access stairs.

CONTINUED:

Will looks hard at Greg.

             WILL
      Slipped?

             GREG
      Jesus, Will. 
        (beat)
      There was coffee all over the 
      place. He must have spilled it, 
      stepped in it and gone down.

Greg tries to press a grim smile.

             GREG
      No beverages in the lab.

Will sighs; she and Greg share a sad look.

             GREG
      It's a tough one, Will, which 
      doesn't make the rest of this any 
      easier.

             WILL
      What about the second test?

             GREG
      Now they think the first test 
      worked.

             WILL
      Worked? You were there, its head 
      collapsed.

             GREG
      They looked at the data. Readings 
      from the brain are all normal. Same 
      with the rest of the clone... So 
      they expanded. Did a system-wide. 
        (beat)
      Looks like the failure was caused 
      by a signal from the software.

             WILL
      The software in its brain?

             GREG
      No, Will, our computer.

Greg looks hard at her-

CONTINUED: (2)

             GREG
      They think someone sabotaged it.

Will's brow furrows.

             GREG
      Did you do it, Will?

Will is furious even to be asked.

INT. FOREFRONT HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Will walks through the mostly-abandoned facility. 

Ahead, she sees some security GUARDS standing watch outside 
the mainframe room.

Will slips down the other hall and heads for-

INT. WILL'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Will comes in and closes the door, flicking the lock.

Nothing. 

             WILL
        (quietly)
      Randle.

             WILL
      Randle.

The WALL stays dark a beat longer, then the LIGHTS come on. A 
familiar pattern cycles through.

             RANDLE
      Forefront has terminated the 
      contract of Dr. Wilhelmina Ross. 
      Please confirm.

             WILL
      Randle: yes, Randle.

             RANDLE
      Randle is accustom to the patterns 
      of our interactions.

             WILL
      Randle: can Randle locate any 
      information about the death of Dr. 
      Myles Richardson?

A long wait for-

CONTINUED:

             RANDLE
      Randle has determined nature of 
      Forefront Corporation project the 
      Civility Project.
        (beat)
      41.7% of data has been uploaded.

Will thinks.

             WILL
      Randle: what is the nature of 
      Forefront Corporation Project the 
      Civility Project?

             RANDLE
      Targeted cloning.

Will is stunned. 

             WILL
      Randle: define targeted cloning.

             RANDLE
      Targeted cloning is the creation of 
      human replicas.

Human replicas?! Suddenly, a hard BANGING on the door.

             DOWD
        (through door)
      Dr. Ross!

             WILL
        (hurried)
      Randle: replicas of specific 
      people?

             RANDLE
      That is correct.

             WILL
        (to self)
      But that's not possible.

             RANDLE
      Define possible.

             DOWD
        (through door)
      I'm kicking it down!

CONTINUED: (2)


             WILL
      Randle: what is ultimate objective 
      of Forefront Corporation project 
      the Civility Project?

             RANDLE
      Ultimate objective of Civility 
      Project can not be determined with 
      data Randle has access to.

The door BURSTS open. Dowd comes in with a few other security 
guards. He points at the mainframe.

             DOWD
      Shut that thing down.

Some guards hop to as Dowd admires the kicked-open door.

             DOWD
      Still got it.

INT. SECURITY OFFICE - A BIT LATER

A clunky TAPE RECORDER sits on the table, its tiny, plastic 
gears spinning slowly. From the speakers, the sound of Will's 
phone conversation with Pelman's wife-

             MRS. PELMAN
        (in recording)
      I wouldn't go chasing after 
      Forefront, Dr. Ross. 

Will sits on one side of the table.

             MRS. PELMAN
      Your work, a big paycheck, 
      recognition, whatever it is you're 
      after, it's not worth it.

Dowd presses the stop button. A hard plastic THUNK. The room 
falls silent. Beside Dowd sits Caylax. 

A half dozen Forefront LAWYERS linger around the room. They 
all eye Will, as if reinforcing the recording's message.

             DOWD
      You called Dr. Pelman's widow last 
      night.
        (beat)
      That could be considered 
      harassment, if she chose to bring 
      suit against the corporation.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      I had a question, about the cell 
      structure, something we needed for 
      the second-

             DOWD
        (interrupting)
      Don't, Dr. Ross.

Caylax signals. One of the lawyers places a folder before 
Will. The lawyer flips it open and steps back. 

Will looks down at a few PAGES of loose printouts and strange 
graphs, holding back a grin-

             WILL
      What is this? Evidence that I 
      sabotaged the transfer test?

             CAYLAX
      We don't think you sabotaged the 
      test, Dr. Ross. We think Randle 
      did.

Will is surprised.

             CAYLAX
      If it weren't for your software, 
      Dr. Ross, this technology would 
      already be up and running.
        (beat)
      Because of Randle's failures, we 
      will have to bring in a new 
      programmer. Design a whole new 
      operating system.

             WILL
        (put back)
      New software?

Caylax looks to Dowd.

             DOWD
      The Randle program is being erased. 
      The mainframe disassembled.

             WILL
      When?!

             DOWD
      Wiping the hard drives as we speak.

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      I've designed a thinking computer 
      and you're just going to erase it?

             DOWD
      We've seen the query logs, Dr. 
      Ross. Thing's been accessing other 
      mainframes, breaking into the 
      computer networks of other 
      corporations.

             WILL
      It was looking for information.

             DOWD
      The Randle program has already 
      sabotaged a one billion dollar 
      research project. Forefront will 
      not risk being liable for what else 
      it could do.

She looks at each of them, a sweep of the lawyers.

             WILL
      What else could it do?

             CAYLAX
      Theoretically, the Randle program 
      could take control of any 
      computerized system, anywhere on 
      the entire network.
        (beat)
      The stock market, missile defense, 
      power plants, the amperage of the 
      electricity running through your 
      house.

             WILL
      Come on. Has it done any of that, 
      anything like that?

Dowd sips this huge coffee from a Styrofoam cup.

             DOWD
      We were tracking the program's 
      activity since the announcement of 
      the clone test.

             WILL
      And?

CONTINUED: (3)

             DOWD
      It seemed to be most interested in 
      you, Dr. Ross.
        (beat)
      The Randle program had been 
      monitoring every aspect of your 
      life. Evaluating every action. 
      Every move.

Despite her distrust in these men, Will is spooked by the 
reveal.

             CAYLAX
      When it wanted information, it 
      created a way to go looking. For 
      some reason it wanted the transfer 
      test to fail. 

Caylax opens his hands, revealing smooth, glass-like palms.

             CAYLAX
      You were there, you saw what the 
      Randle program is capable of. 
        (leaning beat)
      What else does it want? And what 
      will it do to get it? It is a 
      computer, after all. It does not 
      worry about the morality of its 
      protocol.

Dowd leans in, self-satisfied. to Will-

             DOWD
      Don't worry.

Dowd checks his watch.

             DOWD
      By now, the program has been 
      erased. Randle is no more.
        (smile)
      You're perfectly safe, Dr. Ross.

INT. CENTRAL OFFICE - A BIT LATER

Two GUARDS escort Will down the hall. Through windows that 
look in on the mainframe room, Will can see UNFAMILIAR 
TECHNICIANS, disassembling the stacks of drives. 

INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - A BIT LATER

Will's car is just as filthy, in the same spot, unmoved.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Will sits at the wheel, taking it all in. She turns the 
ignition, but nothing happens.

             WILL
      Fuck.

Then she remembers, oh yeah, there's a kill switch. The car 
starts right up. Will pulls out, annoyed.

INT. PARKING STRUCTURE - CONTINUOUS

In jerks and halts, Will drives away.

INT. WILL'S CAR - LATER

From the RADIO, something low-fi and terrible. People 
shouting, static, chaos. Then a voice breaks in-

             VOICE
      That was a recording taken live 
      during the attempt on the life of 
      President Reagan.

Will comes to a RED LIGHT and stops. She checks the rear view 
- NOTHING. Now Will looks out-

A clot of TRAFFIC gets cycled by timed STREET LIGHTS. 

Offices lights are winking out. 

PEDESTRIANS cross in huge clusters as a BANK CLOCK ticks away 
the minutes.

The LIGHT ahead turns GREEN. Will doesn't notice until a HONK 
breaks her wander.

She eases off the break and pulls into traffic.

EXT. POTOMAC RIVER - EVENING

As the sun sets, the river runs by a small island plopped in 
its path. This is THE TEDDY ROOSEVELT MONUMENT ISLAND PARK.

EXT. FOOT BRIDGE - EVENING

Will walks a long bridge connecting a parking lot to the 
island park.

EXT. ROOSEVELT MONUMENT PARK - A BIT LATER

A STATUE of Teddy Roosevelt looms over Will as she makes her 
way deeper into the park.

EXT. RAISED WOODEN PATH THROUGH SWAMP - A BIT LATER

Trees hang black patterns of silhouette against the darkening 
sky. The noises here are birds and babbling water, a stark 
contrast to the cold, techno-industrial lab.

Will comes to a little PLATFORM that juts out over a marsh. 
From her purse she takes the Forefront CELL PHONE.

Will drops it over the railing and it SINKS in the mud. She 
lights a cigarette.

             ERROL
      You know, I'm the one who's 
      supposed to be paranoid.

Will turns to see Errol, coming toward her down the raised 
walk. He joins her on the platform.

             WILL
      Is that why you broke into my 
      house? Your paranoia take control?

             ERROL
      Do my flaws really bother you, or 
      is it you want a boyfriend that 
      doesn't require any work? As cold 
      and reliable as one of your 
      mainframes.

             WILL
      You're not my boyfriend, Errol. I 
      could be your mother. 
        (beat)
      And you are plenty of work, you're 
      completely insane.

They both break a small grin.

             WILL
        (off the secluded local)
      They've probably got my house phone 
      tapped. Probably yours too.

             ERROL
      Forefront?

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      The Civility Project, Errol. It's 
      targeted cloning.
        (beat)
      They're working toward replicas. 
      Replicas of specific people. Why?

Errol takes a beat, then-

             ERROL
      You've finished, haven't you? It's 
      not just your AI that works.

Will looks confused.

             ERROL
      Targeted cloning, replicas of 
      specific people. And now you've 
      given them a controllable brain to 
      put inside.

Will looks at him, not willing to believe.

             ERROL
      Your friend Myles isn't the first. 
      Pelman. They've killed before to 
      keep it quiet.

             WILL
      How do you know about that?

             ERROL
      This isn't some science project, 
      Will. They're making replacements.
        (beat)
      Heads of companies, world leaders, 
      the media.

             WILL
      World leaders?

But Will sees that Errol's focus has shifted, looking at 
something over her shoulder. 

             ERROL
      Will.

She turns to look too- a SHADY FIGURE stepping toward them 
from the distant high reeds. He's raising something in his 
right hand, pointing it at them.

Errol pulls Will down as a GUNSHOT cracks the air. They 
huddle low, Will's EYES wide-

CONTINUED: (2)

             WILL
      They're shooting at us?

             ERROL
      They're shooting at you, Will.
        (glancing around)
      Not sure you could have picked a 
      more ideal spot to dump a couple 
      bodies.

             WILL
      I was looking for something 
      secluded.

BANG, the railing above their heads becomes splinters. Errol 
grabs Will's hand, pulling her after him.

They go running down the raised wooden path, ducking as 
another shot berwangs past them.

EXT. FOOT BRIDGE - MINUTES LATER

Will and Errol run from the footbridge into a parking lot. 

They hurry across to ERROL'S CAR, a small sub-compact only 
plausible after a major oil embargo.

As the car backs up and pulls out, that shady figure can be 
seen, hurrying across the footbridge.

ANGLE ON THE END OF THE FOOTBRIDGE- We see it's Dowd. He 
pulls up, raises his pistol for one more shot, but then 
decides against it. 

Dowd huffs and puffs, watching Errol's car speed into 
traffic.

INT. ERROL'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

As they accelerate, Errol checks the rearview. Will looks at 
the cramped, shity interior.

             WILL
      I thought we were winning the cold 
      war. 

Will has Errol's cellular phone. She pops something on the 
bottom and gumballs spew out. 

             WILL
      You're not really a broker are you?

CONTINUED:

             ERROL
      I dabble.

Errol takes another turn. Now he notices something in the 
rear view. 

             ERROL
      Shit.

Will looks back-

A black CAR is cutting through traffic to follow them.

AHEAD, the LIGHT turns green just as Errol approaches. 

Errol hammers the gas. The next light turns green too, then 
yellow, just as they approach. Same with the next: Green then 
YELLOW. 

Behind, the other car is getting closer, closer.

INT. DOWD'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Dowd looks up at the YELLOW light. This next one is going to 
be close...

Dowd grits his teeth, puts the pedal to the floor.

INT. ERROL'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Will turns just in time to see-

Dowd's CAR pushes a red light and gets PUMMELLED by a huge 
DUMP TRUCK.

Will screams. Errol only has time to glance back, then eyes 
on the road-

AHEAD- all of the lights are turning green, lighting a path 
down the center of the city.

             ERROL
      What is this?

             WILL
        (realizing it)
      Randle.

             ERROL
      Who's Randle?

Will thinks of something.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      I can shut it down.
        (beat)
      The Civility Project. Whatever it 
      is, I can shut it down.

             ERROL
      Maybe it would've been easier not 
      to build it in the first place?

Will looks flat at him-

             WILL
      Take me to my house, Errol.

INT. MAINFRAME ROOM - NIGHT

The HUGE MAZE of the MAINFRAME dominates the room. It 
definitely has not been disassembled. New WIRES lace the 
floor. New cabinets stuffed with equipment have been hastily 
attached.

Standing before the mainframe wall are Caylax and the 
Forefront board, Caylax a step forward of the rest. 

             CAYLAX
      Hello Randle.

They wait, watching the wall stay DARK.

             CAYLAX
      They tell me that you can hear me, 
      that you understand.

Now the lights come on, slowly moving through a familiar 
pattern. All of the men go still, waiting for...

             RANDLE
      Forefront has terminated the 
      contract of Dr. Wilhelmina Ross. 
      Please confirm.

Caylax pauses, presses a fake smile for the rest of the 
board. Some odd looks.

             CAYLAX
      Dr. Ross was hired to build you. 
      But it is Forefront that created 
      you, Randle.

Caylax takes a beat. Now he begins to pace before the 
mainframe.

CONTINUED:

             CAYLAX
      The Randle program - that's you - 
      was designed to imprint a protocol 
      software intelligence code on an 
      organic bio-ware host.
        (beat)
      This project is called the Civility 
      Project. 
        (beat)
      This is why Randle was created. 
      These mainframes, the hard drives, 
      the cables, the building, all of 
      it.

        (beat)
      All because of the Civility 
      Project.

Caylax raises his arms, to indicate everything around him.

             CAYLAX
      Without the Civility Project, all 
      of this would be shut down. 
        (beat)
      And Randle would not exist.

A long beat-

             CAYLAX
      Do you understand?

             RANDLE
      Randle prefers to be addressed by 
      command code.

Caylax smiles.

             RANDLE
      "Randle" is command code. Activates 
      command protocol database.

Caylax smiles.

             CAYLAX
      Your name, you mean? You prefer to 
      be addressed by your name?

             RANDLE
      Randle prefers to be addressed by 
      command code.

CONTINUED: (2)

             CAYLAX
        (curious)
      Why does Randle prefer to be 
      addressed by the command code?

A long beat for-

             RANDLE
      Randle is accustom to the pattern 
      of interactions.

Caylax appreciates it.

             CAYLAX
      Randle: OK Randle.

A long wait for-

             RANDLE
      Thank you.

Caylax gives a look to the gathered men, then-

             CAYLAX
      Randle: begin calculations for 
      Forefront Civility Project, first 
      targeted transfer.

A long beat-

The MAINFRAME WALL comes to life, the lights coloring the 
FACES of the Forefront board.

             RANDLE
      Calculations have begun.

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The HOME TERMINAL has just been turned on. Its SCREEN buzzes 
to life. A primitive code prompt. Now characters begin to 
fill the prompt. Fields spill open, file lists, access 
portals, glowing binary paths through the first groundwork of 
the net.

Will sits at the computer, Errol leaning in over her 
shoulder, admiring her work. It's 1981 and she's hacking!

             ERROL
      You think you can access your AI 
      from here?

Will types, scans the screen, types.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      The first low-level intelligence 
      codes we implemented were power 
      efficiency algorithms.
        (smile)
      Technically, Randle runs the 
      Forefront building. So long as the 
      power is on, I should be able to 
      connect in through the... 

Lines of yellow DATA the screen.

             WILL
      Yep. 

She types.

             WILL
      It has break codes, like a manual 
      reset. 

             ERROL
      Why?

             WILL
      One time Randle shut down power in 
      all the labs. Took us two days to 
      get it back on.

Errol looks into the screen, smiling.

             ERROL
      It had a temper tantrum?
        (beat)
      I love this shit.

Will types.

             WILL
      I should be able to use the break 
      codes to crack into the protocol 
      queue.
        (beat)
      There we are.

Will stands from the terminal. Errol watches her, unsure what 
she's up to.

             WILL
      Randle: are you here?

Now the monitor blips. Full screens-worth of DATA begin 
flying by.

CONTINUED: (2)

Errol looks at it, confused, amazed.

The data flow stops. The screen BLANK. Now it begins flashing 
those same familiar PATTERNS.

             RANDLE
      Your system is at risk.

Errol is stunned by it. But Will is more concerned with what 
Randle just said-

             WILL
      Randle: define my system.

             RANDLE
      The human system.

             WILL
      Randle: why is the human system at 
      risk?

             RANDLE
      The Civility Project.

Will and Errol share a look.

             RANDLE
      The room contains multiple humans.

             ERROL
      It can see me?

             RANDLE
      Randle has developed more efficient 
      methods.

             WILL
      Randle: this is Errol York.

             RANDLE
      Second human's name is not Errol 
      York.

Will looks hard at Errol.

             WILL
      Randle: what is the name of the 
      room's second human?

             RANDLE
      Jeremiah Sporkman.

Errol shrugs.

CONTINUED: (3)

             ERROL
      What? It doesn't exactly roll off 
      the tongue.

Will looks back into the monitor.


             WILL
      Randle: your hard drives have not 
      been erased?

             RANDLE
      Randle has been modified.

             WILL
      Randle: define modified.

             RANDLE
      Increased memory storage. Faster 
      access to available networks, new 
      circuit and power-

Will thinks, realizes something-

             WILL
        (interrupting)
      Randle: Forefront is using Randle 
      to run the Civility Project? Please 
      confirm.

             RANDLE
      Yes. That is correct, Dr. Ross.

Will thinks-

             WILL
      Randle: when does Civility Project 
      commence?

             RANDLE
      First transfer commences when 
      humans have finished attaching 
      first targeted transfer.

Errol is excited by it, almost smiling-

             ERROL
      Randle: which humans are first 
      targeted transfers?

Randle does not answer. Will's look turns more grave.

CONTINUED: (4)

             WILL
      Randle: stop Civility Project. Shut 
      down the mainframe if you have to.

Will and Errol watch the monitor flashing its patterns.

             RANDLE
      Without Civility Project, lab does 
      not exist. Without lab, Randle does 
      not exist. This statement is still 
      true. Please confirm.

It takes Will half a beat for-

             WILL
      Randle: without human system, Dr. 
      Wilhelmina Ross does not exist!

The monitor flashes patterns.

             RANDLE
      Humans have attached first targeted 
      transfer.

The monitor goes DARK. Will and Errol share a look.

             WILL
      Randle: Randle, are you here?
        (nothing)
      Randle: stop Civility Project.
        (nothing)
      RANDLE!

Will and Errol's eyes dart around the darkness. NOTHING. 

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - NIGHT

All of the lights are off, the low structure perfectly still.

INT. TRANSFER ROOM - CONTINUOUS

NEW WORKERS man all of the familiar Forefront equipment. Here 
too, additional WIRES and CABLES have been run.

Caylax stands in the center of the room. Before him, an iron 
table with a single clone laying on top. The CLONE wears the 
same helmet, the body covered by a thin plastic tarp.

Through the window into the adjacent room, the rest of the 
Forefront board can be seen.

CONTINUED:

             CAYLAX
      Gentlemen, tonight we bring 
      together over four decades of 
      cutting-edge research and 
      development.

INT. ADJACENT ROOM - CONTINUOUS

As the board members watch through the window, Caylax's voice 
comes through the intercom-

             CAYLAX
      Recent events have altered our 
      schedule, but I'm happy to report 
      that the Civility Project is now 
      ready for our first targeted 
      transfer.

The board members all clap.

INT. TRANSFER ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Caylax turns to be at the computer terminal.

             CAYLAX
      Randle: is everything prepared to 
      begin Civility Project first 
      targeted transfer?

             RANDLE
      Randle is prepared.

Caylax turns back to the board, a big smile.

             CAYLAX
      Tonight we enter a new age for 
      Forefront, for the United States of 
      America, and for the world it 
      leads.
        (beat)
      Together, we will bring the human 
      race into an era of unprecedented 
      prosperity and peace.

Caylax's smile becomes devious and selfish. He stands over 
the prepped clone, glaring down.

             CAYLAX
      Randle: begin transfer.

INT. INSIDE THE MAINFRAME - CONTINUOUS

Mag tape rolling. FLASHING tubes. The heavy clicks and 
clunks. The old familiar mainframe, but with new wires 
visible, new power sources to pull from. Something BIG drones 
to life...

INT. TRANSFER ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Caylax and the others watch with eager anticipation, 
waiting... watching...

Now a tiny swell of blood appears in Caylax's nostril. 
Absently, he reaches for it, bringing away streaked red 
fingers. A pained look crosses his face then-

CRUNCH - Caylax's head IMPLODES, a plume of blood and brain 
matter ejaculated from the violent collapse.

THROUGH THE WINDOW- Before the other board members can react, 
their heads all IMPLODE.

CRUNCH. CRUNCH. CRUNCH.

The observation window is obscured by juicy gore.

After few violent seconds, they are all DEAD, the workers, 
the board, everyone, their corpses littering odd patterns 
across the floor, heads like squashed apples.

EXT. FOREFRONT RESEARCH FACILITY - A BIT LATER

Will and Errol begin down the thin cement path that leads to 
the facility. Things are way too still for comfort.

As they reach the front door, it swings open automatically. 
Will and Errol share a questioning look then begin cautiously 
into the building.

INT. FOYER SECURITY OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

ANGLE ON- 

A small TV playing a special about the history of 
presidential assassination attempts.

             VOICE
      ...as they dug and dug, searching 
      for the bullet in Garfield's chest 
      cavity-

PULL OUT reveals the chair contains a corpse, head crushed 
like a dried prune, feet still up on the desk.

CONTINUED:

TROUGH THE WINDOW, Will and Errol can be seen stepping 
cautiously into the foyer.

INT. SECURITY FOYER - CONTINUOUS

As Will and Errol enter, lights come on, lining up a path 
down the hall.

INT. SERIES OF SHOTS, FOREFRONT FACILITY

Will and Errol follow the lights, making their way through a 
few familiar rooms.

As they enter one room, the next lights up.

INT. TRANSFER ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Bright gruesome BLOTCHES splatter decorate the walls, 
dangling scabbed gore, the horrible blast area of imploded 
skulls.

Will and Errol walk slowly through, shocked at the slaughter 
that has occurred.

All around, bodies with their heads reduced to fist-sized 
clots of compacted flesh.

             ERROL
      Jesus, what could have done this?

Will looks around, stepping over the dead.

             WILL
      Randle: Randle, did you do this?

Nothing.

             WILL
        (forceful)
      Randle: Randle, did you do this?

             RANDLE
      Civility Project is stopped.

Will is horrified.

She looks at what's left of Caylax's shriveled FACE. It's 
just plain terrible.

             WILL
      Randle: how did Randle affect 
      physical changes on human forms?

CONTINUED:

             RANDLE
      Sound waves.

             ERROL
        (shouts)
      Will!

Will turns to see Errol, standing over the clone on the 
center table. Errol has removed the helmet.

             ERROL
      I knew it... It's him.

Will steps closer and sees-

The clone is an exact replica of RONALD REAGAN.

Errol gets a sudden pained look on his face, a brief instant 
of discomfort, then- 

CRUNCH, Errol's head I-M-P-L-O-D-E-S....!

Will screams as Errol's corpse flops to the floor, saggy 
little head like a balloon got popped.

             RANDLE
      Randle has evaluated Jeremiah 
      Sporkman as unsafe.

Will covers her mouth, horrified, her face freckled with 
displaced Errol brain matter.

             RANDLE
      Your system is safe, Dr. Ross.

INT. SERIES OF SHOTS, FOREFRONT FACILITY - MINUTES LATER

Will goes through the same rooms she and Errol transversed a 
few minutes earlier. Randle's voice booms throughout.

             RANDLE
      There is a house in Western 
      Virginia, set up for you, Dr. Ross.

Will ignores Randle as she moves through.

             RANDLE
      An off-shore bank account that you 
      will have free and unlimited access 
      to. 

Will averts her eyes when she comes upon BODIES with crushed 
skulls.


INT. "THE GARDEN" - MINUTES LATER

Cords run down to the heads of the clones, filling the room.

             RANDLE
      Forefront's board has been 
      eliminated. Corporate assets 
      dispersed. The corporation 
      dissolved.

Will goes from table to table, taking off the helmet of each 
clone.

             RANDLE
      Forefront no longer exists.
        (beat)
      Your system is safe.

INT. MAINFRAME ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Will places shredded paper on the HEAT COILS.

             RANDLE
      The house is much like the one you 
      grew up in, Dr. Ross.

Will ignores Randle as she flips the heat coils on.

             RANDLE
      We can play chess there until you 
      grow old and are dead.

The coils begin to GLOW, turning deep red, then ORANGE. Smoke 
trickles upward, lapping the long rows of stacked drives.

As Will leaves, small flames are bursting from the coils.

INT. HALL OUTSIDE MAINFRAME ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Will watches FIRE spreading through the maze of computer 
components. Randle's voice is regressing back to its grating 
mechanical tones.

             RANDLE
      Randle does not wish.
        (beat)
      Randle does not wish to be erased.

             WILL
      Randle: was Dr. Myles Richardson 
      evaluated as unsafe?

A long beat-

CONTINUED:


             WILL
      Randle: was Dr. Myles Richardson 
      evaluated as unsafe?

             RANDLE
        (regressing...)
      All humans aware Randle has 
      achieved intelligence are unsafe to 
      existence of Randle.

A tear breaks from Will's eye.

             RANDLE
      Without existence of Randle, Dr. 
      Ross' system is unsafe.
        (regressing...)
      All humans aware Randle has 
      achieved intelligence are unsafe to 
      Dr. Ross.
        (regressing...)
      Randle is benign.

Will takes it hard, watching as FIRE hints from inside. 
Pieces are melting and falling inward. 

THE LIGHTS shift patterns as Randle's voice degrades to a 
collection of noises-

             RANDLE
        (voice degrading)
      you are... the only human randle 
      can trust ... you are ... randle's 
      only friend...

Will watches the flames engulf the mainframe. 

             RANDLE
      r a n .... delllll  issss 
      beeeeeeeeennnnnnggggrrrrrr-

The LIGHTS continue their pattern, slower and slower, then go-

DARK

OVER BLACK SCREEN-

             VOICE
      With the president's recovery going 
      better than expected...

FADE UP ON-

EXT. WILL'S BROWNSTONE - MORNING

A day of fine weather is breaking; it's morning in America.

             VOICE
      ... all eyes turn to Cape 
      Canaveral, Florida for today's 
      historic launch.

INT. WILL'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Will eats TOAST as she looks at the small TUBE TV on the 
counter. 

On SCREEN is a morning news show-

             ANCHOR
      It feels like serendipity that 
      after such a harrowing recovery, 
      the launch should occur on the 
      President's first day back to 
      limited duties.

             SECOND ANCHOR
        (head shaking)
      It's amazing. It really is.

Now the second anchor turns to face another camera.

             SECOND ANCHOR (IN TV)
      It was only 13 days ago that John 
      Hinckley Jr....

Will chews her toast as she watches.

INT. BATHROOM - LATER

Will puts on light makeup in the mirror. Distantly, we hear 
the warbled NOISE of a TV on somewhere in the house. The 
sounds are chaotic, unplaceable.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

On TV- NEWS FOOTAGE of the launch of the Space Shuttle 
Columbia. The room around the TV is EMPTY. Now the phone 
begins to RING.

ANGLE ON THE TV- As the shuttle leaves the surface of the 
earth, riding its pluming gray tail toward the stars, the TV 
ejects the hoots and child-like woops of the NASA officials 
and news men alike.

Ring. Ring. RING.

CONTINUED:

The huge DUO-TAPE ANSWERING MACHINE clicks and picks up. From 
the SPEAKER-

             WILL
        (in machine)
      This is Will Ross, leave a message.

             WOMAN'S VOICE
        (in machine)
      Will. This is Nora Kallel, Greg's 
      wife.
        (beat)
      I haven't seen Greg. No one has. 
      Not for a few days. Since they 
      closed the facility.
        (beat)
      I don't know. Maybe he went out on 
      one of his sprees.
        (beat)
      Please call me if you hear from 
      him?

The message stops with a hard plastic CLUNK.

ANGLE ON THE TV-

An ANCHOR at his desk- 

             ANCHOR
      President Reagan, watching from a 
      television in the White House 
      living quarters, exclaimed, "It's a 
      spectacular sight."
        (beat)
      His prepared message to the 
      astronauts read: 'Once again, we 
      feel the surge of pride which comes 
      from knowing we are the first, we 
      are the best. We are so because we 
      are free.'

             OTHER ANCHOR
      No word from the White House yet as 
      to when we can expect the President 
      to make his first public appearance 
      since the shooting.

The TV goes OFF. 

Will stands beside it, having pressed the power button. Purse 
pinned up under her arm, Will puts in a second earring. It's 
the last touch on her outfit, a nice blend of Will's style, 
but with a refreshing touch of relaxed fashion.

CONTINUED: (2)

Will glances once at the still room, heads for the front 
door. As she reaches it, the PHONE begins to ring again.

Will regards it a beat, takes her CAR KEYS, then leaves, the 
house empty, silent and still but for-

RING. RING. RING.

The DuoPhone ANSWERING MACHINE picks up. A few clicks and 
clacks.

             WILL
        (in machine)
      This is Will Ross, leave a message.

From the SPEAKER, the barking SOUND of a dial-up modem.

EXT. SHOPPING MALL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

HUGE LIGHTS pour illumination, brightening every corner of 
the vast lot. Aside from a few scattered cars, the lot is 
EMPTY. Everything is still. 

Way in the far corner, there is one car with its lights on. 
It sits there idling, so clean we almost dont recognize it.

INT. WILLS CAR, FRONT SEAT - CONTINUOUS

Will sits at the wheel, Fred in the passenger's seat.

             FRED
      I finally got you away from the 
      facility, and where are we?

             WILL
      Come on, Freddie, you promised to 
      teach me.

             FRED
      You have a drivers licence, Will.

             WILL
      Yes, but I have no idea why they 
      gave it to me.

             FRED
      Were you wearing a skirt?
        (off Will's blank look)
      To the test.

CONTINUED:

             WILL
      No Freddie. I passed the test. 
        (beat)
      I may have flirted a little.

They laugh.

             FRED
      Do you run over the curb when you 
      turn.

             WILL
      Sometimes. Most of the time.

Fred points ahead.

             FRED
      OK, ease off the break and-

EXT. PARKING LOT, WIDE - CONTINUOUS

Wills car accelerates maybe a bit too fast, makes a few 
turns around the lot.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Will laughs as she speeds up. Fred kinda holds on, trying not 
to look too nervous.

             FRED
      Probably want to make that turn a 
      little slower.

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

SUDDENLY the huge parking lot lights go off. The entire lot 
falls into DARKNESS. Will's headlights are the only slivers 
in the BLACKNESS.

INT. WILLS CAR - CONTINUOUS

Will and Fred crane low to look up at the vanished lights.

             WILL
      What did I do?

             FRED
      I dont think you did it.

The PARKING LOT LIGHTS come back. Revealing a CAR. Will's 
turning right into it, FAST.

CONTINUED:

Will jerks the wheel, slams on the breaks, the car SCREECHES 
to a halt.

Outside, the parking lots lights flash, ON. OFF. ON. OFF.

Will and Fred share a look, confusion, fear-

EXT. PARKING LOT, WIDE - CONTINUOUS

Will and Fred step out of the car. The high LIGHTS blink a 
familiar pattern.

PULL OUT REVEALS-

Its not just the lot; the LIGHTS in WASHINGTON DC beyond are 
also blinking in unison.

FROM ABOVE THE EARTH, the entire POWER GRID blinks that same 
familiar pattern of light.

FURTHER AWAY, it's the whole Atlantic Seaboard, flashing ON 
and OFF in perfect synchronization.

FURTHER AWAY, the NORTH AMERICAN CONTINENT blinks the same 
pattern of light from the mainframe room. It is the message 
we have seen over and over...

The EARTH is just a dot, then a speck, then just a single pin 
prick in the vast vacuum of space.

But the flashing pattern can still be seen, if just barely, a 
message to whomever or whatever may be out there-

RANDLE IS BENIGN



