INT. - A TELEVISION SET

-tuned to a DOCUMENTARY. As an old fashioned World GLOBE 
rotates in a sea of clouds, the EIFFEL TOWER slowly comes 
into view over the horizon, dwarfing FRANCE underneath it.

             T.V. NARRATOR
      Although each of the worlds 
      countries would like to dispute 
      this fact, we French know the 
      truth; the best food in the World 
      is made in France. The best food in 
      France is made in Paris, and the 
      best food in Paris, some say, is 
      made by Chef Auguste Gusteau. 

We see images of GUSTEAU: cooking, signing his cookbook, in 
front of his famous restaurant. Gusteau is in his early 
forties, but his massive girth makes him look older. 

             T.V. NARRATOR (CONTD)
      Gusteaus restaurant is the toast 
      of Paris, booked five months in 
      advance, and his dazzling ascent to 
      the top of Fine French Cuisine has 
      made his competitors envious. He is 
      the youngest Chef ever to achieve a 
      five star rating. Chef Gusteaus 
      cookbook Anyone Can Cook! has 
      climbed to the top of the best-
      seller list. But not everyone 
      celebrates its success. 

A tall, gaunt, severe-looking MAN with fish-belly white skin 
appears on the TV screen. SUPER: ANTON EGO-FOOD CRITIC. 
Beneath that, in italics, is his moniker: The Grim Eater.

             EGO
      Amusing title, Anyone Can Cook. 
      Whats even more amusing is that 
      Gusteau actually seems to believe 
      it. I, on the other hand, take 
      cooking seriously and no-- I dont 
      think anyone can do it... 

TITLES (OVER BLACK): 

The SOUND of wind rattling barren branches...

         WALT DISNEY PICTURES PRESENTS 

                A PIXAR FILM


                                      2.
...and we FADE IN to reveal:

EXT. - FRENCH COUNTRYSIDE - LATE AFTERNOON

A light rain falls on a SMALL FARMHOUSE. The last remaining 
dead leaves tremble in the gusts. The quiet is shattered by a 
LOUD GUNSHOT that lights up the inside of the cottage. CAMERA 
pushes down and in toward a single window.

                RATATOUILLE

As we move closer, we begin to hear muffled SOUNDS OF 
STRUGGLE; furniture being bumped, dishes breaking, an 
indescribable CRASH, followed by an OLD LADYS SHRIEK.

Were close to the WINDOW now, when it is suddenly SHATTERED 
by a COOKBOOK. Instantly the action FREEZES.

Underneath its splayed pages, shielding himself from the 
shards of splintering glass is, inexplicably, a RAT-

-REMY. Hes scrawny, frightened, almost comic. Its hard not 
to feel sympathetic towards the little guy.

             REMY (V.O.)
      This is me. I think its apparent I 
      need to rethink my life a little 
      bit. Whats my problem? First of 
      all--

EXT. - OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE - DUSK - WEEKS EARLIER

A SILHOUETTE darts out from behind a wooden barrel, pausing 
upright against a blood red sky. Mangy, sinister, the 
opposite of Remy. This is how most humans see RATS.

             REMY (V.O., CONT'D)
      --Im a rat. Which means life is 
      hard. 

Assured the coast is clear, the SINISTER RAT scampers out 
into the yard, followed by DOZENS MORE RATS. The RATS move 
across the expanse of grass toward a COMPOST HEAP, which sits 
in the middle of a field under the darkening sky. 

Resourceful and well coordinated, the rats grab bits of 
decomposing food and carry it off. REMY is among them, 
drearily going through garbage. 


                                      3.
             REMY (V.O.)
      And secondly-- I have a highly 
      developed sense of taste and smell.

Suddenly he catches a SCENT; which leads him to uncover a 
nearly untouched piece of PASTRY, a discarded NAPOLEON.

             REMY
        (sniffing Napoleon)
      Flour, eggs, sugar, vanilla bean, 
      small twist of lemon...

The Napoleon suddenly erupts, and out pops Remys pudgy 
brother EMILE, covered in cream and completely oblivious to 
the destruction hes wrought. 

             EMILE
      You can smell all that? Wow. You 
      have a gift.

Again the ACTION FREEZES.

             REMY (V.O.)
      This is Emile. My brother. Hes 
      easily impressed.

RESUME ACTION: An older rat, DJANGO, comes into view. He 
snorts dismissively, plucks an APPLE CORE from the compost.

             DJANGO
      So you can smell ingredients. So 
      what? 

             REMY (V.O.)
      This is my Dad. Hes never 
      impressed. He also happens to be 
      the leader of our clan. 

Remy catches another scent and FROWNS; this new scent is 
different somehow, wrong. He follows the scent to Django--

             REMY (V.O.)
      So whats wrong with having highly 
      developed senses? 

Django is about to eat the APPLE CORE when Remy lunges at 
him, snatching the core from his hands. 

             REMY
      Whoa whoa whoa! DONT EAT THAT!!


                                      4.
INT. - SHED - MINUTES LATER

Still holding the APPLE CORE, Remy sniffs the air, following 
a scent to a tarp in the corner. He lifts it, REVEALING: a 
can of RAT POISON. The other rats REACT. Djangos impressed.

             REMY (V.O.)
      Turns out that funny smell was rat 
      poison. Suddenly Dad didnt think 
      my talent was useless. I was 
      feeling pretty good about my gift. 
      Until Dad gave me a job--

EXT. - FARMHOUSE - COMPOST PILE - DAY

A line of rats file past REMY, holding up rotted scraps of 
food so that each one passes under his nose. 

             REMY (V.O.,CONT)
      --thats right-- poison checker.

As Remy sniffs with all the gusto of a lifelong DMV employee, 
the line shuffles forward with each clean.

             REMY
        (sniffs before each one)
      Clean... clean... clean-erino... 
      cleaneriffic... close to Godliness--

The rat under inspection stands there, unsure as to whether 
or not hes been approved. 

             REMY (CONTD)
      --which means clean. You know-- 
      Cleanliness is... close to--? 
        (no response)

Remy waits, expecting the rat to get his joke. Beat.

             REMY (CONTD)
      ...never mind. Move on...

The rat moves on. Remy rolls resumes his bored inspection.

INT. - INSIDE ATTIC - LATE AFTERNOON

Django & Remy stand on a beat-up chair, overlooking the rat 
clan as they go about their day. 


                                      5.
             REMY (V.O.)
      Well, it made my Dad proud.

             DJANGO
      Now dont you feel better, Remy? 
      Youve helped a noble cause.

             REMY
      Noble? Were thieves, Dad. And what 
      were stealing is-- lets face it, 
      garbage.

             DJANGO
      It isnt stealing if no one wants 
      it.

             REMY
      If no one wants it, why are we 
      stealing it? 

They continue to quarrel. Its clear this is an old argument.

             REMY (V.O.)
      Lets just say we have different 
      points of view. 

INT. - ATTIC - NIGHT  

Django and Emile are gobbling up an assortment of RUBBISH, 
which is in fact dinner. REMY watches them, appalled. He 
looks down at his own plate in disgust. 

             REMY (V.O., CONTD)
      This much I knew: if you are what 
      you eat, then I only want to eat 
      the good stuff. 

He pushes the rotted food away. Django reacts.

             REMY (V.O.)
      But to my Dad--

             DJANGO
      Food is fuel. You get picky about 
      what you put in the tank, your 
      engine is gonna die. Now shut up 
      and eat your garbage.

             REMY
      If were going to be thieves, why 
      not steal the good stuff in the 
      kitchen? Where nothing is poisoned.


                                      6.
             DJANGO
      First of all; we are NOT thieves. 
      Secondly; Stay out of the kitchen 
      and away from the humans. Its 
      dangerous. 

EXT. - OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE - DUSK

Remy watches the farmhouse, drawn to the warm light and the 
sounds emanating from inside.

             REMY (V.O.)
      I know Im supposed to hate humans. 
      But theres something about them...

INT. - FARMHOUSE - KITCHEN

Remy carefully sneaks into the kitchen. 

             REMY (V.O., CONT)
      ...they dont just survive, they 
      discover, they create. Just look at 
      what they do with food.

The TV is tuned to the same show we saw in the opening. CHEF 
GUSTEAU is cooking, speaking to the camera. Remy watches.

             GUSTEAU (ON T.V.)
      Good food is like music you can 
      taste, color you can smell. There 
      is excellence all around you. You 
      need only be aware to stop and 
      savor it.

Remy notices a leftover plate of FRUITS & CHEESES. He picks 
up a small slice of cheese and takes a bite. 

             REMY (V.O.)
      Gusteau was right. Each flavor was 
      totally unique. 

As Remy closes his eyes his surroundings FADE TO BLACK. A 
amorphus COLORED SHAPE appears above his head accompanied by 
a cello bass line.

             REMY (V.O., CONT)
      Oh, yeah. Amazing. But... combine 
      one flavor with another--

Cheese still in his mouth, Remy takes a bite of the 
STRAWBERRY. 


                                      7.
             REMY (CONTD)
      -and something new was created.

New COLORED SHAPES and musical signatures appear; swirling 
and dancing in harmony with the others. 

A light SNAPS ON, breaking the spell. The OLD LADY has 
awakened. Remy drops the food and scampers away. 

EXT. - FIELD - DAY

Remy follows a pleasant scent in the air. It leads him to a 
beautiful MUSHROOM.

             REMY (V.O.)
      So now I had a secret life. The 
      only one who knew about it was 
      Emile.

EXT. - BEHIND THE FARM HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Emile is atop a full garbage can, rooting around under the 
lid. Remy calls up from the tall grass below.

             REMY
      Emile! Psst- hey, Emile--!

Emile looks up, holding the remains of a brown-bag lunch.

             REMY
        (giddy)
      Look! I found a mushroom! Come on, 
      youre good at hiding food, help me 
      find a good place to put this!

EXT. - GRASSY FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON

Remy and Emile walk together; Emile on all fours, dragging 
the enormous bag he grips between his teeth, while Remy walks 
upright, carefully cradling his mushroom.

             REMY (V.O.)
      He doesnt under-stand me, but I 
      can be myself around him...

             EMILE
      Why are you walking like that? 


                                      8.
             REMY
      I dont want to constantly have to 
      wash my paws. Do you ever think 
      about how we walk on the same paws 
      that we handle food with? Do you 
      ever think about what we put into 
      our mouths??

             EMILE
      All the time.

             REMY
        (he shudders)
      When I eat, I dont want to taste 
      everywhere my paws have been. 

             EMILE
      Well, okay. But if Dad sees you 
      walking like that... hes not gonna 
      like it.

Remy SNIFFS Emiles BAG. His eyes LIGHT UP.

             REMY
      What have you got there? 

He disappears into the bag, RIFLES through it, emerging with--

             REMY
      Cheese?? You found CHEESE? And not 
      just any cheese- Tomme De Chevre de 
      Pays! That would go beautifully 
      with my mushroom!! And! And and and- 

He sniffs the air, quickly finds a plant nearby. He PLUCKS it 
from the ground, his excitement growing by the second.

             REMY (CONTD)
      --this rosemary!! With, maybe with-- 

He grabs a paw full of grass from the ground, tasting the 
milky base. Smiling, he squeezes a few drops on the mushroom.

             REMY (CONTD)
      -a few drops from this sweet grass!

             EMILE
      Well... throw it on the pile I 
      guess, and well--

             REMY
      We dont want to throw this in with 
      the garbage! This is special! 


                                      9.
             EMILE
      But we gotta return to the colony 
      before sundown or Dads gonna--

             REMY
      Emile! There are possibilities 
      unexplored here. Weve gotta cook 
      this! Now, exactly how we cook this 
      is the real questi--

Remy STOPS, his gaze locking on the SMOKING CHIMNEY atop the 
farmhouse roof. He GRINS.

             REMY (CONTD)
      --ooooohh yeah. Come on!

EXT. - ROOFTOP - LATER

Remy has skewered the mushroom and cheese onto part of the TV 
antennae, which he has bent over the smoking chimney top, 
hand turning it like a rotisserie.

             REMY
      The key is to keep turning it, get 
      the smoky flavor nice and even...

Lightning flickers in the far distance, followed a moment 
later by a RUMBLE of thunder. Emile watches, concerned.

             EMILE
      That storms getting closer. Hey, 
      you think that maybe we shouldnt--

KRAAAK!!! A BOLT OF LIGHTNING hits the TV antennae-- knocking 
both rats off the rooftop. They make a LONG FALL, landing 
with a THUD into a the soft dirt. 

Miraculously, Remy and Emile are alive, their smoking fur 
sticks out in an electrified frazzle. Remy holds the rod up, 
keeping the cheesy mushroom-- now transformed by lightning 
into an amazing, puffed out shape-- completely clean.

             REMY
        (moaning)
      Whoaaa... ohhh...
        (idly bites mushroom)
      ...ohmmmmmnnn you gotta taste 
      this!!! Its got this kind of-- 
        (smacks lips)
      --burny, melty-- its not really a 
      smoky flavor, its a certain-- its 
      kind of like a--
             (MORE)


                                      10.
             REMY (cont'd)
        (makes a sound effect)
      --its got a--
        (sound effect)
      --kind of taste, dont you think? 
      What would you call that flavor?

             EMILE
      Lightning-y?

             REMY
      Yeah! Its LIGHTNING-Y! Weve gotta 
      do that AGAIN! Okay. When the next 
      storm comes well go up on the roof-

Remys eyes suddenly go BLANK with a pre-emptive thought. 

             REMY
      I KNOW WHAT THIS NEEDS! Saffron! a 
      little saffron would MAKE THIS!

       EMILE
Saffron. Why do I get the 
feeling--

REMY & EMILE
(together)
--its in the kitchen. 

INT. - FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - MINUTES LATER

Emile frets, looking nervously at the old lady, still fast 
asleep in front of the TV. Remy RUMMAGES through her spices.

             REMY
      Saffron... saffron... hmn...

             EMILE
      Not good. Dont like it. Shes 
      gonna wake up.

             REMY
      Ive been down here a million 
      times. She turns on the cooking 
      channel-- boom. Never wakes up.

             EMILE
      Youve been here a million times??

             REMY
        (resumes rooting)
      Im telling ya, saffronll be just 
      the thing. Gusteau swears by it.

             EMILE
      Okay, whos Gusteau?


Remy pushes aside some COOKBOOKS, revealing  a well-worn copy of AUGUST GUSTEAUS ANYONE CAN COOK! on the shelf.

                                      11.

             EMILE
      Wait-- you.... read?

             REMY
        (guilty)
      Well, not... excessively. 

             EMILE
      Oh, man. Does dad know?

             REMY
      You could fill a book-- a LOT of 
      books-- with things dad doesnt 
      know. And they have. Which is why I 
      read. 
        (pointed)
      Which is also our secret.

He resumes rummaging through the spices. Emile FRETS.

             EMILE
      I dont like secrets. All this 
      cooking and reading and TV watching 
      while we read and cook. Its like 
      youre involving me in crime. And I 
      let you. Why do I let you?

INT. - FARMHOUSE ATTIC - SAME MOMENT

RATS stream in from a crack in the wall, throwing food from 
the compost pile on to a heap. DJANGO is at the center, 
overseeing things. He turns away, distracted-- 

             DJANGO
      Whats taking those kids so long?

INT. - RESUME KITCHEN - REMY AND EMILE 

Remy locates a tiny vial of saffron, holds it up.

             REMY
      Ah. Aquila saffron. Italian. 
      Gusteau says its excellent. Good 
      thing the old lady is a food lov--

Something on the TV attracts Remys attention; the great Chef 
Gusteau is being interviewed.


                                      12.
             REMY
      --hey! Thats Gusteau! Emile, look--

             GUSTEAU (TV)
      Great cooking is not for the faint 
      of heart. You must be imaginative, 
      strong-hearted, you must try things 
      that may not work. And you must not 
      let anyone define your limits 
      because of where you come from. 
      Your only limit is your soul. What 
      I say is true, anyone can cook... 
      but only the fearless can be great. 

Remy grins, nodding in agreement.

             REMY
      Pure poetry.

             TV NARRATOR 
      But it was not to last. Gusteaus 
      restaurant lost one of its five 
      stars after a scathing review by 
      Frances top food critic Arnot Ego. 

Remy drifts closer to the TV, drawn to the shocking news.

             TV NARRATOR (CONTD)
      It was a severe blow to Gusteau, 
      and the great Chef died shortly 
      afterward, which, according to 
      tradition, meant the loss of 
      another star.

             REMY
        (stunned)
      Gusteau... is dead?

Suddenly the TV SNAPS OFF! Remy & Emile spin around to see--
the OLD LADY is awake... and WIELDING A SHOT GUN. 

             REMY

      RUN!!

Remy and Emile SCATTER! Emile panics, races toward the attic.

             REMY
      NO! Youll lead her to the colony!

The Lady BLASTS huge holes in the ceiling just behind the 
scrambling Emile. He LEAPS CLEAR-- and lands on the end of a 
HANGING LIGHT FIXTURE. The old lady has him. She levels the 
gun barrel at the helplessly dangling Emile--


                                      13.
REMY hides his eyes. EMILE braces for the end-- CLICK. 

The shotgun is EMPTY. The OLD LADY REACTS: WHAT? EMILE 
REACTS: Huh? Im not dead? REMY LOOKS UP: Emile is still 
alive? The OLD LADY curses, ejecting the shells. 

EMILE SEES his opportunity, starts SCRAMBLING to pull himself 
up onto the light. THE OLD LADY SEES THIS and rushes for more 
shells. REMY sees an opening and takes off to help Emile.

Rifling through her desk drawers, the OLD LADY SPIES REMY 
coming out of hiding to help EMILE. She REDOUBLES HER EFFORTS 
to find a box of shells--

EMILE struggles his fat body up to the precarious LIGHT 
FIXTURE.

             EMILE
      Help!  Remy!  Help!

             REMY
      Emile, start swinging the light!  
      Ill try to grab you!

OLD LADY hears Remy calling for Emile, but from her POV all 
we hear is a SQUEAKING SOUND. OLD LADY finds a SHELL BOX: 
EMPTY. She YANKS OPEN another desk drawer.

REMY arrives at the light fixture, reaches out for EMILE--

             REMY
      Emile!  Swing to me!

OLD LADY-- nothing in the drawer, she decides to look in the 
book shelf, LOOKING BACK to see if the TWO RATS are still 
together and struggling, still sitting ducks--

Finding no shells in the desk, the LADY goes for the cabinet, 
LOOKING BACK to the TWO sitting duck RATS. The lady FINDS a 
fresh box of SHELLS, spilling them in her excitement--

REMY STRAINS to lift EMILE. The LADY drops to her knees, 
picks up a shell, loading it as EMILEs feet get purchase. 
The LADY chambers her SHELL and SWINGS the SHOTGUN AROUND--

The RATS scramble up into a new blast hole at the base of a 
hanging fixture. It EXPLODES in buckshot! 

SILENCE... then a loud CRACK--

The lady LOOKS UP: a large FISSURE snakes across the ceiling, 
connecting the wide circle of SHOTGUN HOLES-


                                      14.
--a massive CHUNK OF CEILING breaks free and comes crashing 
down-- bringing with it the FLOOR of the ATTIC above, its 
furniture, and HUNDREDS OF SURPRISED RATS.

The Old Lady FREAKS! She runs from the room.

             DJANGO
      EVACUATE!!! EVERYONE TO THE BOATS!

RATS grab assorted belongings as they make their escape. Remy 
and Emile run with the terrified mob. Suddenly, Remy stops, 
looks back to Gusteaus COOKBOOK--

             REMY

      The book!

--and TURNS BACK, rushing into the flood of fleeing rats! 

EXT. - OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE

RATS are diving out the windows, streaming through cracks, 
racing across the grass to the banks of a nearby stream.

EXT. - BY THE STREAM

The rats run into the tall grass, pulling aside camouflage, 
REVEALING several WATERCRAFT built from junk. The RATS push 
them into the water and climb aboard. DJANGO urges them on.

             DJANGO
      GO GO GO! MOVE MOVE MOVE!

INT. - INSIDE THE FARMHOUSE KITCHEN

Remy, the last remaining rat, struggles with GUSTEAUS 
COOKBOOK. A strange BREATHING SOUND causes him to look up: 
the LADY is back, now sporting a World War 2 GASMASK, and GAS 
CANNISTER. She starts after Remy, SPRAYING GAS everywhere. 

With a burst of adrenaline Remy hoists the COOKBOOK onto his 
back and makes a running LEAP through the window--

EXT. - OUTSIDE THE FARMOUSE

--and lands on the lawn in a shower of glass. It appears the 
COOKBOOK itself is struggling to catch up to the fleeing rats-

             REMY
      Wait!  Wait for me!


                                      15.
EXT. - ON THE RIVER

RAIN starts to fall. The last RAT BOAT has shoved off from 
shore, but DJANGOs boat lingers under the FOOTBRIDGE.

             DJANGO
      Everybody here? We have everybody? 
      Wait a minute- wheres Remy?!

At the shore, Remy throws the book into the water and starts 
paddling toward the tunnel after the colony.

             REMY 
      Right here! Im coming! Im coming!

             DJANGO
      Hold on son!
        (to other rats)
      Give him something to grab on to!

GIT, a huge, muscular lab rat, grabs a SPATULA and hoists it 
out over the water toward Remy.

             DJANGO (CONT'D)
      Come on boy!

Remy reaches out, desperately paddling with his other paw.

             DJANGO (CONT'D)
      Paddle son! Come on, reach for it! 
      You can do it!

Remy has almost reached the end of the spatula-- BLAM!  

A BLAST hits the water, sends Remy flying backward. The OLD 
LADY has taken position at the footbridge above. She FIRES at 
Djangos boat-- missing as his boat enters the tunnel.

             DJANGO

             REMY

      Remy!

      Dad!

             DJANGO
      Come on, you can make it! You can 
      make it!

Remy climbs back aboard the cookbook and PADDLES into the 
drainpipe before the LADY can get off a shot. She CURSES.


                                      16.
INT. - TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS

Remy paddles. Ahead, Djangos BOAT vanishes into the dark.

             REMY
      Guys wait!  Stop! Hold up! Wait for 
      me! Hold UP!

Frightened SHOUTS echo into SILENCE.

             REMY

      DAD??
        (no response)
      Dad...?

Silence. Remy strains to see into the darkness. He begins to 
make out SHAPES; the channel forking into TWO TUNNELS. 

             REMY
      Which way...?

He paddles towards the right tunnel, changes his mind, veers 
toward the left. He paddles, picking up speed. Then he hears--

--a LOW RUMBLE. He stops, suddenly alert. The rumble becomes 
a ROAR. Remy whirls, PADDLES furiously the opposite 
direction. Hes headed toward the edge of a waterfall! 

But its too late. Over the edge go Remy and the COOKBOOK, 
tumbling into the rapids below.

Remy is tossed about like a rag doll, buffeted in every 
direction by the churning water. He struggles for air--

--finally breaking the surface, he GULPS a breath--

--and is PLUNGED back under. The stone walls blur past him as 
he claws back to the surface. Through the tumult he spies his 
one chance up ahead-- the COOKBOOK. He swims toward it, 
finally catching it, he pulls himself aboard.

The rapids pass, the waters become calm. He looks back, 
amazed hes still alive. He collapses, exhausted.

                               DISSOLVE TO:

INT. - SOMEWHERE IN THE SEWER SYSTEM - NIGHT

A soaked and exhausted Remy has pulled his battered cookbook 
to the sewer bank. Its dark and cold, it smells bad, but 
hes safe. Maybe the clan will find him. He waits.


                                      17.
The COOKBOOK has dried out a bit, and there is just enough 
light seeping through a grate above for Remy to read it. 

             REMY (V.O.)
      I waited. For a sound... a voice... 
      a sign. Something...

Remy flips a crinkled page, to a appetizing photo of pastry. 
His stomach GROWLS. He looks away, turning to a drawing of 
GUSTEAU on the opposite page. 

The ILLUSTRATION comes to life; speaking to Remy--

             GUSTEAU 
      If you are hungry, go up and look 
      around, Remy. Why do you wait and 
      mope? 

             REMY
      Ive just lost my family. All my 
      friends. Probably forever.

             GUSTEAU 
      How do you know?

             REMY

      Well, I--
        (what is he doing?)
      You... are an illustration. Why am 
      I talking to you?

             GUSTEAU 
        (shrugs)
      You just lost your family. All your 
      friends. You are lonely. 

             REMY
      Yeah, well, youre dead.

             GUSTEAU 
      Ah... but that is no match for 
      wishful thinking. If you focus on 
      what youve left behind you will 
      never be able to see what lies 
      ahead. Now go up and look around.

Remy looks up, considering the streets above. He looks back 
to the illustration. Gusteau has resumed his frozen pose. 
Remy decides to go.


                                      18.
WE FOLLOW REMY

as he scurries up into a BUILDING-- between walls, through 
pipes, under floors,allowing GLIMPSES into the HUMAN world 
around him. Remy moves through a crack, emerges into--

INT. - APARTMENT KITCHEN 

In the next room A PARTY is in progress. Remy spies a loaf of 
BREAD. Famished, he grabs it, prepares to take a bite when- 

--a SPRITE in the form of GUSTEAU appears, smaller than Remy, 
glowing and semi-transparent.

             GUSTEAU
      What are you doing?!!

             REMY
        (startled, defensive)
      Im hungry! I dont know where I am 
      and I dont know when Ill find 
      food again...

             GUSTEAU
      Remy. You are better than that. You 
      are a cook! Cooks make. Thieves 
      take. You are not a thief.

             REMY
        (reconsidering)
      But I am hungry...

             GUSTEAU
      Food will come, Remy. Food always 
      comes to those who love to cook...

The GUSTEAU SPRITE VANISHES. Remy shakes it off. He puts the 
bread down, denying his growing hunger, and moves on.

INT. - BETWEEN THE WALLS

Remy MOVES, following his exceptional nose. We see glimpses 
of many French lives; 

A PAINTER carefully paints a nude model we cant see--

An DOG barks aggressively, warning Remy away from his flat--

A LOVERS QUARREL. Remy watches from above, through a crack in 
the ceiling; SHE shakily waves a pistol at a defiant HE.


                                      19.
             QUARRELING WOMAN
      You think I am playing, Francois? 
      You think I am PLAYING??

             QUARRELING MAN
      You dont have the guts!

Losing interest, Remy moves on. A BULLET splinters the floor 
in front of him. Remy rushes back to the crack and SEES-- 

--the couple struggling with the smoking gun. The MAN 
wrenches it free, it clatters to the floor. They glare at 
each other, blood in their eyes-- 

--and KISS. Remy rolls his eyes and moves on, through dark, 
tight spaces... into a pipe and emerges onto--

EXT. - OUTSIDE THE BUILDING - ROOFTOPS - DUSK

CAMERA follows as Remy scampers along railings and ledges, 
past windows, up vines, BOOMING UP as the ROOFTOP FALLS AWAY 
TO REVEAL--

EXT. - A STUNNING PANORAMA; PARIS AT NIGHT. 

It is GORGEOUS-- a vast, luminous jewel. Remy is GOBSMACKED.

             REMY
      Paris? All this time Ive been 
      underneath PARIS? Its beautiful.

Remys takes in the sea of shimmering lights... then sees a 
HUGE SIGN atop a building several blocks away. Its GUSTEAU-- 
a frying pan in each hand. The SIGN marvels at the panorama.

             GUSTEAU SIGN
      The MOST beautiful.

             REMY
      Gusteaus? Your restaurant?? Youve 
      led me to your restaurant!

             GUSTEAU SIGN
        (not entirely sure)
      It seems as though I have. Yes. 
      There it is! I have led you to it!

             REMY
      I gotta see this...

Remy heads off toward the restaurant.


                                      20.
INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS RESTAURANT

WAITERS and COOKS bustle back and forth preparing elaborate 
meals with energetic precision; the complex dance of Haute 
Cuisine. Professional cooking at its finest. 

While the COOKS range wildly in age and nationality, only one 
is female; a French cook in her late twenties named COLETTE.

A small, nasty-looking MAN sporting a thin mustache and a 
toque almost as large as the rest of him, ENTERS. This is the 
head Chef, SKINNER. Several COOKS call out greetings to him. 
He looks annoyed as LA ROUSSE nudges him.

             LA ROUSSE
      Hey boss! Look whos here! This is 
      Linguini, Renatas little boy. 

La Rousse gestures to LINGUINI, a gawky young man with a 
unruly mop of red hair sitting on a stool in the corner. He 
jumps up and awkwardly approaches Skinner.

             LA ROUSSE (CONTD)
      All grown up, eh? You remember 
      Renata, Gusteaus old flame?

             SKINNER
        (distracted)
      Ahh yes. How are you, uh...

             LA ROUSSE 

      Linguini.

             SKINNER
      Yes. Linguini. So nice of you to 
      visit. How is--?

      My mother.

      Yes.

      Renata.

             LINGUINI

             SKINNER

             LA ROUSSE

             SKINNER
        (impatient)
      Yes. Renata. How is she?


                                      21.
             LINGUINI
      Good. Well, not g-- shes been 
      better... I mean, uh...

             HORST

      She died.

             SKINNER
      Oh. Im sorry.

             LINGUINI
      Dont be. She believed in heaven so 
      shes... covered...
        (awkward)
      ...you know. Afterlife wise. 

Skinner stares at Linguini for a long, perplexed moment. 
Linguini suddenly hands a sealed envelope to him.

             SKINNER
      Whats this?

             LINGUINI
      She left it for you. I think she 
      hoped it would help. Me. Get a job. 
      Here--?

             LA ROUSSE
      Of course, Gusteau wouldnt 
      hesitate. Any son of Renatas--

             SKINNER
        (cutting him off)
      Yes. Well, we could file this, and 
      if something suitable opens up--

             LA ROUSSE
      Weve already hired him.

             SKINNER
        (outraged)
      What?! How dare you hire someone 
      without my-

             HORST
      We needed a garbage boy.

Skinner processes this, calming as he does.

             SKINNER
      Oh. Garbage. Well... 
        (to Linguini, thin smile)
      ...Im glad it worked out.


                                      22.
Skinner disappears into his office, which once belonged to 
the great Gusteau himself. Linguini turns back to the other 
cooks, who are already handing him his work clothes.

EXT. - ROOFTOP - ABOVE GUSTEAUS KITCHEN - MINUTES LATER

Remy and the Gusteau sprite look down through the SKYLIGHT 
into GUSTEAUS kitchen. Remy watches, rapt as the CHEFS 
scurry about, preparing the gourmet meals.

             REMY
      I cant believe it. A real gourmet 
      kitchen and I get to watch.

             GUSTEAU
      Youve read my book. Let us see how 
      much you know.  Which is the Chef?

Remy points out SKINNER, who is berating another cook.

             REMY

      That guy.

             GUSTEAU
      Very good. Who is next in command?

             REMY
      The Sous Chef... there.
        (points out HORST)
      The Sous is responsible for the 
      kitchen when the Chefs not there. 

REMYS POV: ISOLATING THE COOKS as Remy points them out.

             REMY (O.C.)
      Saucier; in charge of sauces, very 
      important. Chef de Partie, Demi-
      Chef de Partie-- both important...
        (pointing)
      Commis, Commis, Commis... theyre 
      cooks. Very important.

             GUSTEAU
      You are a clever rat. Now-- who is 
      that?

Gusteau is pointing at the garbage boy LINGUINI, who is 
clumsily steering a mop and bucket through the kitchen.

             REMY
      Oh... him? Hes nobody. 


                                      23.
             GUSTEAU
      Not nobody. He is part of the 
      kitchen.

             REMY
        (dismissive)
      Hes a Plongeur or something. 
      Washes dishes or takes out the 
      garbage. He doesnt cook.

             GUSTEAU
      But he could.

Below, LINGUINI accidentally knocks over the pot of soup, 
spilling it. Remy gives Gusteau a patronizing chuckle.

             REMY

      No.

What WE SEE, but Remy doesnt: desperate that no one notices 
his mistake, Linguini quickly replaces the pot on the burner, 
and MOPS up the floor.

             GUSTEAU
      How do you know? What do I always 
      say? Anyone can cook.

             REMY
      Well, yeah. Anyone can. That 
      doesnt mean that anyone should.

             GUSTEAU
      Well that is not stopping him. See? 

Remy watches aghast as Linguini quickly chums some water from 
another pot into the soup to refill it to its former level, 
haphazardly throws in a few spices and vegetables. 

             REMY
      No! This is terrible! Hes ruining 
      the soup! And nobodys noticing?! 
      Its your restaurant! Do something!

             GUSTEAU
      What can I do? I am a figment of 
      your imagination-

             REMY
      But HES RUINING THE SOUP! Weve 
      got to tell someone that hes R-

The skylight suddenly gives way, and Remy PLUNGES down--


                                      24.
INT. - GUSTEUS KITCHEN

With a SPLASH Remy lands in a sink filled with soapy 
dishwater. He paddles to the surface, climbs onto the counter 
and tumbles over the edge, hitting the floor with a SPLAT.

INT. - KITCHEN FLOOR - UNDER THE COUNTER - CONTINUOUS

Remy HIDES. GIANT FEET (belonging to busy COOKS) boom by on 
either side. Surrounded by the enemies of rat kind, Remy is 
PETRIFIED. From REMYS POV the kitchen is a terrifying place; 
full of FIRE and NOISE. He runs out from under the counter. 

The door to the walk-in OPENS, knocking Remy across the floor 
and under the stove.  Above him rows of burners IGNITE.

He races across a walkway, under another counter and out the 
other side, nearly run over by a DINING CART. REMY dives 
underneath it, using it to cross the kitchen camouflaged. 

Sticking his head out, Remy spots an OPEN WINDOW on the far 
wall: a way out! He runs for it, climbing up a dish rack to 
the counter. He is nearly to the OPEN WINDOW. 

He scrambles up onto a copper pot toward it, but the lid 
slips and he falls inside. He LOOKS UP.

REMYS POV: OUT FROM UNDER THE POT LID

--the window is MOVING AWAY.  Whats happening?! 

WIDEN TO REVEAL--

--the POT is being carried away by one of the COOKS. The chef 
sets the pot down near a stove and exits.  As Remy heads back 
toward the window, a wonderful SCENT hits his nose. He 
SNIFFS, following it to a PAN filled with vegetables.  

Enticed, he crawls inside, and it is only then that he 
notices the LARGE TURKEY-- moments before a COOK picks up the 
pan and slides it into the oven! 

Remy barely escapes before the oven door CLOSES, SPRINGING 
from the oven to another passing trolley, which bursts into--


                                      25.
INT. - THE DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Remy is wheeled into the plush hush of the restaurant, and 
pulls up to a table of well-dressed DINERS. A WAITERS HAND 
reaches down for a peppermill, grabbing REMY instead--

--which startles both of them. The HAND instantly RELEASES 
Remy, who quickly leaps on to another passing trolley, the 
one heading back to the kitchen.

INT. - GUSTEUS KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Remy jumps off the trolley and hides. He looks up at the 
window -- 

REMYS POV 

--the WINDOW has been CLOSED! Linguini crosses into his view 
and tastes the soup. Its horrible, so horrible that--

--he runs to the window, opens it, SPITS the soup out into 
the alley and exits-- LEAVING THE WINDOW OPEN. 

RESUME REMY

He sees his opening and runs for it, climbing a broom handle 
to a shelf above the stove that leads to the OPEN WINDOW.

Dodging jars of spices he runs through the steam from the 
soup bubbling directly below. Its so disgusting that-- 

--without thinking, he grabs a spice from the counter, throws 
a dash in. He starts for the window-- thinks better of it, 
adds some leeks, adds some pepper, starts back to the window--

--and STOPS. 

His gaze returns to the boiling pot. He looks back at the 
kitchen: the cooks havent noticed him. He looks at the 
window: it is still open, and the path to it is clear. 

The GUSTEAU SPRITE APPEARS--

             GUSTEAU
      Remy! What are you waiting for?

             REMY
      Is this going to become a regular 
      thing with you?


                                      26.
             GUSTEAU
      You know how to fix it. This is 
      your chance...

Remy considers this. Then, filled with purpose, he jumps to 
the stove top, turns the burner down, hops up to the spigot 
to add water to the soup.

Quickly losing himself, Remy proceeds to remake the soup, 
alternately smelling, tasting and adding ingredients to it. 
He grabs a pawful of spices to toss in and SUDDENLY SEES--

--LINGUINI, wide-eyed and brandishing a ladle. They STARE at 
each other for a long moment, deer caught in each others 
headlights. Remy drops the spices into the soup.

             Skinner (OS)
      THE SOUP!  WHERE IS THE SOUP?

The two STARTLE; Remy tries to run for the window. Linguini 
slams a collander over him, both hiding and trapping him.

             Skinner 
      Out of my way, Garbage boy!

Skinner spots the ladle in Linguinis hand. He seizes 
Linguini by his collar.   

             Skinner 
      You are COOKING? How dare you cook 
      in my kitchen!

Remy starts to push the collander toward the open window.

             SKINNER
      Where do you get the gall to even 
      attempt something so monumentally 
      idiotic? I should have you drawn 
      and quartered! Ill do it! I think 
      the law is on my side!
        (calling out)
      LaRousse! Draw and quarter this 
      man! AFTER you put his head in the 
      duck press to squeeze the fat out!

As Skinner berates Linguini, LALO ladles the soup into a 
tureen, which he takes to the pass. Linguini watches 
helplessly as the waiter MUSTAFA carries his soup out to the 
dining room.

             LINGUINI 
	     Oh, no... no no, ohhhh nooo--

	     SKINNER
	     What are you blathering 
                     about?!



                                      27.
					      LINGUINI
					      (points, dumbstruck)
					      -but dont let- th-- sou... 
					      soup--!

					      SKINNER
					      Soup...? 
					      (suddenly understands)
					      STOP THAT SOUP! Noooo!

But Mustafa is gone and it is TOO LATE.  Skinner anxiously 
looks through the door windows into the dining room-- 

INT. - SKINNERS POV: THE DINING ROOM

--the soup is served to a WOMAN DINER. She tastes it, REACTS 
visibly, and motions for the waiter.  

INT. - RESUME KITCHEN - GUSTEAU & SKINNER

Wilting, Skinner turns his building rage toward Linguini. 

             Skinner 
      Linguini! Youre FIRED! F-I-R-E-D! 
      FIRED!

MUSTAFA, the waiter, sticks his head through the double-
doors, speaking low to Skinner.

             MUSTAFA
      She wants to speak to the Chef.

Color drains from Skinners face. He sighs, heads out into 
the dining room to take his medicine.                         Linguini creeps toward 
the exit, but is collared by the Sous Chef HORST.

On the counter, Remy inches the collander towards the window. 
Colette sticks a spoon into the soup and tastes. Its GOOD.

Mustafa and Skinner re-enter from the dining room, Skinners 
face a riot of bewilderment. 

             COLETTE
      What did the customer say?

             MUSTAFA
      It wasnt a customer. It was a 
      critic.

             COLETTE
        (fearful)
      Ego??

             SKINNER
        (dazed)
      Solene LeClaire...


                                      28.
             COLETTE
      LeClaire? What did she say?

             MUSTAFA
      She liked the soup.

INT. - UNDER THE COLLANDER

The GUSTEAU SPRITE stops Remy.

             GUSTEAU

      Wait-- 

             REMY
      What do mean wait? Youre the 
      reason Im in this mess!

             GUSTEAU
      Someone is asking about your soup!

RESUME SCENE

The bustle of the kitchen has STOPPED DEAD as Skinner tastes 
the soup. His eyes betray a truth; the soup is delicious. And 
he HATES that. He turns to Linguini, his face DARK.

             SKINNER
      What are you playing at?

             LINGUINI
        (totally confused)
      I, uhm, didnt-- am I still fired?

             COLETTE
      You cant fire him.

             SKINNER
        (wheels on her)
      What--!?

             COLETTE
      LeClaire likes it. She made a point 
      of telling you so. If she writes a 
      review to that effect, and finds 
      out you fired the cook responsible--

             SKINNER
      Hes a garbage boy...


                                      29.
             COLETTE
      --who made something she liked. How 
      can we claim to represent the name 
      of Gusteau if we dont uphold his 
      most cherished belief?

             SKINNER
      What belief is that, Madamoiselle 
      Tatou?

             COLETTE
      Anyone can cook.

INT. - UNDER THE COLLANDER

The Gusteau sprite NUDGES Remy.

RESUME SCENE

The other COOKS murmur their assent. The turn of the tide 
isnt lost on Skinner. His face softens into an icy smile.

             SKINNER
      Perhaps Ive been a bit harsh on 
      our new garbage boy. He has taken a 
      bold risk, and we should reward 
      that, as Chef Gusteau would have. 
      If he wishes to swim in dangerous 
      waters who are we to deny him? 

INT. - UNDER THE COLLANDER

Remys totally absorbed in this conflict. A COUGH causes Remy 
to looks up: the GUSTEAU SPRITE gestures at the window.

             GUSTEAU
      You were escaping..?

             REMY

      Oh. Yeah--

Remy resumes pushing toward the window.

BACK TO SCENE

Skinner turns to Colette, gives her a withering smile.


                                      30.
             SKINNER
      Since you have expressed such an 
      interest in his cooking career, you 
      should be responsible for it. 

Colettes face falls. Skinner turns to the other cooks.

             SKINNER
      Anyone else? 
        (they look away)
      Then back to work--!

The cooks resume their work. Skinner wheels on Linguini. 

             SKINNER
      You are either very lucky or very 
      UNlucky. You will make the soup 
      again, and this time Ill be paying 
      attention. Very close attention. 

Off to the side, REMY has almost made it to the window. 

             SKINNER (CONTD)
      They think you might be a cook. But 
      you know what I think, Linguini? I 
      think youre a sneaky, overreaching 
      little-
        (he SPIES REMY)
      --RAAAAT!!!

REMY RUNS. The OTHER COOKS come after him. Skinner SWINGS a 
MOP at Remy, breaking dishes and blocking his escape. 

             SKINNER
      Linguini! Get a something to trap 
      it in!!

Linguini CLAPS a jar over Remy. Seals it. 

             LINGUINI
      What should I do now...?

      Kill it.

      Now?

             SKINNER

             LINGUINI

             SKINNER
      No! Not in the kitchen, are you 
      mad?? Do you know what would happen 
      to us if anyone knew we had a rat 
      in our kitchen? 
             (MORE)


                                      31.
             SKINNER (cont'd)
      Theyd close us down!! Our 
      reputation is hanging by a thread 
      as it is. Take it away from here, 
      far away. Kill it, dispose of it. 
      Go!

Linguini nods and quickly EXITS the kitchens back door.

EXT. - ALLEY BEHIND GUSTEAUS KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Linguini hops aboard a bicycle and peddles into the gloom, 
carrying Remy in the jar with him. 

EXT. - ALONG THE SEINE - NIGHT

The waterfront, normally so beautiful, seems dark and 
forboding this night. Linguini slows his bicycle and pulls up 
under a street lamp near a bridge underpass. He climbs off 
the bicycle and prepares to drop the jar into the water. 

Remy is PETRIFIED. His heart racing, he presses his paws 
against the glass, staring at Linguini with terrified eyes. 

Linguini HESITATES... then PULLS BACK, shouting at Remy.

             LINGUINI
      Dont look at me like that! You 
      arent the only one whos trapped. 
      They expect me to cook it again!  
        (Remy looks up: HUH?)
      Im not ambitious, I wasnt trying 
      to cook, I was just trying to stay 
      out of trouble. Youre the one who 
      was getting fancy with the spices! 
      Whatd you throw in there? Oregano?
        (Remy SHAKES HEAD: NO)
      No? What, rosemary?
        (Again, Remy shakes head)
      Thats a spice, isnt it? Rosemary?
        (At this Remy NODS)
      You didnt put rosemary in there?

Remy shakes his head. Linguini SLUMPS down on the bank, sets 
the Remy jar next to him.

             LINGUINI
      I need this job. Ive lost so many. 
      I dont know how to cook and now 
      Im talking to a rat as if you 
      actually understand what Im say--
        (sudden realization)
      --did you NOD?? You UNDERSTAND ME??
             (MORE)


                                      32.
             LINGUINI (cont'd)
        (Remy NODS)
      So Im not crazy. Wait a second, 
      wait a second. I cant cook. Can I?
        (Remy shakes his head)
      But you can. Right?
        (Remy thinks uncertainly)
      Dont be so modest, youre a rat 
      for Petes sake. Whatever you did, 
      they liked it.
        (lost in thought)
      Yeah. This could work. Hey, they 
      liked the soup--

With an expansive gesture Linguini accidentally KNOCKS REMYS 
JAR INTO THE SEINE. Horrified, Linguini DIVES IN after it.

                              JUMP CUT TO:

EXT. - ALONG BANKS OF SEINE - MINUTES LATER

Linguini sits on a bench, soaking wet, the jar with Remy 
successfully retrieved and sitting next to him.

             LINGUINI
      They liked the soup. You think you 
      could... do it again?
        (Remy NODS)
      Im gonna let you go. But were 
      together on this. Right?
        (Remy NODS again)
      Okay.

Linguini sets the jar down on its side and carefully OPENS 
the lid . Remy looks up at him... and TAKES OFF, escaping 
into the darkness. CACKLING as he runs, Remy LOOKS BACK at-

REMYS POV: PULLING AWAY FROM LINGUINI

--who stands forlorn and alone under the bridge. 

WITH REMY

He slows to a stop, moved by this pitiful sight.

WITH LINGUINI

He SIGHS, defeated. Turns sadly to his bicycle. Then a SOUND: 
the CLICKING of tiny claws on cement. Linguini looks up-- 


                                      33.
REMY, very cautiously, is coming toward him, back into the 
light. Remy looks at Linguini... who SMILES.

INT. - LINGUINIS FLAT - NIGHT

Darkness. we hear KEYS fumbling in a lock. Linguini KICKS the 
warped door a few times, opening it enough to enter, and 
wrestle his bicycle through. He turns on a light, REVEALING--

-a tiny, odd-shaped room; two doors in the wall; one a 
bathroom, the other a closet, both tiny. One window, a table 
with two chairs. Hotplate. A miniscule, ancient refrigerator. 

A ratty couch doubles as a bed, a portable black & white t.v. 
rests precariously on one arm.

             LINGUINI
      This is it. Its not much, but its-
        (he looks around)
      --not much. 
        (to Remy, shrugs)
      Could be worse; theres heat and 
      light and a couch with a TV. So, 
      yknow-- whats mine is yours. 

Remy looks over the new digs. He likes them just fine. 

LATER

Fast asleep on the couch, Linguini is bathed in the 
flickering light from an old and very romantic FRENCH MOVIE 
on TV. TWO LOVERS stand handsomely in the swirling steam of a 
soon to depart locomotive, staring into each others eyes-- 

           HER (TV)
	   Are you-- is this... a dream?

	   HIM (TV)
	   The best kind of dream. One 
                     we can share.

Tucked in to an OVEN MITT near the window sill, REMY gazes 
dreamily at the lights of Paris. The romantic MOVIE MUSIC 
swells, underscoring his emotions.

	     HER (OS TV)
	     But why here? Why now?

	     HIM (OS TV)
	     Why not here? Why not now? 
                     What better place to dream... 
                     than in Paris?

Remy grins, slowly closes his eyes. Dreaming.


                                      34.
INT. - LINGUINIS FLAT - MORNING

Linguini AWAKENS with a start. He looks up at the oven mitt--

             LINGUINI
      Morning, little Chef. Rise and sh--

--and suddenly realizes REMY IS GONE.

             LINGUINI
      Idiot! I knew this would happen! I 
      let a rat into my place and tell 
      him whats mine is his? 

Linguini yanks open the refrigerator door and looks inside.

             LINGUINI
      Eggs GONE! STUPID! Hes stolen food 
      and hit the road! Whatd I expect? 
      Thats what I get for trusting a ra-

As Linguini moves around the tiny alcove HE SEES--

--REMY,  quite pleased with himself as he cooks omelettes on 
the hotplate. Two places have been set at the tiny table.

             LINGUINI
      Wh--? Hey. What-- is that for me?

Remy nods and deftly (but with considerable effort) sets the 
large omelette onto Linguinis plate. Linguini sits and puts 
a forkful into his mouth.

             LINGUINI
      Its good. Whatd you put in this? 
        (Remy holds up basil leaf)
      Whered you get that?

Remy moves to the window and points to the roof garden of a 
nearby flat. Linguini looks down at the enterprising rat.

             LINGUINI
      Look. Its delicious. But dont 
      steal. Ill buy some spices, okay?

Remy shrugs and turns to eat. Linguini glances at his clock.

             LINGUINI
      Oh no. Were gonna be late, and on 
      the first day! 


Linguini SHOVES the rest of the eggs into his mouth and grabs his coat. Famished, Remy opens wide, ready for his first bite 
of food, when Linguini snatches him up---

                                      35.

             LINGUINI
      Camon, little Chef!

--and runs out of the apartment.

INT. - GUSTEUS KITCHEN - MORNING

The cooks are circled around Colette, listening with interest 
as she reads a review aloud from the morning paper. 

             COLETTE
      Though I, like many other critics, 
      had written off Gusteaus as 
      irrelevant since the great Chefs 
      death, the soup was a revelation, a 
      spicy yet subtle taste experience.

Skinner has ENTERED, and is now stopped in his tracks.

             SKINNER
        (stunned)
      LeClaire...?

             COLETTE

      Yes...!
        (resumes reading)
      Against all odds, Gusteaus has 
      recaptured our attention. Only time 
      will tell if they deserve it.

EXT. - IN ALLEY OUTSIDE GUSTEAUS 

Linguini waits outside, Remy in palm, staring uncomfortably 
at the kitchen entrance, working up the nerve to go inside. 

             LINGUINI
      Well, uhm... 

Aware he cant enter the kitchen carrying a rat, Linguini 
looks half heartedly for places to conceal Remy; under his 
shirt, up his sleeves, in his sock-- rejecting each in turn. 

Out of ideas, Linguini slowly opens the top of his pants. 
Remy looks up at him, APPALLED.


                                      36.
             LINGUINI
        (desperate)
      Look, I know its weird and stupid, 
      but neither of us can do this 
      alone. So we gotta do it together, 
      right? You with me??

Remy gives a reluctant NOD. Linguini glares at the kitchen 
entrance, psyching himself up--

             LINGUINI
      So... LETS DO THIS THING!!

INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS    

The back door SLAMS OPEN. All heads swing to a slightly 
crazed LINGUINI standing in the doorway. He wilts a bit with 
the attention, and attempts to cross inconspicuously to his 
station, the hidden rat causing a strangely spastic lurch.

The other COOKS watch with bewildered amusement.

Linguini arrives at his station and looks uneasily at the new 
TOQUE resting there: his new toque. He swallows, placing it 
on his head, and suddenly notices Skinner standing there.

             SKINNER
      Welcome to hell. Now... recreate 
      the soup. Take as long as you need, 
      all week if you must.

Skinner EXITS. Linguini looks at his station with dread, a 
blocked writer facing a blank page. 

             LINGUINI

      Soup.

INT. - LINGUINIS STATION - MINUTES LATER

Raw soup stock bubbles at a low boil on the stove. Linguini 
stares at the variety carefully prepared of ingredients-- 
herbs, spices, diced vegetables, etc that have been and laid 
out at his station. Hes completely unsure of where to start.

REMY peeks out from Linguinis collar and examines the scene. 
He scrambles underneath Linguinis shirt and across his 
chest, tickling him. Linguini LAUGHS. 

Remys head pops out from Linguinis SHIRT CUFF, sees 
Linguini reaching for a SPICE TIN; the WRONG spice. Remy 
signals Linguini to stop, but Linguini pays no attention, so--


                                      37.
--Remy gives Linguinis HAND a NIP. Linguini YELPS-- dropping 
the entire spice tin INTO THE SOUP. Appalled, Remy gives 
Linguini an admonishing bite--

Linguini YELPS and CURSES, SWATS Remy in retaliation. Remy 
scurries to the other arm (GIGGLE) and gives Linguini another 
nip (more YELPS & CURSINGS).

The OTHER COOKS marvel at the strangeness of the spastic, 
giggling, yelping Linguini. Visibly panicked, the 
giggling/yelping Linguini TURNS, lurching from his station to 
the food safe, and closing himself inside.

INT. - INSIDE FOOD VAULT - CONTINUOUS

Linguini RIPS his shirt open, exposing his chest and arms, 
which are covered in angry red BITE MARKS.

             LINGUINI
      AAAAAAAAGGGGGGHHHHH!!!
        (looks at Remy accusingly)
      AAAAAAAAGGGGGGHHHHH!!!
        (gestures at bite marks)
      AAAAAAAAGGGGGGHHHHH!!!

Remy stares at the nearly hysterical Linguini.

             LINGUINI
      This is NOT gonna work, little 
      chef! I am gonna LOSE IT if we do 
      this any more. We gotta figure out 
      something else. Something that 
      doesnt involve any biting or 
      nipping or running up and down my 
      body with your little rat feet. The 
      biting; NO. Scampering; NO. No 
      scampering or scurrying. 
      Understand, little chef? 
        (beat)
      Little chef...?

Remys gaze has drifted away from Linguini, to the shelves 
LOADED with premium food. Remy looks weak with longing.

             LINGUINI
      Oh... youre hungry.

Guilty, Linguini breaks a chunk from a round of cheese and 
offers it to Remy, who scarfs it down. Linguini, calmer now, 
straightens his clothes as he thinks out loud.


                                      38.
             LINGUINI
      Okay... the way I see it; you know 
      how to cook. And I know how... to 
      appear... human. We just need to 
      work out a system so that I do what 
      you want in a way that doesnt look 
      like Im being controlled by a tiny 
      rat chef oh WOULD YOU LISTEN TO ME? 
      IM INSANE IM INSANE IM INSIDE A 
      REFRIGERATOR TALKING TO A RAT ABOUT 
      GOURMET COOKING I WILL NEVER PULL 
      THIS OFF-- 

INT. - KITCHEN - OUTSIDE FOOD VAULT 

Passing the food vault Skinner hears a VOICE from within. 

             SKINNER
      Linguini...?

INSIDE FOOD VAULT

Remy, still eating, listens as Linguini pours his heart out.

             LINGUINI
      -we gotta communicate! I cant be 
      checking for a yes or no head shake 
      from a rat th-

Suddenly the vault door JERKS OPEN. THREE THINGS HAPPEN FAST: 

1) Skinner sees a fleeting glimpse of LINGUINI WITH REMY. 
2) Linguini HITS THE LIGHT SWITCH-- the room GOES DARK. 
3) Skinner instantly FLICKS THE LIGHTS BACK ON to see--

--Linguini standing exactly as before. But Remy is GONE.

             SKINNER
      The rat! I saw  it! 

             LINGUINI
      No... a rat?

             SKINNER
        (searching about Linguini)
      Yes, yes-- a rat! Right next to you-
        (stops, suspicious)
      --what ARE YOU DOING IN HERE???


                                      39.
             LINGUINI
      Im just familiarizing myself with-- 
      yknow, the vegetables... and such.

             SKINNER

      Get out. 

Linguini makes a hasty exit. Skinner calls out after him.

             SKINNER
      ONE CAN GET TOO FAMILIAR WITH 
      VEGETABLES YOU KNOW!

INT. - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Linguini speaks to Remy, who hes hidden under his TOQUE--

             LINGUINI
      That was close. You okay up there?

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remys surroundings are visible through the thin fabric. He 
looks up AND SEES they are about to COLLIDE with--

--a WAITER CARRYING A TRAY PILED WITH DISHES. Remy YANKS BACK 
INT. - LINGUINIS HAIR like horses REINS, CAUSING-

LINGUINI  

--to jerk backwards in an impossible limbo-arch, pivoting 
under the tray of dishes-- 

--and BACK UP AGAIN, miraculously averting disaster. Linguini 
blinks in amazement: what just happened? He ducks into the--

INT. - BATHROOM

LINGUINI removes his toque, looks at Remy in the mirror.

             LINGUINI
      How did you do that??

Still grasping hanks of Linguinis hair in his paws, Remy 
SHRUGS. Linguinis shoulders SHOOT UP to his ears. Startled, 
Remy drops his arms; Linguinis shoulders drop.

             LINGUINI

      Whooaah--!


                                      40.
A gleam comes into the rats eyes. He JERKS the left hank, 
causing Linguinis LEFT ARM to SHOOT UP IN THE AIR.

             LINGUINI
        (marveling)
      Wow. Thats strangely involuntaREEE-

Remy is yanking tufts of Linguinis hair like a kid with a 
new toy. Linguini jerks around like a helpless puppet.

Remy stops, looks at the panting Linguini in the mirror.

             REMY (V.O.)
      One look and I knew, each of us had 
      the same crazy idea...

INT. - LINGUINIS FLAT - NIGHT (MONTAGE: LEARNING TO COOK)  

Using hanks of Linguinis hair to control Linguinis actions, 
Remy pilots Linguini(who is blindfolded to keep him from 
cheating) through an increasingly complex series of cooking 
tasks, everything from cutting vegetables to flipping crepes. 

During this comic montage we see Remy learning precisely how 
to pilot Linguini, and at the same time, Linguini is learning 
how to surrender himself to being piloted.

By dawn, Linguini and Remy have meshed into one finely honed 
cooking machine.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. - KITCHEN - NEXT DAY

Linguini stands off to the side, fretting as Skinner pulls a 
ladle of soup from a Linguinis pot and tastes it. 

             SKINNER
      Congratulations. You were able to 
      repeat your accidental success. But 
      you will need to know more than 
      soup, if you are to survive in my 
      kitchen, boy. Colette-- 

Skinner gestures to COLETTE, who watches with a scowl.

             SKINNER (CONTD)
      --will be responsible for teaching  
      you how we do things here. 

Skinner grins and EXITS. Linguini crosses to Colette.


                                      41.
             LINGUINI
        (a little too smooth)
      Listen, I just want you to know how 
      honored I am to be studying under a-

Colette STABS a knife through Linguinis shirtsleeve, pinning 
it to the table. Her voice is low, intense.

             COLETTE
      No, you listen. I just want you to 
      know exactly who you are dealing 
      with. How many women do you see in 
      this kitchen?

             LINGUINI
      Well, I hah--- um--

She brings a second knife down through Linguinis sleeve--

             COLETTE
      Only me. Why do you think that is??

             LINGUINI
        (spooked, sputtering)
      Well... huh--! I... hoo...

             COLETTE
      Because Haute Cuisine is an 
      antiquated hierarchy built upon 
      rules written by stupid old men, 
      rules designed to make it 
      impossible for women to enter this 
      world. But still I am here. How did 
      this happen?

Linguini burbles in a desperate attempt at nonchalance.

             LINGUINI
      Because... you, ah-- hah...

Colette SLAMS a third knife through Linguinis sleeve, 
thoroughly pinning it. Linguini is truly frightened.

             COLETTE
      Because Im the toughest cook in 
      this kitchen. Ive worked too hard 
      for too long to get here, and Im 
      not going to jeopardize it for some 
      garbage boy who got lucky. Got it??

Linguini NODS pathetically. Colette pulls the knife handles 
out with a single JERK and Linguini topples to the floor. 
Colette EXITS. Linguini peeks over the counter, dazzled.


                                      42.
             LINGUINI

      Wow...

INT. - SKINNERS OFFICE

Skinner watches as ad man FRANCOIS DUPUIS finishes pitching 
his campaign for the latest GUSTEAUS FROZEN FOOD product. 

The trademark Chef Gusteau art has been re-painted; Gusteau now sports
a kimono, coolie hat, and chopsticks. Behind this are similar
campaigns for GUSTEAUS FRENCH PIZZA and GUSTEUS MICROWAVE
BURRITOS. Skinner is captivated.

             DUPUIS
      Easy to cook, easy to eat, Gusteau 
      makes Chinese food Chine-Easy!.

             SKINNER
      Excellent work Francois, as usual. 

             DUPUIS
      Its good, isnt it?

Skinner stands, offering a handshake to signal the end of the 
meeting. As Francois packs up his portfolio, preparing to 
leave, Skinner straightens the photo of himself with Gusteau 
that hangs on the wall. 

             SKINNER
      I want you to work up something for 
      my latest frozen food concept: 
      Gusteaus Corn Puppies. Like corn 
      dogs, only smaller, bite size!

             DUPUIS
        (starts sketching in pad)
      What are corn dogs?

             SKINNER
      Cheap sausages dipped in batter and 
      deep fried. You know... American.
      Whip something up, maybe Gusteau in 
      overalls and Huckleberry Tom hat-

             DUPUIS
        (displaying his sketch)
      Or as a giant ear of corn in doggie 
      makeup?

             SKINNER
      Yes, but... with dignity.


                                      43.
Dupuis EXITS. Skinner moves to his desk and the stack of 
UNOPENED MAIL there, and begins to shuffle through it; bill, 
bill, bill-- and the PINK ENVELOPE given to him by Linguini. 

He opens the envelope and reads; his bored eyes growing wider 
and wider with each line. He GASPS, seizing the phone.

             SKINNER
      Get my lawyer--!

INT. - SKINNERS OFFICE - AN HOUR LATER

Skinners lawyer TALON LABARTHE is reading GUSTEAUS WILL. 

             TALON
      The will stipulates that, if after  
      a period of two years from the date 
      of death no heir appears, Gusteaus 
      business interests-- including the 
      restaurant and the rights to his 
      name and image-- will pass to his 
      Sous Chef. You.

             SKINNER
      I know what the will stipulates! 
        (brandishing letter)
      What I want to know is if this 
      letter, if this boy, changes 
      anything!

Skinner raises the window blinds, revealing a view of the 
kitchen and Linguini, who looks unusually awkward among the 
practiced cooking staff. Talon looks from Linguini to a 
framed photo of GUSTEAU.

             TALON
      Theres not much resemblance--

             SKINNER
        (drops blinds)
      Theres NO resemblance at all! Hes 
      not Gusteaus son! Gusteau had no 
      children! And what of the timing of 
      all this? The deadline in the will 
      expires in less than a month! 

Talon drifts around the office, searching for something.


                                      44.
             SKINNER (CONTD)
      Suddenly some boy arrives with a 
      letter from his recently deceased 
      mother claiming Gusteau as his 
      father? Highly suspect! 

Talon spies a TOQUE inside a DISPLAY CASE. He turns to 
Skinner.

             TALON
      This is Gusteaus?
        (Skinner NODS)
      May I?

             SKINNER
      Of course, of course.

Talon carefully opens the display case, removes GUSTEAUS 
TOQUE and begins to inspect it.

             TALON
      But the boy does not know?

             SKINNER
        (brandishing the letter)
      She claims she never told him-- OR 
      Gusteau! And asks that I not tell!

             TALON
      Why you? What does she want?

Talon spies something on the toque: a HAIR. He pulls a pair 
of TWEEZERS from his coat, removes the hair, folding it 
carefully inside a handkerchief, and pocketing it.

             SKINNER
      A job. For the boy.

             TALON
      Only a job? 

             SKINNER
      Well... yes.

             TALON
      Then what are you worried about? If 
      he works here youll be able to 
      keep an eye on him, while I do a 
      little digging, find out how much 
      of this is real.
        (getting his coat)
      Ill need you to collect some DNA 
      samples from the boy, hair maybe.


                                      45.
             SKINNER
      The whole thing is HIGHLY SUSPECT. 
      He KNOWS something!! 

             TALON
      Relax. Hes a garbage boy. I think 
      you can handle him.

Talon exits. Skinner stands inert, spooked.

INT. - KITCHEN  

Linguini finishes dicing a red pepper. He sets down his 
knife, carefully scoops up the small pile of dicings, walks 
over to a giant pot and drops it in, returning to repeat the 
procedure. Colette, who has watched this, interrupts-- 

             COLETTE
      What are you doing?

             LINGUINI
      Im cutting. Vegetables. Im 
      cutting the vegetables?

             COLETTE
      NO. You waste energy and time!

Colette slides a chair up to the end of Linguinis prep table 
and slams the pot down on its seat so that the top is level 
with the tables surface.

             COLETTE
      You think cooking is a cute job, 
      huh? Like mommy in the kitchen? 

She snatches Linguinis KNIFE from him with one hand, several 
vegetables with the other. With frightening speed she dices 
them; flicking each diced pile into the pot with the knife; 
dice, flick, dice, flick--

             COLETTE
      Well mommy never had to face the 
      dinner rush when the orders come 
      flooding in and every dish is 
      different and none are simple and 
      all have different cooking times 
      but must arrive on the customers 
      table at exactly the same time, hot 
      and perfect. Every second counts--

In MOMENTS Colette has completed a ten-minute Linguini job.


                                      46.
             COLETTE (CONTD)
      --and you CAN NOT BE MOMMY!!!!

TIME CUT: ANOTHER DAY

Linguini is cooking. He takes a pan off the burner and sets 
it to one side, which is already cluttered with utensils. 
Colette sees the mess and is outraged. 

             COLETTE
      What is this??? 

Linguini stammers. Colette quickly clears his station, 
pitching it all into a sink full of dishwater. 

             COLETTE
      Keep your station clear. When the 
      meal rush comes what will happen?? 
      Messy stations slow things down, 
      food doesnt go, orders pile up-- 
      disaster!! Ill make this easy to 
      remember; keep your station 
      clear... or I WILL KILL YOU.

TIME CUT: Colette grabs Linguini by the arm and holds up his 
sleeves, which are smeared with multi-colored STAINS.

             COLETTE
      Your sleeves look like you threw up 
      on them. Keep your hands and arms 
      in, close to the body like this--
        (she demonstrates)
      --see? Always return to this 
      position. Cooks move fast; sharp 
      utensils, hot metal, keep your arms 
      in, you will minimize cuts and 
      burns and keep your sleeves clean. 
      Mark of a chef; messy apron, clean 
      sleeves.

TIME CUT: ANOTHER DAY

Linguini and Colette shell peas. Colettes manner is easier, 
more collegial.

             COLETTE
      I know the Gusteau style cold. In 
      every dish Chef Gusteau always has 
      something unexpected. I will show 
      you, I memorized all his recipes--


                                      47.
             LINGUINI
        (writing it down)
      Always do something unexpected...

             COLETTE
      No. Follow the recipe.

             LINGUINI
      But you just said--

             COLETTE
      It was his job to be unexpected. It 
      is our job to-- 

             COLETTE & LINGUINI
      --follow the recipe.

TIME CUT: ANOTHER DAY

Colette pulls a loaf from a basket of freshly baked bread and 
shows it to Linguini.

             COLETTE
      How do you tell how good bread is 
      without tasting it? Not the smell, 
      not the look, but the sound... of 
      the crust. Listen--

She holds the loaf to her ears, Linguini leans in to listen.

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy also LEANS IN to listen. Colette gives the bread a 
SQUEEZE. The CRACKLE is seductive.

RESUME SCENE

She and Linguini SMILE at the pleasing CRUNCH.

             COLETTE (CONTD)
       -a symphony of crackles. Only 
      great bread sounds this way.

TIME CUT: ANOTHER DAY - EARLY MORNING

Colette and Linguini have begun their prep. There is a new 
relaxation between them. 


                                      48.
             COLETTE
      The only way to get the best 
      produce is to have first pick of 
      the day, and there are only two 
      ways to get first pick; grow it 
      yourself or bribe a grower.  

She gestures to the back door. Outside a PRODUCE SELLER, 
conversing amicably with La Rousse, sets down a crate of 
gorgeous fruit and vegetables. La Rousse slips him money.

             COLETTE
      Voila! The best restaurants get 
      first pick.

TIME CUT:  

Linguini and Colette cook side by side, their manner now as 
easy and familiar as old friends.

             COLETTE
      People think Haute Cuisine is 
      snooty, so chefs must also be 
      snooty. But not so. 

ON LALO, who bobs to radio music as he sauts, cooking with a 
efficient, yet theatrical flourish.

             COLETTE (V.O.)
      Lalo there-- ran away from home at 
      twelve, got hired by circus people 
      as an acrobat, got fired for 
      messing around with the ringmasters 
      daughter. 

CAMERA SWINGS to HORST. He glances about with shifty eyes.

             COLETTE (V.O.)
      Horst has done time.

             LINGUINI(V.O.)

      What for?

             COLETTE (V.O.)
      No one knows for sure. He changes 
      the story every time you ask him.

JUMP CUTS: HORST explains various reasons for incarceration.

             HORST
      I defrauded a major corporation. 
        (CUT)


                                      49.
             HORST (cont'd)
      I robbed the second largest bank in 
      France using only a ballpoint pen.
        (CUT)
      I created a hole in the ozone over 
      Avignon. 
        (CUT)
      I killed a man with-- 
        (he holds it up)
      --this thumb. 

CAMERA MOVES to POMPIDOU. He works dough with expert 
precision.

             COLETTE (V.O.)
      Dont ever play cards with 
      Pompidou. Hes been banned from 
      both Las Vegas and Monte Carlo. 

CAMERA MOVES to LAROUSSE as he slips into the food safe.

             COLETTE (V.O.)
      La Rousse ran guns for the 
      resistance.

             LINGUINI (V.O.)
      Which resistance?

             COLETTE (V.O.)
      He wont say. Apparently they did 
      not win.

RESUME COLETTE & LINGUINI

             COLETTE
      So you see, we are artists. 
      Pirates. More than cooks are we. 

             LINGUINI

      We...?

             COLETTE
      Oui. You are one of us now, oui?.

             LINGUINI
        (surprised, touched)
      Oui. 

They exchange smiles and resume work. PAUSE.

             LINGUINI
      Thank you... by the way, for all 
      the advice about cooking.


                                      50.
             COLETTE
      Thank you, too.

             LINGUINI

      For what?

             COLETTE
      For taking it.

INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

Skinner listens to the radio. Suddenly he SITS UP--

HIS POV THROUGH WINDSHIELD:

Remy scampers across the alley to the kitchen entrance behind 
INT. - GUSTEUS... and into the hands of a kneeling Linguini.

             SKINNER

      The rat!!

RESUME SKINNER

He JAMS the brakes, throws the car into reverse. As Linguini 
is brought back into view we see that REMY IS GONE. Still 
kneeling, Linguini holds up a set of KEYS.

             LINGUINI
        (to Skinner, chuckles)
      I just dropped my keys.

Skinner is BAFFLED.

INT. - GUSTEUS - DINING AREA - NIGHT

There is noticeably more energy and fewer empty tables in the 
dining room. Mustafa arrives at a table of FOOD SNOBS.

             MUSTAFA
      Have you decided?

             FOOD SNOB #1
      Well, the new soup is excellent but-

             FOOD SNOB #2
      --but we order it every time. 

             FOOD SNOB #3
      What else do you have?


                                      51.
             MUSTAFA
      We have a very nice Foie Gras--

             FOOD SNOB #1
        (impatient)
      Yes, the old standby, you used to 
      be famous for it. What does the 
      Chef have thats new?

Mustafa stands there, slack-jawed and blinking.

INT. - KITCHEN

Mustafa crashes through the swinging doors in a panic.

	      MUSTAFA
	      Someone has asked what is 
	      new!	      

	      HORST
	      New?

	            MUSTAFA
		    Yes! What do I tell them?

		    HORST
		    What did you tell them?

		          MUSTAFA
			  I told them I would ask!

			         HORST
				 Customers are asking what is 
				 new.

				 SKINNER
				 What are you blathering 
				                      about?

              MUSTAFA
	      What should I tell them?

	            SKINNER
		    What DID you tell them??

		    MUSTAFA
	I TOLD THEM I WOULD ASK!!!

             SKINNER
      This is simple. Just pull out an 
      old Gusteau recipe, something we 
      havent made in a while and--

             MUSTAFA
      They know about the old stuff. They 
      like Linguinis soup--

             SKINNER
      Linguini? They are asking for food 
      from-- LINGUINI?

             LALO
      A lot of customers like the soup. 
      Thats all we were saying.

             POMPIDOU
      Were we saying that?


                                      52.
An IDEA comes to Skinner. Dark pleasure blooms on his face.

             SKINNER
      Very well. If its Linguini they 
      want... 

He pulls Horst close and speaks to him quietly.

             SKINNER
      ...tell them Chef Linguini has 
      prepared something special for 
      them, something definitely off-
      menu. Oh, and dont forget to 
      stress its Linguini-ness.

             HORST

      Oui, Chef.

Skinner turns to Linguini, a big shark-smile on his face.

             SKINNER
      Now is your chance to try something 
      worthy of your talent, Linguini. A 
      forgotten favorite of the Chefs: 
      Sweetbread a la Gusteau! Colette 
      will help you!

             COLETTE

      Oui, Chef.

             SKINNER
      Now hurry up. Our diners are 
      hungry!

Skinner turns to go to his office, a worried La Rousse rushes 
up to him, speaking in a low, concerned voice.

             LA ROUSSE
      Are you sure? That recipe was a 
      disaster. Gusteau himself said so.

             SKINNER
      Just the sort of challenge a 
      budding chef needs.

Skinner disappears inside his office, humming to himself.

WITH COLETTE & LINGUINI

Linguini looking over Colettes shoulder as she stares at an 
old, yellowing recipe card, sizing up its ingredients.


                                      53.
             COLETTE
      Sweetbread a la Gusteau. Sweetbread 
      cooked in a salt crust with 
      cuttlefish tenticles. Drizzled 
      with...snail porridge...
        (with increasing distaste)
      Douglas fir puree... beetroot 
      mousse and pollen...dried white 
      fungus... and dipped in anchovy 
      liquorice sauce. Huh.

Sounds awful. Colette shrugs it off and turns to Linguini.

             COLETTE
      I dont know this recipe. But it is 
      Gusteau, so-- 
        (calling out)
      Lalo! We have some veal stomach 
      soaking, yes?? 

             LALO (O.S.)
      Yes, the veal stomach, I get that.

             LINGUINI
      Uh-- veal... stomach?

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE - MINUTES LATER 

Remy pilots Linguinis hand to lift the small pot of snail 
porridge off the burner and up to Linguinis toque for an 
obligatory sniff. Remy looks at the porridge, then at the 
rack of fresh spices. Suddenly Remy pilots Linguini to go for 
the SPICES, lifting them rapidly one by one up the toque to 
SNIFF. Remy selects one that smells right and dumps it in the 
pot. 

LINGUINI

suddenly LEANS FORWARD, tilting his toque over the fragrant 
STEAM from the simmering pot. 

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy takes a WHIFF, likes what he smells. Inspired, he pilots 
Linguini out into the kitchen.


                                      54.
LINGUINI  

--is alarmed by his sudden ramble, completely unsure of where 
hes going, what hes looking for.

INT. - UNDER THE TOQUE

Remy maneuvers Linguini spasmodically past the other cooks 
stations, wildly sniffing around for the next ingredient, a 
composer hunting for the next note in a new symphony. He 
catches a pleasing scent in Lalos station--

LINGUINI

SNATCHES some SHALLOTS from Lalo, who looks up in SHOCK, but 
Linguini is already gone, racing back to his station to add 
the new ingredients to a heating pan. 

Linguini JERKS forward, tilting his toque over the pan, then 
PEELS OUT of his station, once again on the move.

INT. - KITCHEN -SAME TIME

Linguini ZIPS about snatching ingredients from the other 
cooks stations, a Porche apologizing for its driver. 

             LINGUINI
        (ad-lib to cooks)
      Pardon me, just need to borrow this 
      real quick-- sorry-- apparently I 
      need this-- Ill be right back--

To the others, Linguini looks deranged; a man whos clearly 
lost control of both his body and his faculties. 

Linguini careens back into his station and DUMPS the 
ingredients into his pan, startling Colette--

             COLETTE
      What are you doing? We are supposed 
      to be preparing the Gusteau recipe.

             LINGUINI
        (stirring, flipping pan)
      Im, uh... this is the recipe-- 

             COLETTE
      The recipe doesnt call for white 
      truffle oil! What else have you-- 
             (MORE)


                                      55.
             COLETTE (cont'd)
        (she looks in his pan)
      You are improvising?? This is no 
      time to experiment, the customers 
      are waiting!

             LINGUINI
      Youre right--
        (to REMY, nudging toque)
      --I should listen to you!

Linguini suddenly SLAPS his own face, then LEANS his toque 
over the Sweetbread.

           COLETTE
	   Stop that--!
	   	
		LINGUINI
	   Stop what?

	         COLETTE
		 Freaking me out! Whatever 
		 youre doing-- stop it.

		 HORST
		 Where is the special order?

Both Colette and Linguini are working quickly now, but on 
separate dishes, giving the appearance of a competition.

	       COLETTE
	       Coming!
	       (Low to Linguini)
	       I thought we were together on 
	       this.

	       LINGUINI
	       We are together.

	             COLETTE
		     Then what are you doing?

		     LINGUINI
		     Its--- VERY hard to explain.

             HORST
      The special??

             COLETTE
      Come get it! 

INT. - UNDER THE TOQUE

Remy watches anxiously as Colette sets the plate at the pass 
to be picked up, a hank of hair in each paw, waiting for an 
opening. Colette glances at the recipe.

             COLETTE
      Oh-- I forgot to add the liquorice! 

She rushes back to get it. Remy sees his chance. Linguini 
finds himself grabbing his pan and hurtling toward Colette. 


                                      56.
AT THE PASS

Colette is about to add the liquorice sauce when Linguini 
swoops in and BLOCKS HER HAND. Colette is STUNNED. Her eyes 
FLASH at Linguini, who looks petrified, his left hand holds 
his pan of saute, which trembles over the Sweetbread.

             COLETTE
      Dont... you... dare.

             LINGUINI
      Im not, Im not, Im-- 

Linguini dumps his saute over Colettes dish the moment 
before it is swept away by the waiter Mustafa.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      --sorry.

Skinner enters, smiling as he walks up to Horst.

             SKINNER
      Is Linguinis dish done yet?

             HORST
      Ya. Its as bad as we remember. 
      Just went out. 

             SKINNER
        (serene)
      Did you taste it?

             HORST
      Of course... before he changed it.

             SKINNER
      Good- WHAT? How could he change it?

             HORST
      He changed it as it was going out 
      the door!

Skinner starts toward the door to the dining room, just as 
MUSTAFA busts through it, excited.

             MUSTAFA
      They love it! Other diners are 
      already asking about it, about 
      Linguini. I have seven more orders!

Colette is nonplussed. Skinner FLINCHES, then forces a smile.


                                      57.
             SKINNER
      Thats... wonderful. 

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy slaps his paws together, relishing the night ahead.

MONTAGE

Crosscut between the dining room and the kitchen: orders pile 
up as word of the special spreads between diners. Remy 
pilots Linguini, preparing plate after plate of their hit.

INT. - THE KITCHEN - LATER

The dinner rush is over. The cooks congratulate their new 
comrade Linguini, toasting him glasses of table wine.

Skinner watches from across the kitchen, STARING at the boy 
with a mixture of confusion, envy and resentment. As Linguini 
pass in front of a light Skinner SEES IT: a strange shadow 
within Linguinis toque-- 

--the SILHOUETTE OF A RAT. Skinners EYES going WIDE.

EXT. - BACK ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS

After a quick look around to make sure no ones watching, 
Linguini removes his toque and lets Remy out.

             LINGUINI
      Take a break little Chef, get some 
      air. We really did it tonight.

Linguini unfolds a napkin, revealing a miniature picnic; 
fruit, bread, cheeses. Remy-- pooped but exhilarated-- beams 
at Linguini, who raises his glass in a salute to the rat.

Linguini smiles and turns back inside.

INT. - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

We follow Linguini as he crosses the kitchen, humming happily 
to himself. PANNING INTO FRAME is SKINNER; perched high atop 
a tray rack, waiting like a cat ready to pounce. He SNATCHES 
the toque from Linguinis head--


                                      58.
--and gapes in confusion when he sees nothing on top of the 
boys head. He looks at Linguini and SMILES.

             SKINNER
        (dangling the toque)
      Got your toque!

Skinner hops to the ground, fluffing the toque with his hand 
before handing it back to the mystified Linguini.

             SKINNER
      Seriously now, Id love to have a 
      little talk with you, Linguini... 
      in my office.

             LINGUINI
      Am I in trouble...?

             SKINNER
      Trouble? Nooo... a little wine, a 
      friendly chat. Just us cooks.

Colette watches Skinner steer Linguini into his office. 

             HORST
        (to Colette, re: Linguini)
      The Plongeur wont be coming to you 
      for advice anymore, eh Colette? 
        (nods to Skinners office)
      Hes gotten all he needs. 

He exits chuckling. Colette slowly turns away, stung. 

INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS OFFICE

Skinner settles in behind the massive desk that was formerly 
Gusteaus. Linguini sits uneasily at a chair facing him, 
still holding his little glass of wine.

             SKINNER
      Toasting your success, eh Linguini? 
      Good for you.

             LINGUINI
      I just took it to be polite, they 
      were being so nice to me, I dont 
      really drink, you know--

             SKINNER
      Of course you dont. I wouldnt 
      either if I was drinking that-- 


Skinner plucks the glass from Linguinis hand, pours it into a wastebasket, and offers up a newly opened bottle of wine.

                                      59.

             SKINNER (CONTD)
      -but you would have to be an idiot 
      of elephantine proportions not to 
      appreciate this 61 Chateau Latour. 
      And you, Msieur Linguini, are no 
      idiot. 
        (raising his glass)
      Let us toast your non-idiocy! A 
      votre sante!

They clink... and DRINK.

EXT. - OUTSIDE KITCHEN - BACK ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS

Remy munches contentedly and stares at the starry sky, loving 
his bread, his cheese, his life. He breaks the top off a 
grape and-- holding the stem like a wine glass-- slowly sips 
it into a raisin.

Something STIRS behind the trash cans. Remy FREEZES, suddenly 
alert. Some kind of CREATURE is eating in the shadows. Remy 
grabs the cheese knife and timidly goes to investigate.

The creature LOOKS UP, its glowing eyes fix on Remy. Remy 
GULPS, raises the knife. The creature LEAPS into the light--

      REMY!

      Emile--??

             EMILE

             REMY

They rush to each other, hugging and laughing.

            REMY
	    What are you doing here?! I 
	    thought Id never see you 
	    guys again!

	    EMILE
	    I cant believe it! Youre 
	    alive! You made it! We 
	    figured you didnt survive 
                     the rapids!

             REMY
      And what are you eating??

Emile stares at Remy, chewing. He looks down, pondering the 
unrecognizable wad in his hands for a long beat. He FROWNS.

             EMILE
      I dont really know. I think it was 
      some sort of wrapper once. 


                                      60.
             REMY
      What--? No.

Remy grabs the wad and throws it away with a flourish.

             REMY
      Youre in Paris now, baby. My town. 
      No brother of mine eats rejecta-
      menta in my town!

Remy turns on his heel and marches back into the kitchen.

INT. - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Remy climbs to the pull handle on the FOOD SAFE DOOR and 
hesitates there. LAUGHTER emanates from inside of Skinners 
office. Remy leaps to the handle and with considerable effort 
pushes it open, UNLOCKING the massive door. GUSTEAU appears.

             GUSTEAU SPRITE
      Remy... you are stealing? You told 
      Linguini he could trust you.

             REMY
      And he can. Its for my brother...

             GUSTEAU SPRITE
      The boy could lose his job.

             REMY
      Which means I would, too. Its 
      under control, okay?

Remy shoves past the Gusteau spite and into the safe. The 
sprite VANISHES.

INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS OFFICE - SAME TIME

Linguini sits back in his chair, looking a bit tipsy.

             SKINNER

      More wine?

             LINGUINI
      I shouldnt. But okay.

He offers his glass to Skinner, who refills it generously.

             SKINNER
      So where did you train, Linguini?


                                      61.
             LINGUINI
        (chuckles, drinking)
      Train? Alright...

             SKINNER
      Surely you dont expect me to 
      believe this is your first time 
      cooking?

             LINGUINI
      Its not.

             SKINNER
      I KNEW IT!

             LINGUINI
      Its my...
        (stops, counts on fingers)
      ...second, third, four-- fifth 
      time. Monday was my first time.
        (Skinner wilts)
      But Ive taken out the garbage lots 
      of times before this, thats why I--

             SKINNER
        (cutting him off, pouring)
      Yes yes yes. Have some more wine. 
      Tell me about your interests. Do 
      you like animals? 

             LINGUINI
      What--? Animals? What kind?

             SKINNER
      Oh, the usual. Dogs, cats, horses, 
      guinea pigs... 
        (pointed)
      ...rats.

EXT. - BACK ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS - MINUTES LATER

Remy carries a small bundle of gourmet foodstuffs from the 
kitchen, only to find Emile again munching on garbage.

             REMY
      I brought you something to-- AGH!!   
      No no NO! Spit that out right now! 
        (Emile does, shamed)
      I have GOT to teach you about food! 
      Close your eyes.


                                      62.
As Emile closes his eyes, his SURROUNDINGS FADE TO BLACK. 
Remy delicately holds a hunk of cheese under Emiles nose--

             REMY
      Now... take a bite of thi--

Emile INHALES it. Horrified, Remy scolds him like a bad pet.

             REMY (CONTD)
      -NO NO NO! Dont just hork it down! 

             EMILE

      Too late.

Annoyed, Remy hands him another piece of cheese. Emile eats 
it,  this time more carefully.

             REMY
      Chew it slowly... think only about 
      the taste. See? 

A vague, grayish BLOB half-forms above his head. It MOVES to 
undefined MUSIC as Emile struggles to experience the food...

             EMILE
      Not really.

             REMY
      Creamy, salty sweet. An oaky 
      nuttiness? You detect that? 

Emile opens his eyes (surroundings reappear), looks at Remy.

             EMILE
      Oh, Im detecting nuttiness.

             REMY
      Close your eyes. Now taste this. 
        (gives him a strawberry)
      Whole different thing, right? 
      Sweet, crisp, slight tang on the 
      finish?

The BLOB reappears, but this time with a hint of color. 

             EMILE
      Okay.

             REMY
      Now try them together. Uh-huh. See? 


Emile eats both together and chews, concentrating. Slowly the weak COLORS become bolder and more complimentary. They begin 
to dance and intermingle as a little MELODY takes shape...

                                      63.

             EMILE
      Okay... I think Im getting a 
      little something there. It might be 
      the nuttiness. Could be the tang.

             REMY
      Thats it! Now imagine every great 
      taste in the world being combined 
      into infinite combinations, tastes 
      that no one has tried yet!! 
      Discoveries to be made!

             EMILE
      I think--- you lost me again.

Emile opens his eyes. The SHAPES and SOUND FADE AWAY. Sensing 
Remys disappointment, Emile reassures him.

             EMILE
      But that was interesting. Most 
      interesting garbage I ever-- HEY! 
      What are we doing? Dad doesnt know 
      youre alive. Weve gotta go to the 
      colony!! Everyone will be thrilled!

             REMY
      Yeah... but, uh... thing is, I 
      kinda have to... uh...

Remy gestures vaguely at the kitchen. Emile frowns.

             EMILE
      What? What do you hafta more than 
      family? Whats more important?

He glares furiously at Remy, whose resolve starts to crumble. 

             REMY
      Well, it wouldnt hurt to visit...

INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS OFFICE - STILL LATER

A few EMPTY BOTTLES of wine litter Skinners desk. Linguini 
is BOMBED, but Skinners increasingly desperate inquisition 
is getting nowhere.

      SKINNER
      Have you ever had a pet rat??

      LINGUINI
      Nope.


                                      64.
					      SKINNER
					      Did you work in a lab with 
					      rats?

					            SKINNER
						    Perhaps you lived in squalor 
at some point??

   LINGUINI
   Nope.
   Nopety nopety new.

             SKINNER
      I KNOW you know something about 
      RATS! You know you do!!

             LINGUINI
      You know who know do whacka do. 
      Ratta tatta- hey! Why do they call 
      it that?

             SKINNER
      What?!

             LINGUINI
      Ratatouille. Theres a dish called 
      that, its like a stew, right? Why 
      do they call it that? If youre 
      gonna name a food you should give 
      it a name that sounds delicious. 
      Ratatouille doesnt sound 
      delicious. It sounds like rat. And 
      patooty. Rat patooty! Which does 
      NOT sound delicious.

Linguini drinks, finds his glass empty. He smiles, offering 
his glass for Skinner to refill.

             SKINNER
        (scowling)
      Regrettably-- 

He drops the empty bottle into the trash with a loud THUNK.

             SKINNER (CONTD)
      --we are all out of wine.

INT. - INSIDE SEWER - RAT COMMONS - A LITTLE LATER

Several channels converge into a wide, open area as dreary 
and uninviting as any sewer, save for a flotilla of tiny 
BOATS illuminated by a scattering of multi-colored lanterns 
that answer the gloom with magic.

Holding their clasped paws up victoriously, Django turns from 
Remy to face the assembled crowd of rats.


                                      65.
             DJANGO
      MY SON... HAS RETURNED!

An enormous CHEER erupts. Emile joins Django and Remy as the 
clan crowds around them. Remys joy is clouded with doubt; 
what about his new life?

INT. - RAT ENCAMPMENT - LATER

A PARTY is in full swing. The entire rat clan has come out to 
bop to boisterous MUSIC played by a jazzy RAT BAND, kicking 
down the jams in a unique gypsy/jitterbug dance style that 
takes full advantage of their tails and all four legs. 

Joined by his sons, Django sits at a prime table. A WAITER 
RAT quickly serves a round of drinks in well-worn thimbles 
between them. Emile and Django suck theirs down. Remy takes a 
discreet whiff and sets it aside.

             DJANGO
      And finding someone to replace you 
      for poison checker has been a 
      disaster. Nothings been poisoned, 
      thank God, but it hasnt been easy. 
      You didnt make it easy. 

             REMY
      I know. I am sorry, Dad.

             DJANGO
      Well, the important thing is that 
      youre home. 

             REMY
      Yeah... well, uh, about that...

             DJANGO
      You look thin. Why is that? A 
      shortage of food or a surplus of 
      snobbery? 

Emile joins in as Django cracks up at his own joke. 

             DJANGO
      Its tough out there in the big 
      world all alone, isnt it? 

             REMY
      Sure... but, its not like Im a 
      kid anymore. 


A well-wisher drops by to say hello to Django. Remy takes advantage of the distraction to quickly deliver the bad news.

                                      66.

             REMY
      I can take care of myself. Ive 
      found a nice spot not far away, so 
      Ill be able to visit often.

             DJANGO
        (resuming conversation)
      Nothing like a cold splash of 
      reality to make you-- 
        (sudden realization)
      --visit? 

             REMY
      I will, I promise. Often.

             DJANGO
      Youre not staying?

              REMY
      Its not a big deal, Dad. 
        (gently)
      You didnt think I was going to 
      stay forever, did you? Eventually a 
      birds gotta leave the nest.

             DJANGO
      Were not birds, were rats. We 
      dont leave nests, we make them 
      bigger.

             REMY
      Maybe Im different kind of rat.

             DJANGO
      Maybe youre not a rat at all.

             REMY
      Maybe thats a good thing. 

             EMILE
        (trying to break tension)
      Hey, the bands really on tonight!

             REMY
      Rats! All we do is take, Dad. Im 
      tired of taking. I want to make 
      things! I want to add something to 
      this world.


                                      67.
             DJANGO
      Youre talking like a human.

             REMY
      Who are not as bad as you say.

             DJANGO
      Oh yeah?

             EMILE
      Oh man...

             DJANGO
      What makes you so sure?

Remy hesitates for a beat, suddenly careful.

             REMY
      Ive uh, been able to, uh, observe 
      them at a close-ish sort of range.

             DJANGO
      Yeah? How close?

             REMY
      Close enough. And theyre, yknow, 
      not so bad. As you say. They are.

Django GLARES at Remy, scrutinizing him. 

             DJANGO
      Come with me... I got something I 
      want you to see. 

He moves from the table, dropping to all fours and heading 
off. Reluctantly, Remy does likewise, leaving Emile alone.

             EMILE
      You know... I think Ill stay here. 

INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS RESTAURANT - SAME TIME

The sound of raindrops patter against the skylight. Skinner, 
bundled up in a well-tailored overcoat, throws a scarf around 
his neck. Linguini tipsily hands him his beret.

             SKINNER
      Make sure the floors and counter-
      tops are clean before you lock up.

             LINGUINI
      You want me to... stay and clean?


                                      68.
             SKINNER
      Is that a problem?

Linguini slumps and drunkenly shakes his head no.

             SKINNER
      Good boy. See you tomorrow.

Skinner exits, humming. Linguini watches him go with weary 
eyes. He turns to face the messy kitchen... and wilts.

EXT. - PARIS STREET - NIGHT

Its raining harder now. Django and Remy arrive at a drain 
opening, through which can be glimpsed the rough cobblestones 
of a city street. 

             DJANGO
      Were here.

Django scrambles out the curb-side drain and turns to face 
the storefront behind them. Remy sits next to him and looks 
up, following his fathers gaze. His jaw drops in horror.

Displayed in the window of the small shop are a variety of 
nasty looking metal traps, RAT TRAPS to be precise, and along 
side of those hang row after row of DEAD RATS.

             DJANGO
      Take a good, long look, Remy. This 
      is what happens when a rat gets a 
      little too comfortable around 
      humans.

Remy looks away. Djangos tone is tender, but firm.

             DJANGO
      The world we live in belongs to the 
      enemy. We must live carefully. We 
      look out for our own kind, Remy. 
      When all is said and done, were 
      all weve got.

His point made, Django turns to go. Remy stares up at the 
horrible window, then softly says--

             REMY
      No.

             DJANGO
        (stops in his tracks)
      What..?


                                      69.
             REMY
      No, Dad. I dont believe it. Youre 
      telling me that the future is-- can 
      ONLY be-- 
        (points at window)
      --more of this?

             DJANGO
      This... is the way things are. You 
      cant change nature.

             REMY
      Change IS nature, Dad. The part 
      that we can influence. And it 
      starts when we decide.

With that, Remy turns and-- walking upright on two legs-- 
starts back to Gusteaus. Django calls after him.

             DJANGO
      Where you goin?

             REMY
      With luck... forward.

EXT. - OUTSIDE BACK KITCHEN ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS - MORNING

The storm has passed and the sky is cloudless and clear. As a 
weary Remy exits the sewer, the fresh air hits his nostrils 
and he draws it in like a sweet memory. 

He exhales, renewed and happy to be back in his brave new 
world. Forgetting himself, he trots for the kitchen entrance 
on two legs, throwing a reckless wave at a passing CYCLIST. 

The cyclist DOUBLE-TAKES, craning his neck to look at the 
bizarre sight-- and collides with a parked car. 

INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS RESTAURANT 

Remy enters and looks around. No one has arrived yet. Remy 
steps on to the counter top and surveys the kitchen, savoring 
the day ahead. And then he hears the sound. SNORING.

He TAKES COVER and peers out. No one is there, but the 
SNORING persists. He peers cautiously over the edge--

REMYS POV

--as Remy walks forward, REVEALING:


                                      70.
LINGUINI-- curled up on the floor and slumbering like a 
vagrant. Remy looks at the clock, realizing with horror that 
the others are about to arrive. 

Remy jumps onto Linguinis head like a rough rider on a 
fallen horse and-- expertly TUGGING hanks of Linguinis hair, 
manages to get the boy up on his feet. 

But Linguini remains FAST ASLEEP. Remy lifts one of 
Linguinis heavy EYELIDS and waves frantically at a staring 
eye-- but Linguini is OUT COLD.

The SOUND of a motorcycle arriving at the rear entrance 
causes Remy to looks around in desperation. He spies a pair 
of SUNGLASSES near the cooks lockers. 

Colette ENTERS, unpleasantly surprised to find LINGUINI 
already at work. She crosses to their station and starts 
prep. Remy has hidden Linguinis shut eyes behind sunglasses, 
unintentionally giving him the air of a smug ROCK STAR. 

Though Linguini remains fast ASLEEP, Remy pulls his hair to 
keep the boys limbs working somewhat convincingly. 

             COLETTE
        (cool, formal)
      Good morning. 

INTERCUT: UNDER LINGUINIS TOQUE/ COLETTE & LINGUINI

Remy pulls hair, nervously puppeting the sleeping Linguini. 
How can he make Linguini answer? He PULLS a side hair hank--

--causing Linguinis head to loll to Colette, give her a lazy 
nod, then turn back to his work. 

             COLETTE
      So. The Chef. He invited you in for 
      a drink? Thats big... thats big. 
      What did he say? 

INT. - UNDER LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy hesitates. Theres no hair he can pull for speech! 
Desperate, he pulls the head-turn hair again. 

RESUME SCENE

Linguinis head lolls lazily back to Colette, the effect 
being a smug What do you think he said, babe?


                                      71.
             COLETTE
      What-- you cant tell me? 

Linguini is silent. He resumes cutting. Colette goes cold.

             COLETTE
      Oh. Forgive me for intruding on 
      your deep, personal relationship 
      with the Chef. I see how it is. You 
      get me to teach you a few kitchen 
      tricks to dazzle the boss, and then 
      you blow past me?

INT. - UNDER LINGUINIS TOQUE

Things are going bad fast. Remy keeps Linguini chopping, 
hoping desperately for an idea to salvage the situation. 

             REMY
      Camon. Wake up... wake up--!

RESUME SCENE

Linguini keeps chopping vegetables like a hip zombie. His 
smirking face rolls in Colettes direction.

             COLETTE
        (small, hurt)
      I thought you were different. I 
      thought you thought I was 
      different. I thought--

Now, seemingly looking straight at her, Linguini SNORES.

Colette GASPS and delivers a roundhouse SLAP to Linguinis 
face. Linguini CORKSCREWS and CRASHES to the floor.

Linguini-- now completely awake and utterly confused at the 
crucial chunk of his life hes somehow missed-- looks up at 
the furious Colette with wide eyes. 

             COLETTE
      I didnt have to help you. If I 
      looked out only for myself, I could 
      have let you drown. But--
        (this is hard for her)
      --I wanted you to succeed. I liked 
      you. My mistake.


                                      72.
Colette turns, storming out the kitchens back door. Both 
Linguini and Remy- who peers out of Linguinis fallen toque, 
watch he go. Linguini turns to Remy.

             LINGUINI
      Its over, Little Chef. I cant do 
      it any more.

He grabs the toque with Remy inside and runs after Colette.

EXT. - OUTSIDE GUSTEAUS - ALLEY BEHIND KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Colette is already on her motorcycle. Linguini runs to her.

             LINGUINI
      Stop--! Dont motorcycle away--
        (She atops, looks at him)
      Look. Im no good with words. Im 
      no good with food, either. At least 
      not without your help.

             COLETTE
      I hate false modesty. Its just 
      another way to lie. You have talent-

             LINGUINI
      But I dont! Really! Its not me!

INT. - UNDER LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy eyes widen: this cant be happening.

RESUME LINGUINI & COLETTE

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      And when I added those extra 
      ingredients instead of following 
      the recipe like you said-- that 
      wasnt me either!

             COLETTE
      What do you mean?

             LINGUINI
      I mean I wouldnt have done that. I 
      wouldve followed the recipe, I 
      wouldve followed your advice. I 
      wouldve followed your advice to 
      the ends of the earth because I 
      love-- your advice.


                                      73.
             COLETTE
      But... ?

             LINGUINI
      But... I have a secret. 

INT. - UNDER LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remys really getting worried now.

             REMY
        (softly)
      Dont do it...

RESUME SCENE

Colettes eyes narrow. Shes not liking the sound of this.

             LINGUINI
      Its sort of disturbing.

Linguini chuckles sheepishly, then straightens as if to make 
an announcement, taking a deep breath.

             LINGUINI
      I have a rr... aah--uht... 

             COLETTE
      What...?

             LINGUINI
      I have a rahh... tsh-

             COLETTE
      You have a rash?

             LINGUINI
      NO! No... I have this tiny... a 
      little, uh... little... a--
        (quickly blurts it out)
      -tiny chef who tells me what to do.

             COLETTE
      A tiny chef.

             LINGUINI
      Yes... yes, hes... uh, uhhhmmn... 
        (points to toque)
      ...hes up here--


                                      74.
             COLETTE
      In your brain.

             LINGUINI
      Why is it so hard to talk to you??
        (gathering courage)
      Okay. Here we go. You-- inspire me. 
      Im going to risk it all. Im going 
      to risk looking like the biggest 
      idiot psycho youve ever seen. 

Colette is starting to get scared. We follow her HAND as it 
drops discreetly into her BAG and emerges clutching a tiny 
cannister of PEPPER SPRAY. Linguini continues, impassioned.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      You wanna know why Im such a fast 
      learner? Why Im such a great cook? 
      Dont laugh! Im going to show you--

Colette looks WORRIED. With great resolve and trembling 
hands, Linguini slowly reaches up to remove his toque--

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Through the cloth Remy watches LINGUINIS HANDS CLOSING IN-- 
about to expose him and ruin it all! He YANKS on Linguinis 
hair, thrusting Linguini forward toward Colettes face--

ON LINGUINI 

--as he plants a big KISS on Colettes lips. Colette is 
frozen, pepper spray in hand, her shock and surprise 
surpassed only by Linguinis own.

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

With furrowed brows and gritted teeth, Remy maintains 
Linguinis forward thrust kiss. This could go either way. 

INTERCUT LINGUINI & COLETTE

--as they continue their startled kiss, their eyes flash 
through a myriad of emotions; surprise, fear, anger, 
vulnerability, happiness, and finally-- surrender. Their arms 
wrap around each other.


                                      75.
INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy COLLAPSES with relief. For the moment anyway, the 
fragile charade survives.

INT. - INSIDE EGOS OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

A very tall, very narrow room, simultaneously grand and 
claustrophobic. Its soaring windows are framed by heavy 
velvet drapes pulled nearly shut, allowing in only a thin 
sliver of pale light. 

The few pieces of antique furniture in the room are equally 
tall, narrow, straight-backed and uncomfortable looking. 

The faded burgundy walls are decorated with framed 
photographs and magazine covers, precisely arranged around a 
massive PORTRAIT PAINTING. Their single subject, a tall, 
cadaverous man dressed in an expensive suit; ANTON EGO--

--the same Anton Ego who now sits at a desk that is the rooms 
focal point, looming over an ancient typewriter like a 
vulture with better posture.

The rooms lone door opens, and a short, pudgy man in his mid-
thirties enters. This is Egos assistant, AMBRISTER MINION.

             EGO
      What is it, Ambrister?

             MINION
      Gusteaus.

             EGO
      Finally closing is it?

             MINION
      No...

             EGO
      More financial trouble?

             MINION
      No, its--

             EGO
        (losing patience)
      --announced a new line of microwave 
      eggroles, what? Spit it out.


                                      76.
             MINION
      --its come back. Its... 
        (bewildered)
      ... popular.

Ego looks up, eyes flashing.

             EGO
      I havent reviewed Gusteaus in 
      years.

             MINION
      No, Sir.

Ego pulls open his files, deftly riffling through folders. 

             EGO
      My last review condemned it to the 
      tourist trade. 

             MINION
      Yes, Sir...

Ego locates the review and plucks it from the files, reading 
it aloud as if it were divinely inspired.

             EGO
      I said-- 
        (reading)
      Gusteau has finally found his 
      rightful place in history, right 
      alongside another, equally famous 
      Chef-- Monsieur Boyardee.

             MINION
      Touche...

Rising from his desk, Ego moves menacingly toward Minion.

             EGO
      That is where I left it. That was 
      my last word. THE last word.

             MINION
      Yes.

             EGO
      Then tell me, Ambrister... 

Ego now LOOMS over the cowering Minion.

             EGO (CONTD)
      ... how could it be... popular?


                                      77.
INT. - SKINNERS OFFICE - DAY

Skinner is seated at his desk, his head in his hands. Talon 
sits in a chair across from him, sipping an espresso.

             SKINNER
      No no no NO NO NOOO!

             TALON
        (matter of fact)
      The DNA matches, the timing works, 
      everything checks out. He is 
      Gusteaus son. 

             SKINNER
      This cant just-- happen! The whole 
      thing is a set-up! The boy knows!

Skinner goes to his window, parts the blinds to the kitchen.

             SKINNER
      Look at him out there... pretending 
      to be an idiot! Hes toying with my 
      mind, like a cat with a ball! Of... 
      something!

             TALON
      String?

             SKINNER
      Yes! Playing dumb! Taunting me with 
      that rat!

             TALON
      Rat?

             SKINNER
      Yes! Hes consorting with it! 
      Deliberately trying to make me 
      think its important!

             TALON
      The rat.

             SKINNER
      Exactly.

The lawyer is watching Skinner now, eyes wide with worry.

             TALON
        (delicately)
      Is the rat... important?


                                      78.
             SKINNER
      Of course not! He just wants me to 
      think that it is! Oh, I see the 
      theatricality of it; a rat appears 
      on the boys first night, I order 
      him to kill it and now he wants me 
      to see it everywhere-- woooooooo--
        (snaps fingers wildly)
      -its here, no it isnt, its HERE! 
      Am I seeing things, am I crazy, is 
      there a phantom rat or is there 
      not? But ohhh no! I refuse to be 
      sucked into his little game... of--

Skinner is suddenly aware that Talon is staring at him.

             TALON
      Should I be concerned about this? 
        (pointedly)
      About you?

INT. - KITCHEN  

Linguini/Remy are cooking. As Colette walks by, Linguinis 
eyes, then head start to follow her--

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy wonders why Linguinis head has drifted away from the 
task at hand. He looks up: sees Colette. Rolling his eyes at 
Linguinis limited concentration, he pulls Linguinis hair--

RESUME SCENE

Linguinis head jerks face forward. He frowns, annoyed at 
Remys correction. Colette is cooking at the oven behind him 
now. And Linguinis eyes have drifted back to her.. 

...following the curves of her legs slowly up... to her FACE. 
She turns, catching him-- and SMILES. He smiles back.

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

With waning patience, Remy again JERKS Remy back on task.

INT. - SKINNERS OFFICE - SAME TIME

Skinner PACES back and forth in front of Talon.


                                      79.
             SKINNER
      I cant fire him! Hes getting 
      attention! If I fire him now 
      everyone will wonder why and the 
      last thing I want is people looking 
      into this!

             TALON
      What are you so worried about? 
      Isnt it good to have the press? 
      Isnt it good to have Gusteaus 
      name getting headlines?

             SKINNER
        (points at Linguini photo)
      Not if theyre over HIS face!! 
      Gusteaus already has a face, and 
      its fat and lovable and familiar! 
      And it sells burritos! Millions and 
      millions of burritos! 

             TALON
      The deadline passes in three days, 
      then you can fire him whenever he 
      ceases to be a valuable. Youre 
      still in charge, and no one will 
      ever know.

Talon prepares to leave, hesitates at the door--

             TALON
      You know, I was worried about the 
      hair sample you gave me. I had to 
      send it back to the lab.

             SKINNER
      Why?

             TALON
      Because the first time it came back 
      identified as rodent hair.

Talon shrugs, chuckles and EXITS. Skinner stares, HAUNTED. 

INT. - KITCHEN  

Under Remys direction, Linguini reaches for a spice. Colette 
interrupts, handing him another one.

             COLETTE
      No, no. Try this. Its better.


                                      80.
INT. - UNDER THE TOQUE

Remy looks at the offered spice, and scowls; he begs to 
differ. As Linguini reaches to take the spice, Remy pulls 
back on his hair--

INTERCUT: LINGUINI & COLETTE WITH REMY

Linguini FLINCHES, his hand HESITATING; withdrawing then 
reaching-- forward-back-forward-back. 

Colette watches this odd display, still holding the spice 
out. Linguini grabs the wrist of his reaching hand, forcing 
it toward the spices, as--

--REMY TUGS at Linguinis hair, directing him just as hard in 
the opposite direction. Its a battle for control--

--that Linguini WINS; his hand finally grabs he spice tin. He 
smiles at Colette.

Underneath the toque, Remy GRIMACES.

EXT. - ALLEYWAY BEHIND KITCHEN - LATER

The dinner rush finished, Linguini and Colette exit the 
kitchen laughing and holding hands. She pulls him aboard her 
motorcycle and they peel out into the young Paris night. 

EXT. - PARIS STREETS - TRAVELING - NIGHT

Linguini and Colette laugh and scream as the wind rips by, 
Linguini barely able to hang on to his toque and we realize--

--REMY IS STILL INSIDE, HOLDING ON FOR DEAR LIFE! As Colette 
takes a sharp turn, Linguini drops his arms to steady himself-

--and his TOQUE (WITH REMY INSIDE) FLIES OFF HIS HEAD and 
tumbles to the street! Dazed, Remy emerges from the battered 
toque to see Colettes cycle disappear over the horizon! 

Car horns BLARE. Remy turns to see a massive WALL OF TRAFFIC 
barreling toward him. He dives clear as CARS roar past, 
wheels screech and lights flash in all directions as he madly 
scrambles out of their way, finally making it to the curb.

Remy looks up as a young woman recoils, jumping back into her 
sweethearts arms.


                                      81.
             WOMAN
      A RAT!

Her escort swats at Remy with his coat. Remy runs, jumping 
into a nearby STORM DRAIN.

INT. - INSIDE THE STORM DRAIN

Remy tumbles to the cement floor, his heart pounding. Through 
the grate he sees the legs of the WOMAN and her ESCORT.

             WOMAN (O.S.)
      Disgusting little creatures...

Remy listens, pained. He spies his reflection in a pool of 
water at this feet. He turns, slowly disappearing into the 
sewers darkness.

             REMY (V.O.)
      I was reminded how fragile it all 
      was. How the world really saw me. 
      And it just kept getting better...

EXT. - OUTSIDE BACK ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS - DAWN

Remy emerges from the curb drain, turns into the alley behind 
GUSTEUS and heads up the back steps...

             EMILE (O.S.)
      Psst! Remy...

Remy turns. EMILE peeks out from behind the trash cans, where 
he waits with a GROUP OF RATS, including GIT, the lab rat. 

             EMILE
      Hey little brother! We were afraid 
      you werent gonna show up!

              GIT
	      Hey Remy. Howya doin?

	      OTHER RATS
	      (assorted greetings)

Remy takes Emile aside, speaking in an angry whisper.

             REMY
      You told them? Emile, thats 
      exactly what I said not to do!


                                      82.
             EMILE
      But theyre my friends. I didnt 
      think you meant-- I was telling em 
      about tasting, about the nutty tang 
      and look, Im sorry. Im sorry-

             REMY
      Dont tell me youre sorry, tell 
      them youre sorry-

GIT has approached.

             GIT
      There a problem over here?

             REMY
      No.
        (SCOWLS at Emile)
      No, there is not. Wait here.

INT. - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Assured the kitchen is empty, Remy hops to door handle of the 
food safe and grabs it with both arms, plants his feet on the 
door and pulls. The handle doesnt budge, the door is LOCKED. 
Remy is puzzled. He looks toward SKINNERS OFFICE.

INT. - SKINNERS OFFICE

Remy enters, a little nervous, and scampers up to Skinners 
desk. A framed black and white PHOTO of Gusteau speaks.

             GUSTEAU PHOTO
      Remy, what are you doing in here?

             REMY
      Emile shows up-- I said not to, but 
      he goes and blabs- its a disaster. 
      Anyway, theyre hungry, the food 
      safe is locked, I need the key. 

             GUSTEAU PHOTO
      They want you to steal food?

             REMY
      Yes. No-- its complicated. Its 
      family. They dont have your ideals-

The collection of cardboard GUSTEAU STANDEES come to life:


                                      83.
             TEXAN GUSTEAU
      Ideals? If Chef Fancy Pants had any 
      ideals you think Id be hawkin 
      barbecue over here?

         MEXICAN GUSTEAU
	 Or Microwave burritos?

	 COLONEL GUSTEAU
	 Or tooth- I say, tooth-
                     pickin Chicken? Sabout as 
                     French as a Corn Dawg!

The SKETCH of Gusteau as a dog-like ear of corn BARKS.

       CORN DOG GUSTEAU
       (waves COMING SOON sign)
       Woof! Rumming Roon!

       TEXAN GUSTEAU
       HAH! Were inventin new ways 
       to sell out over here!

          SCOTTISH GUSTEAU
	  Will ye be wantin some 
	  HAGGIS BITES, then?

	  GUSTEU PHOTO
	  I cannot control how they use 
	  my image Remy, I am dead!

             REMY
      Will you guys SHUT UP?? 
        (they do, instantly)
      Ive gotta think! 

Remy climbs over the edge of Skinners desk, pushes open the 
drawer, and begins to rummage through its contents.

             REMY (CONTD)
      Words getting out and if I cant 
      keep them quiet...the entire clans 
      going to be after me with their 
      mouths open and-
        (he finds the key)
      --ah! Here it is. Hey...

Remy notices a FILE labeled Gusteau: Last Will & Testament. 
He turns to the Gusteau portrait.

             REMY
      ...your will--!

             GUSTEAU PHOTO
      This used to be my office.

Remy pulls the file from the drawer and lays it on the desk. 

             REMY
      This is interesting. Mind if I--?

             GUSTEAU PHOTO
      Not at all.


                                      84.
Remy flips open the file. There, alongside Gusteaus will, 
are recent press clippings featuring LINGUINI, and the letter 
to Skinner from Linguinis mother.

             REMY
      Linguini..? Why would Linguini be 
      filed with your will?

MUSIC BUILDS as Remy reads; his eyes jumping between the 
LETTER and the WILL, his eyes getting BIGGER until--

             REMY
      HES YOUR SON???

             GUSTEAU
      I... have a... SON?

             REMY
      YES. How could you not know this??

             GUSTEAU
        (defensive)
      I am a figment of your imagination! 
      You did not know! How could I??

             REMY
      Well, YOUR SON is the rightful 
      owner of this restaurant!

SKINNER OPENS the office door and FREEZES-- stunned by the 
bizarre sight of a RAT on his desk top. Remy SNATCHES the 
DOCUMANTS in his mouth and RUNS. 

EXT. - OUTSIDE BACK KITCHEN ENTRANCE - MORNING - CONTINUOUS

Remy races out into the street. Hot on his heels, Skinner 
runs smack into LALO on a moped. Before the mortified Lalo 
can apologize Skinner is back on his feet.

             SKINNER
      No... NO--! The rat! Its stolen my 
      documents! Its getting away!!

With an crazed shriek, Skinner pushes Lalo off the scooter, 
jumps on and roars off down the street.

EXT. - PARIS STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Skinner screeches to a stop at the INTERSECTION, looks around 
wildly for Remy. He sights the DOCUMENTS scampering through 
traffic and guns the motor, recklessly giving chase. 


                                      85.
EXT. - NEAR THE SEINE - MOVING WITH SKINNER

Closing in on Remy, Skinner reaches down to snatch the 
documents when the rat suddenly VEERS. Skinners Moped 
plunges down a flight of steps to the river, where it lays in 
a heap at the bottom. Skinner looks up, sees--

REMY-- looking down at him from the balustrade, documents 
still clutched in his mouth. Remy LAUGHS. A gust from a 
passing BUS sweeps the WILL from Remys open jaws and high 
into the air, where it flutters out over the rivers edge.

EXT. - MOVING ALONG THE BANKS - CONTINUOUS

SKINNER sees his chance. He clambers aboard the Moped and 
takes off after the will, dodging obstacles and passers-by to 
pursue from the banks below. Remy chases it from the 
balustrade above, the letter still in his mouth. 

THE WILL begins to descend, flitting toward Skinner below, 
who reaches for it, his fingers spreading wide--

Remy makes two desperate LEAPS; from the balustrade to a 
tree, from the tree into the air just above Skinner where he--

INTERCEPTS the will-- sailing toward the water and landing 
with a FWOP on the canvas roof of a Bateux Mouche. Remy cant 
believe hes got both documents again. 

Neither can Skinner. He ditches the Moped and LEAPS to the 
deck of the Seine boat. 

EXT. - ON THE SEINE - MOVING BETWEEN THE BOATS

Remy, documents in mouth, leaps to another passing boat, 
Skinner still hot on his tail.

A jam of water traffic keeps this game alive, the two leaping 
from boat to boat, but the last leap, to a DINING BOAT- is 
too far. Remy tries anyway; launching into the air, the 
documents in his mouth sweep back like WINGS and he--

--catches an updraft! He SAILS across the gulf, landing 
miraculously on the deck. 

Skinner crazily follows, making the leap of his life as he 
stretches out for the dining boats railing and-- 


                                      86.
--falls short, grasping instead the tablecloth of a couple 
dining near the railing, which he yanks out from under their 
breakfast like an inept magician as he--

--plunges into the river. Skinner sputters in the middle of 
the Seine as Remy hops up to a bridge passing overhead, 
scampering safely away with Skinners papers.

INT. - GUSTEUS - SKINNERS OFFICE - AN HOUR LATER

Skinner returns to his office, soaked and furious... only to 
find LINGUINI sitting at his desk.

             SKINNER
      You?? Get out of my office.

             COLETTE
      Hes not in your office. You are in 
      his.

Colette holds up GUSTEAUS WILL. Skinners jaw drops. He 
looks at Linguini, who can only shrug with embarrassment.

THE FRONT PAGE OF A NEWSPAPER

--spins into a close up. Above a PHOTO OF LINGUINI, a deer-in-
headlights look on his face, a HEADLINE reads: 

      RISING STAR CHEF DECLARED LEGAL OWNER OF GUSTEAUS

INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS (NOW LINGUINIS) OFFICE - DAY

Linguini is surrounded by the other COOKS, who raise flutes 
of champagne in a toast to their new owner. Laughing, Colette 
and Linguini hug. Watching from the shadows, REMY smiles.

MONTAGE

SERIES OF SHOTS, to music, illustrating (A) Linguinis rise, 
(B) Skinners fall, and (C)the happy changes to GUSTEAUS. 

INTERCUT: 

(A) Various NEWSPAPER headlines: LINGUINI CANCELS FROZEN 
FOOD GUSTEAUS REGAINS A LOST STAR. Linguini shows Remy 
their new, larger apartment. 


                                      87.
(B) A disheveled Skinner alternates between spying on 
Gusteaus (looking for the rat in the kitchen) and stewing 
(over the loss of his little empire, and the glowing press 
coverage of Linguini).

(C) Linguini and Colette raise the blinds in Skinners old 
office, opening it to light and a clear view of the Kitchen. 

In the alley behind the kitchen, the COOKS symbolically burn 
the GUSTEAU STANDEES created to promote Skinners hated 
FROZEN FOOD line. All cheer as the FLAMES rise higher.

INT. - DINING AREA - GUSTEAUS - EARLY EVENING - DAYS LATER

FLASHES POP. Linguini sits at a table, posing for photos. 
Several JOURNALISTS hover nearby shouting questions.

             REPORTER #1
      Chef Linguini! Chef Linguini! 
      Your rise has been meteoric, and 
      yet you have no formal training. 
      What is the secret to your genius?

INT. - INSIDE LINGUINIS TOQUE

Remy reacts to the question, looking down at the head beneath 
him as if to say: Yeah smart guy, what is your secret?

RESUME SCENE

             LINGUINI
      Im Auguste Gusteaus son. Its in 
      my blood, I guess.

             REPORTER #3
      But you werent aware of that fact 
      until very recently--

             LINGUINI
      No...

             REPORTER #3
      --and it resulted in your taking 
      ownership of this restaurant. How 
      did you find out?

ON REMY: His face says Because I risked my neck.


                                      88.
WITH LINGUINI

             LINGUINI
      Some part of me just knew...
        (lamely, trying it out)
      ...the Gusteau part...?

INT. - UNDER THE TOQUE

Remy tugs a hair tuft, causing Linguini to bop himself in the 
head with his frying pan. 

             REPORTER #1
      Where do you get your inspiration?

             LINGUINI 
      Inspiration? 

Again, Remy pricks up his ears.

             LINGUINI 
      Inspiration has many names. Mine is 
      named Colette.

             REMY
      WHAT?!!

WITH LINGUINI

An outraged SQUEAK erupts from inside Linguinis toque. 
Linguini quickly muffles Remys squeaks with both hands as he 
sets his toque down on the table. Linguini sucks on his 
teeth, making a squeaking sound.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      Something stuck in my teeth. 

INT. - OFFICES - MINISTRY OF HEALTH - DAY

Drab and cluttered. A battered telephone rings at the desk of 
NADAR LESSARD, a bored bureaucrat. He turns from a pile of 
paperwork and answers. 

             LESSARD
      Health Inspector.


                                      89.
PHONE BOOTH - ACROSS FROM GUSTEAUS - SAME TIME

Anxious, unshaven, and wrapped in a trench coat that makes 
him look vaguely like a pervert, Skinner speaks into a pay 
phone as he stares at the line of dinner customers across the 
street, waiting to enter Gusteaus. INTERCUT as needed.

             SKINNER
      I wish to report a rat infestation. 
      Its taken over my restauran-- er--
      Gusteaus restaurant--!

             LESSARD
      Gusteaus, eh? I can drop by.
        (consults appointment log)
      First opening is... three months.

             SKINNER
      It must happen now! 

             LESSARD
      Monsieur, I have the information, 
      if someone cancels Ill slot you 
      in.

             SKINNER
      But... but the rat, it-- 

Lessard hangs up. Skinner listens to the dial tone, deflated. 

             SKINNER
      --stole my documents...

INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS RESTAURANT 

Horst looks at the clock, scowls, and turns to Colette.

             HORST
      Its past opening time. 

             COLETTE
      He shouldve finished an hour ago.

She heaves an annoyed sigh and heads out to the dining area. 

INT. - DINING AREA

Colette enters the swirl of activity to confront Linguini. He 
shoots her a cocky smile, offering her a glass of champagne.


                                      90.
             LINGUINI
      Bon jour, Mon Cherie. Join us. We 
      were talking about my inspiration-

             COLETTE
        (to journalists)
      Yes, he calls it his tiny Chef...

Linguini muffles another SQUEAK of protest from under his 
toque. He shoots Colette a reprimanding look, leans in and 
says in a low, tight voice-

             LINGUINI
      Not that, dearest... I meant you.

Just then the front door swings open, spilling cold light and 
air into the warmth of the restaurant. The press swings its 
attention to the tall, backlit spectre at the entrance, 
whispering his legendary name: Ego. He glides through them 
without acknowledging their presence, and stops in front of 
Linguini, who is still seated.

             EGO
      You are Monsieur Linguini? 

             LINGUINI
      Uh, hello.

             EGO
      Pardon me for interrupting your... 
      premature celebration. But I 
      thought it only fair to give you a 
      sporting chance as you are new to 
      this game.

INT. - UNDER THE TOQUE

Remy watches with fear and awe. 

             LINGUINI
      Uh... game?

             EGO
      Yes. And youve been playing with-
      out an opponent. Which is, as you 
      may have guessed, against the 
      rules.


                                      91.
RESUME SCENE

             LINGUINI
      Youre Anton Ego.

Ego chuckles, turning to the gallery, a lion almost 
sympathetic toward the sacrificial lamb.

             EGO
      Youre slow for someone in the fast 
      lane.

             LINGUINI
      And youre thin for someone who 
      likes food.

The lamb bites back. A murmur of surprised delight ripples 
through the assembled. Egos eyes FLASH. 

             EGO
      I dont like food, I love it. If 
      I dont love it, I dont-- swallow.

Linguini SWALLOWS. Upper hand regained, Ego sniffs--

             EGO (CONTD)
      I will return tomorrow night with 
      high expectations. Pray you dont 
      disappoint me.

Ego turns and sweeps out of the restaurant. There is a heavy 
PAUSE. Colette turns to the assembled press.

             COLETTE
      Listen, we hate to be rude, but... 
      were French. And its dinner time.

She pulls Linguini from the table and heads to the kitchen. 
He calls back to the press in apology-- 

             LINGUINI
      She meant to say its dinner time, 
      and were French--!

INT. - HEAD CHEFS OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Remy stands on the desk top, glowering at Linguini.


                                      92.
             LINGUINI
      Dont give me that look. You were 
      distracting me in front of the 
      press. How am I supposed to 
      concentrate with you yanking my 
      hair all the time? 

Linguini sticks out his hand, offering Remy a now familiar 
ramp to his post atop Linguinis head. Remy shoots Linguini 
an about time look, climbs up his arm and under his toque.

             LINGUINI
      And thats another thing. Your 
      opinion isnt the only one that 
      matters here. Colette knows how to 
      cook too, you know--

INT. - UNDER THE TOQUE

The last straw. Remy grabs a hair hank and pulls-- too hard.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      --- OW!! Alright thats it!!

EXT. - OUTSIDE BACK KITCHEN ENTRANCE - DUSK

The door bangs open, Linguini storms out, mashing his toque 
against his head, angrily shuts the door behind him. He yanks 
his toque off and gets in Remys tiny face--

             LINGUINI
      You take a break, little chef. Im 
      not your puppet, and youre not my-- 
      uh, puppet... controlling... guy. 

EXT. - FROM THE ROOF ABOVE

SKINNER watches this strange scene, his jaw hanging open... 

             SKINNER
      The rat is the cook...!

             LINGUINI
      You cool off and get your mind 
      right, little chef. Ego is coming 
      and Ive gotta focus!

Skinner watches as Linguini storms back into the kitchen. He 
EXITS, ducking down the fire escape.


                                      93.
RESUME REMY 

Hes FURIOUS. In a pint-sized fit of rage he kicks a can, 
then, tottering under its weight, picks up a bottle to throw 
against the wall and suddenly finds himself face to face with-

--EMILE and his RAT PALS.

             EMILE
      Wow. Ive never seen that before.

             GIT
      Yeah... its like youre his fluffy 
      bunny or something.

The other rats laugh. Remys face goes hard.

             EMILE
      Im sorry about all the guys, Remy. 
      I tried to limit them, but--

             REMY
      You know what? Its okay.
        (To group)
      Ive been selfish. You guys hungry?
        (RATS respond eagerly)
      Dinners on me. Well go after 
      closing time. In fact-- 
        (to Emile, evil grin)
      --tell Dad to bring the whole clan.

INT. - LINGUINIS APARTMENT - NIGHT

Linguini returns, calling out in the darkened apartment. 

             LINGUINI
      Little chef...?

He looks in Remys little sleeping area, finding it EMPTY.

INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS - NIGHT

Horst puts the kitchen to bed. He pulls on his coat and turns 
the LIGHTS OUT. Beat. A metal GRATE in the floor lifts up, 
Remy and Django peek out.

             DJANGO
      This is great, son. An inside job. 
        (too loudly)
      I see the appeal--!


                                      94.
             REMY
      Shhh!

Remy climbs out, looks around, signals the coast is clear. An 
army of RATS- a crack FOOD THEFT UNIT-  pour in after him, 
mobilizing effectively to raid the vault as he opens the 
door, when all of a sudden--

--LINGUINI RETURNS to the kitchen.

             LINGUINI
      Little Chef...? Little Chef? 

The CLAN RATS instantly freeze, camouflaging themselves. It 
is both amazing and precarious, any close look will betray 
the deception. Remy steps out, revealing himself to Linguini. 

             LINGUINI
      Hey, Little Chef. I thought you 
      went back to the apartment. Then 
      when you werent there, I dont 
      know, it didnt seem right--

As Linguini opens up to Remy, we cut to QUICK SHOTS: visual 
gags of the rat clan hiding in plain sight, desperate to 
avoid discovery. Remy listens, distracted.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      --to leave things the way we did so 
      I came back, hoping youd be here. 
      And here you are.

Linguini is so absorbed in his own feelings that hes utterly 
blind to the fact that the food safe door is ajar, and that 
hes caught the rats MID-HEIST.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      Look. I dont want to fight. Ive 
      been under a lot of- you know, 
      pressure. A lot has changed in not 
      very much time, you know. Im 
      suddenly a Gusteau and I gotta be a 
      Gusteau or you know, people will be 
      disappointed. Its weird... 

INT. - INSIDE THE FOOD SAFE: MORE QUICK SHOTS

RATS HIDE; up on the shelves, in EGG CARTONS, inside the 
holes in a wedge of SWISS CHEESE, submerged in an open sack 
of COFFEE BEANS, leaving only their tiny NOSES visible. 


                                      95.
EMILE hides in the center of an ASPARAGUS BUNCH held together 
by a rubber band. His eyes latch on to a juicy BUNCH OF 
GRAPES, which hang literally in front of his face. 

Enticed, he leans forward just enough to get his lips around 
the end of a single grape, and s-l-o-w-l-y SUCKS IT OFF THE 
STEM into his mouth, swallowing it whole. Mmmnn. 

He glances up: another grape beckons. Emile leans for it--

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      ...Ive never disappointed anyone 
      before because nobodys ever 
      expected anything of me. And the 
      only reason anyone expects anything 
      from me now is... because of you.  

REMY listens to Linguini, shamed by his kind words.

             LINGUINI  
      I havent been fair to you. Youve 
      never failed me, and I should never 
      forget that.  

INT. - INSIDE THE FOOD SAFE

Emile, now stuffed and lumpy with grapes, eyes the last 
REMAINING GRAPE on the stem. Balancing on a CHEESE WHEEL, he 
lashes the asparagus rubber band to the shelf and leans out 
over the edge, straining to reach the lone grape...

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      The most honorable friend a guy 
      could ever ask--

The cheese wheel SHIFTS. Emile loses his balance and falls, 
hits the floor spread-eagled. The CHEESE lands on top of him, 
causing his bellyful of GRAPES to machine gun from his mouth-- 

--and hit the back of Linguinis neck. He TURNS-- sees that 
the food safe door is OPEN.

             Linguini (CONT'D)
      What is this?  Whats going on--

He pulls open the door and flips the light on. The RATS FLEE-- 
spilling from the shelves in a squeaking, fur covered WAVE 
that rushes past Linguinis feet and out the open door.

             LINGUINI
        (to Remy, betrayed)
      Youre stealing from me?? 
             (MORE)


             LINGUINI (cont'd)      How could you? I thought you were 
      my friend, I trusted you! 

                                      96.

EXT. - OUTSIDE KITCHEN - REAR ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

The door bursts open and a flood of rats pour out the rear 
door into the alley, Linguini behind them brandishing a mop.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      Get out! You and all your rat 
      buddies! And dont come back! Or 
      Ill treat you the way restaurants 
      are supposed to treat pests!

Linguini ducks back inside, SLAMMING the door behind him. 
Remy stares in silence, devastated by what hes done. DJANGO 
and the rest of the RAT CLAN emerges from the shadows, 
gathering around the group including Remy and Emile.

             REMY
      Youre right, Dad. Who am I 
      kidding? We are what we are. And 
      were rats. 

Remy turns, unconsciously drops to four legs and walks slowly 
away, his voice distant and sad. 

             REMY
      Well, hell leave soon... and now 
      you know how to get in. Steal all 
      you want. 

             DJANGO
      Youre not coming?  

             REMY
      Ive lost my appetite.

DINING ROOM - GUSTEAUS  RESTAURANT - NIGHT  

Strangely, Linguini is dressed as a WAITER. He waits on a 
lone DINER, whose face is hidden behind a menu.

             LINGUINI
      Do you know what youd like, sir?

The MENU lowers, revealing EGO. He GRINS, ravenous.

             EGO
      Yes; Id like your heart, roasted 
      on a spit--!


                                      97.
Linguini is frozen in fear, his heart pounding as Egos cold 
chuckle turns into a ROAR--

INT. - INSIDE HEAD CHEFS OFFICE - MORNING - CONTINUOUS

Linguini AWAKENS. Someone is POUNDING is at his office door.

             LINGUINI
      C--come... COME IN!!

The door opens and Colette leans in, speaking tenderly--

             COLETTE
      Today is a big day. You should say 
      something to them.

             LINGUINI
      Like what...?

             COLETTE
      You are the boss. Inspire them.

INT. - KITCHEN - MINUTES LATER  

Linguini places a step ladder at the front of the kitchen and 
stands on the top step. He clears his throat.

             LINGUINI
      Attention. Attention everyone. 

The staff pauses and turns their attentions to Linguini.

             LINGUINI
      Tonight is a big night. Appetite is 
      coming and hes going to have a big 
      Ego. 
        (stops, corrects himself)
      I mean Ego. Hes coming. The 
      critic? And hes going to order. 
      Something. Something from our menu. 
      And well have to cook it. Unless 
      he orders something cold. Like a 
      salad. 

The COOKS exchange confused glances. Colette wilts. This is 
not the inspiration she had in mind.

EXT. - OUTSIDE REAR KITCHEN ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS - SAME MOMENT

Remy is watching this through the kitchen window. He sighs.


                                      98.
             EMILE
      Just cant leave it alone, can ya?

Emile is by the trash. Remy HOPS DOWN and walks over to him. 

             REMY
      You really shouldnt be here during 
      restaurant hours, its not safe. 

             EMILE
      Im hungry. And I dont need the 
      inside food to be happy. The key, 
      my friend, is to not be picky. 
      Observe...

Emile lifts the corner of a toppled-over BOX, exposing a 
chunk of CHEESE. Emile chuckles, reaching for the cheese-- 

             REMY
      No-- WAIT--

Remy grabs Emiles tail and pulls him clear. A HINGE DROPS, 
trapping Remy inside a CAGE. Emile rushes to Remy, panicked.

             EMILE
      Oh no! Whatll we do?! Ill go get 
      Dad!

A SHADOW looms over them. Emile quickly hides. SKINNER picks 
up the trap/cage, grinning ear to ear.

             SKINNER
      You may think you are a chef, but 
      you are still... only a rat. 

INT. - KITCHEN - SAME TIME

The cooks are sitting now, bored out of their minds. Linguini 
is still talking.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      -sure he took away a star last time 
      he reviewed this place. Sure, it 
      probably killed Gust-- Dad. 

             LALO
        (softly to himself)
      Oh, this is very bad juju here-o.

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      But Ill tell you one thing--


                                      99.
Mustafa bursts through the dining room door, interrupting--

             MUSTAFA
      Ego is here.

The air is suddenly sucked from the room. The cooks stand 
alert, frightened. Sensing what is needed, Colette steps up. 

             COLETTE
      Arnot Ego is just another customer. 
      Lets cook!

An intent look sweeps the faces of the staff. With a burst of 
grunts, cries and hand claps they return to work.

             LINGUINI
        (a beat too late)
      Yeah--! Lets-- okay...

EXT. - STREET NEAR GUSTEAUS - MOMENTS LATER

Remys cage is set down inside the trunk of SKINNERS CAR. 
Remy looks up at Skinner.

             SKINNER
      So! I have in mind a simple arrange-
      ment; you will create for me a new 
      line of Chef Skinner frozen foods, 
      and I, in return, will not kill 
      you. 

Remy STARTLES, looks aghast. Laughing, Skinner SLAMS SHUT the 
trunk and EXITS toward the restaurant. Nearby, EMILE watches 
cautiously.

             SKINNER
      Au revoir, rat!

INT. - GUSTEAUS RESTAURANT - DINING AREA - NIGHT  

Mustafa draws a deep breath, gathering courage. He turns and 
approaches Egos table. 

             MUSTAFA
      Do you know what youd like this 
      evening, sir?

Ego lifts his gaze to Mustafa. 


                                     100.
             EGO
      Yes, I think I do. After reading a 
      lot of overheated puffery about 
      your new cook, you know what Im 
      craving? A little perspective. 

Ego SNAPS his menu shut and hands it to Mustafa.

             EGO
      Thats it. Id like some fresh, 
      clear, well-seasoned perspective. 
      Can you suggest a good wine to go 
      with that?

             MUSTAFA 
        (baffled)
      With what, sir?

             EGO
      Perspective. Fresh out, I take it?

             MUSTAFA
      Uh... Im sorry?

             MUSTAFA
      Very well. Since youre all out of 
      perspective and no one else seems 
      to have it in this bloody town, 
      Ill make you a deal; you provide 
      the food, Ill provide the 
      perspective. Which would go nicely 
      with a bottle of Cheval Blanc 1947.

             MUSTAFA
      Uhm... Im afraid I-- I didnt... 
      your dinner selection...?

Ego jumps to his feet, suddenly eye to eye with Mustafa.

             EGO
      Tell your Chef Linguini that I 
      want whatever he dares to serve to 
      me. Tell him to hit me with his 
      best shot.

Mustafa scurries off. Seated at a nearby table (and disguised 
in a trenchcoat, sunglasses and beret), SKINNER jerks his 
head toward Ego and speaks to his waiter-- 

             SKINNER
        (deep voice)
      I will have whatever he is having. 


                                     101.
INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS CAR TRUNK

Remy sits in the corner of his cage, alone and defeated. The 
INT. - GUSTEU SPRITE appears. He studies Remy, speaking quietly.

             GUSTEAU
      So... weve given up.

             REMY
      Why do you say that?

             GUSTEAU
        (looks around, shrugs)
      We are in a cage. Inside a car 
      trunk. Awaiting a future in frozen 
      food products.

             REMY
      No, Im the one in a cage. Ive 
      given up. You... are free.

             GUSTEAU
      I am only as free as you imagine me 
      to be. As you are.

             REMY
      Oh please. Im sick of pretending. 
      I pretend to be a rat for my 
      father. I pretend to be a human 
      through Linguini. I pretend you 
      exist so I have someone to talk to! 
      You only tell me stuff I already 
      know! I know who I am! Why do I 
      need you to tell me? Why do I need 
      to pretend?

Gusteau smiles with affection and relief.

             GUSTEAU
      Ah, but you dont, Remy...

He floats to Remy, puts his hands squarely on the rats 
shoulders

             GUSTEAU (CONTD)
      ...you never did.

And with that, Gusteau... FADES AWAY. A loud THUNK as 
something hits the street pavement outside.


                                     102.
EXT. - CATHEDRAL ACROSS FROM GUSTEAUS - DUSK

A STONE GARGOYLE has just missed the trunk of Skinners car 
and SHATTERED on the pavement. DJANGO, clearly annoyed, calls 
to GIT the musclebound lab rat, whos perched on the one 
gargoyle-less balustrade above.

             DJANGO
      No. My OTHER left!

Git grunts, moves to the next gargoyle and PUSHES--

INT. - INSIDE SKINNERS CAR TRUNK

Remy, alert and excited now, calls out.

             REMY
      Dad?!!

WHAM! --the top of the trunk suddenly CAVES IN from the 
second GARGOYLEs impact. Light streams in as EMILE appears.

             REMY
      Emile! 

Django joins Emile as he grabs the cage latch from the 
outside. Straining with all their might, the three rats pop 
it open. Remy jumps out, gives Django and Emile quick hugs--

             REMY
      I love you guys.

-then scrambles out the trunk and takes off toward GUSTEAUS.

             DJANGO
      Where you going??

             REMY
        (calling back)
      Back to the restaurant! Theyll 
      fail without me!

             DJANGO
      WHY DO YOU CARE??

             REMY
      BECAUSE IM A COOK!!


                                     103.
INT. - INSIDE KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS - SAME TIME

CHAOS. Tempers are flaring, orders are piling up and the 
kitchen is dissolving under Linguinis leadership. Holding a 
pan filled with grey glop, Horst confronts Linguini.

             HORST
      Its your recipe! How can you not 
      know your own recipe??

             LINGUINI
      I didnt write it down, it just-- 
      came to me!

             HORST
      Well make it come to you again, 
      because we cant serve this!!

      MUSTAFA
      Wheres my order??

      LA ROUSSE
      This is what theyre 
      ordering!!

      POMPIDOU
      We cant be all out, we just 
      opened-

      COLETTE
      We will make it. Just tell us 
      what you did!

       HORST
       We need to tell the customers 
       something!

       LINGUINI
       Cant we serve them something 
                     else?? Something I didnt 
                     invent??

       LINGUINI
       Make them order something 
       else!! Tell them were all 
                     out!

       LA ROUSSE
       I have another idea; what if 
       we served them what they 
                     order??

       LINGUINI
       I dont know what I did!
       (hysteria building)
       Then tell them-- tell them-- 
                     AUGH!!

Linguini runs into his office and slams the door closed.

             LA ROUSSE
        (to Lalo, beat)
      Augh...?


                                     104.
EXT. - OUTSIDE BACK KITCHEN ENTRANCE - GUSTEAUS - SAME TIME

Django and Emile rush to stop Remy as he heads toward the 
kitchen door--

       DJANGO
       Remy!

       EMILE
       Theyll see you! STOP!

--but Remy pushes them away long enough to get inside the 
doorway, exposing himself to two COOKS. The other rats HIDE.

             COLETTE
      Hes come far too fast! Could you 
      do more with as little experience??

             HORST
      We are not talking about me! Were 
      talking about what to do right n--!

Horst suddenly FREEZES-- his gaze fixed on the back entrance. 
There, smack dab in the middle of the doorway, sits REMY, as 
brash as a tiny gunslinger entering a saloon.

             COLETTE
      RAAAAT!!

Instantly the other COOKS seize dangerous utencils and CHARGE 
at Remy. But REMY DOESNT MOVE. Suddenly, a voice SHOUTS-- 

             LINGUINI
      DONT TOUCH HIM!!

Miraculously, everyone STOPS, their weapons raised, their 
gaze shifting to LINGUINI, who rushes in front of the group.

             LINGUINI
      I know this sounds insane. But- 
      well, the truth sounds insane 
      sometimes, but that doesnt mean 
      its not. The truth.

The COOKS exchange confused glances.

             LINGUINI
      And the truth is I have no talent 
      at all. But this Rat... hes the 
      one behind these recipes. Hes the 
      cook. The real cook. Little Chef?  

The COOKS watch in amazement as Remy hops onto his lowered 
palm. Linguini lifts Remy up to his head to demonstrate.


                                     105.
             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      Hes been hiding under my toque. He 
      chooses the ingredients, the spices- 

Linguini picks up some spices lifting them to Remys nose. 
The other cooks react; this strange and familiar action of 
Linguinis is suddenly stranger than ever. 

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      --hes been controlling my actions.

Remy gives Linguinis hair a few tugs to demonstrate, 
Linguinis limbs move correspondingly. 

             LINGUINI (CONTD)
      Hes the reason I can cook the food 
      thats exciting everyone, the 
      reason Ego is outside that door. 
      Youve been giving me credit for 
      his gift. I know its a hard thing 
      to believe, but hey-- you believed 
      I could cook, right? 

Linguini laughs. The cooks stare. He looks at them, earnest.

             LINGUINI
      Look. This works. Its crazy, but 
      it works. We can be the greatest 
      restaurant in Paris. And this rat, 
      this brilliant little Chef can lead 
      us there. Whaddya say? You with me?

For a moment no one moves. Then HORST, tears welling up in 
his eyes, crosses to a grateful, moved Linguini and--

--hands him his apron and toque... EXITING silently out the 
back door. Linguini watches-- stunned-- as, one by one, the 
rest of the STAFF exits with him, leaving only COLETTE.

Colette locks eyes with Linguini, both anger and tears 
welling up. Her hand comes up to slap him-- 

--but doesnt. Her hand just trembles, and finally drops to 
her side. She pushes past Linguini and out the door.

Linguini looks out at Dining room: Ego WAITS, drumming his 
fingers. Soon the customers will get restless. Linguini 
exchanges a sad look with Remy, shrinks into his office, 
closes the door behind him. 


                                     106.
EXT. - PARIS STREETS - MOVING WITH COLETTE - NIGHT

COLETTE speeds her motorcycle recklessly through the streets, 
crying. A car horn BLASTS. She STARTLES, hits the brakes and 
skids TO A STOP, nearly running the red light. 

She exhales, her heart racing at the close call. She looks 
up. A familiar COOKBOOK beckons from the display window of a 
used book store: Gusteaus ANYONE CAN COOK.

Colette stares at it, feeling a pang of emotion.

CLOSE ON THE COOKBOOK.

CLOSE ON COLETTE. Behind her the traffic light TURNS green.

WIDE SHOT: The traffic on either side of her begins to go. 
Colette sits atop her motorcycle-- motionless.

INT. - RESUME GUSTEAUS KITCHEN

Alone in the empty kitchen, Remy faces the dining room door, 
feeling Ego on the other side, waiting. Remy slowly turns 
away... then realizes that DJANGO is also there.

             REMY
      Dad--!
        (he goes to Django)
      Dad, I-- I dont know what to say.

             DJANGO
      I was wrong about your friend. And 
      about you.

             REMY 
      Dad, I dont want you to think Im 
      choosing this over family. I cant 
      choose between two halves of myself-

             DJANGO
      Im not talking about cooking. Im 
      talking about guts. This really 
      means that much to you?

Almost apologetically, Remy NODS. Django sighs, then lets out 
a loud whistle. The RAT CLAN emerges from the shadows, 
quickly surrounding them.


                                     107.
             DJANGO
      Were not cooks, but we are family. 
      You tell us what to do and well 
      get it done.

A DOOR CREAK turns the rats attention to the back door where-- 

--THE HEALTH INSPECTOR has just entered. His eyes bug at the 
surreal sight: the KITCHEN IS FILLED WITH RATS. Slowly, he 
backs toward the EXIT... and BOLTS!

             REMY
      STOP THAT HEALTH INSPECTOR!

Immediately  DJANGO leads half the RAT CLAN after the 
inspector, yelling as he exits out the door.

             DJANGO
      DELTA TEAM FOLLOW ME! THE REST OF 
      YOU STAY AND HELP REMY!

EXT. - ALLEY BEHIND GUSTEAUS - INSIDE INSPECTORS CAR 

The inspector JAMS his keys into the ignition and turns. The 
ENGINE wont turn over. He glances at the rear view mirror 
and sees: a ground-level STAMPEDE OF RATS moving out from the 
kitchen TOWARD HIM.

The RATS engulf the car, covering it like a blanket. The 
ENGINE comes to life. Tires SQUEAL, smoking as the car roars 
from the alley in reverse and pulls a 180 into the street, 
the rats covering it like a grey moss-- 

INT. - KITCHEN - SAME TIME

The dishwasher opens with a WHOOSH of steam: DOZENS OF RATS 
EMERGE, their fur clean and fluffy. They disperse with Swat 
Team precision as Remy barks orders.

             REMY
      TEAM THREE WILL BE HANDLING FISH, 
      TEAM FOUR: ROASTED ITEMS, TEAM 
      FIVE: GRILL, TEAM SIX: SAUCES! GET 
      TO YOUR STATIONS! LETS GO GO GO!

LINGUINI  

Emerges from his office and is astonished by the sight. Remy 
and the rats see this is suddenly PAUSE. Linguini walks up to 
Remy, suddenly filled with purpose.


                                     108.
             LINGUINI
      We need someone to wait tables.

Remy NODS. CUT TO:

CHEFS OFFICE

Linguini turns his backpack upside down. A pair of ROLLER 
BLADES hit his desk with a CLUNK.

DINING AREA

Linguini, wearing the blades and a WAITERS OUTFIT, explodes 
through the double doors and sweeps into the dining room, 
distributing MENUS to the diners with economical precision, 
followed miraculously by DRINKS, BREAD, WATER. 

He arrives at Skinners table to refill his water. 

             LINGUINI
      No, Im sorry for any delay, but 
      were a little short tonight. 

Skinner glances at EGO, who is scowling as he scribbles in a 
note pad. A big smile stretches across Skinners face.

             SKINNER
      Please. Take all the time you need.

INT. - KITCHEN

The kitchen is going like blazes; RATS are sauteing, spicing, 
grilling, cooking up a storm. Remy, nearly overwhelmed with 
the scale of production, is miraculously handling it. 

Stationed at the pass, EMILE wipes the sauce of the edges of 
the plates with a cloth, the last crucial bit of quality 
control. Tempted by the sauce, he tries to sneak a lick.

     REMY (O.S.)
     EMILE!

     EMILE
     (stopping himself)
                     Sorry!

INT. - DINING AREA - SAME TIME

Ego looks impatiently at his watch, scribbles in his notepad. 
Then his eyes fall to the soup. He pulls the bowl to him, 
dips a spoon in, TASTING IT. Not bad...


                                     109.
INT. - KITCHEN

The RATS are functioning like a well-oiled machine; the 
perfectly prepared meals hit the pass as quickly as Linguini 
can grab them. The back door pushes open to REVEAL:

COLETTE-- staggered by the bizarre spectacle. Looking like 
she may vomit, she wheels back to the exit, when Linguini 
rushes in, throwing his arms around her.

             LINGUINI 
      Colette! You came back. Colette, I--

             COLETTE
      DONT say a word. If I think about 
      it I might change my mind. Just 
      tell me what the rat wants to cook. 

MOMENTS LATER

Remy flips through Gusteaus recipe box, finds a certain card 
and pulls it, showing it to Colette. She frowns.

             COLETTE
      Ratatouille? Its a peasant dish. 
      Are you sure you want to serve this 
      to Ego? 

Remy NODS. Colette shrugs and starts to prepare the dish.

A TIRE SCREECH is followed by a LOUD CRASH outside. COLETTE 
looks up as the back door bangs open: the HEALTH INSPECTOR, 
bound and gagged, floats across the floor on a cushion of 
RATS, who quickly dump him in the food safe.

Colette shrugs, going with the strange night, and goes to add 
the first spice to the ratatouille, but is blocked by a 
WOODEN SPOON. She looks up: sees its held by Remy. 

             COLETTE
      What. Im making the ratatouille...

He looks at the her ingredients and makes a face. 

             COLETTE
      Well, how would you prepare it?

Remy PAUSES, considering this.


                                     110.
INT. - KITCHEN / DINING AREA

INTERCUT: (1) Remy REIMAGINING the ratatouille; re-inventing 
it step by step and demonstrating what he wants to Colette, 
who expertly follows through-- WITH (2) LINGUINI skating 
around the dining room, a ONE-MAN WAIT STAFF.

MUSIC CRESCENDOS as LINGUINI delivers the meal to EGOS 
TABLE. Linguini then serves the identical meal to Skinner, 
whos appalled and amused to find that Ego has been served-- 

             SKINNER
      Ratatouille? They must be joking...

He looks over at Ego, who seems equally unimpressed. 

ON EGO

He pokes a fork into the vegetables, examines them for a 
moment, then brings the food to his lips-- 

Linguini watches, withering.

As Egos lips close around the ratatouille, the sound, the 
restaurant around him is WHISKED AWAY--

EXT. - FLASHBACK: FRENCH COUNTRYSIDE - A LIFETIME AGO

We are inside a cozy cottage on a golden summer day. The 
front door is open, a newly crashed BICYCLE lays on the 
ground outside. Next to it stands a five year old ANTON EGO 
with a skinned knee, valiantly holding back tears.

His young mother turns from her cooking, and gives him a 
sympathetic smile. Like all mothers, she knows what to do.

MOMENTS LATER

Young EGO, already feeling better, is at a table. His mother 
touches his cheek and sets a freshly made bowl of ratatouille 
before him, warm and inviting. The boy takes a spoonful into 
his mouth--

--AND THE PRESENT RUSHES BACK--

Ego is frozen. Astounded. His PEN slips from his hand. It 
CLATTERS to the floor, breaking the spell. 


                                     111.
Ego blinks. His eyes fall to his empty fork, which he holds 
suspended near his mouth. Slowly a long-lost feeling blooms 
inside him. He smiles. And has another forkful.

Skinner has seen this. He looks at his ratatouille and tastes 
it. Hes stunned; loving and hating it all at once--

             SKINNER
        (as he eats)
      No... no, it cant be...

INT. - KITCHEN 

Skinner BURSTS through the double doors.

             SKINNER
      Who cooked the ratatouille?! I 
      demand to know!

A kitchen full of RATS all stop and LOOK UP AT HIM. CUT TO--

INT. - INSIDE FOOD SAFE

Skinner, bound and gagged, is tossed roughly into the corner, 
where he lands next to the equally bound and gagged HEALTH 
INSPECTOR. They yell muffled protests as the door slams shut.

INT. - DINING AREA

A long FINGER dabs the last smear of remaining sauce from the 
plate of ratatouille. We follow it to Egos smiling lips. He 
kisses the sauce off his finger tip and turns to Linguini.

             EGO
      I cant remember the last time I 
      asked a waiter to give my 
      compliments to the Chef. And now I 
      find myself in the extraordinary 
      position of having my waiter be the 
      Chef... 

             LINGUINI
      Im just your waiter tonight. 

             EGO
      Then who do I thank for the meal?

Linguini stares for a moment, wondering how to respond. 


                                     112.
             LINGUINI
      Excuse me a minute.

Linguini skates to the kitchen doors, where Colette has been 
watching from a distance. Ego squints; Linguini and Colette 
are visible through the window panels in a heated discussion. 
Linguini returns to Egos table, this time with Colette.

             EGO
      Ah, you must be the Ch--

             COLETTE
        (interrupts)
      If you wish to meet the Chef you 
      will have to wait until all the 
      other customers have gone.

Taken aback by the unprecedented demand, Ego acquiesces.

             EGO
      So be it.

Colette and Linguini exchange a look. DISSOLVE TO:

LATER. The restaurant has cleared, save for Ego, who waits 
with grim patience. Linguini and Colette emerge from the 
kitchen and silently cross to Egos table, Linguini holding a 
toque upright on the flat of and outstretched hand.

Ego stares, his curiosity piqued by this strange sight. 
Linguini takes a breath and lifts up the toque, revealing 
REMY sitting up on the palm of his hand.

             REMY (V.O.)
      At first, Ego thinks its a joke, 
      but as Linguini explains, Egos 
      smile disappears... 

A SERIES OF SHOTS: Inside the rat-filled kitchen, Linguini 
and Remy demonstrate their unique working style to Ego, first 
together, then with Remy alone. Colette withers as Ego STARES 
at this in grim deadpan.

             REMY (V.O.)
      He doesnt react beyond asking an 
      occasional question. 

INT. - DINING AREA

Linguini and Colette are now seated at a table opposite Ego. 
Remy sits on the table facing Ego, who occasionally glances 
down at him. Finally Ego gets up, and bows slightly.


                                     113.
             REMY (V.O.)
      And when the story is done, Ego 
      stands, thanks us for the meal--

             EGO
      Thank you for the meal.

             REMY (V.O., CONT)
      --and leaves without another word. 

INT. - EGOS OFFICE - NIGHT  

In a SERIES OF SHOTS Ego is seen pacing, brooding, staring 
out one of the enormous picture windows flanking his portrait 
into the night, visibly unsettled... 

             REMY (V.O.)
      The following day his review 
      appears...

             EGO (V.O.)
      In many ways the work of a critic 
      is easy. We risk very little, yet 
      enjoy a position over those who 
      offer up their work and their 
      selves to our judgement. We thrive 
      on negative criticism, which is fun 
      to write and to read. 

-until finally, he sits down at his desk and begins to write.

             EGO (V.O.)
      But, the bitter truth we critics 
      must face is that, in the grand 
      scheme of things... the average 
      piece of junk is probably more 
      meaningful than our criticism 
      designating it so. But there are 
      times when a critic truly risks 
      something... and that is in the 
      discovery and defense of the new. 

MONTAGE: AFTER CLOSING - NIGHT (TO DAWN)

Linguini and Colette emerge from Gusteaus kitchen into the 
brisk night air, Remy with them, walking upright. No one 
knows what to think. Colette and Linguini HUG anyway.


                                     114.
             EGO (V.O.)
      The world is often unkind to new 
      talent, new creations. The new 
      needs friends. 

In the alley behind the kitchen, the strange human/rat 
alliance amicably part ways and head to their respective 
homes above and below the streets of Paris. Only Remy stays 
behind, electing to take in the night and think. 

             EGO (V.O.)
      Last night I experienced something 
      new, an extraordinary meal from an 
      singularly unexpected source.
      To say that both the meal and its 
      maker have challenged my 
      preconceptions about fine cooking, 
      is a gross understatement-- they 
      have rocked me to my core. 

EGOS V.O. CONTINUES as we DISSOLVE between LINGUINI, 
COLETTE, EMILE and DJANGO, and see that no one, rat or human-
is able to sleep this night. 

             EGO (V.O., CONTD)
      In the past I have made no secret 
      of my disdain for Chef Gusteaus 
      famous motto: Anyone Can Cook. 
      But I realize only now do I truly 
      understand what he meant. Not 
      everyone can become a great artist, 
      but a great artist can come from 
      anywhere. 

MONTAGE CONCLUDES with REMY staring at the Eiffel Tower as 
the sky creeps into dawn.

             EGO (V.O.,CONTD)
      It is difficult to imagine more 
      humble origins than those of the 
      genius now cooking at Gusteaus, 
      who is, in this critics opinion, 
      nothing less than the finest Chef 
      in France. 

INT. - KITCHEN - GUSTEAUS - MORNING

V.O. CONTINUES as a Colette & Linguini read EGOS REVIEW-- 

             EGO (V.O.,CONTD)
      I will be returning to Gusteaus 
      soon, hungry for more. 


                                     115.
Colette and Linguini HUG. Gathered with them in Gusteaus 
kitchen, Remy & the rat clan CHEER. 

             REMY (V.O.)
      It was a great night. The happiest 
      of my life. But the only thing 
      predictable about life is its--

SHOT: A bored worker for the MINISTRY OF HEALTH pastes 
CLOSED notices over the front door of GUSTEAUS.

             REMY (V.O., CONT)
      --unpredictability. We had to let 
      Skinner and the health inspector 
      loose, and of course they squealed. 
      The food didnt matter. Once it got 
      out there were rats in the kitchen, 
      the restaurant was closed and Ego 
      lost his job and his credibility. 
      But dont feel too bad for him...

INT. - A BISTRO - DAY - THE PRESENT

In a tiny, warmly lit room, a GROUP OF RATS (including DJANGO 
& EMILE) are seated around a basket, which has been 
overturned and covered with a napkin to function as a table, 
listening as REMY finishes his story.

             REMY (CONTD)
      ...hes doing very well as a small 
      business investor. He seems very 
      happy. 

Seated next to Remy, a teenage rat frowns, skeptical.

             TEEN RAT                                                 
      How do you know?

Remy smiles and points through the small window into the main 
dining room. There ANTON EGO, whose face now has color and a 
few new pounds, dines happily at a prime table. 

A small BELL rings. Remy glances down into the kitchen. 
Colette is looking up at him, tapping her wristwatch. 

             REMY
        (to other rats)
      Gotta go. Dinner rush.

He takes off, jumping into a counter-weighted BASKET made 
especially for him. Hes quickly dropped into the kitchen.


                                     116.
INT. - BISTRO KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The BASKET with Remy drops to the counter and Remy hops off. 
Colette sets down a plate of Remys now-famous Ratatouille, 
leaving the finish to Remy.

             COLETTE
      You know how he likes it.

Remy nods and quickly, expertly finishes the presentation. WE 
FOLLOW LINGUINI, now the Maitre d, as he takes the plate 
into the dining room and delivers it to Ego.

             LINGUINI
      Can I interest you in a dessert 
      this evening?

             EGO
      Dont you always?

             LINGUINI
      Which one would you like?

Ego grins, turns toward the window in the kitchen door where 
Remy is watching, and calls out--

             EGO
      Surprise me...!

Remy signals Ego in the affirmative and goes off to create 
something delicious. 

CAMERA pulls away from this happy scene to reveal--

--a BISTRO jammed with open-minded foodies; a hip, cultured 
mixture of bohemians of all ages... all there to enjoy good 
food and life. 

CAMERA CONTINUES out the window and we are--

EXT. - OUTSIDE THE BISTRO - PARIS - DUSK

A long line of customers has formed outside, waiting to get 
in. An elegant METAL SIGN comes into view, featuring a rat 
wearing a CHEFS TOQUE, along with the bistros name--

LA Ratatouille.           
FINE(THE END).


