               Real Steel

                 by

              Jeremy Leven

              Revisions by

               Les Bohem

            Current revisions

              John Gatins

             January 29, 2010

EXT.  LONELY DESERT LANDSCAPE -- NIGHT

We crest a rocky mountain range to see a winding highway that 
cuts across lonely desert scape.  Theres nothing for miles.

We travel closer to the ground to find a lone beat up BOX 
TRUCK that whistles along the abandoned highway.  

INT.  BOX TRUCK -- NIGHT

Inside the cab we find the driver, CHARLIE KENTON.  Hes 
unshaven with sun-beaten skin and a worn posture.  We pull 
close enough to read the odometer on CHARLIEs face.  The 
blows that lifes delivered are clearly evident; a scar above 
his eye, a slightly flattened ear.  His phone rings. He picks 
it up and reads the number and puts it down, unanswered.

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- TEXAS -- NIGHT

At the far end of the desolate horizon we can see neon 
spinning and white lights flashing as a Ferris Wheel and 
other rides light up the dark night sky. 

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- ENTRANCE -- NIGHT

CHARLIEs truck trolls through the exhibitors gate.  The 
TRUCK passes MERRY GO ROUNDS and TILT A WHIRLS.  The place is 
full of life.  Not Charlie.

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- GRASS FIELD -- NIGHT

CHARLIEs truck is tightly parked amongst other exhibitors 
and livestock trucks.  He pops out of the cab and moves to 
the rear of the truck.  He unlocks the gate and rolls up the 
door revealing a small cot tucked inside a packed workshop.

Its dark, but CHARLIE reaches inside a tiny fridge that 
leaks a little bit of light as he grabs a beer.  CHARLIE 
cracks the beer and stands on the gate of his truck surveying 
the FAIRGROUNDS.  He listens to the distorted pipe organs 
playing a failing melody and the scared but thrilled yells of 
teenagers on rides.

He drinks his beer and wonders, How did it come to this?

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- TEXAS -- DAYBREAK

The sun begins to light the sleeping fairgrounds.  

EXT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- SAME TIME

We find CHARLIEs feet with his socks still on and travel up 
the cot to see him dead asleep as his phone starts to ring.  

He swings his foot off his cot knocking over a half-full 
beer, which he quickly picks up and puts to his mouth 
preventing the foam from overflowing.  CHARLIE scrambles 
around and pulls his phone from his shoe and presses the 
speaker button...

             CHARLIE
      Yeah?

             GRUFF MANS VOICE
      WHERE ARE YOU CHARLIE? MORE 
      IMPORTANTLY, WHERES MY MONEY?  
      YOURE IN TO ME FOR 30 GRAND CHARLIE!

             CHARLIE
      Hey, Jack listen. Im gonna pay you..

             GRUFF MANS VOICE
      THIS AINT JACK!  ITS BILL PANNER!  
      YOU OWE JACK DUNNE MONEY TOO?!  
      GODDAMNIT!  I GET  MINE FIRST, 
      CHARLIE!  YOU PAY ME FIRST, YOU HEAR 
      ME?!

             CHARLIE
      Of course Bill, I have your money, 
      lets meet today or - teenth..30 good- 
      .or ..diner..whichever..nice...me 
      back..sandwich...good?

             GRUFF MANS VOICE
      Hello?..CHARLIE?

             CHARLIE
      Bill?  Bi...?  

CHARLIE finishes his performance and pockets his phone.  He 
quickly downs the dregs of his beer and goes to toss it when 
he sees hes had an audience.

THREE YOUNG GIRLS -- SISTERS -- MAYBE 3, 7 AND 10 YEARS OLD

The early Texas summer heat is already rising.  CHARLIE 
stares at the kids who are mesmerized by something in the 
truck.  The LITTLEST SISTER carefully raises her finger and 
points inside the truck... 

             LITTLEST SISTER
      Is that Supernova?

CHARLIE musters a smile, nods.

INT. BOX TRUCK -- SAME TIME

We find a large pair of boots...or are they mechanical feet?  
We pan up as we see that the boots are not boots but titanium 
feet that become painted alloy legs.  Scuffs and dents cover 
the torso that we now reveal as we continue up the body of an 
8 foot HUMAN-LIKE ROBOT.

The ROBOT is sitting with its back against the wall and its 
legs outstretched as if on a break at a warehouse job.

CHARLIE makes his way to the ROBOT and we can now see that 
the ROBOT is connected to a power generator thats mounted to 
the wall.  CHARLIE pulls the cord from the ROBOT and waves 
his hand in front of its face...  

SUPERNOVAs EYES LIGHT UP AND HE COCKS HIS HEAD.  The girls 
startle at the attention from the 8 foot mechanical menace. 

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, this is Supernova.  

The KIDS step a little closer, amazed. 

             BIG SISTER
      What robots he fightin?

             CHARLIE
      Actually hes gonna fight ah-- 

The MIDDLE SISTER has raised a camera and CHARLIE objects.

             CHARLIE
      Woa! Woa!  What are you doin?

             MIDDLE SISTER
      Can we take a picture with him?

CHARLIE smiles...

             CHARLIE
      Of course...for five dollars.

The KIDS stare in amazement at CHARLIEs demand.

             BIG SISTER
      You want five dollars, seriously?

             CHARLIE
      No, I want five dollars, immediately.

The BIG SISTER begins to lead her sisters away.  

             BIG SISTER
      I hope your robot gets his ass kicked 
      and a cow takes a big juicy dump on 
      his head.

CHARLIE raises the beer bottle in her direction.  The SISTERS 
scatter.

CHARLIE spits and stretches out his arms in an attempt to 
wake up.  The sun lights the inside of his truck.  Its a 
ROBOT BOXING workshop with generators and tools.

The truck is overfilled with mechanical parts of unknown 
origins.  Wires, belts and robot arms hang from the ceiling 
like Peking Ducks in a window on Mott Street. 

CHARLIE dodges in between the dangling arms, legs and belts 
and grabs a dress shirt that hangs.

Its a white oxford shirt with the sleeves cut off and a tie 
already fixed around its neck.  He pulls the shirt with 
prefixed tie over his head and spins to grab a ratty sports 
coat that matches the slacks he slept in.  

CHARLIE walks to SUPERNOVA and pulls a control pad from a 
shelf.  The PAD is a sophisticated REMOTE CONTROL.  CHARLIE 
quickly punches in a sequence. 

SUPERNOVA clicks to life, powering up and standing up in one 
swift maneuver.  We can now see that the 8 foot ROBOT towers 
over CHARLIE.  CHARLIE uses the remote to maneuver SUPERNOVA 
on to the lift gate at the back of the truck.

CHARLIE joins SUPERNOVA on the lift gate and the two stand 
side by side as CHARLIE presses a button that slowly makes 
the gate descend the 3 feet to the ground.  As they descend 
CHARLIE wipes SUPERNOVAs face and head down with a cloth.

             CHARLIE
      Its showtime, big fella.

INT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- BIG TOP -- DAY

This livestock arena has been temporarily transformed into a 
ROBOT BOXING ring.  

Wooden grandstands have been moved to surround the ring and 
the crowd is filling the seats.

BULL CAGE -- SAME TIME

In a bull cage, we find a furious BULL who is being tended to 
by 2 handlers as a LARGE TEXAN MAN is listening to CHARLIE.

             CHARLIE
      Thats not Daisy!  They said Daisy 
      was an 800 pound steer...that is not 
      800 pounds!

The BULL in the cage jumps and pounds the side of the cage 
causing one HANDLER to tumble off. This is a huge angry BULL.

A slick Texan named RICKY enters the fray.

             RICKY
      Charlie the can-do kid 
      Kenton...time has not been kind to 
      you, my friend.  How longs it been?

             CHARLIE
      Listen Ricky, we gotta problem-

             RICKY
      Whoa, slow down there, Hoss.
        (shaking his head)
      Charlie MFn Kenton.  Last time I saw 
      you?  You were staring up at the 
      ceiling of the Sam Houston Center 
      with the taste of my right cross all 
      over your face.

             CHARLIE
      I was winning that fight.

             RICKY
      Sure you were winning, but you just 
      kept coming and coming, Charlie. I 
      was bound to catch you.  And I did.  
      Pop. 

The LARGE TEXAN MAN interjects...

             LARGE TEXAN MAN
      We good to go here?

             CHARLIE
      Ricky, we agreed that my boxer would 
      fight Daisy an 800 pound steer for 
      3 grand.

             RICKY
      Yessir, we did.

             CHARLIE
      That bull is like 2000 pounds!

             RICKY
      Well, he aint 2000 pounds but-

             CHARLIE
      He!  HE?!  His name is Daisy?!  
      Thats a helluva Robot Boxer out 
      there, hes the only one I got left.

             RICKY
      High on the list of things that 
      arent my problem.  

             CHARLIE
      I drove two days to get here!

             RICKY
      Your bot dont fight you dont get 
      paid nothin Charlie.

CHARLIE looks at the growing crowd.  He sees SUPERNOVA making 
small circles with his hands raised in a programmed sequence 
meant to entertain the crowd.  CHARLIEs phone rings, he hits 
ignore.

CHARLIE shakes his head, no choice.

             CHARLIE
      5000.

RICKY offers a well worn envelope to CHARLIE.

             RICKY
      Price aint changin Charlie.

CHARLIE accepts the envelope and then has an idea...

             CHARLIE
      Lets make it more interesting:  My 
      bot against your bull, straight up.

             RICKY
      Wow, you just cant help yourself can 
      you, Charlie?  Okay then..you wanna 
      bet?  How much?

             CHARLIE
      20 grand.

             RICKY
      20 grand!  You got 20 grand?

             CHARLIE
      In a safe in my truck.

RICKY tries to read CHARLIEs poker face...

             RICKY
      Alright, 20 grand.  But I tell you 
      this...you lose and you welch? Ill 
      beat you to within an inch of your 
      life and you know I can do that cuz I 
      done done it.  We clear?

             CHARLIE
      Were good.  

CHARLIE shakes RICKYs hand, accepting the bet.  

INT.  BIG TOP -- BULL RING/FIGHT RING -- DAY

RICKY becomes a carnival barker as he hops on top of a barrel 
in the center of the sandy ring and addresses the crowd.  

             RICKY
      Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you...do 
      we have any fans of Robot Boxing out 
      here tonight?
        (the crowd cheers)
      Now I know we cant all afford to go 
      to Dallas and pay 300 dollars to see 
      those World Robot Championship 
      fights.  So...I decided to bring a 
      robot boxing match right here to our 
      little fair in San Leandro.  But 
      were not gonna have one of those WRB 
      fights with the million dollar men 
      made of metal..no, were gonna do it 
      small town Texas style.
        (the crowd loves it)
      First let me introduce our robot -- 
      hes got quite a reputation among the 
      neighborhood brawlers down in Dallas.  
      Lets welcome SUPERNOVA!!

The audience applauds as CHARLIE uses his remote to make 
SUPERNOVA open his arms towards the fans.

             RICKY
      Supernovas opponent tonight is not 
      another robot, its last years 
      runner-up for Steer of the Year -- 
      and he still looks pissed off about 
      it -- I give you.... Zeus....!!!

CHARLIEs EYES GO WIDE

             CHARLIE
      ZEUS?!  Really?!

BACK IN THE RING -- RICKY FIRES THE CROWD UP FURTHER

             RICKY
      Machine against beast here at the San 
      Leandro County Fairgrounds - Ladies 
      and gentlemen...Supernova versus 
      Zeus!!!

CHARLIE walks along the hurricane fence typing codes into his 
remote.  We now see SUPERNOVA react...

SUPERNOVA stands straight and extends his arms and legs, 
growing by a foot.  The CROWD Ooohs and Aaahhs!  
SUPERNOVA now throws a flurry of punches.

The CROWD is taken by the technology.  The ROBOT BOXER is now 
hopping up and down in place like a FIGHTER pre-bell.  
SUPERNOVA seems super ready. 

THE BELL RINGS -- DING DING DING!!!!

We watch as ZEUS comes violently flying out of his cage.  
SUPERNOVA bears down like a linebacker and delivers a 
humongous hit that knocks the BULL on his ass.  The CROWD 
reacts as the BULL gets up and rights himself.  No sooner 
does the bull find his footing when SUPERNOVA takes a mighty 
swing and clocks the BULL square in the face, sending him 
rolling.

SUPERNOVA lifts his arms and spins in a defiant and cocky 
maneuver.

We see ZEUS collect himself on the opposite side of the ring.  
He stares at the ROBOT and drops his head.

SUPERNOVA drops his head in a mock of the bulls animal 
instinct.

ZEUS begins his charge and hits top speed in a few strides.

CHARLIE sees the speed and tries to re-adjust on the remote.

ZEUS jukes left which makes SUPERNOVA freeze.  ZEUS now 
bounces back to his right at full speed and hits SUPERNOVA 
like Ray Lewis hitting a flat-footed QB.

SUPERNOVAs left leg is torn from his body. 

CHARLIE is shocked as he sees his ROBOT trying to maneuver on 
one leg.  He is furiously trying to work the remote as he 
runs towards the fence. 

The CROWD explodes with energy and violence.  

ZEUS ducks his head and flings SUPERNOVAs left leg in to the 
crowd.  The metal leg crashes in the aisle in front of the 
THREE GIRLS CHARLIE blew off minutes ago.  The GIRLS cheer 
the robots demise...

             CHARLIE
      RICKY!!!  STOP THIS THING!!!  

CHARLIE is trying to get RICKYs ATTENTION.  RICKY stands on 
the railing of the fence on the opposite side of the ring.

ZEUS again regroups and begins his run.  Breathing heavy as 
all 1700 pounds of him roll with fury at the ROBOT.

SUPERNOVA eyes ZEUS and decides to be proactive.  SUPERNOVA 
starts hopping right at the BULL.

CHARLIE is furiously thumbing the remote.

The CROWD cannot believe what theyre seeing. A game of 
chicken, these two monsters are about to clash...

CHARLIE is watching as the BEASTS grow closer...

             CHARLIE
      Okay...jump..NOW!

SUPERNOVA uses his one leg to jump.  Unfortunately ZEUS has 
begun to turn sideways and bucks his rear end in to the air. 

The enormous ass of the BULL acts like a baseball bat as it 
hits the airborne body of the ROBOT.  The force of the 
collision sends SUPERNOVA flying in to the post of the fence 
with such force that his lights dim for a second before 
slowly coming back up.

CHARLIE scrambles to the fence right behind his downed BOXER.

             CHARLIE
      RICKY!!  ENOUGH!!  ENOUGH!!!

1700 pounds of angry steak then pounds his horns clear 
through the chest of the robot.  

ZEUS parades around the ring with SUPERNOVA displayed on his 
horns.  

The CROWD goes bananas and then, like a dog with garbage, 
ZEUS shakes the ROBOT apart, leaving him strewn all over the 
ring.

CHARLIE hangs his head in frustration.  His last ROBOT is 
burning in a large pile of metal in the middle of a sand ring 
in some shit town in nowhere Texas.

RICKY strolls past CHARLIE...

             RICKY
      Ill be by for my money...

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- GRASS FIELD -- DAY

CHARLIE is using the power lift gate to pull the torso on to 
the truck.  SUPERNOVA is barely recognizable, just pieces.

CHARLIE is sweating.  He also appears to be on the hustle to 
get out of this ridiculous town.

CHARLIE looks around nervously and sees...

TWO GENTLEMEN DRESSED IN SUITS WALKING TOWARDS HIM

The TWO GENTLEMEN look out of place.  CHARLIE quickly shoves 
the remains of SUPERNOVA inside the truck and locks up.  He 
leaps off of the gate and jogs to the driver door.

THE TWO SUITED GENTLEMEN BEGIN TO RUN TOWARDS CHARLIE

CHARLIE struggles now as he looks for his keys.

             CHARLIE
      Keys, dammit...

The GENTLEMEN are on him.  Without thinking CHARLIE lands a 
professional right hook on the first GENTLEMAN who drops like 
a sack of beans.  CHARLIE now confronts the SECOND GENTLEMAN.

             CHARLIE
      One more step and Ill drop you like 
      your girlfriend.

The FIRST GENTLEMAN speaks from his knees...

             GENTLEMAN #1
      Charlie relax-

             CHARLIE
      Im not paying you, that was a 
      bullshit bet.  That whole fight was 
      bullshit! It cost me my last robot.

             GENTLEMAN #2
      Just listen to us...

CHARLIE watches the GENTLEMAN on the ground slowly get up.

             GENTLEMAN #2
      You are Charlie Kenton?

             CHARLIE
        (warily)
      Yeah.

             GENTLEMAN #1
      Do you recall Mary Fallon?

             CHARLIE
      Shes my ex-girlfriend.  I havent 
      seen her in almost 10 years.  What 
      does she want?  

             GENTLEMAN #2
      Nothing.  She died.

CHARLIE drops his arms and tries to process the information. 

             GENTLEMAN #1
      Do you recall Max Fallon?

             CHARLIE
      Hes my son.  Hes gotta be like 11.

             GENTLEMAN #2
      13.

CHARLIE nods still trying to stay a step ahead.

             CHARLIE
      Is he dead too?

             GENTLEMAN #1
      No, hes fine.  Thats why were 
      here.

CHARLIE stares at them, not sure where this is heading.

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- ENTRANCE -- DAY

We see CHARLIEs truck kicking up dust as it beats a hasty 
exit out of the fair.

EXT.  SAN LEANDRO COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS -- GRASS FIELD -- DAY

RICKY stands in the square patch of grass left vacant by the 
absence of CHARLIEs truck.  He has the pissed-off look of a 
man who just had 20 grand run away from him.

EXT.  COUNTY COURT HOUSE -- SUBURBAN DALLAS -- DAY

Straight out of a Norman Rockwell painting. 

INT.  COUNTY COURT HOUSE -- FAMILY JUDGES CHAMBERS -- DAY

At a large oak table we find MAX KENTON a 13 year-old BOY.  
The remnants of a burrito lunch are in evidence as he pulls a 
small, freshly bought bag of plastic toys from his pocket.

MAX uses his teeth to open the bag and spills the contents, 
cheap BUTTERFLIES of assorted colors.  MAX picks a dark red 
BUTTERFLY and begins to rub it between his fingers.  He seems 
fascinated with the BUTTERFLY as he now rubs it on the table. 

INT.  COURT HOUSE -- COURT ROOM -- SAME TIME

A JUDGE sits next to a stack of files as he tries to sort 
through the legal morass that is MAXs custody.  

             JUDGE
      Helen Fallon Barnes.
        (the woman nods)
      You are the boys aunt.

A somewhat over done-up woman in expensive clothes, this is 
AUNT HELEN.    

             AUNT HELEN
        (emotional)
      Mary was my older sister.  I dont 
      have children of my own.  Ive told 
      you, my husband Marvin is..wealthy.

HELEN points to MARVIN, her 68 year old silver fox, 2nd 
husband.  MARVIN tries to offer a sincere smile.

             AUNT HELEN
      We can more than provide for Max.  

The JUDGE smiles, nods.

             JUDGE
      I appreciate that but, per Texas 
      State Law, without a written will the 
      next of kin retains custody.  That 
      should be his father...

             JUDGE
     (checks a file)
      Charles Kenton...who is aware of this 
      custody hearing and we are expecting 
      him.

AUNT HELEN flips out...

             AUNT HELEN
      Hes aware of this hearing because I 
      hired a P.I. to track him down so we 
      could get him to sign off and make 
      this official.  Hes fringy and 
      unreliable, always was, like a gypsy. 

             JUDGE
      Ms. Barnes-

             AUNT HELEN
      Charlie Kenton waived all of his 
      rights to custody right after that 
      boy was born.  He has no interest in 
      Max, never has!

             JUDGE
      Ms. Barnes, weve been through this 
      and again I ask for your patience. 

MARVIN pulls HELEN back to her seat.

EXT.  COUNTY COURT HOUSE -- PARKING LOT -- DAY

CHARLIEs truck parks and CHARLIE hops out on the phone.  
CHARLIE wears dark sunglasses as he barks in to the phone...

             CHARLIE
      Destroyed.  Nothing left.  I need a 
      new bot, now.  I had a big fight for 
      Supernova next Saturday and I gotta 
      show up with something.
        (he listens...)
      Noisy Boy is for sale?  In his day 
      Noisy Boy was a killer.  How much?  
      Thats a great deal.  Whats wrong 
      with him?  I dont have it.  Bailey, 
      I dont have any.  Yes, and you will 
      get your money.

CHARLIEs eye is caught by a 2020 Bentley Arnage with Florida 
plates, clearly out of place in this small modest town.

             CHARLIE
      Im gonna call you back...

CHARLIE walks by the Bentley, curiosity piqued.

INT.  COURT HOUSE -- CONFERENCE ROOM -- SAME TIME

The JUDGE tries to placate HELEN.  MARVIN appears annoyed 
with the whole procedure.

             AUNT HELEN
      ...hes never had anything to do with 
      this child.  I am the boys aunt and 
      I can more than provide for him.  

CHARLIE finds his way inside the room.  The JUDGE looks up...

             JUDGE
      Please be Charles Kenton.

CHARLIE still wears his sunglasses.

             CHARLIE
      Charlie.  Im here to sign some paper 
      that releases my rights to custody of 
      my son.

Its quiet as that flip statement lands like a dead body.

             JUDGE
      Mr. Kenton, with the passing of Mary 
      Fallon the custodial rights revert to 
      next of kin, which would be you.

             CHARLIE
      But I can just sign a paper and I can 
      go, right?

HELEN cant take it anymore.

             AUNT HELEN
      Charlie do you even recognize me?  
      Im Helen, Marys little sister.

             CHARLIE
      Sure, right, Helen.  How are you? 

             JUDGE
      Mr. Kenton, in order for the state of 
      Texas to release your custodial 
      rights we have to first assign 
      custody to someone else.

             CHARLIE
      Great.  So you want that to be 
      Helen?...Is that Helen?


             AUNT HELEN
      Youre disgusting.  Did you even 
      think of going to Marys funeral?  

             CHARLIE
      Judge?  Can we wrap this up?  Before 
      we start asking the question as to 
      why Helen has no kids of her own-

             AUNT HELEN
      Ugly.  That is just so ugly. 

The JUDGE gets loud to take charge.

             JUDGE
      Mr. Kenton please take a seat.
        (it gets quiet)

             AUNT HELEN
      May I please see my nephew now, your 
      honor?

             JUDGE
      Yes, you may.  Mrs. Simmons from 
      Child Protective Services will escort 
      you.  How about you, Mr. Kenton?

             CHARLIE
      What?

             JUDGE
      Child Protective Services would need 
      to approve a meeting for you.  We can 
      make that happen if you like.  

             CHARLIE
      What, with the kid?

             AUNT HELEN
      Yes, the KID!  MAX!  Your son!

             JUDGE
      Would you like to see your son, Mr 
      Kenton?

             CHARLIE
      No, Im good.

             AUNT HELEN
      What is wrong with you?

             CHARLIE
        (to judge)
      We done here?

             AUNT HELEN
      Youre not human!
        (gathering her things)
      Youve been working with those cheap 
      robots so long youve become one. 
        (to Marvin)
      Honey, wait here, Ill be right back.

CHARLIE watches the exchange, clocking the Bentley key chain 
in MARVINs hand and the Rolex Sub-mariner on his wrist.

HELEN leaves with Mrs. Simmons.

             CHARLIE
      Your honor?  Id like to step out and 
      call my attorney.  Is that alright?

             JUDGE
      Please.

CHARLIE steps out of the room.

INT.  COUNTY COURT HOUSE -- FAMILY JUDGES CHAMBERS -- DAY

MAX sits quietly as AUNT HELEN tentatively introduces herself 
to him.

             AUNT HELEN
      Do you remember me, Max?  Your mother 
      was like a mom to me when we were 
      growing up.

MAX notes the Cartier Watch and perfect manicure.

             AUNT HELEN
      Look, I honestly dont know what the 
      court is gonna decide and I know you 
      are goin through just a terrible 
      time. 

MAX pulls the red butterfly from his pocket, it appears worn 
now.  He puts it on the table and gingerly pushes it around.

             AUNT HELEN
      Probably not sure who you can trust.

MAX looks up at HELEN with tears in his eyes as he pushes the 
butterfly towards her.  HELEN slowly reaches for the 
butterfly and picks it up.  MAX quietly explains.

             MAX
      My mom gave me that before she died.  
      She told me she was gonna be a 
      butterfly.  The caterpillar dies but 
      the butterfly flies...

HELEN has never heard something so elegant, so simple.  She 
and MAX both well up with tears.

             AUNT HELEN
      Thats beautiful Max, but I cant 
      take this.

             MAX
      I really want you to have it.

HELEN smiles...relieved, he likes her.  She holds up the worn 
butterfly with pride.

             AUNT HELEN
      Whaddya say we keep this in our new 
      house?

MAX brightens at the suggestion, smiles.  HELENs heart 
melts.

EXT.  COURT HOUSE -- FRONT STEPS -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE paces on the steps, sees MARVIN emerging from the 
courthouse...CHARLIE flips open his phone and starts talking 
more loudly than he needs to...

             CHARLIE
      Hell be in a foster home, they find 
      good families...
        (pretends to listen)
      Thanks, Michael, I will.

CHARLIE shuts the phone.  MARVIN is awkward at first.

             MARVIN
      Helen really wants to adopt Max.  And 
      uh...Im up for it.  But..

CHARLIE nods, letting the old guy reel himself in. 

             MARVIN
      Were supposed to go to Italy this 
      summer with my oldest friend and his 
      wife.  Two months in Tuscany and all 
      over.

             CHARLIE
      Just the four of you?  Sounds nice.

             MARVIN
      We get back to New York at the end of 
      August.

CHARLIE nods, hearing the double speak loud and clear.

             CHARLIE
      A hundred grand.

             MARVIN
      Excuse me?

             CHARLIE
      You heard me.

             MARVIN
      Youre crazy.

             CHARLIE
      Not nearly as crazy as your wife,  
      you tell her I just signed that kid 
      over to the state of Texas.
        (Marvin is unmoved)
      Lets take the emotions out of this 
      for a moment, Marvin.  Can I call you 
      Marvin?  Im not an emotional guy. 
      Im a realist.  There is a real way 
      that everyone gets what they want 
      here.  I get money, your wife gets 
      the kid she never had and you get to 
      be the hero. 

             MARVIN
      Look, I wanna give Helen what she 
      wants.  I just, I dont wanna bring 
      him to Italy. 

             CHARLIE
      I bet you dont.  Of course you 
      dont.  That would seriously cramp 
      your style over there.  So heres 
      what youre gonna do.  Youre gonna 
      tell your wife that Ill only sign 
      him over to her IF I get to spend the 
      summer with him first.  Fatherly 
      bonding, all that good stuff.  
      Everybody wins.

             MARVIN
      All for a hundred grand.

             CHARLIE
      Yup, about half the cost of that 
      Bentley Arnage sitting over there and 
      that car aint keeping you warm at 
      night in Italy, if you know what Im 
      saying and I think you do.

             MARVIN
      End of August, you return him to New 
      York.  And not a word about the money 
      to Helen.  Ill give you half tonight 
      and the other half in New York.

             CHARLIE
      Pleasure doin business with you.

INT.  COURT HOUSE -- CONFERENCE ROOM -- LATER

CHARLIE happily signs a custody waiver which gets notarized 
and stamped.  MARVIN and HELEN watch eagerly.

             CHARLIE
      Your honor, Im really happy we all 
      took the time to make the best 
      decision for everyone.

HELEN closes her eyes with relieved gratitude.  CHARLIE tips 
his imaginary hat to MARVIN as he bops out of the room.

EXT.  COURT HOUSE -- FRONT STEPS -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE hustles to his truck.

             CHARLIE
        (into phone)
      Just tell him Im buying Noisy Boy.  
      I got the money.  

CHARLIE smiles as he snaps the phone shut and drives.

EXT.  CITY LANDSCAPE -- DAY

CHARLIEs truck pulls down a street in an older part of town 
and stops by a double-wide garage door attached to an old 
brick building.  The door rolls up and the truck pulls in.

INT.  BAILEY TALLETS ROBOT BOXING GYM -- LATE AFTERNOON 


CHARLIE pops out of his truck, tired but full of pep as he is 
met by BAILEY TALLET.  Shes an attractive woman in her mid-
thirties. She appears tougher than she is because she has to.  


             BAILEY
      The guy is here with the robot youre  
      buying.  Where did you get this 
      money? 

             CHARLIE
      Nice to see you too, Bailey.  Might I 
      also say how cute you look?

             BAILEY
      Give up.  And before you give him any 
      money, you gotta give me some money 
      for rent. 
        (Charlie smiles)
      Supernova got destroyed and somehow 
      you have money?

             CHARLIE
        (smells his pits)
      God, I need a shower.  Wanna take a 
      shower?

             BAILEY
      Charlie, let me be clear: a creepy 
      dude with a robot in a box has been 
      sitting on my loading dock for 2 
      hours.  Please tell me you have the 
      money to buy Noisy Boy?

             CHARLIE
      The moneys on the way, just distract 
      him with your hotness.

             BAILEY
      I have been.  Its exhausting.

             CHARLIE
      Youre the best.  Why arent we 
      together again?

             BAILEY
      Cuz I know better and you owe me 
      money. Speaking of which, youre 
      buying a 45 thousand dollar robot 
      when you owe me 6 grand in rent.

             CHARLIE
      4!  Tight ass!

             BAILEY
      6! Shit for brains!  And I gotta guy 
      with real money who wants to buy the 
      place.

             CHARLIE
      Cmon, like youd really sell your 
      dads gym?

             BAILEY
      Id have no choice, Charlie.  You 
      dont pay rent, I dont make the 
      payments, Ill have no choice.

             CHARLIE
      Your father would climb outta his 
      grave and kick your ass if you sold 
      this place.

CHARLIE locks in on her and smiles... 

   
             BAILEY
   Dont..

             CHARLIE
      Dont what?

             BAILEY
      That thing, dont do that thing.

             CHARLIE
      You like that thing...

             BAILEY
      I like money more.

             CHARLIE
      Well, its moments away.  Lets see 
      my new robot.

CHARLIE smiles his way out of this conversation and heads 
across the big open hangar of space.  BAILEY follows.

An old boxing ring occupies the center of the space like a 
relic, like a beer sign on a college kids wall.

The space shows signs of the once grand boxing gym that it 
was.  Heavy bags have been replaced by large blocks of 
battered steel as Robots have replaced humans as the boxers 
in training here.  

BAILEY has tried to keep remnants of her fathers boxing gym 
in evidence as an honor to his legacy.  


INT./EXT.  BAILEY TALLETS GYM -- LOADING DOCK -- AFTERNOON


CHARLIE and BAILEY arrive at the loading dock to find an 
enormous STEROID GUY sitting on the lift of his box truck. 

             STEROID GUY
      Wheres the money?
        (they size each other up)
      I get the cash, you get the bot.

CHARLIE grabs the paperwork and scours it for authenticity.

             STEROID GUY
      I got other buyers, man.  And Ive 
      been waitin here for two hours.

Its tense before we see MARVIN nervously appear inside the 
warehouse.  CHARLIE smiles, paydirt.


INT.  BAILEY TALLETS GYM -- FAR CORNER -- CONTINUOUS

CHARLIE greets MARVIN who quietly hands him a thick envelope.

             MARVIN
      Theres 50 grand cash in there.  
        (Charlie nods)
      All of my numbers and contact info 
      are in there too...second payment 
      upon delivery in August.

CHARLIE quickly spies the cash, nodding happily.  MARVIN 
looks around nervously, a guy like him never comes to a place 
like this.  

             MARVIN
      She still wishes he was coming with 
      us but I convinced her we owe it to 
      you as the boys father.  The money 
      stays between us, Charlie.

             CHARLIE
      Whatever gets you laid in Italy, 
      Marvin.  Wheres the kid?

The TWO head outside.

EXT.  BAILEYS WAREHOUSE -- STREET -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE reaches the BENTLEY and is met by HELEN.

             AUNT HELEN
      Mary would have wanted him to be with 
      me.  I really connected with him 
      Charlie. 

HELEN holds up the beat-up little red BUTTERFLY...

	     AUNT HELEN
      He gave me this...It was his Moms.
        (she gets emotional)
      He wanted me to have it...

CHARLIE cant help but stare at the sad little BUTTERFLY and 
feel bad for the motherless boy...  

             AUNT HELEN
      So youll have him in New York by 
      August 27th?

CHARLIE clocks MARVIN sitting in the car...nods...

             CHARLIE
      Thats the deal.

HELEN nods and gets back in MARVINs car.  

As the car pulls off, the late afternoon sun backlights 
whats been left behind...MAX KENTON.

MAX stands with an old green Army duffel bag at his feet.

Father and son stare at each other like gunfighters in the 
old west.  CHARLIE has his first pangs of humanity as he 
looks at the son he never knew, this is hard...  

             CHARLIE
      Im Charlie. 

MAX stares at CHARLIE against the grim backdrop of the 
warehouse and thinks, How did it come to this? 

             CHARLIE
      Well, uh, its been a long time 
      because, um..  Im your-

             MAX
      You screwed me.

CHARLIE is thrown by the rough remark.

             CHARLIE
      Nice mouth.

             MAX
      Do you know where theyre going?

             CHARLIE
      Italy?

             MAX
      Does this look like Italy?

             CHARLIE
      Relax kid, you got a whole life of 
      fine living ahead of you.

             MAX
      Im not spending the next coupla 
      months with you.

             CHARLIE
      You bet your ass youre not.

             MAX
      Im not spending one night here.

             CHARLIE
      Right again, Junior.
        (its quiet)
      Is that your concern?  Cuz it 
      shouldnt be.  I already found 
      someone that will take you.  Im way 
      ahead of you kid. 

BAILEY APPEARS AND PULLS CHARLIE ASIDE.

             BAILEY
      Dudes pissed.  Hes taking off.

CHARLIE quickly roots through his new envelope and hands most 
of the cash to BAILEY.  MAX clocks the cash.

             MAX
      Did Marvin give you that money?

             CHARLIE
        (to Bailey, ignoring Max)
      Wrap it up with roid man.  Put Noisy 
      Boy in the shop. 

BAILEY nods before taking the cash and hurrying off.

             CHARLIE
      So listen, youre gonna stay here 
      with her while Im on the road--

             MAX
      Marvin gave you that money.

CHARLIE gets quiet.

             MAX
      How much did he give you?  Huh?  
        (Charlie shakes his head)
      Tell me!  I wanna know!  

             CHARLIE
      This is the wrong approach, kid.

             MAX
      I SHOULD CALL THE COPS!
      I deserve to know!

             CHARLIE
      50 thousand, okay?  He gave me 50 
      thousand dollars to sign you over to 
      her!  I keep an eye on you for the 
      summer, they get their last tango in 
      Tuscany and then youre all hers.  
      Will you shut up now?

Its quiet as MAX is putting all the pieces together.

             MAX
      You sold me.  

CHARLIEs silence is damming as MAX is starting to crack.

             CHARLIE
      It sounds worse than it is.

             MAX
      Really?  Explain to me how it could 
      be worse than... you sold me?

             CHARLIE
      Thats not--

             MAX
      Give me half the money and Im outta 
      here.

             CHARLIE
      Where you gonna go?

             MAX
      Just give me the money, Ill be fine.

             CHARLIE
      I told your aunt Id make sure you 
      got to NY at the end of the summer.

             MAX
      Now youre concerned for Aunt Helen? 
        (finally explodes)
      YOU SOLD ME FOR 50 GRAND!  YOU OWE ME 
      HALF!

             CHARLIE
      I AINT GOTTIT!  

MAX is a little shaken by the anger CHARLIE just handed out.

             CHARLIE
      I just spent the money on a robot.  
      Its gone.  Okay?  And guess what? I 
      dont care what you do and I dont 
      care where you go.  You wanna go?  
      Go.  Or you stay with Bailey for a 
      little while and I will hand deliver 
      you to your new wonderful life.  Your 
      choice.  

CHARLIE heads inside, leaving MAX with few options.

INT.  BAILEYS WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE, back to business, joins BAILEY as they stare at the 
case.

             CHARLIE
      Whatta we got?

             BAILEY
      Noisy Boy has arrived.

We see a sealed alloy case strapped to the wall like a giant 
metal coffin.  Its covered with stickers and tags.

             CHARLIE
      Thats a lot of airline stickers and 
      customs tags.

             BAILEY
      Hes been fighting all over the 
      world.

             CHARLIE
        (reading the tags)
      Sao Paulo, Brazil, Korea, London...

             BAILEY
      He hasnt been on North American soil 
      in two years.  Probably why you got 
      such a good price.

SUDDENLY CHARLIE freezes, something has his attention.

MAX KENTON STANDS WITH HIS DUFFEL BAG AT HIS FEET

CHARLIE and MAX square off, round 2.

             CHARLIE
      Decided to stay, huh?

CHARLIE walks away, tired of arguing with MAX. 

             CHARLIE
      This is Bailey, shell be looking 
      after you.
        (to Bailey)
      By the way, I need you to look after 
      him for a few weeks. Or, like, 8.

             BAILEY
      What?  No way, no kids.  I hate kids.  
      No offense, kid.

             MAX
      Dont worry, Im not staying.

             CHARLIE
      Fine with me.  Then go.

             MAX
      I want half that money.

             CHARLIE
      We back to this again?

             BAILEY
        (catching up)
      Wait, Charlie this is your son?

             CHARLIE
      Yup.  This is Max, if you give him 25 
      grand hell go away.

Its quiet as BAILEY registers the relationship.  CHARLIE 
couldnt be more uncomfortable.  MAX is drawn to the robot 
case...and finally breaks the silence.

             MAX
      Theres a real robot boxer in here?

             BAILEY
      Noisy Boys in there.

             MAX
      Noisy Boy?  Are you kidding me?  He 
      fought Tetris for the WRB BELT in 
      2016.

             CHARLIE
      How do you know about robot boxing?

             MAX
        (duh)
      Im 13 and I live in the world...TV, 
      internet, video games, comic books, 
      its all out there.
        (taps in to his knowledge)
      Noisy Boy was designed by Tak 
      Mashido.  Silicon hydraulics, 
      titanium frame, the whole nine.  He 
      was one of the best.

BAILEY and CHARLIE exchange looks. 

             CHARLIE
      We should get a look at him.

             MAX
      I want half.

             BAILEY
      Keep pushing kid.  Try to get my rent 
      money while youre at it.

             MAX
      I want half!

             CHARLIE
      You want half of whats in this box?

MAX nods.  CHARLIE appears to consider it before bursting in 
to laughter.

             CHARLIE
      I cant do it kid.  Nice try though, 
      Thanks for playing...
        (game show voice)
      Well Bailey, show him what he almost 
      won!  

BAILEY pops the straps and the case falls open as we get our 
first glimpse of NOISY BOY.

He is massive and colorful with design that is anime-
inspired.  Purple and yellow metallic paint cover his limbs 
and torso.  

His head is a fiercely sharp-angled helmet like a shogun 
warrior.  Japanese Characters are boldly painted on his 
chest.  Our trio are in slight awe of how good he looks. 

             CHARLIE
      Holy crap, he looks amazing.

BAILEY looks closely at his body and reads the spec sheet.

             BAILEY
      The titanium has all been replaced, 
      lets hope the inside looks as good. 

MAX is like a kid meeting Lebron James, awed, stuff hed only 
seen in a magazine.

             MAX
      Cant believe its really him.
        (steps closer)
      Can I touch him?

CHARLIE and BAILEY step back as MAX tentatively approaches 
the robot and feels the smooth metal of his long arm.

             MAX
      Ive watched that fight with Tetris 
      like 20 times.  He shoulda had him in 
      the third round, but Tetris got lucky 
      with a huge right and ended it.

MAX grabs a folding chair and pulls it close to the sleeping 
robot.  He hops up on the chair so that he is face to face 
with NOISY BOY.

The painted details on NOISY BOYs face are beautiful.  Sharp 
accents detail his deep set eyes.  Its quiet as he looks 
close enough to stare at him nose to nose.

Suddenly NOISY BOYs eyes flash open and burn red with fury.  
NOISY BOY emits a terrifying grunt like a mechanical ape.

             MAX
      AHHHHHH!

MAX falls off the chair to find CHARLIE laughing with the 
robots remote control in his hands.

             CHARLIE
      Relax, hes on our side.

BAILEY hands CHARLIE a HEADSET...

             BAILEY
      Heres the headset.

             MAX
      For what?

             CHARLIE
      Really?  Something you dont know?  
      Noisy Boy has voice recognition.

             MAX
      No he doesnt. Tak Mashidos bots 
      never had voice recog, he thought it 
      took up to much memory, slowed them 
      down.

             CHARLIE
      Well when he fought in Brazil they 
      put it in.  The Brazilians are crazy 
      about that talk to your robot shit.  
      Its big in Tokyo too.
        (he puts on the headset)
      RIGHT!  LEFT!  UPPERCUT!

NOISY BOY is frozen.  BAILEY and MAX look at the frozen robot 
and then at CHARLIE.

             CHARLIE
      It doesnt work...
        (barks in to the headset)
      RIGHT! LEFT! UPPERCUT!

NOISY BOY cocks his head straining to understand.  CHARLIE is 
pissed, he throws the headset on the ground.

             CHARLIE
      I knew that price was too good to be 
      true!  We got screwed.  Look how good 
      he looks, too good.  DAMNIT!

MAX picks up the headset and puts it on.  MAX commands...

             MAX
      MI-GI!  HIDARI!  APPA KATTO!

NOISY BOY immediately releases a flurry of punches that has 
CHARLIE jumping backwards.  BAILEY laughs, MAX too.

             BAILEY
      Hes programmed for Japanese!

             MAX
        (yells again)
      KITKU!  TATTE!  TATTE!

NOISY BOY raises his arms in victory and hops up and down as 
if just crowned the champ.  

             BAILEY
      Give me the control, I think I can 
      reset him to English.

MAX hands BAILEY the control.

             CHARLIE
      How the hell do you know Japanese?

             MAX
      Video games.  

             CHARLIE
      You play video games in Japanese?

             MAX
        (obviously)
      Japanese bootlegs are always better.

             BAILEY
      Okay, here, hes now set for English. 

BAILEY tosses CHARLIE back the headset.  CHARLIE puts it on.

             CHARLIE
      JAB! JAB! UPPERCUT!

NOISY BOY fires off the punch sequence upon request.

             CHARLIE
      SPIN AROUND!

NOISY obeys the command and does a tight 360.

             CHARLIE
      I was due for some good luck!  
      Bailey, help me put him in the truck, 
      Im gonna go get your money.

BAILEY and CHARLIE tend to the robot.

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE excitedly jumps in the cab and searches for the 
keys...not in the ignition, not on the visor, not in his 
pocket.  He turns to see MAX sitting in the passenger seat, 
keys raised.

             CHARLIE
      Gimme the keys and get out.

             MAX
      Im coming with you.

             CHARLIE
      No youre not.

             MAX
      Why not?

             CHARLIE
      One, I dont want you with me.  Two, 
      I dont wanna have to take care of 
      you.  Three, youll get into trouble.  
      You want me to keep going here?

MAX jumps out and holds the keys over the storm drain.  The 
look of defiance in his eyes marks his resolve. 

             MAX
      Im either coming with you or youre 
      fishing for your keys in the sewer.

A standoff.  CHARLIE aint gonna win this one.

             CHARLIE
        (pissed)
      Fine.  Stay outta my way and listen 
      to me.

MAX tosses him the keys and climbs back inside the truck.  
CHARLIE starts the truck and begins to pull away shaking his 
head.  He checks the rear view mirror and sees the image of 
BAILEY, who stares at him with a rueful smile.


EXT.  DESERT HIGHWAY -- NIGHT

CHARLIEs truck rolls through the dark night when a digital 
billboard lights up the sky.   

As we get closer we see that it features a highlight reel of 
Colossus -- The Robot King

Colossus is a modern monster of a Robot who demolishes a wide 
variety of opponents in a 30 second loop.


INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK


The reflection of the billboard dances across the windshield 
as MAX stares up in wonder...CHARLIE notices.

             MAX
      Greatest robot ever built.

             CHARLIE
      Not hard when you have an open 
      checkbook.

             MAX
        (its quiet)
      Have you ever met him?

             CHARLIE
        (chuckles)
      No kid, circles I run in, were not 
      exactly hangin out.

Its quiet.  CHARLIES phone rings and rings and rings.

             MAX
      You gonna get that?

             CHARLIE
      Not a chance.

They drive on.

EXT.  DINER PARKING LOT -- DAY

CHARLIE gets out of the truck after driving all night.  
CHARLIE opens MAXs door...

             CHARLIE
      Cmon, well have a burger.

             MAX
      I hate burgers.

             CHARLIE
      What kid hates burgers?  Lets go.

MAX wont budge.  CHARLIE grabs MAX by his jacket...

             MAX
      Lemme go, Im not hungry.

MAX pulls away, CHARLIE tightens his grip.

             CHARLIE
      Well I am.  You dont have to eat, 
      but youre not stayin in my truck by 
      yourself.

CHARLIE pulls MAX out of the truck and the bag of plastic 
butterflies spills on to the ground.  Both guys stop and 
stare at the colorful bugs on the concrete.

CHARLIE looks up and meets MAXs stare, one hustler to 
another.  

If you look close enough, which we do, you might see that 
CHARLIEs impressed.


INT.  INDUSTRIAL TOWN DINER -- DAY


CHARLIE works his way through a burger meal, content.  MAX 
has no food in front of him, instead he continues to handle a 
yellow plastic butterfly.

             CHARLIE
      Last call.  Im almost done here.  
      You gonna order anything?

MAX maintains a stoic poker face.  CHARLIE smiles... 

             CHARLIE
      That was a cute hustle you pulled, 
      with the butterfly.  She really 
      bought it.

             MAX
      And you blew it.  I should be with 
      them right now.  You know how rich he 
      is? 

             CHARLIE
      He doesnt want you, kid.  That was 
      part of the deal.  He gets Italy 
      without you.

CHARLIE sees that MAX registers a blow.  CHARLIE gets up and 
drops cash for the bill on the table.

             CHARLIE
      Dont worry, youll get your shot at 
      his wallet.  But for now this is my 
      hustle and Im running the show. 
      Youre welcome to leave any time you 
      like.  You want bus fare?   Here..

             CHARLIE        
	(he drops a few bills)
      If not, I suggest you shut up and get 
      in the truck.

CHARLIE walks out leaving the boy to stew.  After a long 
beat, MAX begrudgingly follows.


EXT. CRASH PALACE -- ROBOT ARENA - DUSK

The sun is fading as a neon Crash Palace sign flickers and 
buzzes to life.  What was once a thriving auto plant has long 
been shuttered and re-purposed as a thunderdome for 
underground robot boxing.  The building is adorned with the 
rusting pieces of dead robots.  

We see a blue collar crowd passing through metal detectors.  
A marquee announces, Robot Fights -- to the Death

INT. CRASH PALACE -- ROBOT ARENA - NIGHT

CHARLIE wears his dirty suit as he struts down a wide hallway 
thats a back artery to the main arena.  MAX flanks CHARLIE 
with NOISY trolling close behind them.

The hallway is loud and populated with the underbelly of the 
sport.  ROBOT CARNIES and a few ROBOTS of older generations 
jolt and pop as their owners try to tune them pre-fight.

A ROBOT with a clear outer shell like an albino makes a 
sudden, involuntary reach towards MAX who jumps in fear. 

TWO GUYS pull a cart that holds the upper torso of a SMASHED 
ROBOT thrashing like a fish.  The SMASHED ROBOT swings 
wildly, stuck in some phantom power mode.


FIGHT STAGING AREA

Like the trading pit on the stock exchange, guys are shouting 
trying to get fights.  FINN, an angry guy with a headset 
controls the chaos.

             FINN
      All undercard bouts are to the death!  
      No exceptions, 1000 for every round 
      your robot survives! 

FINN looks up and freezes when he sees CHARLIE.

             FINN
      CHARLIE KENTON!  Goddamn, Boy!  Heard 
      Supernova didnt survive running with 
      the bulls!  Is that really Noisy Boy?

FINN jumps off his motorized ladder to get a closer look.

             FINN
      WOW!  Noisys been in Japan, softer 
      bots over there, Charlie -- you sure 
      you wanna fight him tonight?

The GALLERY of CARNIES has surrounded NOISY BOY, obviously a 
famous ROBOT come home to roost. 

             CHARLIE
      Whaddya got, Finn?  He can shitcan 
      any bot in this place.

The GALLERY oooohs along to CHARLIEs pride.  FINN scans 
his remote device that catalogues all of the BOTS.

             FINN
      Ill give you any under card fight 
      you want.  5000 guaranteed, a grand 
      every round you survive.  All fights 
      to the death!

             CHARLIE
      Gimme a main event.

The GALLERY again reacts with yeeaahhhhhs!!!  

             FINN
      I dunno, Charlie...

             CHARLIE
      Finn, this is Noisy Boy, an original 
      Tak Mashido Bot.  He was a World 
      Robot League Boxer.

             FINN
      Case you aint noticed, were a long 
      way from the league here, Charlie.

             CHARLIE
      He fought for the WRB belt in 2016!

             FINN
      And he lost and then did the exile 
      tour in Rio and Japan.

             CHARLIE
      He will kill any bot in here!


             FINN
        (considers, then)
      You wanna fight Midas?  20 GRAND, 
      winner take all.

The GALLERY is whipped up now as CHARLIE considers the 
challenge.  MAX pulls CHARLIE to eye level...

             MAX
      We should take an under-card fight, 
      make a little cash and get the hell 
      outta here.

             CHARLIE
      First, there is no we.  Second, 
      hes gonna crush Midas and Im gonna 
      make some real cash.

             MAX
      Ive never heard of Midas.  

             CHARLIE
      Because they dont show these fights 
      on TV, kid. Its one thing to play a 
      video game or read a comic book.  
      Its another to actually fight your 
      robot to feed yourself!

             MAX
      Is Midas any good?  

             CHARLIE
        (we watch Charlie think)
      Hes tough, dirty moves, hard shell, 
      he can take a ton of hits.  But hes 
      unsophisticated and his programming 
      is really basic.
        (convinced now)
      ...But a former league bot like Noisy 
      Boy?  Noisy Boy will killem.

             MAX
      And to the death means?..

             CHARLIE
      No quitting.  You lose and they weld 
      your dead robot to the roof.

MAX looks at NOISY who looks like a steel killer amidst this 
low-rent collection of amateur bots.  CHARLIE pops up with 
pride.

             CHARLIE
      Well take Midas!

The GALLERY goes nuts!  CHARLIE looks to MAX who cant help 
but smile at CHARLIEs confident flare for the dramatic.  

INT.  CRASH PALACE ARENA -- NIGHT


This is truly the dark underbelly of bot boxing.  

The crowd is well oiled as cheap beer and the under card 
fights have wet their appetite for violence.

The four posts of the ring are thick iron car axles standing 
straight up and the ring ropes are cast iron tow chains.

FINN enters the ring holding a mic and hollers at the crowd.

             FINN
      Our first Main Event features the 
      mighty Midas!!! 

MIDAS enters the ring and STRUTS to his corner

MIDAS is a beefy brawler covered in simulated tats and spray-
painted gold.  He has a fiber-optic mohawk running the length 
of his head.  

FINN RAISES HIS ARMS AND COMMANDS THE ROOM....

             FINN
      Against...a bot who once ran with the 
      big boys in the WRB...

FINN lets the crowd BOOO! at the mention of the big league.

             FINN
      Take your first look in a long time 
      at NOISY BOY!!!

The palace erupts with sound as NOISY struts into the ring.

RINGSIDE -- CHARLIE AND MAX ARE AMPED FOR THE FIGHT

MIDAS and NOISY circle each other in the human ritual of the 
psyche out.

MIDAS handler works a remote control pad.

INT.  CRASH PALACE ARENA -- NOISYS CORNER -- NIGHT


CHARLIE looks tense as he tries to size up MIDAS.  He looks 
to MAX with an adrenalized smile, this is what he lives for.

             CHARLIE
      NOW LETS MAKE SOME MONEY!  CMON!

MAX subtly moves closer to his father as the blood thirsty 
energy in the palace has become scary.

THE RING

NOISY and MIDAS immediately charge each other with tremendous 
force.  The collision of the two bots creates a near 
deafening metal-crushing sound as they now fly conjoined 
toward chains that enclose the ring.

NOISY uses the spring of the chain to throw MIDAS backwards.  
MIDAS trips and lands on his ass.  The crowd erupts with 
laughter as NOISY pounces for the kill.

THE RING

CHARLIE smells blood and yells in to his headset...

             CHARLIE
      LEFT UPPERCUT! RIGHT UPPERCUT!

THE RING

NOISY follows the orders and flurries punches at MIDAS who is 
retreating as he rises.  NOISYs punches hit the gold metal 
of MIDAS chest and arms, the sound is satisfying as MIDAS is 
clearly on the run.  The gold spray paint begins to rub off 
on NOISYs body like blood. 

MIDAS is finally back on his feet and squares to NOISY.

             CHARLIE
      ROUNDHOUSE!  ROUNDHOUSE!

NOISY winds up for a deathblow and as its on its way...

MIDAS delivers a brutal two-handed punch that lands in 
NOISYs unprotected mid-section.

SLAM!  NOISY BOY is sent flying across the ring and against 
the chains.  The rowdy fight night crowd ROARS.  

             CHARLIE
      COMBINATION!  GET INSIDE!  

NOISY BOY tries to recover and do just that, but his 
combination is useless as MIDAS now has him cornered. 

MIDAS delivers two fierce blows to NOISYs head that have him 
crouching.  NOISY is obviously in trouble but is determined 
to punch his way out.

             CHARLIE
        (veins pop in his neck)
      JAB LEFT JAB RIGHT JAB JAB!

NOISY unleashes the combination as prescribed but MIDAS 
simply takes everything he throws.

INT.  CRASH PALACE ARENA -- NOISYS CORNER -- NIGHT

Charlie barks commands to NOISY via the headset.  

MAX watches his first live fight with scared awe as MIDAS 
wraps an arm around NOISYs head...

             MAX
      THATS A CHOKE HOLD!  THATS ILLEGAL!

CHARLIE fires a look to MAX...

             CHARLIE
      THIS IS THE UNDERWORLD, KID!  THERE 
      ARE NO RULES!
        (into headset)
      LEFT! USE YOUR LEFT!  HES OPEN.

THE RING -- SAME TIME

A vicious combination from MIDAS and pieces of NOISY BOY 
start to fly.  When the sheet metal flies, its loud, jarring 
and dangerous.

MIDAS slams NOISY BOY back again.  NOISY BOY staggers, sways.  
The crowd YELLS for slaughter.  CHARLIE yells commands...

             CHARLIE
      UPPERCUT!  RIGHT UPPERCUT!

NOISY BOY doesnt obey the command.  Uh-oh...  

             CHARLIE
      UPPERCUT!  LEFT UPPERCUT!  LEFT!

MAX screams in frustration..

             MAX
      TELL HIM WHAT TO DO, CHARLIE!

             CHARLIE
      I AM!  HES NOT RESPONDING!  THE 
      VOICE RECOGNITION MUST BE BROKEN!
        (to Noisy)
      JAB!  JAB!  RIGHT HOOK!

We watch like a slow motion car crash as NOISY stands 
defenseless.  MIDAS continues to pummel NOISY at will.

             MAX
      DO SOMETHING!

             CHARLIE
      WHAT DO YOU WANT ME TO DO?!  YOU 
      WANNA GO IN THERE AND FIX HIM?! 

A BRUTAL TOMAHAWKING BLOW by MIDAS severs NOISY BOY's right 
arm. 

It flies across the floor of the ring, landing in front of 
CHARLIEs and MAXs face.  This is not good.

NOISY throws a right, causing the hydraulic fluid spurting 
out of his open shoulder joint to splatter across MIDAS gold 
face.

NOISY BOY staggers backwards, lost, as MIDAS exploits his one-
armed opponent.

             MAX
      ITS 30 SECONDS UNTIL THE BELL! IF HE 
      CAN JUST GET TO THE BELL!

INT.  RING -- SAME TIME

With one huge round-house, MIDAS decapitates NOISY BOY.

The crowd goes crazy as NOISY BOY has hydraulic fluid gushing 
from his open shoulder and sparks spraying from his neck 
cavity.  He staggers a few steps before keeling over, 
destroyed. 

The crowd ERUPTS.  CHARLIEs head sinks.  MAX is furious.

INT.  CRASH PALACE ARENA -- HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Our DUO find themselves back where they began the night but 
with a cart full of pieces that used to be NOISY BOY.  

FINN arrives and hands CHARLIE a small grip of cash.

             FINN
      You put on a good show, Charlie. You 
      always did.

FINN heads off.  CHARLIE stands in silence until:

             MAX
      Wheres his head?

             CHARLIE
        (a beat)
      Dont ask.

CHARLIE walks on and MAX follows.

INT.  CRASH PALACE -- LOAD OUT AREA -- NIGHT

CHARLIEs truck is parked amongst other owners trucks.  
Other small time BOT OWNERS pack up their trucks.  CHARLIE 
heads over from a roach coach selling cheap eats.

MAX sits on the lift-gate.  CHARLIE arrives with two white 
paper bags from the roach coach, dinner.

             CHARLIE
      Well, that sucked.  Ya hungry?

CHARLIE holds a sloppy cheeseburger and takes an enormous 
bite.  He stares into the truck at the remains of NOISY BOY.

             CHARLIE
      I saved Noisys voice recognition 
      board.  Other than that...hes gone.
        (shakes his head)
      I gotta get a new robot together.

             MAX
      Thought you didnt have any money.

CHARLIE holds the nub of the burger as he stands, staring in 
to his truck of broken robot dreams.

             CHARLIE
      I got some decent parts, hydraulics. 
      I have whats left of Supernova in 
      here too.  I need to find a 
      mainframe, just a solid frame...

MAX roots through the bag of food that CHARLIE handed him and 
shoves it away in disgust.

             CHARLIE
      What?
        (no response)
      What?!

             MAX
      I told you, I dont like hamburgers.

             CHARLIE
      What kid doesnt like burgers?
        (shrugs)
      More for me.

CHARLIE grabs the bag and begins happily eating the second 
burger.  MAX grows more angry, tired and hungry by the 
moment.  CHARLIE tosses him an energy drink.  MAX chugs it.

             MAX
      You never shouldve taken that fight.

             CHARLIE
      Maybe not.

             MAX
      You took a great robot and destroyed 
      him because youre a stubborn idiot 
      and you didnt know enough about him.

             CHARLIE
      Noisy Boy?  Great? 

             MAX
      Noisy Boy was a great robot.

             CHARLIE
      Was. WAS a great robot!  Back in the 
      league, back in the day!  But were a 
      long way from that.  This is where 
      once great robots go to die!

             MAX
      Well hes dead.  We can agree on 
      that.

             CHARLIE
      Youre a wise ass.

             MAX
      Youre a jackass.

             CHARLIE
      Its been a long night and if you 
      wanna sleep indoors tonight?  Shut up 
      and get in the truck.

MAX stares at CHARLIE for a beat before walking to the cab. 

EXT.  CRASH PALACE ARENA -- PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

CHARLIEs truck emerges and they stop by the entrance to the 
CRASH PALACE, seeing sparks fly from a welding torch that is 
fixing NOISY BOYs head to an eave over the entrance.

Angle on our hapless DUO.  MAX stares at the roof of the 
Crash Palace as the head of his favorite Robot becomes a hood 
ornament.

             CHARLIE
      He gave me an extra 400 for his head.

MAX shakes his head, disgusted.  CHARLIE pulls away.

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- MOMENTS LATER

They drive in silence, the defeat of NOISY BOY is setting in 
as CHARLIE is grinding in thought about his options. 

CHARLIEs phone chimes and he picks it up to check the 
number.

We see the callers name...BAILEY.  CHARLIE puts the phone 
down, unanswered.

EXT.  OPEN ROAD -- NIGHT

We see organic farmland give way to a large wrecking yard 
surrounded by metal fencing.

CHARLIEs truck pulls past us and we see his brake lights go 
on as he pulls to the side of the road.

EXT.  OPEN ROAD -- CHARLIES TRUCK -- NIGHT

CHARLIE walks up to the back of his truck and takes a quiet 
look around.  MAX joins him...

             MAX
      What are we doing?

             CHARLIE
        (in a loud whisper)
      We are doing nothing...I am gonna go 
      take a look for some parts.

CHARLIE pulls a large bolt cutter from a hook on the side 
wall of the truck.

             MAX
      Im coming with you.

             CHARLIE
      No youre not.

             MAX
      Yes, I am.  That drink has my heart 
      pounding, if I sit in that truck by 
      myself my head will explode.

CHARLIE takes the cart and the bolt cutter and slinks across 
the road.  MAX quickly follows.

EXT.  VISTA POINT -- METAL VALLEY -- NIGHT

CHARLIE uses his bolt cutter to cut a hole in the metallic 
fence.

MAX looks around, he looks up to see the spiral of razor-
sharp barbed wire that rings the top of the fence.

CHARLIE finishes cutting and tosses an egg-shaped piece of 
fencing in to the darkness before crawling through the hole.

MAX follows and arrives at his side and we now see what they 
see...

METAL VALLEY:  20 acres of bleak, metal scrap yard that is 
systematically being swept by lazy flood lights.

CHARLIE exhales and looks to MAX before beginning a gentle 
descent down the small slope into the darkness.  MAX 
nervously follows.

EXT.  METAL VALLEY -- SCRAP YARD -- NIGHT

CHARLIE quietly pulls the hand cart as he confidently slinks 
along a narrow road lined with piles of scrap metal.  CARS 
mix with REFRIGERATORS and OVENS...anything metal.

MAX skips to match CHARLIEs long strides as we see a wrecked 
SEA PLANE and an old SCHOOL BUS.

The FLOOD LIGHT sweeps in their direction and CHARLIE pulls 
MAX against the wall of scrap and out of view.  It passes and 
they walk on.  We hear the faint sound of a dog barking.  Our 
guys exchange looks.


             CHARLIE
      We gotta be quick in here.  The 
      robots are on the east side.  

EXT.  METAL VALLEY -- SCRAP YARD -- ROBOT ALLEY -- NIGHT


CHARLIE and MAX now walk down a wider path that is lined with 
a wall of dead robots.  Hands, heads and feet stick out like 
doll parts.  They are older, cruder robots from the first 
years of the sport but their smaller appendages make them 
more human.

             MAX
      What are you looking for?

             CHARLIE
      Anything.  Anything I can use to put 
      a fighting bot together

             MAX
      Theyre so small.  Ive never seen 
      anything like this.

             CHARLIE
      Before your time.  Generation 1, the 
      very first fighting robots.  They 
      wanted them to look like us.  The 
      more human the better.  That all 
      changed.

             MAX
      What changed?

             CHARLIE
      Boxing.  Human boxing just...died. 

             MAX
      Why?

             CHARLIE
      The money moved on.  People just 
      wanted more carnage, more show.  
      First it was fists, then it was lets 
      take the gloves off and choke each 
      other..MMA, UFC, then people just 
      wanted more and more and more 
      violence.  

MAX watches as CHARLIE quickly hustles from one robot to the 
next, rolling robots over to find anything valuable.

             MAX
      So they built robots.

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, get the humans outta there and 
      let the machines kill each other.

             MAX
      Do you miss it?

CHARLIE stands, wet and sweaty, examining a yellow arm that 
he just freed from a robot...its junk.

             MAX
        (tries again)
      Boxing.  Do you miss it?

CHARLIE finally stops and stares hard at his son.

 
             CHARLIE
     Careful.

             MAX
      What?  I wanna know.

             CHARLIE
        (points)
      Careful, youre on a cliff.

MAX now peers over the side of the metal cliff.  A flood 
light sweeps the bottom revealing how jagged and treacherous 
the 1000 foot fall would be... 

             MAX
      Wow, thats a long way down.
        (laughing)
      If you fell?  Youd definitely di-

The GROUND UNDER MAX collapses and he is swept over the side!

EXT.  METAL VALLEY -- ROBOT ALLEY -- CLIFF -- NIGHT

We watch as MAX tumbles along with a small muddy landslide 
that is picking up momentum as he races to a certain death.

CHARLIE reaches the side of the cliff and can only watch as 
the boy is swept away.

             CHARLIE
      MAX!!!

We are now tight on MAX and his landslide as it gains steam.  
MAX is violently tossed down the incline now mixing with 
rusty robot parts, rocks and garbage.

We see that the ground ahead juts out, creating a launching 
pad for the garbage that hits and flies in to the abyss 
hundreds of feet below. 

MAX tries to grab anything he can as he is helplessly sliding 
amidst the crap.  We watch rocks and garbage fly into the air 
as MAX is right behind it about to be launched.

SUDDENLY MAX is stopped, caught on something.  Rocks and 
metal junk fly past him and into the darkness.  He closes his 
eyes as the bulk of the landslide washes over him, barraging 
him with junk and mud.

MAX reaches and grabs the branch that hes stuck on with both 
hands in the hope of saving his life.  

The landslide stops and its finally quiet.  MAX opens his 
eyes, scared and shocked to be alive.  He is trying to catch 
his breath as he looks to see that its not a branch that 
saved him...its a robot arm.  MAX follows the arm to see 
that it is in fact connected to a beat up robot who has MAX 
suspended with one arm.


MAX slowly turns his head to realize he is face to face with 
the ROBOT.  MAX takes a moment to study the sad face of the 
dormant machine.  In the cool bright sweep of the 
SEARCHLIGHTs lazy pan, we catch a glimpse of the robots 
face and maybe, just for an instant, we could swear we see a 
flicker of light in his eyes.  

MAX looks to see that he is dangling in the cool night air, 
being held over the deadly drop. The ROBOTs fist is clenched 
around his belt.  

We hear the metal of the ROBOTs arm creak and MAX suddenly 
drops 6 inches before the ROBOT arm stabilizes again...

MAX is afraid to move in fear that the arm will break.

             MAX
      Charlie?  Charlie?!

             CHARLIE 
      Max!  Try not to move!

CHARLIE has found a path that winds to the ledge where MAX is 
dangling.  Its dangerous but stable.

             MAX
      Im on a robot arm.  If it breaks..

             CHARLIE
      Move very slowly. 

CHARLIE extends his hand to MAX who grabs it with one hand 
while keeping another hand tightly gripping the ROBOTs arm. 

CHARLIE slowly pulls MAX on to the ledge.  

MAX is so happy to be on the ground he nearly cries.  

MAX tries to free himself from the ARM.  He tries to pull his 
pants free but he cant.  The grip is too tight.

             MAX
      Im stuck.

             CHARLIE
      Just pull the arm outta the ground 
      and take it with you.

MAX tries to pull out the arm, its impossible.  MAX digs 
around the ARM, revealing...

             MAX
      Its a whole robot.

MAX digs and sweeps mud and rocks away from the robot.  A 
flood light makes its routine loop and washes MAX and the 
robot in light for a few seconds.

In that moment MAX again sees the face of the robot, lying 
lifeless on its back, buried and forgotten.  MAX feels 
instantly connected to this piece of forgotten junk that 
saved his life.

             MAX
      Im taking it with me.

CHARLIE shares the eye roll of a dad whose kids hold a puppy 
pulled from a box outside of a supermarket.

             CHARLIE
      Its junk.  Lets go.

             MAX
      He saved my life, Im keeping him.

             CHARLIE
      Well then you can dig it out and drag 
      it to the truck yourself.  Im done.

             MAX
      Fine,  get me the cart.

CHARLIE has already started walking away.  MAX calls to him.

             MAX
      It would be a lot quicker if you 
      helped me!

             CHARLIE
        (without looking)
      I bet it would!

CHARLIE walks on.  MAX shakes his head at CHARLIEs lack of 
help as he begins to unearth the ROBOT.  This is gonna take a 
while.

EXT.  METAL VALLEY - ROAD -- DAWN

The orange of the pending sun gives the night sky a citrus 
glow as a boy dragging an old robot is the only movement on 
the horizon.  MAX practically sleepwalks down the center of 
the abandoned highway, pulling the robot via the cart, the 
ROBOTs arm extended like rigor mortis. MAX is dehydrated and 
half asleep as he carries his shoe and walks with a torn pant 
leg and a bare foot.  

EXT.  METAL VALLEY -- ROAD -- DAWN

We pull wide to see that CHARLIEs truck is parked along the 
side of the road about 100 yards from the struggling boy. 
CHARLIE leans against the back bumper content to wait for MAX 
to reach the truck.   

MAX STOPS DEAD IN HIS TRACKS AND STARES AT CHARLIE

Between the fall that nearly killed him and the hours of 
struggle it just took to get the robot out of there, MAX is 
dead on his feet.

MAX pulls the ROBOT the last few feet to CHARLIEs truck.  

CHARLIE lowers the lift to load the ROBOT as MAX stares in 
disbelief at the man who abandoned him...again.

             CHARLIE
      Well that took three hours...still 
      think that piece of junk was worth 
      it?

MAX starts throwing punches at CHARLIE which he effectively 
deflects, but he lets MAX continue to flurry...

             CHARLIE
      Okay, okay, OKAY!!!

CHARLIE grabs him and tries to lock up his arms.  MAX shoves 
himself free and heads for the cab.  CHARLIE watches the kid 
walk away.  He has no idea what to say to his son...

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- DAWN

CHARLIE drives into the rising sun.  We look over to see that 
MAX is already completely passed out from his ordeal.

EXT.  BAILEY TALLET'S ROBOT BOXING GYM -- DAWN

CHARLIE pulls the truck in through the roll up door.

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE parks and turns off the truck.  He sees the sleeping, 
dirty boy.  MAX appears younger and more innocent when 
asleep.  CHARLIE cant help himself but pull an old blanket 
from behind the seat and place it on the sleeping kid.

INT.  BAILEY TALLET'S ROBOT BOXING GYM -- DAY

BAILEY watches as CHARLIE pulls all of the significant ROBOT 
remains from his truck.  Like the recreation of a plane post 
crash, the parts are scattered all over the floor and atop a 
few work tables.

     BAILEY
      Thats whats left of Noisy Boy?!  

             CHARLIE
      Thats it.  But his head does make a 
      nice addition to the roof of the 
      Crash Palace.

BAILEY starts to walk away.

             CHARLIE
      Lets get a robot, you and me.

             BAILEY
      Youre broke and Im almost there 
      myself.  You owe me money and you 
      just destroyed the best shot you had.

             CHARLIE
      Well put one together...theres some 
      good stuff here.

CHARLIE points to the robot parts like a street vendor 
peddles junk outside of a train station.

             BAILEY
      Theres nothing there, Charlie...All 
      your junk is...junk.  Youre not even 
      in the game anymore.  Supernovas 
      main frame is twisted.
        (picks through pieces)
      And Noisy Boys frame is unusable, 
      garbage.  Its all garbage Charlie.

             CHARLIE
      I heard you, its garbage!  Its 
      junk, all my shit is junk!

             BAILEY
      Dont get loud with me!  Youre your 
      problem, Charlie.  

             CHARLIE
        (charming now)
      So what?  Youre breaking up with me?

             BAILEY
      Oh, please.

             CHARLIE
      What?

             BAILEY
      Im not your girlfriend.  Ive never 
      been your girlfriend.  

             CHARLIE
      Never?

             BAILEY
      That doesnt count.  That was...no.  
      Not really.

             CHARLIE
      So, what are you, Bailey?

             BAILEY
      Im your friend.  Ive always been 
      your friend.  In the ring, out of the 
      ring and the whole ugly spiral down. 

             CHARLIE
      Bailey-

             BAILEY
      I watched my father put everything he 
      had in to your fight career Charlie.  

             BAILEY
      He treated you like family and this 
      was his home and Im really trying 
      not to let it die.
        (its quiet)
      Youre done, Charlie.  Right?  Are 
      you finally done?
        (quietly)
      Cuz Im done with you.

CHARLIE quietly accepts this truth and then...

             CHARLIE
      What about the robot the kid found 
      last night?

The OLD ROBOT is on a table with a charge chord extending 
from his neck.  A data wire is linked to a port in his back.

             BAILEY
      Never seen one like this, hes a G2 
      but one of the older ones.  I found a 
      power cell that fits him but its 
      crap, look at it...

             CHARLIE
      Maybe I could get a sparring gig for 
      him, make a few hundred bucks.

             MAX 
      Hes my robot.

CHARLIE turns to see MAX standing with the blanket wrapped 
around him, still dirty from last night.

             MAX
      It took me half the night, dragging 
      him outta there, hes mine.

             CHARLIE
      Hes yours.  But the parts were 
      putting in him are mine.  Without me 
      hes just a chunk of metal.  

MAX realizes CHARLIE is mostly right...

             BAILEY
      You two idiots should see if he even 
      powers up before you start fighting 
      over him.

CHARLIE and MAX both walk to the OLD ROBOT who is still 
covered in mud and slime from being buried in a dump for a 
few years.  MAX and CHARLIE both wrinkle their noses...

             CHARLIE
      He smells like...

             MAX
      Dog crap...wrapped in barf.

BAILEY pulls the chords and flips the switch.  The OLD ROBOT 
immediately sits up and fires his right hand out straight, 
clenching his fist.  We might recognize this as the move he 
made to catch the falling MAX.  EVERYONE jumps back...

             CHARLIE
      WHOA!  WATCH OUT!

The OLD ROBOTs eyes fire up and he slowly looks around like 
a frat kid waking up from a kegger.  

MAX steps close to the ROBOT and they lock eyes.  The ROBOT 
tilts his head as if in recognition of the boy.  MAX grimaces 
again as he has to hold his nose shut from the smell. 

The ROBOT raises his hand and puts his fingers on his nose in 
a mirror to MAXs move.  MAX smiles at the odd game.

             BAILEY
      Looks like he has a shadow 
      function.  He can mime your movements 
      and store them to memory.  Its 
      pretty rare.

MAX raises his arms above his head.  The ROBOT does the same.

             CHARLIE
      So you think hes got anything we can 
      use?

             BAILEY
      Not much.  Hes probably got stuff 
      stored in memory, but youd have to 
      sit and read through it all and Ive 
      already told you, Charlie...Im done.

CHARLIE looks to MAX and offers...

             CHARLIE
      Why dont you take him out back and 
      hose him off.  Theres a bucket I use 
      to wash the truck sometimes.  

             BAILEY
      Hes in shadow mode.  So if you walk, 
      hell walk.  He should follow you.

MAX walks away and the ROBOT stands and follows.  

EXT.  BAILEY TALLET'S ROBOT BOXING GYM -- DAY

The ROBOT stands with his arms extended as MAX sprays the 
hose on him.  Years of dirt and grime slowly melt off of the 
ROBOT revealing a smooth blue metal skin.  

MAX concentrates the water on his chest revealing a data tag 
that reads, ATOM.  MAX looks at the ROBOT.

             MAX
      Atom.

MAX puts the hose down and begins pouring soap into the 
bucket.  As MAX turns around to face ATOM he gets blasted by 
the hose.  ATOM repeats the movements he witnessed from MAX, 
soaking him with the hose.

             MAX
      NO! STOP! STOP IT! 

MAX realizes its useless and stands still as ATOM continues 
to soak him with freezing water.

INT.  BAILEY TALLET'S ROBOT BOXING GYM -- DAY

MAX and ATOM stand in front of CHARLIE and BAILEY, soaking 
wet as a pool of water grows at their feet.  MAX has water 
dripping off his face as he speaks.

             MAX
      His name is Atom.

CHARLIE stares at his soaking son and the wet ROBOT.

             CHARLIE
      We dont think he was ever a boxing 
      robot.

             BAILEY
      Hes a G2.  Built in early 2014.  He 
      was a sparring bot.   

MAX stares at ATOM trying to understand whats being said.

             CHARLIE
      He was built as a training tool for a 
      league robot.  Have you ever heard of 
      Gamma?

             MAX
      Of course, first WRB champ.  

             CHARLIE
      They spent so much money keeping 
      Gamma on top.  They mustve built 
      robots like this one...
        (studies Atom)
      That could mirror the fighting style 
      of any other robot.

             BAILEY
      Yup, so Gamma could learn to counter 
      another robots style before he got 
      in the ring.

             MAX
      Thats why he has the shadow 
      function.

             BAILEY
      Exactly.  He can imitate any series 
      of punches.  They probably showed him 
      tapes of fights and had boxers and 
      programmers load punch sequences into 
      his memory.

             MAX
      But nobody puts a shadow function 
      in robots now.

             CHARLIE
      Because nobody wants these robots to 
      actually box.  Not like we did.

             BAILEY
      The games become about speed and 
      force.  Why waste RAM on style when 
      all you care about is the kill.  

             MAX
      So can we get him a fight?

             CHARLIE
      Youre not listening.  Hes not a 
      fighting bot.  Hed get killed in a 
      real fight.  Look at him.

MAX is trying to process this information.  

             BAILEY
      You could try to sell him as a 
      sparring bot.

             MAX
      Im not selling him.  Cant you get 
      him a fight?

             CHARLIE
      Maybe, but the most youd get is a 
      few hundred a round.

             MAX
      Good, get him a fight.

MAX heads off and ATOM follows him.  BAILEY looks at CHARLIE 
and adds...

             BAILEY
      Any fighting Robot in the world will 
      take that tin can apart in about 10 
      seconds.

             CHARLIE
      Guess I failed to mention that.

CHARLIE watches MAX walk away.  Shakes his head...

             CHARLIE
      Stubborn kid.

             BAILEY
      Surprise surprise.

CHARLIE nods to BAILEY, touche.

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- NIGHT

We find CHARLIE passed out asleep in his cot in the back of 
his truck thats parked inside BAILEYs warehouse.  We pan 
off of CHARLIE to find MAX laying on his back in a smaller 
cot on the other side of the truck.

MAX stares at the ceiling listening to his ipod, unable to 
sleep.  MAX is holding up an old BRASS BUTTERFLY PIN.  MAX 
rolls the PIN around on his fingers, hes obviously very 
familiar with this pin.  He sits up and pockets the pin...

INT.  BAILEY TALLETS BOXING WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

MAX wades through the workshop area.  He sits at BAILEYs 
computer and looks around to see that hes alone before he 
taps the computer to life.  MAX begins surfing through the 
computer, he seems to know his way around.

INT.  BAILEY TALLETS BOXING WAREHOUSE -- A LITTLE LATER

We can still hear the tapping of the keyboard as we find ATOM 
at rest.  The robot is sitting on a crate, attached to a 
generator via a power line.  We pan off of ATOM to see MAX 
yawning and stretching his arms like a college kid at the end 
of a cramming session.  We see that MAX has printed some 
information and is pulling a few pages out of a printer.

We now see MAX power down the computer and get up.  He looks 
to see ATOM and cant help but take a closer look.

MAX approaches the sleeping robot very cautiously.  MAX is 
able to get a close look at ATOMs face as he is sitting at 
eye level.  We can see the wear and tear from years of 
sparring.  His face has a welding scar that runs from his 
cheek to his chin giving him a human quality.

MAX looks around again before reaching into ATOMs control 
panel and flipping him on.

ATOMs eyes fire up and he quickly scans the room before 
resettling his look on the boy in front of him.  MAX smiles, 
he likes his new toy.  MAX takes a quick look at the pages 
hes printed and then flips a switch on ATOM.

             MAX
      Lets take a walk...

ATOM stands up and towers over the small boy.  MAX walks and 
ATOM follows, again its a funny image to have this big robot 
shadowing this little boy...

EXT.  BAILEY TALLETS BOXING WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

MAX and ATOM have successfully snuck outside.  The night is 
clear and the moon is bright.  MAX stares in wonder at ATOM. 

             MAX
      Okay. So, in shadow mode, what can 
      you do?

ATOM appears to be trying to understand the boy.  MAX is 
thinking and scratches his head.  ATOM scratches his head.  
MAX starts to move his arms and ATOM mirrors his moves.

MAX starts to walk and ATOM mimics him.  MAX exaggerates his 
steps bending deep almost lunging.  The big robot matches the  
walk.  MAX stands and faces ATOM with a devious smile...

             MAX
      Find me...


MAX takes off running, forcing ATOM to run too, following 
him. 


EXT. BAILEY TALLETS BOXING WAREHOUSE -- ALLEYWAY -- NIGHT

MAX comes running around the corner and flattens himself 
against the wall and waits.

Its quiet. Suddenly ATOMs head peers around the corner of 
the building.  ATOM scans the dark corner until he spots MAX 
crouching right under his nose.  MAX busts out laughing, this 
is fun.

             MAX
      You got me.  That is so cool.   

MAX excitedly punches his left palm with his right fist.  
ATOM mimes the movement.    

             MAX
      Wanna play again?  Wanna keep going? 

ATOM is trying hard to understand the boy.  MAX raises his 
hand with only his pointer finger out.  He makes a small 
circular gesture...

             MAX
      One more time? 

ATOM imitates the boys gesture with his raised finger.  MAX 
gazes up at ATOM with wonder...

             MAX
      You can understand me, cant you? 

ATOM stares down blankly at the boy, poker-faced. 

MAX makes a lifting gesture with his open arms.  ATOM bends 
down to mimic it and MAX steps inside ATOMs hands, allowing 
himself to be lifted up.  Now their faces are inches apart. 

             MAX
      You understand me?
        (Max studies him, then)
      Dont worry, your secrets safe with 
      me. 

EXT.  BAILEYS WAREHOUSE -- LOADING DOCK -- MOMENTS LATER

The first purple bruise of dawn lights the alley.  The 
silence is broken by the metallic sound of the roll-up door 
rising.  

BAILEY stands on the loading dock, coffee in hand, looking 
out at the day.  She sees...

ATOM LUMBERING DOWN THE ALLEY WITH MAX ON HIS SHOULDERS

MAX sits on ATOMs shoulders and like the boy in the Jungle 
Book on the elephant, MAX is riding ATOM home. 

             BAILEY
      Fun night, hunh?
        (Max nods)
      Shut him down and hook him up to the 
      power cell before the angry old man 
      gets up.

MAX heads off with ATOM as we stay with BAILEY who walks to 
the edge of the loading dock, coffee in hand to watch the sun 
make its full appearance.

BAILEY is lost in thought before she senses something and 
turns around to find MAX.  They stare at each other.

             MAX
      Youve known Charlie a long time.

             BAILEY
      Too long.  
        (Max waits for more)
      We both kinda grew up in this gym.  
      My dad, he trained him...he saw 
      something special in Charlie.  
      Something no one else could see.

BAILEY goes quiet, smiles.   MAX pushes on...

             MAX
      What was he like?

             BAILEY
      As a boxer?  

             MAX
      As anything.

             BAILEY
      He was a guy who could take any punch 
      any guy could deliver.

             MAX
      Really?


             BAILEY
      Toughest dude in any ring.  Bar none.  
      Hed take these suicide fights and go 
      toe to toe with these killers.  It 
      was amazing.

             MAX
      Theres no video, but from everything 
      I read, he-

             BAILEY
      You read about him?

             MAX
        (covering)
      No. I mean....yeah, sometimes, but  
      not...No. 

             BAILEY
        (lets it go)
      He was something.  Lean, tough, no 
      quit, no fear...I was there in 
      Phoenix in 2007 when he fought Nico 
      Tandy -- the top contender.

             MAX
      You were at the Nico Tandy fight?

             BAILEY
      Like I said, he was my dads fighter 
      I was at all of Charlies fights.  
      Charlie was supposed to be a warm-up 
      for Nico, a workout, an easy win, a 
      powder puff.  Nico wasnt even 
      supposed to break a sweat. 
        (glows remembering it)
      Cept no one told Charlie that.  He 
      kept coming at Nico.  At first Nico 
      couldnt believe it. Couldnt believe 
      the balls on this nobody.  But 
      Charlie, he just kept coming.  And 
      then Nico looked scared.  Charlie was 
      on fire that night.  Fast, graceful 
      shots, perfectly timed...he was 
      toying with Nico -- the top 
      contender, the number 2 guy in the 
      world!  He was dancing with him, pop 
      pop pop, bam..pop.  Charlie was 
      floatin a few inches off the canvas 
      all night.  He was like a ghost.  
      Nico couldnt even see him.  I could.  
      He was...beautiful.


             MAX
      Charlie beat Nico Tandy?

             CHARLIE 
      No.  Nico Tandy put me on my ass in 
      the 12th round. 

We reveal that CHARLIES been listening.

             CHARLIE 
      Twice.  The second time?  For good.  
      Lights out.

             MAX
      She said you were toying with him.

             CHARLIE
      Shes full of shit.  He killed me.

             BAILEY
      You were way ahead on the scorecards 
      before the 12th round.

             CHARLIE
      Thats folklore bullshit.  Nico Tandy 
      rung my bell and went on to be the 
      undefeated World Champ for 3 years.  
      I spent 4 days in the hospital.

             MAX
      He knocked you out?

             CHARLIE
      So did a lot of guys.

             BAILEY
      You knocked a lot of guys out too, 
      Charlie.

             CHARLIE
      24 and 19.  But every fight a 
      knockout.  Win or lose, fight wasnt 
      over till someone was on the mat. 

             MAX
      Who else did you fight? 

             CHARLIE
      Go get some sleep.

             MAX
      Did you ever fight for the title?

             CHARLIE
      Were leavin in a few hours, go.

MAX looks to BAILEY who nods for him to go.  MAX goes.

BAILEY moves close to CHARLIE.

             BAILEY
      That Nico Tandy fight was the 
      greatest thing I ever saw.  It was a 
      great night.

             CHARLIE
      Part of it was.  The part before I 
      woke up in the hospital.

             BAILEY
      And who was there when you woke up?

They are now close, face to face.  

             BAILEY 
      That night in the hospital was a good 
      night.

             CHARLIE
      A very good night.

             BAILEY
      Charlie, listen to me.  What I said 
      yesterday about my dad and the gym-

CHARLIE cant take the intimacy, he pulls away.

 
 
             CHARLIE
     Im going.

             BAILEY
     What?

             CHARLIE
      Im headed to Dallas tonight to see 
      if I can get a partner or raise some 
      money to get a new bot.  If I strike 
      out Im gonna keep heading east with 
      the kid.  So this is it.  Not sure 
      when Ill see you again.

BAILEY nods, bummed.

             CHARLIE
      Thats what you wanted, right?  Me 
      gone?

             BAILEY
        (sadly)
      Yeah.  Thats what I wanted.

They couldnt be looking any deeper in to each others eyes.

INT.  CHARLIES TRUCK -- DAY

MAX sits quietly on the passenger side as CHARLIE hops in, 
shuts the door, fires up the engine and starts to pull away 
until something catches his eye in the rear view mirror.

BAILEY STANDS WATCHING THE TWO GUYS LEAVE, MAYBE FOREVER 

MAX sees CHARLIE see BAILEY and notes his ambivalence, but 
being a smart kid, he smartly says nothing.  CHARLIE pulls 
away.   

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- LATER THAT NIGHT

Its dark now as CHARLIE drinks coffee and listens to the 
radio at low volume.  We follow his glance to spy MAX passed 
out to the hum of the truck, WRB fight magazines strewn 
across his lap.


EXT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- NIGHT

Glowing like a gaudy jewel on the nights horizon is the 
Starcenter -- a massive sports arena.

Skylights shoot lasers into space as the parking lots are 
filled with fans.  We look up to the enormous electronic 
marquis that announces, WORLD ROBOT BOXING

Tonight COLOSSUS VERSUS AXELROD

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- SAME TIME

CHARLIE stretches from the drive as traffic has slowed near 
the stadium.  He looks over to MAX...

             CHARLIE
      Hey...HEY!

MAX stirs. He sits up straight and peers out the windshield. 


EXT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- NIGHT

We again see the enormous arena in all its glory.

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- SAME TIME

MAX now bops with excitement...

             MAX
      Hes here!  Colossus is here!  


EXT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- SERVICE PARKING LOT -- NIGHT


CHARLIE has pulled his truck into the handlers lot  He walks 
amongst the pros -- some seem to know him with nods and the 
occasional hey Charlie.

MAX wanders like a kid in Santas workshop -- all the stuff 
he reads in magazines and online is now in front of him.

EXT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- SERVICE ENTRANCE -- NIGHT

Security GUARDS try to limit the flow in and out of the 
backstage area of the arena.  CHARLIE and MAX approach.  The 
SECURITY GUARD puts a hand out to CHARLIE...

             SECURITY GUARD
      Charlie Kenton, what you been doin 
      lately?  Heard you had Noisy Boy for 
      a minute?

             CHARLIE
      A short, painful minute.  You seen 
      Finn around here?

             SECURITY GUARD
      Hes inside, trolling for casualties.
        (looks around)
      You guys can go in but stay outta the 
      arena space, without passes theyll 
      throw you out.

             CHARLIE
      Thanks, Tim.

MAX cant wait to enter the dark staging area of the arena as 
he follows CHARLIE inside.

INT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- STAGING AREA -- NIGHT

CHARLIE quickly hustles into the staging area where we see 
reporters standing in front of cameras giving teasers for the 
fight.  We see a JAPANESE REPORTER talking animatedly about 
the fight.  We recognize one word...Colossus.

CHARLIE spots FINN and waves to him before leaning down to 
MAX.  CHARLIE shouts over the din of energy and music pumping 
through the backstage area.

             CHARLIE
      I need to talk to Finn for a few 
      minutes, dont leave this room, okay?

MAX nods, captivated by the environment.  CHARLIE walks off 
as MAX drifts towards TWO REPORTERS doing a shared hype fest.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      Colossus!  No one has ever gone two 
      rounds with this monster!  2 rounds!  

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #2
      The champ puts his Real Steel World 
      Championship Belt on the line tonight 
      and I think he has a real fight on 
      his hands!  Axelrod has been killing 
      Robots, hes on a mission!

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      But its a suicide mission, Jim. Name 
      me one robot thats ever even walked 
      out of the ring after a fight with 
      Colossus.  NAME ONE!

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #2
      Cant do it, Mike.  Cant name one 
      opponent who walked away from 
      Colossus.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      COLOSSUS!  GREATEST ROBOT BOXER ALL 
      TIME! EVER! END! OF! STORY! GOOD 
      NIGHT!

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #2
      Tell me how you really feel?

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      I dont have time, Jim, because Im 
      being told that Colossus is on his 
      way towards us right now!

There is a boisterous THRONG of COLOSSUS HANDLERS that plow 
through the hall en route to the arena.  They are all dressed 
in black jumpsuits covered in corporate sponsorship logos  
with COLOSSUS emblems on their chest.  Its mayhem as if in 
the presence of a god.

Behind the handlers is COLOSSUS himself, much taller and 
broader than the robots weve seen.  He towers over MAX as he 
struts by.  There is a modern sleekness to COLOSSUS.  You 
have never seen a machine so sophisticated in your life.

The ROBOT COMMENTATORS try to grab the COLOSSUS CAMP for a 
sound bite.  SERGEI LEMKOVA is an austere RUSSIAN OLIGARCH in 
his 50s.  SERGEI smiles before pulling his daughter towards 
the cameras light.  FARRA LEMKOVA is 20 and shes beautiful.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      Farra Lemkova!  The daughter behind 
      the father-daughter Colossus Team.  
      What do you say to the rising 
      sentiment that this sport has become 
      the playground for the super rich and 
      is controlled by a few wealthy owners 
      like you and your father?

             FARRA
      I dont hear the fans complaining.  
      We give them what they want.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      They say your father is the money and 
      you are the mind behind Colossus.  

             FARRA
      Youre very kind, but I assure you 
      the mind behind Colossus belongs to 
      the great Tak Mashido.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #2
      And what did it take to lure the 
      reclusive genius, former boy-wonder 
      and arguably the most important bot 
      designer in the history of the sport 
      out of retirement?

             FARRA
      Why dont you ask him yourself?

FARRA steps aside as TAK MASHIDO, a sunglass-wearing evil 
Asian genius steps to the mic.  The PRESS lights up, taking 
photos of the normally reclusive legend.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      Not many people in the world can 
      afford to hire Tak Mashido to create 
      a superbot like Colossus.  Is this 
      Tak Mashidos greatest creation?

             TAK MASHIDO
      Colossus is autonomous and is 
      constantly evolving during a fight.  
      Not only has his operating system 
      been pre-programmed for every 
      possible eventuality in the ring.  

             TAK MASHIDO
      He recognizes patterns and rewrites 
      his fight code instantaneously. 

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      Wait, for myself and Joe Six-pack out 
      there: are you saying that-

             TAK MASHIDO
      Im saying, that no matter what 
      happens in that ring, the result of 
      any fight is inevitable.  What 
      Colossus sees, he kills.

The GALLERY of PRESS explodes with flashes and screams of 
did he just say that on the record?

             FARRA
      No robot that can do what Colossus 
      can do.  It will be years before 
      other robots catch up to him.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #1
      But Tak, you had the advantage of a 
      bottomless pocket, unlimited funds.  
      Dont you think its unfair to other 
      owners that money has put a gap 
      between Colossus and the rest of the 
      robot boxing world?

FARRA steps forward to field that question as TAK recedes 
from the spotlight. 

             FARRA
      This sport is not about the owners. 
      Its about the fans.  For them, as 
      always, we plan to put on an awesome 
      show. We are always looking for the 
      best opponent for Colossus.  The 
      people wanted an Axelrod fight, Im 
      giving it to them.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #2
      Farra!  Silly question but its my 
      job to ask: can Colossus be beaten?!

The CROWD quiets waiting for her response.

             FARRA
        (finally offers)
      He cant be beaten.

The CROWD goes crazy from the quiet bravado.

             ROBOT COMMENTATOR #2
      A few experts are predicting an 
      upset, What would you tell them?

             FARRA
      Id tell them to find their seats 
      quickly.  This wont last long.

FARRA is pulled away by her entourage on their way to the 
fight.  COLOSSUS walks behind FARRA like a loyal soldier.

MAX is frozen, mouth agape, grinning from ear to ear as the 
mighty COLOSSUS glides by.  A COLOSSUS HANDLER tosses a small 
COLOSSUS promo towel to MAX.  He catches it and stares at it 
like a foul ball at Dodger Stadium.  History.

INT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- STAGING AREA -- NIGHT


CHARLIE is making his case to FINN who is clearly distracted 
by the commotion of the title fight.

             CHARLIE
      I didnt think you ever left your 
      crazy little kingdom.

             FINN
      Tonights losers are tomorrow nights 
      heroes at the Crash Palace.

CHARLIE shakes his head, remembering NOISY BOY.

             CHARLIE
      So whaddya say, Finn?

             FINN
      Charlie, Im not going into business 
      with you, Im not.

CHARLIE hears this and takes a last shot.

             CHARLIE
      I need a break here, Finn.  

             FINN
      I got nothin.

             CHARLIE
      You got nothin?!  I got absolutely 
      nothin.

             FINN
      Cmon Charlie.  In that old beater 
      bot truck of yours?  You always got 
      somethin.

             CHARLIE
      No.  I got one old G2 sparring bot 
      that aint worth the paint left on 
      it.  What am I supposed to do with 
      that?

             FINN
      I dont know.  Robo Pins.  Take it to 
      Robo Pins.  Theyre fightin 
      tomorrow.

             CHARLIE
      Even I wouldnt be caught dead at 
      Robo Pins.
        (its quiet...)
      How bout a little loan...
        (wide open)
      Please?

FINN nearly winces at the never before seen vulnerability 
from the otherwise tough CHARLIE KENTON.  FINN softens...

             FINN
      I cant Charlie.  Good luck.

CHARLIE just nods and heads off in search of his dignity.   


INT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- ROBOT BOXING TITLE FIGHT -- NIGHT


At the other end of the hall, MAX trails the COLOSSUS CAMP to 
the arena entrance.  Though stopped in the doorway, MAX peers 
through the curtains and is hit with a wall of sound and 
light as a capacity crowd of 30 thousand chant COLOSSUS 
name.  

We push in on MAXs face as the chants get louder and louder.

INT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- STAGING AREA -- NIGHT

CHARLIE walks in the other direction, the chants getting 
quieter and quieter as he walks away from a world he has no 
place in. 


INT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- ELEVATED WALKWAY -- NIGHT

CHARLIE leans against the glass wall of this elevated 
entrance to the arena, finishing a burger.  

We hear the screams of the excited fans who now come flooding 
out of the arena.

MAX runs up to CHARLIE, high from the experience...

             MAX
      You should have seen it...Colossus 
      was like...amazing...

             CHARLIE
      Amazing, huh?

             MAX
      Unbelievable, yeah, he was just 
      peppering Axelrod with punches, but 
      so fast it was incredible.  Axelrod 
      didnt land a punch!  He didnt even 
      survive the first round!

             CHARLIE
      You think thats what boxing is?  
      Colossus beating up some other piece 
      of steel that they feed him?  

             MAX
      Axelrod is not just some piece of 
      steel!  And yeah that is what boxing 
      is now!  Deal with it!  And I love it 
      and Im in it now!

             CHARLIE
      Oh, youre in it now?  How exactly 
      are you in it?

             MAX
      Im ready to fight!

             CHARLIE
      Youre ready?  With your G2 sparring 
      bot?

             MAX
      Hes more than that and if youd get 
      us a fight youd see!

CHARLIE laughs...

             CHARLIE
      Well youre in luck, kid.  Theres a 
      lovely place called Robo Pins!  
      Tomorrow afternoon, youll get your 
      fight.


             MAX
      Great!

             CHARLIE
      And it will be the end.  That piece 
      of shit in there will be in a 
      thousand pieces before the last 
      ding of the starting bell-

             MAX
      Youre wrong.  Atoms better than 
      that.

             CHARLIE
      You think that hes some magic robot 
      that came outta the ground to save 
      your life.  Hes not.  Hes a pile a 
      garbage you found in a dump.  Hes 
      junk.  And he belongs right where he 
      is.  In my junky truck.

MAXs confidence is shot...

             MAX
      Youre so sure hes gonna lose.

             CHARLIE
      Trust me kid, losing is the one thing 
      I know.

CHARLIE hands MAX a white food bag and walks away. 

             MAX
      I told you I HATE HAMBURGERS!

CHARLIE violently tears the bag open and pulls out a foil 
wrapped object.  He tears that open and shoves it to MAX.

             CHARLIE
      ITS A BURRITO!!!!!


The yelling subsides as MAX accepts the burrito and CHARLIE 
walks away.  MAX takes a lustful bite of the burrito. 

EXT.  STARCENTER ARENA -- SERVICE PARKING LOT -- DAWN

Sunrise over the vacant lot of the arena, one truck remains. 

INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- SAME TIME

We find CHARLIE sitting up in his cot having just woken up.  
He hears a strange noise and goes to investigate...

EXT.  STARCENTER ARENA - PARKING LOT - CHARLIES TRUCK - DAY

MAX and ATOM stand side by side as MAX tries a boxing combo.  
ATOM imitates the boys combo...

             MAX
      Again...duck, bend your knees, 
      rise..uppercut.

MAX does the move and ATOM mimes it perfectly.  

             CHARLIE 
      You been up all night?

CHARLIE stands half asleep in his underwear staring at the 
tired, dirty boy and his robot.

             MAX
      Yeah, I cleaned him up and then it 
      took me a while to figure out how to 
      program a new fight move, but hes 
      got one now so...how does he look?

CHARLIE tries to smile...

             CHARLIE
      Hes clean.

They both look to ATOM who despite anything else is in fact 
the cleanest weve seen him.

             MAX
      Lets go.  Were ready to fight.

CHARLIE nods and the boys are off...

EXT.  ROBO-PINS BOWLING ALLEY -- DAY

CHARLIE and MAX hop out of the truck in front of a beat up 
old bowling alley.  

             MAX
      Where is everybody?

             CHARLIE
      Just come on and stay close.  It can 
      get rough up here.

INT.  ROBO-PINS BOWLING ALLEY -- DAY

CHARLIE, MAX and ATOM walk through the old bowling alley.  
Its like a mild time warp as the lanes are beaten and the 
pins are scattered.  
Our THREE make their way through the alley to a door that 
leads to a staircase that takes them up.  When they reach the 
door at the top CHARLIE turns to MAX.

             CHARLIE
      Youre sure you wanna do this?  

MAX offers an unsteady nod of yes.

             CHARLIE
      You know youre bringing him home in 
      pieces, right?

MAX looks CHARLIE dead in the eye.

             MAX
      Well see.

MAX blasts past CHARLIE and shoves open the door and walks 
outside.  CHARLIE stares in wonder at MAXs swagger.  

EXT.  ROBO-PINS BOWLING ALLEY -- ROOFTOP ROBOT RING -- DAY


This roof top robot boxing ring is bright, loud and crude. 
There is a seedy crowd of 200 or so that lines the rickety 
wooden bleachers that wrap around the roof line. 

CHARLIE, MAX and ATOM approach the ring. 

An unnaturally tall man is the obvious KING PIN of this fight 
scene.  CHARLIE beelines for him with MAX and ATOM in tow.   

CHARLIE reaches KING PIN who sizes him up.

             CHARLIE
      Im Charlie Kenton and this is Max-

             KING PIN
      I know who you are, Kenton.  This 
      your robot?  Is he even a G2?

They all seem to study ATOM who in broad daylight definitely 
appears a generation behind.

             MAX
      Yeah hes a G2, how much a round?

KING PIN smiles and leans way down to meet MAX eye to eye. 

             KING PIN
      He will fight my robot, Metro, 100 
      bucks for one 2 minute round.

             MAX
      300!

             KING PIN
      Its 100 a round. 
        (then, cocky smile)
      Ill give you a 1000 if you make it 
      to the second round.

CHARLIE looks to MAX with concern, realizing this is the 
beginning and end for ATOM.  MAX puts out his hand and he and 
KING PIN shake on it.  KING PIN hands CHARLIE the 100 bucks.

The small gallery of creeps erupts with excitement for the 
slaughter theyre about to witness.  


EXT.  ROBO-PINS BOWLING ALLEY -- ROOFTOP -- RING -- DAY


CHARLIE tries to do a pre-fight check with MAX and ATOM.

             CHARLIE
      Okay, so hes in fight mode and he 
      knows to stay moving right?

             MAX
      Relax, hes set.

MAX reinserts the panel in ATOMs back and the robot stands.  
ATOM raises his hands in a fight stance.  MAX nods and ATOM 
nods back.


EXT.  ROBO-PINS BOWLING ALLEY -- ROOFTOP -- RING -- DAY

MAX leads ATOM into the ring and the small but rowdy gallery 
of creeps starts to hoot and holler.  We get our first look 
at METRO, a gnarly Frankensteined G2 who has obviously seen 
his share of fights.  METRO has a green arm and a blue arm 
that are not only different colors but different shapes and 
sizes.

The REF raises his beer to the crowd who cheers him on as he 
chugs it and tosses the can off of the roof.  Charming. 

             REF
      LETS GET IT ON!!!!

The creeps cheer and the TIMER hits a bell with a hammer and 
METRO and ATOM start to circle each other.  METRO moves in 
and plants his stumpy club-foot on ATOMs foot.  METRO throws 
a monster roundhouse with his right hand which is an over-
sized metal mallet.  It connects hard to ATOMs head who is 
effectively trapped by his pinned foot. 

MAX CRINGES AT THE SHOT THAT ATOM JUST TOOK

             MAX
      THATS ILLEGAL  HES PINNING HIS 
      FOOT!

ATOM manages to escape the foothold.  METRO again circles 
ATOM and ATOM gets in the loop with him.  METRO throws a 
longer more vicious combination that puts ATOM down.

THE GALLERY OF CREEPS GOES NUTS

KING PIN snickers and we find MAX who has a look of panic on 
his face.  CHARLIE looks to the old digital clock thats 
counting down the round, it reads...1:41, an eternity.

ATOM GETS UP AND IS A LITTLE SLOWER ON HIS FEET

But this time ATOM circles the opposite direction.  ATOM 
throws a jab that catches METRO on the chin and METRO absorbs 
the shot.

METRO makes a run at ATOM and shoves him into the corner.  
ATOM takes a defensive stance as METRO throws a combination 
of right jabs and a left uppercut.  ATOM is crumbling as the 
punches are strong and scoring direct hits.

MAX EXHALES IN FEAR AS HE CHECKS THE CLOCK ... 0:57

CHARLIE starts to pace, feeling frustrated that theres 
nothing he can do.

             CHARLIE
      Hes got a minute to go.

             MAX
      He needs to get outta the corner.

METRO PULLS AWAY FROM ATOM AND LETS HIM OUT OF THE CORNER

The CROWD cheers the cocky move like a cat letting a dying 
mouse up.  We see ATOM stagger out of the corner.  METRO 
circles right again and ATOM follows him, a recipe for 
disaster.  METRO leans in and ATOM cant help himself as he 
leans in and gets clocked by that big right hook.

ATOM miraculously stays standing but is a sitting duck as 
METRO moves in on him and begins to just punch him at will.  

MAX EXHALES IN FEAR AS HE LOOKS AT THE CLOCK ... 1:03 

             MAX
      Hes gotta survive one more minute!

CHARLIE winces with fear as the old bot struggles to stand.

METRO attacks and swings wildly and ATOM backpedals, barely 
avoiding each blow.  ATOM is bobbing and weaving and METRO 
cant catch him.  The CROWD boos, we cut to the clock.  0:37 

CHARLIE grabs MAX by the shoulder and is trying to count his 
money as he watches the clock.  :30, 29, 28...

             CHARLIE
      HOLD ON ATOM! HOLD ON!

And then it happens.  METRO fires a direct shot to ATOMs 
face that sends him against the fence.  ATOM bounces back off 
of the fence and directly into METROs next shot that again 
lands squarely on ATOMs face.  ATOM puts his hands up in 
defense but METRO pummels away at ATOMs body.  ATOM absorbs 
a ruthless blow, bouncing off the ropes into a brutal 
clothesline move, dropping him.  

The GALLERY of CREEPS goes insane for the violence.  CHARLIE 
looks at the clock...:21, 20... The REF stands over ATOM 
counting him out.

             REF
      BELL CANT SAVE HIM...1...2!

CHARLIE looks to find a smiling KING PIN looking at him.

MAX NOW STANDS ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE FENCE FROM ATOM

             MAX
      GETTUP!  CMON ATOM GET UP!!!

             CHARLIE
      He cant hear you kid, hes a 
      machine.

We see ATOMs EYES struggling to maintain solid light.  He is 
all but dead.  The REF starts to count him out.

             REF
      4...5

The CROWD starts to count with them, knowing its over.

ATOM MANAGES TO ROLL TO HIS SIDE AND THEN TO HIS KNEES

             REF
      7, 8!

MAX screams...

             MAX
      ATOM!  CMON GET UP!  ATOM!

ATOM grabs the rope and pulls himself to his feet.

             REF
      HES UP!


The TIMER bangs the ring bell with a hammer.  ATOM survived 
it, barely.  MAX jumps in the air with fists pumping.


Even CHARLIE cant help but smile in disbelief.

KING PIN approaches CHARLIE and MAX with a disgusted look on 
his face and a grand of cash in his hand.  CHARLIE reaches 
for it and KING PIN pulls it away.

             KING PIN
      This thousand? Double or nothing he 
      cant make it one more round.

CHARLIE laughs, reaching for the money.

             CHARLIE
      Thanks anyway.

             MAX
      Deal.  Double or nothing.

The CROWD erupts at the thought of more violence.

MAX runs into the ring to work on ATOM before the next round.  
CHARLIE is on his heels. 

             CHARLIE
      ARE YOU CRAZY?!  YOU JUST THREW AWAY 
      A THOUSAND BUCKS!  HE CAN BARELY 
      STAND UP!
        (he tries to reason)
      Kid, I get it.  I know what youre 
      trying to do because Ive done it.  
      And trust me, it never works.
        (beat, quieter)
      I really need the money!

             MAX
        (looks at him)
      I know!  Let me work!

MAX starts working furiously on ATOM who seems to be more 
coherent but is still foggy from the beating. The BELL RINGS. 

CHARLIE knows this is suicide, but he realizes that this is 
the son of the biggest broken dreamer in the fight game.  

METRO AGAIN CIRCLES AND ATOM FOLLOWS

METRO comes right out and reaches with his club foot for 
ATOMs foot.  He misses as ATOM has stepped back avoiding the 
stomp.

METRO looks down in confusion and then up at ATOM.  He loads 
up that huge right hook...and lets it fly.

And then it happens...

ATOM mimics the move that MAX taught him.  ATOM ducks the 
hook, bends, rises with a massive uppercut that catches METRO 
under his chin.  The contact is deafening.  

Again METRO swings, WHAM! -- another ATOM duck/uppercut.  
METRO tries a third time but ATOM once again slides under the 
punch before rising up with a powerful uppercut.

We watch as METRO freezes, apparently stunned from the 
contact.   METRO starts going haywire, shorting out, 
twitching, sparking.  He careens wildly around the ring.  His 
corner tries to control him as the crowd scatters to avoid 
his flailing mallet fist.

Finally METRO falls, out.  Game over.

             REF
      LIGHTS OUT!!  THATS IT!  HES OUT!

MAX runs in to find ATOM looking around and switches him to 
shadow mode.  MAX raises his arms, ATOM does the same.  An 
amazing, unlikely victory.

CHARLIE is still trying to recover from the shock of the 
events as KING PIN grudgingly hands him the 2 thousand bucks.

A young UNDERGROUND PROMOTER hands CHARLIE a card.

             UNDERGROUND PROMOTER
      I have a fight for your robot, next 
      Saturday night.  Guaranteed 4 grand.  
      7 if he wins.

CHARLIE nods and takes the card.  He looks to see MAX 
parading around with ATOM as if he just won the Olympic gold. 
This crummy, bottom-rung roof of a bowling alley is the sight 
of MAXs first triumph.  CHARLIE smiles at the kids moment.

EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- LATE AFTERNOON

We see CHARLIEs truck parked next to this two story motel.

INT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- LATE AFTERNOON

MAX flops on a big motel bed.  This is heaven compared to the 
truck.  CHARLIE appears...

             CHARLIE
        (peeling off some bills)
      Lemme give you your cut.

             MAX
        (takes the money)
      Awesome.

             CHARLIE
      Nice work boss.  And I spoke to that 
      guy in the suit, weve got a fight on 
      Saturday. 

MAX smiles and pumps his fists.

             MAX
      Atoms a little beat up but Im gonna 
      spend time with him tonight-

             CHARLIE
        (holds up his hand)
      You havent slept in a real bed in 
      weeks.  Ill be right next door.  
      Take a night off.  You earned it. 

CHARLIE grabs the remote and turns on the TV.  Like all 13 
year-olds, the TV is like meat in a bear cage, instant focus.  
CHARLIE nods steps outside the room to the balcony.


EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- BALCONY -- LATE AFTERNOON

CHARLIE looks at the horizon with a small grain of 
satisfaction.  He pulls out his phone.  

             CHARLIE
      Bailey?  Its Charlie.  Yeah.  He 
      won.  Can you believe that?  The 
      kids robot won.  

CHARLIE sneaks a look in to MAXs room to see MAX already 
passed out with the remote on his chest.


CHARLIE laughs as he listens to BAILEY on the other end...

EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- MOONLIT LANDSCAPE -- NIGHT

INT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- MAXS ROOM -- NIGHT


The light from the TV still strobes over a sleeping MAX.  He 
stirs awake and sits up.  A big idea inspires him to put on 
his shoes and grab a jacket. 

EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- PARKING LOT -- LATER THAT NIGHT

We crane over the truck to find MAX completely engrossed in 
pulling apart old robot parts.  He has ATOM in a sitting 
position with his control panel off and his right arm 
removed.  The master is hard at work, covered in grime.  A 
case of Coca Cola rests nearby. 


EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- PARKING LOT -- DAWN

As the sun rises, CHARLIE rambles through the lot.  


CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE finds MAX still tweaking on ATOMs control panel.  
Parts of Noisy Boy and Supernova riddle the ground like 
wrapping paper around the Christmas tree.

CHARLIE locks eyes with MAX who is dirty and edgy from a 
night of mechanics.

We see empty cans of Coca Cola all around MAXs workspace and 
he has a fresh one in hand as he stares wild-eyed at CHARLIE.

             CHARLIE
      You been up all night?

MAX launches into a hyper, somewhat confusing retell of his 
work.

             MAX
      I woke up with a great idea!  I just 
      spent the night doing something I 
      think is amazing, its incredible.  
      Incredibly amazing if it works.  
      Yknow?

CHARLIE nods, trying to follow MAXs caffeinated rant.  

             MAX
      I had to wipe his memory but I was 
      able to swap the mother board from 
      Supernova and then I pulled Noisy Boy 
      out and I put it in and it works, I 
      mean he knows nothing but it works.  
      It really, really works.

CHARLIE struggles, did he miss something?

             CHARLIE
      What works?

MAX puts on the old headset and calls out... 

             MAX
      RIGHT JAB UPPERCUT!  

We watch as ATOM throws the punches.  CHARLIE smiles, 
impressed.  

             CHARLIE
      You put Noisys voice recognition in 
      Atom?  Pretty smart, kid.

             MAX
      Smart?!  SMART?!  IT MIGHT BE GENIUS!  
      IT COULD BE THE MOST INCREDIBLE THING 
      IN THE HISTORY OF THE ENTIRE WORLD 
      EVER!

MAX is about to explode with caffeinated excitement.

             CHARLIE
      How bout somethin to eat?

             MAX
      Charlie, I need you to teach him to 
      box.

             CHARLIE
      What you need is breakfast.  Cmon.

MAX follows CHARLIE.

INT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- DINER -- LATER

MAX and CHARLIE are sitting in a booth awaiting their food. 
CHARLIE drinks coffee and MAX is still pretty adrenalized... 

             MAX
      Im gonna go through his memory board 
      and tune him up.  Id love to program 
      some real punch sequences in there.

CHARLIE goes quiet, knowing whats coming.

             MAX
      You were a boxer, Charlie.  Just 
      teach him some combinations.  

             CHARLIE
      Hes not special.

             MAX
      What about the knockout?

             CHARLIE
      A lucky punch.  Dont get me wrong 
      kid, I loved it and we were due for 
      some luck, but hes not special.

             MAX
      Youre wrong.  He is.  He could be.  
      Teach him to box.  He can win on 
      Saturday.

             CHARLIE
      He cant win.

             MAX
      Ill train him myself.  Youll see.

             CHARLIE
      Kid, enjoy your eggs, savor the 
      toast.  Saturdays gonna be painful.  
      Hopefully quick, but painful.

             MAX
      Shut up, Charlie.  

CHARLIE puts down his coffee as MAX has spoken like a man.

             CHARLIE
      What?

             MAX
      Youve been losing so long you talk 
      like a loser, so just shut up.

The WAITRESS arrives with many plates of eggs and pancakes.  

MAX and CHARLIE are both quiet, pissed off.  They eat in 
angry silence.

A YOUNG FAMILY files into the booth across the aisle from 
them.  A MOTHER, FATHER and TWO KIDS.  They are laughing and 
enjoying the novelty of stopping at this greasy spoon on 
their way to someplace wonderful. 

MAX stares with empty fascination at the happy family.  MAX 
and CHARLIE trade looks.  Its sad, no words are necessary.


EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- PARKING LOT -- DAY

MAX sits on top of the box truck far above the ground and 
away from the fray.  With his knees pulled to his chest he 
holds the old brass butterfly pin and stares at the endless 
horizon. 

EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- PARKING LOT -- AFTERNOON


MAXs ipod plays through two little speakers as MAX tries to 
teach ATOM some punch combos.  ATOM, in shadow mode, mirrors 
all of MAXs movements.  

             MAX
      Okay um...jab, jab, hook.

MAX throws a clumsy sequence and ATOM gets a little off 
balance trying to mimic the punches.

             MAX
      I think you have to move your feet.

ATOM stares at MAX trying to listen for the words he knows. 
MAX raises his voice in frustration, the way we tend to yell 
at people who dont speak English.

             MAX
      MOVE YOUR FEET!

ATOM shuffles his feet side to side awkwardly.  MAX shakes 
his head in defeat as he grabs his soda off of the lift gate.

MAX takes a drink of his soda as he hears a hip hop song 
start to pump from his ipod. 

MAX smiles at the song and turns it up a little.  MAX bobs 
his head as he sings along a little bit.  His bopping gets a 
little more pronounced, the way it does when were alone.  
Except, hes not alone.  We turn to see... 


ATOM following MAXs bopping to the music.  MAX smiles as he 
kind of cryp walks to ATOM.  ATOM mimics his cryp walk back.  
MAX laughs, this is absurd.  

The 8 foot robot follows MAXs every move.  The song 
continues and MAX gets more focused on his moves and ATOM 
falls perfectly in step with him.  Its actually very sweet.

MAX is lost in the moment like a 13 year-old boy should be.  
As if hes in his parents basement with his best friend on a 
sleep over and theyre just making each other laugh.  Hes 
smiling and sweaty as the song comes to an end.

MAX looks at ATOM and holds up his pointer finger, twirling 
it around.  

             MAX
      More?  You wanna keep going?  Okay.

ATOM mimics the finger twirl as MAX clicks the ipod back to 
the beginning of the song and they start the dance again. 
They are even tighter in step this time as MAX really lets 
go, enjoying himself.

MAX is singing and smiling as he dances full out...until he 
hears the sound of clapping and turns to see...

CHARLIE IS WITNESS TO MAXS PRIVATE MOMENT

CHARLIE continues to laugh and clap.  MAX gets pissed and 
shuts off the ipod and flips ATOM to idle.

             CHARLIE
      That was really cool.  You should do 
      it on Saturday night.

             MAX
      Dont make fun of me.  

             CHARLIE
      Im serious.  Before the fight when 
      you guys take the ring you should do 
      it.

             MAX
      Theres no way Im dancing with a 
      robot in front of a boxing crowd.  

             CHARLIE
      Are you kidding me?  Its genius.  
      Its a show Max.  

             CHARLIE 
      A big part of this whole thing is the 
      show -- people wanna see something 
      theyve never seen.  Theyre gonna 
      see robots smash each other but what 
      else?  Girls in bikinis?  Guys who 
      eat fire?  Why not a kid dancing with 
      his robot?  

MAX listens to his father.  CHARLIE gets real...

             CHARLIE
      I never had it, kid.  I was a pretty 
      good boxer but I never had any flash.  
      Think of the greats.  Ali?  Sugar 
      Ray? Prince Rakhim?  Gamma?  These 
      guys all had their nick names, their 
      personas, their flare.  You might not 
      have much robot but with that dance 
      youve got some flare.  People will 
      wanna see that.  You wanna make 
      money? You wanna be in the game? 
      Thatll get you there.

             MAX
      Youre not messin with me?  

             CHARLIE
      Im not messin with you.  I promise 
      you Max, theyll love it.  

MAX thinks about it...

             MAX
      Okay.
        (then...)
      But you gotta help me.

             CHARLIE
      I cant dance kid, youre on your 
      own.

             MAX
      No.  Boxing.  I need you to teach 
      Atom to box.

CHARLIE thinks about it...MAX offers...

             MAX
      I program the robot, you take care of 
      the boxing.

             CHARLIE
      And you dance.


MAX inhales...sighs...

             MAX
      Deal.


EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- DAWN

CHARLIE sneaks out of his room in sweats and looks in on MAX 
whos still sleeping.  CHARLIE stares at the cold dawn. 

EXT.  ROADSIDE MOTEL -- OPEN LOT -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE is shadow boxing, trying to awaken his muscles and 
his memory for the sport he once loved.

ATOM stands nearby as if awaiting instructions.  

CHARLIE begins to slowly do the boxers hop step.  ATOM 
mimics CHARLIE, waiting for instruction. 

             CHARLIE
      Simple combos, 3 punches.

CHARLIE fires off a hook, jab and uppercut that, although 
rusty, are still poetic in their form.  ATOM follows him.  
CHARLIE speeds up and ATOM keeps pace.  

As we PULL WIDE and away we leave the two fighters, lone 
figures on the landscape moving in tandem.  Both maybe coming 
back to life.  

INT.  MILITARY AIRPLANE HANGAR -- DAY


SERVICE MEN and WOMEN mix with this blue collar crowd as we 
see military planes from different eras lining the back walls 
of this venue.  A well-maintained ring from another era is 
the centerpiece of the action.

The first few beats of our Hip Hop Anthem blast as MAX and 
ATOM unveil their pre-fight dance routine for the first time.  
CHARLIE was right: the crowd loves it.  Our anthem swells as 
we launch in to a 

FIGHT MONTAGE


SIX SHOOTER is a cowboy-themed robot who fights ATOM in a 
Western-themed bar.  As SIX SHOOTER throws haymakers, the 
hammer and barrels of his gun-inspired arms click and roll.  
ATOMs too quick though, and he counters with a flurry of his 
own, knocking SIX SHOOTER off his feet.  Fight over.  MAX 
looks to CHARLIE with a look of That was easy.  CHARLIE 
nods, collecting their dough.

EXT.  DESOLATE HIGHWAY -- DAY

The TRUCK beats the burning road along another stretch of 
nothingness.  Its a hot summer in Nowhereville.

EXT.  PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

Muscle cars and hot-rods have circled to form a ring.  Their  
headlights provide light.  ATOM fights a chopper-themed bot 
named EASY RIDER.  ATOM gets the best of his opponent and 
decks EASY RIDER.  The CAR GUYS cheer as CHARLIE takes off 
his head set.  A BIKER DUDE hands MAX cash. 


EXT.  DESOLATE HIGHWAY ROADSIDE -- DAY

CHARLIE and MAX stand side by side relieving themselves.  
ATOM sits on the lift gate staring at a field of tall grass.  
The grass sways with the wind.  ATOM matches the motion of 
the swaying grass, slowly leaning back and forth in time with 
the swaying grass. 

WE HEAR THE SOUND OF A RADIO DEEJAY

             DEEJAY 
      105.5 WRBX the satellite home of 
      robot boxing ...Ill tell you, there 
      is a little bot out there making some 
      noise...his name is Atom and he 
      dances with this kid. Its crazy!  I 
      saw him beat the paint off F-16 at 
      The Hangar...Im looking at a list of 
      bots hes beaten;  CHAOS, WALL 
      STREET, ONE-EYED JACK, foughtem 
      all..beatem all...and last night he 
      creamed a really tough underground 
      bot named EASY RIDER...remember this 
      name folks...ATOM...one to watch! 

INT.  MISSOURI METRO CENTER -- NIGHT

The CROWDS have really started to grow as we see a good-sized 
crowd watching ATOM duck a punch from a big lumbering bot 
named AVALANCHE.  AVALANCHE swings again and misses.  

CHARLIE smiles as he barks in to the headset...

             CHARLIE
      Right cross!  Left Roundhouse!

ATOM delivers the vicious combination and AVALANCHE tumbles 
to the floor.  The CROWD goes nuts.  

A ROBOT BOXING PROMOTER grabs our Duo.

             ROBOT BOXING PROMOTER
      You guys put on a good show.  Good 
      enough that wed like to invite you 
      to fight on our card at the Omni 
      Center in Chicago on Friday Night.  

MAX and CHARLIE stare at each other in amazement.

             CHARLIE
      Thats a WRB Fight, a league fight.

             ROBOT BOXING PROMOTER
      Damn right it is.  Whatya say fellas?  
      You ready for the show?

MAX snaps out of his shock and freaks out.  MAX first grabs 
CHARLIE and SPINS him around, then he grabs the ROBOT BOXING 
PROMOTER and shakes him by his cheap sports coat.


EXT.  THE OMNI CENTER -- CHICAGO -- NIGHT


The MARQUIS outside the Omni Center boasts, World Robot 
Boxing.  


INT.  THE OMNI CENTER -- DRESSING ROOM -- CHIGAGO -- NIGHT


MAX puts last touches on ATOM as they await their fight.  
CHARLIE paces visibly nervous for the first time.

             CHARLIE
      Its the undercard but its still a 
      league fight kid, so...I want you to 
      be relaxed.  Just be relaxed.

             MAX
      Im relaxed.  Its you who needs to 
      relax.  Youre pacing all over the 
      place.

AN OLDER GENTLEMAN enters.   

             OLDER GENTLEMAN
      You have been invited to the Colossus 
      suite.  Follow me please.

CHARLIE and MAX look at each other, is this happening?  The 
GENTLEMAN leaves and MAX and CHARLIE follow...


INT.  LUXURY SUITE -- OMNI CENTER -- MOMENTS LATER

CHARLIE and MAX are escorted in to the VIP suite. 


Awaiting them on the couch is FARRA LEMKOVA.  A few feet away 
TAK MASHIDO sits aloofly, texting.  FARRA studies our guys.

             FARRA
      Gentlemen, Im Farra Lemkova, and 
      this of course is Tak Mashido.

             MAX
      Holy shit, its Tak Mashido.

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, I heard.

             FARRA
      I know you have an important fight 
      tonight, so I will get right to it.
        (our guys exchange looks)
      Id like to buy your robot.  Hed be 
      a useful sparring bot for Colossus.  
      And for that Im willing to pay...200 
      thousand dollars.

CHARLIE stands in victory and extends his hand to shake.

      CHARLIE
	Done.


CHARLIE laughs.

	MAX
	Hes not for sale.


             CHARLIE
      Of course he is, we can definitely 
      make this deal work-

             MAX
      Hes not for sale.

             FARRA
      You are 15 minutes from getting in 
      the ring with Twin Cities: a vicious, 
      league bot that will kill your dance 
      partner.  So: to be clear...my offer 
      stands until midnight.  

             MAX
      Okay, and just to be clear: hes not 
      for sale.  Not now, not ever.

MAX gets up, nods and leaves.  CHARLIE smiles at FARRA.

             CHARLIE
      Give us a minute to clear this up, 
      will you?

CHARLIE smiles and FARRA returns the smile with a nod. 

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- HALLWAY -- SAME TIME


MAX walks away angrily as CHARLIE catches him.

             CHARLIE
      Hey!  Max!  Look at me.  Be smart.  I 
      know you love him but in 20 minutes 
      there may be nothing left to love.  
      Think about it.  Take the offer.

             MAX
      You think about it!  Why does she 
      want Atom?  Cuz hes different, he 
      can be programmed in any style, he 
      can be trained.

             CHARLIE
      But hes small and hes weak!

             MAX
      Im not selling him!  It was my dream 
      to fight in a league fight and guess 
      what?  Here we are.

             CHARLIE
      Kid, take the money.  We could get 
      three really nice bots fighting with 
      that money.

             MAX
      Hes not for sale.  I have to get 
      Atom ready.  We have a fight to get 
      to.

MAX walks off leaving CHARLIE to drift further and further 
from the 200 grand that would have solved his problems.

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- MAIN ARENA -- NIGHT

We see an aerial stadium shot that moves around the arena as 
the fans pile in.  


INT.  OMNI CENTER -- FIGHTERS PREP ROOM -- NIGHT

With ATOM in SHADOW MODE, MAX runs him through a pre-fight 
check in a room with a mirrored wall and a robot workstation.

             MAX
        (doing it as he says it)
      Hands up.  Back Step.

ATOM mirrors MAX as he shoots his hands up and quickly 
shuffles his feet back.  

             MAX
      Left jab!  Right hook!  Uppercut! 

MAX does the combo and ATOM perfectly apes the moves.  MAX 
smiles and stops to look at the two of them in the mirror. 

MAX takes a moment to smile at their reflection, a boy and 
his robot.  CHARLIE pops his head in.

             CHARLIE
      Hey, refs wanna go over some ground 
      rules before we head in.

MAX follows CHARLIE out in to the hall.

ATOM is left alone, facing the mirror.  Through the thick 
concrete walls we can hear the growing roar of fight crowd 
above.  We hear a small metallic hum as his arm moves 
slightly, the movement down is reflected in the mirror.  Then 
slowly, ATOM begins to bend towards the mirror as if aware of 
himself.  He cocks his head as his eyes try to process the 
image staring back at him.

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- MAIN ARENA -- SAME TIME


The seats are filling as we hear the excited prefight 
conversation of TWO FIGHT COMMENTATORS.  One is in the booth 
above the ring and the other is ringside.


INT.  OMNI CENTER -- ANNOUNCERS BOOTH -- SAME TIME

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1
      An exciting night of Robot Boxing 
      awaits our fans here and around the 
      globe.  The March towards the Real 
      Steel Championship makes its way 
      through Chicagos Omni Center 
      tonight.  Im Mike Chapman and along 
      with Ken Rishty ringside we will 
      bring you all the fight coverage you 
      can handle.  Lets go to Kenny at 
      ringside...

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- RINGSIDE -- SAME TIME

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1
      Thanks Mike and yes the march towards 
      the Real Steel Championship does make 
      a stop here in Chicago tonight and we 
      have an excellent bill of boxing fare 
      on tap...


INT.  OMNI CENTER -- ANNOUNCERS BOOTH -- SAME TIME


             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 2
      Boxing fare on tap?  Ken, you sound 
      as old as you look you fossil.

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- RINGSIDE -- SAME TIME


             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1
      I may be a fossil Mike because if you  
      look at the control centers in the 
      league bot corners you would be 
      amazed at the current technology.


INT.  OMNI CENTER -- ANNOUNCERS BOOTH -- SAME TIME

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 2
      Well gee Ken that sounds like a set 
      up to a walk through of the 
      technology in the Robot Corners....

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- RINGSIDE -- SAME TIME

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1
      Right you are Mike,

WE CUT TO A PRE-PRODUCED FEATURE ON ROBOT OPS

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1 
      First the bots corner team carry the 
      robots motherboard, or the brain 
      if you will, in a titanium case. 

We see a ROBOT TEAM carrying a titanium attache case to the 
control center just below the corner of the ring.

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1 
      Next they take out the brain and put 
      it into what they call the fight 
      deck.

The hard drive is inserted in a slot below three monitors and 
surrounded by two joysticks and three large keyboards.


             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1 
      Once the brain is in, they fire up 
      the fight deck and as you can see...

WE SEE THREE MONITORS COME TO LIFE...

             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 1 
      Three monitors come to life...the 
      first is the Stadium feed of the 
      fight, the second is the robots 
      eyes, so the corner folks can see 
      what the robot sees and the third 
      screen monitors the systems of the 
      bot.  So while the corner team is 
      operating the bot during the fight, 
      theyre also keeping an eye on its  
      power levels, temperature gauges, 
      shell integrity, you name it.
        (back to the live guy)
      Its fascinating Mike but whats more-


INT.  OMNI CENTER -- ANNOUNCERS BOOTH -- SAME TIME


             OMNI CENTER ANNOUNCER # 2
      Whats more fascinating is that Im 
      still awake after that puff piece 
      Kenny and thank the gods that its 
      FIGHT TIME!!!!  Lets go to our ring 
      announcer, Hal Holiday!


INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- NIGHT

A mic drops in to the RING ANNOUNCERs hand...  

             RING ANNOUNCER
      In our first undercard!  Former North 
      American Champ Twin Cities!

We see TWIN CITIES.  His gimmick is that he has TWO HEADS 
atop his block-shaped upper body.

TWIN CITIES struts into the ring and freezes before rotating 
both heads to nice applause by the growing crowd.  

             RING ANNOUNCER
      Opposing Twin Cities, in his first 
      professional fight...hailing 
      from...parts unknown... ATOM!

The CROWD is quiet as they await the entrance of the 
challenger.  After an awkward silence we hear the first loud 
bars of a hip hop anthem.

MAX AND ATOM DO THEIR DANCE AS THEY APPROACH THE RING 

The CROWD bops along to the duos cocky antics.


OWNERS SUITE -- TOP OF THE ARENA -- SAME TIME

Inside a LUXURY BOX atop the arena, the COLOSSUS CAMP is 
enjoying a fight night cocktail party.  FARRA sits quietly 
next to her father as the revelers in her suite carry on.  
She is fixed on MAX and his robot.  We see TAK MASHIDO 
sitting a few seats away.  


INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT


MAX is nervous as CHARLIE leans in to talk strategy.

             CHARLIE
      Now listen, this bot is tough to put 
      down.  

MAX looks at TWIN CITIES who circles around the ring with his 
heads spinning like the tea cup ride at the fair.

             MAX
      Atom can do it.

             CHARLIE
      Max, look over there..you see those 
      three geeks with those joysticks and 
      consoles?  This is not like the 
      underground, hand held remote bots 
      weve been fighting, kid.  This is 
      the league. 

             MAX
      So whatta we do?

             CHARLIE
      Fight smart, be patient...and pray.  

MAX nods and flips ATOM into fight mode.  MAX hops down out 
of the ring and the REF raises his arms in a starting 
position.  He drops them and the bell rings...ITS ON!!!! 

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- RING -- NIGHT

ATOM trots into the ring and begins to engage TWIN CITIES.  
The TWO HEADS are very distracting as ATOM cant help but get 
caught staring at them as they spin at random.

As ATOM is watching one head spin, the other stops.  TWIN 
CITIES fires a shot to the face that knocks ATOM back.  

TWIN CITIES stays aggressive as he pushes ATOM into the 
corner and flurries shots at ATOMs head and body.  ATOM 
wilts...

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT

MAX sees ATOM struggling and barks at CHARLIE.

             MAX
      Hes getting killed!  Cmon Charlie, 
      tell him what to do!

             CHARLIE
      Hes too fast, I cant see a pattern!

             MAX
      Do something!  Hes about to go down!  

             CHARLIE
        (into headset)
      Duck left!  Right cross!  Left cross!

On command ATOM ducks and fires two lightning-fast crosses.  
Both punches land sharply on TWIN CITIES FACES stunning him.

             CHARLIE
      Slide left, roundhouse!  One Two!

ATOM does what looks like a Sugar Ray Leonard piece of 
footwork as he evades TWIN CITIES assault and clocks him 
with a big right-handed roundhouse.  He then follows with a 
left hook, right jab combo that has TWIN CITIES staggering.

The CROWD reacts to the human-like finesse of ATOMs moves 
and punches. In a world of ROBOT BOXING where power always 
dominates, no one ever sees style and finesse as a tactic.

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT

MAX lights up watching ATOM move so smoothly.  CHARLIE 
continues to get lost in releasing punch combos verbally. 

             CHARLIE
      Left left -- hook right, glide and 
      duck -- upper cut!

Like a wild conductor in front of the philharmonic, CHARLIE 
moves ATOM fluidly around the ring.  TWIN CITIES is baffled. 

ATOM punches the two-headed robot at will now and the crowd 
cheers a style they havent seen in years.

             MAX
       YEAAAHHHHHHHHH!  Get him ATOM!!

CHARLIE plays to the CROWD.

             CHARLIE
      Shuffle!  Arms up!

ATOM does the flashy foot switch and raises his arms in 
victory mid-round.  The CROWD goes ape shit, loving the 
swagger and showmanship of the odd, old G2.

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- LUXURY SUITE - NIGHT

The COLOSSUS CROWD continues to small talk.  But FARRA is 
wide-eyed as she studies ATOMs style, further intrigued.

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- RING -- NIGHT

ATOM pounds TWIN CITIES and the crowd shouts for a knockout.  
We see the clock for the 1st ROUND winding down, 20, 19, 18..

             MAX
      Cmon put him away!  Knock him out 
      Charlie!  Knock him out!

INT.  OLD LOCAL SPORTS BAR -- SAME TIME

We find BAILEY sitting at the bar of a crowded sports bar.  
The fight blares from the TV and the locals cheer while 
watching ATOM pound TWIN CITIES.  

             BAILEY
      Cmon Atom, deck his ass!

She fires an air punch.  A CUTE GUY, obviously her date, 
joins her and places a beer in front of her.  She barely 
notices, glued to the fight.

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- ATOMS CORNER -- SAME TIME

MAX watches as ATOM jogs up to TWIN CITIES.

             CHARLIE
      Right left!  Right left!

ATOM levels two quick combos that stagger TWIN CITIES.

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- TWIN CITIES CORNER -- SAME TIME


We watch as TWIN CITIES corner team scurries to save their 
bot.  The systems screen is going red as they yell at each 
other.

On the POV MONITOR we see ATOMs flurry: first person and 
crazy fast.

INT.  OMNI CENTER -- ATOMS CORNER -- SAME TIME

             CHARLIE
      Spin left, Spin right -- left 
      hook..RIGHT UPPERCUT!!!

ATOM spins on a dime in both directions which literally makes 
TWIN CITIES heads spin.  ATOM then stuns him with a left 
hook and then launches and lands a right uppercut that knocks 
TWIN CITIES flat on his back.

MAX goes bananas!  He shoves CHARLIE so hard he nearly falls 
over.  CHARLIE throws a series of shadow punches in the air 
in victory as MAX storms the ring.

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- RING -- NIGHT

MAX leaps into ATOMs arms.  ATOM lifts MAX on to his 
shoulders and the two circle the ring.  Its a sweet sight as 
the boy and his robot own the night!   

Light bulbs flash as photogs capture the endearing moment.

The RING ANNOUNCER calls the fight....

             RING ANNOUNCER
      In a time of 2 minutes and 57 seconds 
      of the first round ATOM has defeated 
      TWIN CITIES by way-

MAX, on cloud nine, grabs the mic and waves to the crowd.

             MAX
      I wanna thank everyone for coming out 
      tonight!

The CROWD cheers the boy they already love.

             MAX
      Our little bot from the junkyard got 
      a shot at a league fight!  How bout 
      that?
        (the crowd loves it)
      So I wanna thank the WRB for inviting 
      us.  


             MAX
      And last thing, I wanna say to a 
      special girl, who wont be named -- 
      Farra Lemkova -- that instead of 
      buying my robot and using your money 
      to control this sport, why dont you 
      give the littlest guy the biggest 
      shot!  How bout that, hunh?!  What 
      are you scared of?! 

CHARLIE tries to wrestle the mic from MAX but MAX stands his 
ground.  MAX plays to the crowd...

             MAX
      Seriously!  What are they scared of?  
      Wouldnt you all like to see the 
      little guy get a shot at Real Steel?! 

The CROWD goes insane.

             MAX
      I challenge Colossus to a fight!  
      Anytime, anyplace, anywhere.  You 
      name it, we will be there!  

The CROWD goes absolutely nuts for the boy king who playing 
David has just lifted the stone and hurled it right in 
Goliaths face.

INT. LUXURY SUITE -- OMNI CENTER -- SAME TIME

FARRA wears a steely expression as she turns away from the 
glass and looks at TAK.  TAK remains stoic, is there a small 
crack in that veneer of confidence?

INT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- HALLWAY -- NIGHT

CHARLIE stands with the PROMOTER who pays them for the fight.  
MAX is ecstatic, watching the cash land in CHARLIEs hand.

             PROMOTER
      That was a ballsy move, you 
      challenging Colossus like that.  I 
      thought that girl was gonna choke on 
      her diamonds up there....

MAX and CHARLIE smile.  Finally things are going their way.  

             CHARLIE
      Lets celebrate!

MAX shoves CHARLIE with aggressive excitement and the two 
stop to spar with each other, energy brimming with victory.

EXT.  OMNI CENTER OF CHICAGO -- ALLEY -- NIGHT

MAX and CHARLIE continue to rough house each other as they 
push ATOM, now powered-down, on the cart down the alley. 

The alley is dark and quiet in big contrast to the bright, 
loud environment of the arena.  CHARLIE is laughing...

             RICKY 
      Charlie Kenton!

We turn to see RICKY, the slick Texan from the bull-fight. 

             RICKY
      Congratulations Charlie!  Nice fight.

CHARLIE looks past RICKY to see a big GOON stepping to 
RICKYs side.  CHARLIE is already weighing his options...

             RICKY
      Did you think I was lying to you when 
      I said I would beat you to within an 
      inch of your life?

             CHARLIE
      I have some money.

             RICKY
      Im sure you do, but its about more 
      than just money isnt it?

CHARLIE reaches for his money but launches a huge right hand 
at the GOON who drops to his knees not expecting the punch.

CHARLIE takes off running.

             CHARLIE
      Run Max!

MAX is on CHARLIEs heels as they fly through the dark 
corridor that runs the length of the arena.

MAX is sprinting a few feet behind CHARLIE, when he is 
tackled by a dark figure that slams him to the ground.

             MAX
      CHARLIE!  

MAX is pinned beneath a SMALLER GOON as he fights for air.

CHARLIE HEARS MAXS SCREAMS AND STOPS

CHARLIE runs back to help.  As he arrives he is met with a 
pipe to the head that drops him.  He rolls and tries to sit 
up.  RICKY lifts him up and socks him in the gut.

A GOON has MAX on his feet and is rifling through his pockets 
and has discovered his cash.  The GOON holds it up.

             CHARLIE
      Thats his money!  Leave him outta 
      this!

             RICKY
      Sweet thought, but if we came all the 
      way up here to find you, were gonna 
      make it worth our while.

The GOON makes a show of picking MAX up by his belt and 
humiliating him.  MAX grimaces in pain and finally punches 
the GOON in the head.  The GOON simultaneously drops and 
punches MAX who lands with a thud.

CHARLIE freaks out and charges the GOON, he hits him with a 
flurry of punches that has the GOON reeling.  

As the GOON is about to go down RICKY pot shots CHARLIE in 
the side of the head.  CHARLIE stumbles but turns on RICKY 
and fires a professional combo that stuns him.  

Unfortunately a THIRD GOON jumps CHARLIE from behind and 
holds his arms behind his back allowing RICKY to take free 
shots at CHARLIEs face and gut.  CHARLIE goes down.  They 
continue to punch and kick him until hes almost as lifeless 
as the ROBOT who lays prone on the cart next to him.  

             RICKY
      Take all the money.

The GOONS quickly relieve CHARLIE and MAX of all of their 
winnings and other money.  MAX holds his eye and fights off 
tears as RICKY leans in close to him.

             RICKY
      Your friends a real dirtbag kid.

             MAX
      Hes my father. 

RICKY holds up his thumb and forefinger with a smile.

             RICKY
      Looks like a little less than an inch 
      of his life.

The GOONS all laugh at the bad joke.  

MAX watches them leave before struggling to stand.  He steps 
to CHARLIE and kneels down.

             MAX
      Charlie?  Charlie?

MAX rolls him to his side and grimaces as he sees how beaten 
his face is.  MAX chokes back tears as he takes off his 
jacket and wipes CHARLIEs face with it before folding it 
into a small square and placing it under CHARLIEs head.  

We see CHARLIEs face is battered and bleeding.  CHARLIEs 
eyes flicker open.  He sees MAXs face and tries to nod a nod 
of Im okay.

EXT.  OMNI CENTER -- PARKING LOT -- CHARLIES TRUCK -- LATER

CHARLIE sits on the lift gate with a cold beer pressed 
against his swollen face.

MAX is inside the truck, frantically looking for something.

             MAX 
      THEY ROBBED THE TRUCK!

             CHARLIE
      We didnt have much to steal.

             MAX
      They took it!  It wasnt worth 
      anything!

MAX is now just throwing things around in desperation.  
CHARLIE calmly reaches into his pocket, pulls out the BRASS 
BUTTERFLY and holds it up.  MAX approaches when he sees it.

             MAX
      Give it to me.

CHARLIE pulls it back and looks quizzically at MAX.

             CHARLIE
      An old brass butterfly.  

             MAX
      GIVE IT TO ME!

CHARLIE hands it to MAX who takes it and stares at it.  

             MAX
      My mother gave it to me, before she 
      died.  DOES THAT MEAN ANYTHING TO 
      YOU, CHARLIE?!

             CHARLIE
      YEAH IT DOES.  BECAUSE I GAVE IT TO 
      HER!

The YELLING stops.  Its quiet as they stare at each other.

             CHARLIE
      Youre the butterfly, Max.  Its you.  
        (a beat, then)
      One night when Mary was pregnant, she 
      couldnt sleep.  You wouldnt stop 
      moving.  And, she puts my hands on 
      her belly and you were goin nuts in 
      there and she says, you feel that?  
      And I said yeah, thats the 
      butterfly flapping his wings.  And 
      she looks at me...and she says I 
      love the butterfly.  We both did. 
        (beat)
      So I got her that pin.  

MAX tries to be stoic with the reference to his mom.  

             MAX
      She was cool.  Wasnt she?

             CHARLIE
      She was.

             MAX
      She was the coolest.

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, she was.

MAX sits down next to CHARLIE on the lift gate, their 
postures unwittingly identical.  Its quiet before...

             CHARLIE
      Did they get all the money?

             MAX
      Every penny.  

             CHARLIE
      The stash in the wheel well?

             MAX
      Found that too.
       

             CHARLIE
      Dont worry, ok?  Ill handle things.

             MAX
      Of course you will.  Youve done an 
      excellent job to this point.

CHARLIE looks at MAX and just starts laughing.  MAX cant 
help it as he joins him in laughing at the absurdity of their 
night.  

             MAX 
        (still laughing)
      Charlie?  Did they break your nose?

             CHARLIE
        (tries to stop laughing)
      Yeah, I think they did.  

MAX laughs even harder and although we sense that something 
is weighing on CHARLIE, he joins MAX in laughter.  These guys 
are nothing if not realists who can appreciate the absurd.

EXT.  HYATT REGENCY HOTEL -- CHICAGO -- DAY

This sleek structure seems to disappear into the sky as rain 
has begun to fall.  

INT.  HYATT REGENCY HOTEL -- CHICAGO -- DAY

CHARLIE and MAX enter the lobby shaking the rain off.

             MAX
      What are we doing here?  Is it Farra?  
      I know its Farra.  Were gonna get 
      the Colossus fight.  We deserve it.

CHARLIE searches the mostly empty lobby, finally...

             CHARLIE
      Max, listen..its not the Colossus 
      people.  Ive been thinking about all 
      this, yknow.  And I um...

CHARLIE is starting to really struggle with his words...

             AUNT HELEN 
      Max!  Max, its so good to see you.

AUNT HELEN ARRIVES WITH MARVIN IN TOW

HELEN hugs MAX who quickly reads the situation.

             MAX
      What is she doing here?

             CHARLIE
      Its better if you go with her now.

MAX backs away from them.

             MAX
      We get beat up so you call her to 
      come and get me?

             AUNT HELEN
      You got beat up?  My God...look at-

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, I called her!  Look at us!  
      Were a mess.

             MAX
      Were fine.  She can leave.  
        (to Helen)
      You can go.  Atoms fighting good, we 
      can make the money back.  Right?
        (pleading)
      Charlie, cmon.  Were fine, right?

CHARLIE cant meet his eyes.

             CHARLIE
      Trust me, kid.  Its better this way 
      and legally she has custody so-

MAX is already walking away in hurt frustration.  HELEN 
chases after him.

             HELEN
      Max!

CHARLIE shakes his beaten head in defeat.  MARVIN reaches in 
to his jacket and pulls out a familiar looking envelope.

             CHARLIE
      I dont want your money, Marvin.

CHARLIE walks away.

EXT.  HOTEL VALET STAND -- CHARLIES TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER


MAX angrily packs his stuff in the rain.  He turns away as 
CHARLIE joins him.  In the pouring rain its hard to tell if 
MAX is crying.  HELEN turns to CHARLIE...

             HELEN
      He wont talk to me.  Well get the 
      car.

CHARLIE waits for HELEN to be gone before...

             CHARLIE
      You dont wanna talk?  Fine, Ill 
      talk.  Im selling Atom to Farra.  
      Its over.  Ill send your half to 
      Helen. 

MAX wont even look at CHARLIE.  The two stand obstinately 
oblivious to the rain.

             CHARLIE
      Whaddya want me to say, Im sorry?  
      You knew from day one what this was.  
      You decided to take the ride.  I mean 
      what? You thought me, you and our 
      magical robot from the junk heap were 
      gonna ride off in to the sunset?  You 
      forgot who I was, Max.  Hell, for a 
      second I forgot who I was.
        (then)
      You deserve better.

MAX walks away from him and heads to MARVINs car.

CHARLIE watches as MAX patiently waits in a downpour for the 
trunk to open.  It does.  MAX places his bag in the trunk and 
gets in the back seat.  The car and the boy drive away.

EXT.  INTERSTATE 80 -- HIGHWAY -- NIGHT

Weve come full circle as Charlies box truck makes its way 
down a lonely highway. 

EXT.  HIGHWAY GAS STATION - DAWN 

CHARLIE fuels the truck looking like a man who has been 
driving all night as the sun blazes down.


INT.  CHARLIES BOX TRUCK -- MAGIC HOUR

CHARLIE drinks coffee out of a take-out cup as he takes stock 
of his life.  

He looks around the cab to see burrito wrappers, WRB 
magazines and a few plastic butterflies.  CHARLIE sweeps it 
all to the ground so that he doesnt have to look at it.

CHARLIE senses someone watching him and he looks in the rear 
view mirror.  Through the open partition we see what he sees.

ATOM 

SITS FIXED TO THE WALL, BOUNCING ALONG WITH THE HIGHWAY

CHARLIEs studies the look on the ROBOTs face. 

             CHARLIE
      What are you looking at?

CHARLIE faces the road again, still thinking, stewing...

             CHARLIE
        (soft)
      I miss him too. 

ATOM just seems to stare at CHARLIE, not backing down.


INT.  BAILEY TALLETS BOXING GYM -- LOFT -- NIGHT

BAILEY sleeps peacefully under two layers of blankets.  We 
pan to the doorway to find a lost and exhausted CHARLIE.  He 
watches BAILEY sleep for a beat before quietly joining her on 
the bed.  CHARLIE stays on top of the blankets as he pulls 
himself as close to her blanketed body as he can.  He softly 
wraps a protective arm around her waist, careful not to wake 
her.  

CHARLIE is immediately asleep.  If we look close enough, and 
we do, we see a warm, content smile on BAILEYs face.

EXT.  BAILEY TALLETS BOXING GYM -- ROOFTOP -- MORNING

BAILEY sits sipping coffee on her roof.  CHARLIE climbs out a 
window in the clothes he slept in.

             BAILEY
      Didnt hear you come in last night.

He looks at her, knowing better.

             BAILEY
      So.  No Max...

             CHARLIE
      No Max.

             BAILEY
      You okay?

             CHARLIE
        (considers)
      Im not...I dont know what Im 
      supposed to do next.

             BAILEY
      Yeah, you do.

They take in the city scape thats just waking up to the sun.  
CHARLIE downs his coffee and puts down the cup.

             CHARLIE
      Youre right.  Does it feel good to 
      always be right?

             BAILEY
      Feels pretty good, yeah.

             CHARLIE
      I gotta go.

             BAILEY
      400 miles for a cuddle?

             CHARLIE
      Worth it.

CHARLIE leaves before he can see the huge smile forming on 
BAILEYs face.


EXT.  ARMONK, NY -- TREE LINED STREET -- DAY

We watch as kids on bikes chase their dogs and women power 
walk.  Its really pleasant here.


INT./EXT.  LARGE WHITE CAPE COD HOUSE -- FRONT DOOR -- DAY


MAX opens the door to find CHARLIE.  A beat...  

             CHARLIE
      Look, I know you think I abandoned 
      you and well, I guess I 
      did...originally.

MARVIN arrives to see CHARLIE, he is shocked...

             MAX
      Then you sold me.


             MARVIN
      Wait.  What did you tell him?

             CHARLIE
      Yeah.  That happened.

             MAX
      Then we had our asses kicked.

             CHARLIE
      And our money stolen.  And you slept 
      in a truck for a month and yeah: It 
      was awful.

             MAX
      And dangerous.

             CHARLIE
      That too.  I know...Im sorry.

The two guys look at each other, they miss this banter.

             CHARLIE
      Im gonna go. 

CHARLIE starts to walk away.

             MAX
      Thats why you came?  To say youre 
      sorry?

             CHARLIE
      I came to tell you I made a deal with 
      Farra.

             MAX
      You got my money?

             CHARLIE
      No.  I got you a fight.

CHARLIE steps aside to reveal...

ATOM STANDING AT THE END OF THE FRONT WALK.  

             CHARLIE
      Like you said: Hes not for sale.

We see a gaggle of neighborhood kids who sit frozen on their 
bikes staring in fear and wonder at our mighty, battle-
scarred robot boxer.

MAX looks from ATOM to CHARLIE.  Although neither one of 
these stubborn sons of bitches will crack a smile...the shit 
is now officially ON.



EXT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- FIGHT NIGHT

The JUMBOTRON outside of the ARENA shows clips of COLOSSUS 
destroying robot after robot.  Then it announces, WORLD 
ROBOT BOXING CHAMPIONSHIP -- REAL STEEL -- COLOSSUS VERSUS 
ATOM  

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN - ANNOUNCERS RINGSIDE - NIGHT


TWO ESPN BOXING ANALYSTS prep the title match.

             BOXING ANALYST #1
      So Tim, help me on this title bout.  
      Has the Colossus Camp lost their 
      minds?  The greatest Robot Boxer of 
      all time gives a title shot to some 
      G2 named...Atom?  

             BOXING ANALYST #2
      Well Herb if you ask Tak Mashido, 
      Team Colossus has lost their minds 
      and hes none too happy about it. And 
      its created a rift in the normally 
      well-oiled champs corner.


TELEVISON CLIP -- EXTERIOR TAKS MANHATTAN LOFT


TAK MASHIDO gets out of a huge SUV and is immediately 
accosted by the press.

             TAK MASHIDO
      Its an insult.  This fight was 
      created by you people.  Some poor kid 
      finds a junk robot in a trash heap. 
      Boo fucking hoo.  This fight is a 
      joke.  It demeans my creation.  
      Thankfully, it will be quick. 


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ESPN ANNOUNCERS RINGSIDE


             BOXING ANALYST #2
      Now in truth, Herb, that kid Tak 
      mentions did more than challenge 
      Colossus.  He did so publicly, the 
      challenge went viral, it got tons of 
      media attention, creating a PR 
      nightmare for the champ.  And believe 
      me, the Colossus Camp knows exactly 
      what theyre doing.  

             BOXING ANALYST #2 
      Giving a shot at the belt to an 
      absolute nobody, a junk yard dog if 
      you will, is a marketing stunt.  And 
      judging from the crowd?  The stunt is 
      working!

             BOXING ANALYST #1
      No argument there Tim.  Listen, the 
      fans love to see Colossus kill 
      something!  They dont care what he 
      kills as long as he kills it!  And 
      kills it dead!


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- BACK STAGE -- FIGHT NIGHT


MAX and ATOM wait in a boxers prep room.  They can hear the 
crowd roaring in the arena as one of the undercard fights 
heats up.  

             CHARLIE
      I gotta make a phone call.


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- HALLWAY -- FIGHT NIGHT

CHARLIE steps out of the room, whips out his phone, pushes a 
button and waits anxiously...

             CHARLIE
      Bailey!  Listen...I just..weve got 
      this fight tonight...

CLOSE ON BAILEY ON HER PHONE -- INTERCUT AS NECESSARY


             BAILEY
      Yeah...

             CHARLIE
      Yeah and uh, I just, wanted you to 
      know that I wouldve loved for you to 
      be here. 
        (beat, this is hard)
      I shouldve asked you to be here...

             BAILEY
      Are you an idiot?

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, no.  Of course, youre right.  
      Im being an idiot.  I blew it and I 
      just miss you and...

             BAILEY
      I mean are you an idiot for thinking 
      Id miss this for the world?

             CHARLIE
      What?

             BAILEY
      Turn around.

He turns around with the phone still to his ear.  He sees...

BAILEY AT THE OTHER END OF THE HALL

She smiles and CHARLIE goes to her.  They kiss 
deeply...BAILEY looks him in the eye, smiles.

             BAILEY
      And you still owe me money.

CHARLIE shakes his head with a smile.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- HALLWAY -- FIGHT NIGHT

The door swings open and out walks our TRIO. 

MAX smiles, he feels pretty good too.

             MAX
      We cant win, can we?

CHARLIE looks down at MAX with an uncharacteristic twinkle in 
his eye.

             CHARLIE
      Well see.  

They exchange a final look as they head towards the light at 
the end of the hallway that enters the arena.


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ARENA -- FIGHT NIGHT


CHARLIE, MAX and ATOM take their first steps into the fully 
lit, fully packed, deafeningly loud arena.  Like the Tin Man, 
the Cowardly Lion and the Scare Crow theyve reached Emerald 
City and they are overwhelmed with color and sound.


EXT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- MARQUEE - SAME TIME


A CROWD of people watch the JUMBOTRON outside the Garden 
seeing MAX, ATOM and CHARLIE slowly enter the ring.  They 
cheer wildly.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN - COLOSSUS CORNER - FIGHT NIGHT


We watch as TAKs efficient team of ENGINEERS run a flawless 
systems check on the perfect metal beast.  TAK seems relaxed. 


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER -- FIGHT NIGHT


CHARLIE puts a beer and a pretzel down on the unused state of 
the art control center.  MAX puts a coke and a donut down.  
The two look at each other and need not even speak about how 
low tech and ridiculous their approach is.

MAX looks around the ringside seats and sees FARRA smiling at 
him and offering a polite, somewhat patronizing nod.

             CHARLIE
      Here we go, fellas.

Suddenly the lights in the arena go out.  The quieted crowd 
starts to scream.  A bass beat is joined by a growing 
anthemic heros riff.  A gravelly voice announces HIM...

             ANNOUNCER
      Never beaten, never threatened!  The 
      KING OF THE RING!  THE RULER OF 
      ROBOTS!  BOW DOWN TO..COLOSSUS!!!! 

The LIGHTS begin to rise as does the music and we begin to 
hear the hissing of the smoke that surrounds a platform above 
the ringside seats.  We finally reveal through the smoke...

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- NIGHT


COLOSSUS STANDS ON A PLATFORM BATHING IN COLORED SMOKE

His metal torso reflects all the light and color to the point 
of being blinding.  He raises his arms and the LIGHTS in the 
arena go to FULL BLINDING LIGHT. 

The CROWD SCREAMS to the point of delirium.

MAX AND CHARLIE STARE MOUTHS AGAPE AT THE TERRIFYING ROBOT

COLOSSUS PUTS HIS HANDS OUT TO HIS SIDE 

The CROWD goes quiet with anticipation as the mighty ROBOT 
crouches slowly and then explodes in a leap that sends him 
off of the platform and into the air...

COLOSSUS has launched himself over the ropes of the ring and 
is flying towards ATOMSs corner...


             CHARLIE
      Oh shit...

COLOSSUS flies directly at CHARLIE and MAX, landing perfectly 
on his feet with a thunderous crash that shakes the floor.   

             CHARLIE
      Okay, that was awesome!

The CROWD goes nuts for the CHAMP.  A RING MASTER is already 
announcing the bout.

             RING ANNOUNCER 
      Welcome to Saturday Night Real 
      Steel!!!!  In a bout scheduled for 5 
      rounds for the World Robot Boxing 
      Championship -- in the corner to my 
      right the Challenger -- Atom....

The CROWD cheers...

             RING ANNOUNCER
      And in the corner to my left the 
      undeniable champion of this universe 
      and any other universe known or 
      unknown....COLOSSUS!!!!

THE CROWD GOES ABSOLUTELY CRAZY!!!!

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT


MAX is white with fear, CHARLIE shakes him with a huge smile.

             CHARLIE
      THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT!

MAX cant help but laugh at CHARLIEs insane love for the 
sport of boxing.  MAX is focused now as the BELL RINGS!


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- FIGHT NIGHT

ATOM jogs to the center of the ring and hops like a human 
boxer. 

COLOSSUS wasted no time, crossing the ring in three powerful 
strides and unloading a brutal right to ATOMs face.

ATOM is knocked on his ass.  The CROWD goes nuts, expecting 
another 10 second COLOSSUS knockout.  

ATOM is dazed and struggling to get up.  CHARLIE screams in 
to the headset..

ATOM manages to stand and just as he does, COLOSSUS flurries 
two jabs that beat ATOM to the ground again.  

CHARLIE frantically calls in to the headset...

             CHARLIE
      GET UP AND BACK PEDAL!  BACK PEDAL!

The REF zooms to the corner to separate them and see if 
ATOMs eye lights are still on.  

ATOM slowly stands and raises his arms to show that he is 
responding.  Just as the REF restores the fight...COLOSSUS 
throws a haymaker over the head of the REF felling ATOM 
again.  Its relentless as COLOSSUS continues to knock ATOM 
down with one punch, the second he starts to get up.  Once, 
twice and a third time has him down for good. 

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT


MAX can hardly watch as the massacre is merciless.  CHARLIE 
is flying around the perimeter of the ring hollering commands 
to ATOM.  


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- FIGHT NIGHT

COLOSSUS raises his arms and plays to the crowd who cheer him 
as he humiliates ATOM.

WE SEE A SERIES OF REACTIONS

BAILEY, barely able to watch the destruction.

TAK MASHIDO, another day at the office.

FARRA, trying to hide her smug satisfaction.

And MAX, watching his best friend get killed...


INT.  ESPN ANNOUNCERS BOOTH -- SAME TIME


             BOXING ANALYST #1
      Colossus is just toying with Atom!  
      Hes having so much fun he better be 
      mindful of the clock if he wants to 
      keep his streak of first round knock 
      outs alive.

             BOXING ANALYST #2
      Tim, six seconds is plenty of time 
      for Colossus to put away any robot.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT

MAX shakes his head sensing the end is near.  He looks across 
the ring to see...

FARRA SMILING AT HIM. THE CAT THAT ATE THE CANARY.

MAX leaps up to join CHARLIE.

             MAX
      CMON ATOM!  YOU CAN DO THIS!

The CLOCK reads 0:22, 21, 20...The CROWD starts to chant. 
COLOSSUS!  COLOSSUS!  COLOSSUS!  Its deafening. 

             CHARLIE
      BOB AND WEAVE!  HANDS UP!

ATOM actually bobs out of the way of a huge right cross and 
by putting his hands up he intercepts a left hook that would 
have taken his head off.  

             CHARLIE
      CROSS STEP!  BACK STEP!

ATOM listens to CHARLIEs screams as he executes footwork 
that makes COLOSSUS have to stop and re-direct his pursuit.

THE CLOCK READS 14, 13, 12...

The CROWD rises, sensing that the end is near as COLOSSUS 
makes a last run at ATOM.  Its gonna be close.

             CHARLIE
      BACK RIGHT!  BACK RIGHT!

COLOSSUS catches ATOM halfway and throws a massive right.  
ATOM miraculously ducks it, which sets in motion a ballet of 
COLOSSUS swinging and ATOM ducking.

COLOSSUS is stunned as ATOM continues to narrowly escape 
every death blow he hurls at him.  

The CLOCK is winding down and the CROWD counts it out...4, 3, 
2, 1.  The BELL sounds just as ATOM takes a shot from 
COLOSSUS...but ATOM stays standing and stumbles to his 
corner.

MAX and CHARLIE jump up and down as if they just won lotto.  


The CROWD is stunned by the lack of a COLOSSUS knockout.

FARRA QUIETLY STEAMS AS SHE LEVELS A STARE AT MAX

MAX calls to her across the ring...

             MAX
      STILL HERE!  WERE STILL HERE!

             BOXING ANALYST #1 
      Well thats a first, Colossus is 
      heading to a second round!  

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT

ATOM is barely moving as they rest him on the block in the 
corner of the ring.  Hes tattered as COLOSSUS just beat the 
shit out of him.  MAX tries frantically to assess the damage.

             MAX
      I cant send him back out.  Look at 
      him.  If I send him back out there 
      hell die.

MAX starts to lose it and for the first time...CHARLIE sees 
how emotionally invested in this robot MAX really is.  

             CHARLIE
      Hey, if you say were done, were 
      done.  Youve got nothing more to 
      prove Max.  Look at where you are.  
      Ive spent my whole life trying to 
      get here and you got us here.

MAX looks at his father.

             CHARLIE
      Nobody could have done what you did.  
      You pulled a robot out of the garbage 
      and you just went a full round with 
      the meanest motherfucker ever built.  
      Look at me -- youve got nothing left 
      to prove -- to anybody!

MAX sees pride and emotion on CHARLIEs face that hes never 
seen before.  MAX realizes how long this road has been for 
both of them.  

             MAX
      What would you do?

             CHARLIE
        (laughs)
      Id find a way to lose. 
        (Max laughs with him)
      But youre not me.  Youre better 
      than me, Max.  Whatever you decide, 
      my moneys on you.

The emotional energy between the two has been heightened by 
the feverish energy in the building.

             MAX
      Were done.  Its over.

MAX collects himself and looks to ATOM.   A FIGHT OFFICIAL 
comes over.

             FIGHT OFFICIAL
      CMON KID, IN OR OUT?  WE GOTTA GO!

MAX nods, preparing to throw in the towel.  He looks to ATOM 
who lifts his hand extending his pointer finger.  

ATOM slowly rotates his finger: one more time

MAX cracks a smile a mile wide and looks to CHARLIE and holds 
up his finger in the same one more time gesture.

             CHARLIE
      Were on?

             MAX
      LETS GO!!!

ATOM stands up.  The CROWD seems surprised that hes back.

             BOXING ANALYST #1 
      Amazingly Tim, we will have a second 
      round!  


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- ROUND 2


ROUND 2 -- COLOSSUS has new found aggressive resolve as he 
viciously attacks ATOM. 

We cut through shots of more abuse by COLOSSUS who goes wild, 
trying to destroy ATOM.  ATOM falls but somehow manages to 
get back up every time.  ATOM is beginning to evade the 
punishment.  The BELL RINGS!  ATOM survived TWO ROUNDS!

             BOXING ANALYST #2 
      I THINK THE COLOSSUS CAMP NEVER 
      THOUGHT THAT THIS ROBOT WOULD HAVE TO 
      GO MORE THAN 1 ROUND!  IS COLOSSUS 
      RUNNING OUT OF POWER?  

             BOXING ANALYST #1 
      HAVE WE REVEALED THE ACHILLES HEEL? 
      HES LOSING STEAM!  AND ATOM SEEMS TO 
      BE FEEDING OFF THAT! 

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- COLOSSUS CORNER


Angle on COLOSSUSs CORNER where TAK MASHIDO does the 
unthinkable: he removes his sunglasses to better view the 
systems monitor which any layman can see is showing an 
increasingly depleted bot.

TAK meets FARRAs eyes.  Her message is clear - DO SOMETHING!


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- ROUND 3


ROUND 3 -- ATOM recovers enough to get back in a boxers 
stance and he swings and connects with COLOSSUS head.  The 
CROWD nearly gasps as we have never before seen COLOSSUS 
actually take a shot.  CHARLIE screams commands.

             CHARLIE
      LEFT! RIGHT LEFT!! ONE TWO! ONE TWO!!

ATOM obeys and lands SUCCESSIVE shots.  For the first time 
COLOSSUS is forced to back off and regroup.

MAX excitedly shadow boxes next to CHARLIE from just outside 
the ring.  

             BOXING ANALYST #1 
      I CANT BELIEVE WHAT IM SEEING!  
      ATOM IS ACTUALLY HITTING COLOSSUS AND 
      ITS CAUSING DAMAGE!

             BOXING ANALYST #2 
      Oh we have a fight!  For the first 
      time in his dominant run Colossus has 
      met a bot that wont back down!

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- ROUND 4

A BEAUTIFUL RING GIRL CARRIES THE CARD-- ROUND 4.


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- ROUND 4 -- LATER

ROUND 4 -- more fight images

The BOTS exchange blows, both weary, both throwing everything 
theyve got.  ATOM takes a huge uppercut and goes down hard.  

             CHARLIE
      ROLL RIGHT ATOM!!  GET UP!

But our BOT may have reached his limit as he fails to 
respond.  ATOMs face has landed mere feet from his corner. 
His eye-lights dimming fast.  CHARLIE gets as close to ATOM 
as he can as the REF starts his count, ONE!  TWO!..

             CHARLIE
      Listen to me!  I know youre...LISTEN 
      TO ME!  I KNOW YOURE IN THERE!  AND 
      I NEED YOU TO GET UP!

CHARLIE notices MAX smiling at him, because now its CHARLIE 
talking to a machine...The REF continues, FOUR!  FIVE!

             CHARLIE
        (to Max)
      I KNOW!  SHUT UP!
        (back to ATOM)
      STAND UP ATOM!  JUST STAND UP!

ATOM plants a steel fist on to the canvas, then the other, 
willing himself up to his knees and then to his feet.  The 
CROWD cant help but begin to respect the old BOT who is 
giving COLOSSUS way more than he can handle.

             BOXING ANALYST #1 
      THIS MAY BE THE GREATEST MOMENT IN 
      THE HISTORY OF ROBOT BOXING!

             BOXING ANALYST #2 
      AN OLD G2 NAMED ATOM IS THREATENING 
      TO GO THE DISTANCE WITH COLOSSUS!

CHARLIE CHASES THE ACTION IN THE RING WHILE SCREAMING 

             CHARLIE
      HANDS UP!  HANDS UP!

ATOM has stopped moving and cocks his head as if trying to 
hear the commands.  CHARLIE repeats the screams to no avail.

CHARLIE checks the connections on his headset and yells 
again.

             CHARLIE
      RIGHT JAB!  RIGHT JAB!

Again ATOM freezes waiting for the instructions.  COLOSSUS 
seizes the opportunity created by the communication breakdown 
and levels two mighty blows that spin ATOM in to the corner.

CHARLIE shoots MAX a look of panic...

             CHARLIE
      HE CANT HEAR ME!  THE VOICE RECOG IS 
      SHOT!

Mercifully the bell rings sounding the end of ROUND 4.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER -- NIGHT

MAX and CHARLIE surround ATOM.  The brutality of the fight is 
evident in the dents and cracks in his shields and panels.  
Smoke rises from his overheated joints.

             CHARLIE
      Were done Max!  He cant hear me.  
      Its murder.  Weve had enough.  

             MAX
      Im disabling the voice recognition.

             CHARLIE
      SO WHAT!  HE CANT HEAR ME!

             MAX
      BUT HE CAN SEE YOU!

CHARLIE and MAX lock eyes...

             MAX
      Win or lose, fight aint over till 
      someones on the mat.

CHARLIE cant believe his own words...

             CHARLIE
      No way, kid.

             MAX
      Im putting him in shadow mode.  Show 
      him what to do.  Without the voice 
      recognition hell move faster than 
      Colossus.

             CHARLIE
      NO WAY!

             MAX
      LOOK AT THEM!  THEYRE SCARED!
        (points to Tak and Farra)
      You know why?  Because Atom can do 
      things that no bot has ever done! 

             CHARLIE
      I CANT DO IT!

             MAX
      You have to show him what to do!  YOU 
      HAVE TO FIGHT THE LAST ROUND CHARLIE!  
        (this is hard)
      Ive never asked you for anything!

CHARLIE has no response to the emotional truth that just flew 
at him from his son.  CHARLIE hands MAX the useless headset 
and takes off his jacket and strips down to his tee shirt.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- ROUND 5

ROUND 5 -- The BELL RINGS -- COLOSSUS and ATOM meet in the 
center of the ring and the two tiring and beaten BOTS just 
start exchanging blows.  Its amazing how human their frailty 
has become.

CHARLIE now stays in ATOMs eye line as he begins to move 
like a boxer on the perimeter of the ring.  CHARLIE flurries 
a combination that ATOM mimics and peppers COLOSSUS with.

COLOSSUS is stunned and the crowd reacts with cheers...

BAILEY IS ON HER FEET CHEERING

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ESPN ANNOUNCERS BOOTH


             BOXING ANALYST #1
      Are you seeing this?  Atoms handler, 
      former tomato can Charlie Kenton is 
      now shadow boxing just outside the 
      ring...have I lost my mind or is this 
      really happening?

             BOXING ANALYST #2
      Oh, its happening Jim.  Apparently 
      Atom has a shadow function so 
      basically...Charlie Kenton is 
      fighting the last round of this fight 
      against Colossus! 

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- NIGHT

CHARLIE releases a blinding flurry of punches which ATOM 
mirrors.

COLOSSUS reels from the quick barrage.

Suddenly a CHANT starts to rise...ATOM! ATOM! ATOM!!!

MAX turns to the CROWD and starts conducting the chant...

             MAX
      ATOM! ATOM! ATOM!

             BAILEY
      ATOM!  ATOM!

COLOSSUS bull rushes Atom backwards, pinning against the 
ropes on the far side of the ring across from Charlie.  
Colossus hits ATOM again and again as ATOM looks straight at 
CHARLIE over COLOSSUSs shoulder.

In the corner, CHARLIE keeps his hands up defensively but 
doesnt throw a punch.  

             MAX
      WHAT ARE YOU DOING?  HELP HIM!  FIGHT 
      BACK!

             CHARLIE
      NOT YET!

Again and again COLOSSUS pounds the non-offensive ATOM.

             BOXING ANALYST #2
      What is keeping Atom up?!

FARRA and TAK smirk.  The end is near.  CHARLIE maintains his 
defensive stance.

COLOSSUS continues his piston-like pummeling of ATOM but with  
noticeably decreasing speed and power.

             BOXING ANALYST #1
      Am I seeing this Bob?  Colossus is 
      slowing down!  The champ is running 
      outta steam!  Charlie Kenton is 
      letting the champ punch himself out!

Goddamn right he is.

             CHARLIE
      NOW!  

CHARLIE releases a lightning quick combo putting ATOM on the 
attack.  Faster and faster, CHARLIE channels his human speed 
and grace, backing COLOSSUS up with punch after punch.


INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER

Maxs eyes are glued to ATOM, who pummels the Champ with a 
speed and fluidity never seen in this era of Robot Boxing.  

And then it happens:

Time and sound seem to recede as we PUSH IN on MAX.  His eyes 
shift away from his Robot to CHARLIE, who shadow boxes with 
his robot along the outer skirt of the ring.

And for a time, if only for a moment, there is nothing else 
except this beaten, worn Boxer, seen finally through the eyes 
of his son.  And in Maxs eyes we see Charlie return to 
grace.  And Bailey was right; its beautiful.

Time and sound re-engage as BOOM! ATOM smothers COLOSSUS with 
punches.  COLOSSUS is reeling...

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- COLOSSUS CORNER

FARRA stands and screams at TAK..

             FARRA
      DO SOMETHING!!!

TAK rips off his jacket and shoves the GEEKS aside.

             TAK MASHIDO
      OVERRIDE!  SWITCH HIM TO MANUAL!  IM 
      GOING MANUAL!

TAK grabs the joystick on the Fight Deck and takes over 
COLOSSUS who was supposedly prepared for anything.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING


COLOSSUS side steps a right and shoves ATOM against the ropes 
effectively denying his sight line to CHARLIE.

TAK uses the joystick to throw an huge overhanded left but 
his bot is so depleted that the weight of his own fist 
carries him forward allowing ATOM to spin COLOSSUS back 
against the ropes.

CHARLIE makes one last push to put COLOSSUS down.  CHARLIE 
delivers three lefts and a huge right cross...

What happens next happens fast:

ATOM lands a lightning-fast right, then unleashes a monster 
uppercut that connects squarely underneath COLOSSUS chin.  

ATOM swings again but COLOSSUS is not there.  Hes collapsing 
to the floor.  Knocked down.

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- ATOMS CORNER  


MAX goes crazy as he looks at a winded but focused CHARLIE.

             BOXING ANALYST #1
      COLOSSUS IS DOWN!  THE MIGHTY 
      COLOSSUS IS DOWN!  HES DOWN!

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- FIGHT NIGHT

The REF counts over COLOSSUS....

             REF 
      4, 5, 6,...

COLOSSUS stirs and gets to his knees and slowly places one 
foot firmly on the ground.  Then the next.  He is standing 
but barely.  The CROWD is going wild as they know they are 
seeing something no one was ever meant to see.

The REF checks COLOSSUS and the round continues.  

CHARLIE is exhausted but summons everything he has and goes 
at COLOSSUS with all thats left.  Sweat flies off of him as 
he pounds away at the air with uncontrolled fury.

COLOSSUS stumbles towards ATOM and grabs one of ATOMs arms 
and tries to hang on.

             BOXING ANALYST #1
      COLOSSUS IS DEAD ON HIS FEET!  TRYING 
      DESPERATELY TO HANG ON AS ATOM 
      CONTINUES TO LAND PUNCHES WITH HIS 
      RIGHT HAND!  TIME IS WINDING DOWN!  
      CAN THE MIGHTY CHAMP HANG ON?!

ATOM is landing powerful right hands at will as COLOSSUS 
leans on ATOM for the last seconds of the round.

             BOXING ANALYST #2
      I CANT BELIEVE THIS JIM, BUT 
      COLOSSUS IS FIGHTING THE CLOCK AS HE 
      CLEARLY LOOKS LIKE HES GOING DOWN 
      AGAIN.  THE CHAMP IS ABOUT TO GO 
      DOWN!

ATOM pummels COLOSSUS at will, every punch threatening to be 
the last as the bell RINGS!  FIGHT OVER!  The CROWD explodes 
and the ring fills with COLOSSUS handlers and fight 
officials. 

MAX and CHARLIE immediately run to ATOM and help him in to 
the corner and on to the block so he can rest.  

INT.  ESPN ANNOUNCERS BOOTH -- SAME TIME


The ANALYSTS are sweating and bewildered...

             BOXING ANALYST #1 
      The crowd stays on their feet as they 
      have to go to the judges cards.  
      Nothing short of amazing here 
      tonight! 

INT.  MADISON SQUARE GARDEN -- RING -- FIGHT NIGHT


The RING is full of HANDLERS and PRESS as the ANNOUNCER grabs 
the mic to announce the results.

             ANNOUNCER
      After 5 rounds we go to the score 
      cards.  Judge one scores the fight 47-
      48, judge two scores the fight 48-46 
      and judge three scores the fight 47-
      46 for the winner and...still World 
      Robot Boxing Champion.....COLOSSUS!!!

The CROWD is decidedly mixed in their reaction as FARRA 
accepts the title belt and holds it up for the world to see.  
She puts her arm around TAK for a photo op but he storms off, 
disgusted, knowing his perfect creation barely survived.

             ESPN REPORTER
      FARRA LEMKOVA!  YOU GOT WAY MORE THAN 
      YOU BARGAINED FOR!  SOME WOULD SAY 
      THAT YOUR BOT WON THE DECISION BUT 
      LOST THE FIGHT!   

             FARRA
      It took a little longer that we 
      thought, but the result was as 
      expected.  We won, Colossus is still 
      undefeated.

FARRA smiles and walks away as the TV crew spots MAX.

             ESPN REPORTER
      Max, should your bot be wearing that 
      belt?   What do you say to that?


FLASHES fly as the reporters swarm the boy.  MAX starts to 
smile, he cant help himself, hes his fathers son...

             MAX
      I want a rematch.

The CROWD cheers the boys confidence.  MAX is feeling 
overwhelmed as the media bears down on him...

             MAX
      Dad?!  Wheres my dad?

CHARLIE and ATOM fight their way through the throng.  They 
finally get to MAX.

CHARLIE puts his arms on MAXs shoulders and looks him in the 
eye, full of love but grasping for the words he cant say...

             CHARLIE
      Look, I want you to know, I need you 
      to know that...I...

CHARLIE cant say the words.  He never has.  MAX looks at him 
and smiles...

             MAX
      Dont worry, your secrets safe with 
      me. 

With that, CHARLIE scoops MAX up and puts him on his 
shoulders as the CROWD explodes, chanting ATOMs name.

MAX extends his arms overhead and ATOM mirrors the pose, 
lifting his arms to the sky.

Up on his fathers shoulders, MAX is on top of the world.  
Now as tall as the robot who saved his life, Max grabs Atoms 
hand.  The three stand there. Together. Proud. Victorious.

We PULL AWAY as pandemonium surrounds these three salvaged 
figures, returned to life, basking in their moment. 

Having won nothing.  Having gained everything.

FADE OUT

              

