              REMINISCENCE

               Written by

               Lisa Joy

September 18, 2013

EXT. DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN - DAWN - NEAR FUTURE

Though the sun is yet to rise - the city is bathed in a dull 
glow emanating from bright ads projected onto the night sky. 
Under this technicolor canopy...

NICK BANNISTER (40s), pulls his cap down to cut the glare. He 
walks with a slight LIMP - the remnant of an old injury. 

Around him, commuters rush to work and automated cars flit by 
in fluid streams. Only Bannister seems unhurried. Out of pace 
with the rest of the world.

             BANNISTER 
      It’s bad for business, but it’s 
      true... There are certain moments 
      that never leave you... 

Bannister heads for the one building in all of Manhattan that 
isn’t covered in LED ads. At the foot of the stairs...

He spots a split GOLD SHELL (the size of a grape) on the 
ground. He studies it, a flicker of irritation. 

             BANNISTER 
      They tug at you like the slow refrain 
      of a song you heard long ago...

Bannister kicks the shell into the gutter. Climbs the stairs 
to a door over which hangs a wood shingle. Its peeling paint 
announces: “BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES.” 

             BANNISTER 
      They remain always as real to a man 
      as the minute they happened...

Bannister unlocks the door and enters.

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - HALL - CONTINUOUS

Bannister flips a sign in the door to “Open.” Calls out:

             BANNISTER
      Wake up, Sparky! 

He hangs his coat on a rack. Rounds a corner into:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

A modest lobby with peeling walls. SPARKY (60s, heart of 
gold, liver of bourbon) talks with a woman in a cape, with a 
hood pulled over her head. They look up as Bannister enters. 

             BANNISTER 
      ... Like the moment I met her.

The hood falls from the woman’s temple. Reveals a shock of 
red waves. The kind of face you never forget. This is MAE. 

Sparky smiles at Bannister, clocking his expression:

             SPARKY
      We got a walk-in needs a nudge.

The woman offers a pale hand. Her black nail polish has the 
fresh sheen of tarmac in the rain. But the thumbnail polish 
is already chipped. 

             WOMAN
      I’m Mae.

             BANNISTER
        (shakes her hand)
      What can I do for you?

             MAE
      I’m locked out. Find my keys? 

             BANNISTER
      Sounds like a job for a locksmith. 

             MAE
      Sparky says you’re faster... and 
      cheaper.

Bannister shoots Sparky a look. He shrugs:

             SPARKY
      Pretty girl’s been out all night. 
      Give her a little nudge so she can 
      go home for some shut-eye. 

Reluctant, Bannister caves. Waves her into a back room.

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

A dingy office with the usual amenities: desk, cabinets, 
chairs. And one unusual addition: a COFFIN-SIZED TANK filled 
with a dark liquid in the center of the room. 

Mae glances out the window at the “Bannister & Associates” 
sign. 

             MAE
      False advertising, isn’t it? You 
      only got one associate. 

             BANNISTER
      Sparky and I run a tight ship. But 
      we get by. 

             MAE
      They say you’re the best 
      archaeologist in town.

             BANNISTER
      They say I’m the cheapest. But I’ve 
      never burned a client. And I’m 
      discreet. Not like the pods.

             MAE
      Seems they’re hacked every other day.

             BANNISTER
      Their clients don’t care. Most are 
      Mobius - stuck in loops they won’t 
      ever leave.

             MAE
      You don’t do that?

             BANNISTER
      I prefer my clientele with one foot 
      in the living. But the living have 
      secrets. So I keep my records hard 
      copy. 

He knocks on an INDUSTRIAL FILING CABINET lining the wall. 

             BANNISTER 
      Sparky watches over it. 

             MAE
      Day and night, looks like.

Mae looks out a venetian-blinded window to the lobby. Sparky 
folds up his MURPHY BED. Bannister snaps the blinds shut.

             MAE 
      You think you can find my keys?

             BANNISTER
      Depends. They lost or forgotten? 
      Forgotten things can always be 
      fished up and dusted off. But the 
      lost? Those things people never 
      took much notice of till they were 
      gone. They’re defined by their 
      absence. Can’t remember something 
      that never made an impression. 

             MAE
      Let’s say the keys are “misplaced.” 

             BANNISTER
      It’s your money. Robe’s behind the 
      door. I’ll slip out while you-

He glances up. Mae’s dress is a puddle of silk on the floor. 
She steps out of it. Naked. Kicks off her shoes. 

             MAE
      You’re going to see it all anyway, 
      aren’t you?

She climbs into the tank’s dark water. Bannister’s unruffled:

             BANNISTER
      Sparky! Kit!

Bannister turns to wash his hands and prepare a syringe while -

Sparky enters with THE KIT: a suitcase, which opens like an 
old-fashioned portable record player, but inside is a 
computer screen, a wired helmet, a respirator, and a lot of 
dials, switches, and wires.

Sparky places the WIRED HELMET on Mae’s head. Rigs it to some 
wires on the computer.

Bannister glances over. Clocks that Mae’s still wearing a 
pair of JADE EARRINGS. He barks, gruff:

             BANNISTER 
      Earrings off.

Mae unclips them. Hands them to Sparky who rests them on 
Bannister’s desk. She eyes Bannister, uneasy:

             MAE
      Your boss has quite the bedside 
      manner. He’s not going to fry my 
      brain, is he?

             SPARKY
      Don’t worry. Nick never goes over 
      twenty-five volts. Always gets you 
      in the moment. 

             MAE
      How does he know which moment?

             SPARKY
      Same way a bartender knows your 
      drink or a psychic knows your sign. 

             SPARKY 
      Archaeology’s about reading people - 
      then giving them the right prompts 
      to fill in the details. Ain’t no 
      better prompter than Bannister. 
      He’ll get you right back to your 
      memory. The sounds, the sights, the 
      smells - everything just as you 
      experienced it the first time.

Bannister approaches with a SYRINGE.

             BANNISTER
      Thiopental. Relaxes the neural 
      pathways, for the prompts. 

He injects the liquid into her neck. 

             SPARKY
      Now settle in. And relax. It always 
      works out fine.

             MAE
      Don’t say “always.” “Always” makes 
      promises it can’t keep.

Mae loses consciousness. Sparky slips a respirator over her 
mouth. Lowers her into the tank until she’s submerged in its 
dark water. He checks her biometrics off the kit’s computer.

             SPARKY
      Vitals are good. 

He pulls up a digital map of the brain’s neurological paths.

             SPARKY 
      Ready for the lull.

Bannister talks into a mic feeding to Mae’s headset. His voice 
is soothing, sweet - all his tenderness, saved for the tank.

             BANNISTER
      You’re going on a journey. Your 
      destination? A place and time only 
      you know. 
        (then)
      Imagine your mind like a long hall 
      with a series of doors...

A small LED in the kit projects Mae’s memory onto a SCREEN.

ON SCREEN: We find ourselves in a long hall, with doors 
stretching far as the eye can see. As we float down the hall:

             BANNISTER
      ... Behind each door is a memory. 
      We can close the door and walk 
      farther down the hall... make new 
      memories. But the events behind 
      each door remain as real and alive 
      as the moment they happened. 

ON KIT COMPUTER: A neural map of Mae's brain sees a surge of 
light in synaptic junctures. Sparky adjusts some knobs.

             SPARKY
      Ready for the prompt.

             BANNISTER
      You are about to open a door... A 
      door you have only recently left...

ON SCREEN: Mae’s hand reaches for a door. Twists the knob.

             BANNISTER
      The door leads to last night. 
      You’re getting ready to go out...

The door swings open and we are in...

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

(NOTE: ALL REMINISCENCES SHOULD EVOKE THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE 
PERSON IN THE TANK). In a rush, Mae moves through a cluttered 
studio apartment with a kitchenette, a claw-foot tub, a bed, 
and not much else. 

Mae utters a mix of strange voweled arpeggios and glottal 
groans as she tromps through the apartment. 

IN BANNISTER’S OFFICE: Bannister and Sparky share a look - 
confused by the odd noises she’s making.

BACK TO SCREEN: Mae’s POV shakes - up and down as if one leg 
is higher than the other. Then we see why...

Mae peers under the bed. Finds a STRAY STILETTO next to a 
lipstick, a mug, a stray stocking, a small vibrator. She puts 
on the heel. Her gait steadies as she clips out the door...

INT. MAE’S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALL - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

Mae closes the door as a neighbor with a PIT BULL passes by. 

             BANNISTER
      Do you lock up?

Mae takes out her keys as the pit bull barks. Startled, she 
drops her keys. Retrieving them, she scratches her thumbnail - 
resulting in the nail polish chip Bannister noticed earlier. 

             BANNISTER 
        (to Sparky)
      You check the purse?

             SPARKY
      Nada.

Bannister turns back to the screen. Prompts Mae:

             BANNISTER
      When did you next open your purse?

INT. COCONUT CLUB - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae sits at a makeup mirror next to CINDY, a trashy blonde 
with a smoker’s mouth. She complains as she brushes her hair:

             CINDY
      Last night, I only made fifty. 
      Barely enough for a bao.

Mae fumbles through her makeup console, looking for something.

             MAE
      You seen my earrings? 

             CINDY
      Which ones?

             MAE
      My lucky ones. The jade. 

The bouncer, HARRY (30s), built like a shithouse, enters:

             HARRY
      You’re up next, Mae.

She empties her purse on the table, rifles through the 
contents for the earrings. OFF SCREEN, Sparky clocks the keys:

             SPARKY 
      We got the keys again.

Mae finds the earrings. Beelines for a bathroom:

             HARRY
      Hurry. You’re in three.

INT. COCONUT CLUB - BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS (REMINISCENCE)

Mae locks the door to a dingy bathroom. Lowers the toilet 
seat. Sits. Then... her face crumples. 

She begins to cry.

IN BANNISTER’S OFFICE: Sparky shoots Bannister a look.

             SPARKY
      The hell?

Bannister’s silent - disarmed by this private vulnerability. 

IN THE BATHROOM: Mae’s crying is interrupted by a knock:

             HARRY 
      Thirty seconds, Mae!

             MAE
        (stifling her tears)
      Just a second!

She quickly powders her nose, hiding the redness. Then 
consults the mirror, giving her reflection a pep talk:

             MAE 
      You can do this. 

With effort, she smiles, hiding her sadness. Then heads to: 

INT. COCONUT CLUB - STAGE - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae slowly walks onto a stage. Steps into the bright 
spotlight of a small supper club. She approaches a mic. 

             SPARKY 
      Prompt her again. See if she comes 
      back for the keys.

             BANNISTER 
      In a sec.

Mae faces an audience of shadowed men. Ignores a catcall. A 
PIANIST begins to play. She begins to sing:

             MAE
      When I grow too old to dream / I’ll 
      have you to remember / When I grow 
      too old to dream / Your love will 
      live in my heart...

Her voice haunts. Far too beautiful for the dive she’s in. 
She’s an angel in a beer-stained bar.

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE

Bannister watches Mae sing, transported. He’s never seen or 
heard anything like this. Sparky reminds:

             SPARKY
      She’s not payin’ for a full 
      reminiscence.

             BANNISTER
      I said, just a sec.

             MAE (ON SCREEN)
      So kiss me, my sweet / and so let us 
      part / and when I grow too old to 
      dream / Your love will live in my 
      heart / Your love will live in my-

Sparky checks his watch. Urges Bannister:

             SPARKY
      We’ve got a ten o’clock.

Bannister snaps out of it. Refocuses.

             BANNISTER
      After the song... you go backstage.

INT. COCONUT CLUB - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae removes her makeup at the mirror. Cindy smokes next to 
her. Swigs from a flask of whiskey. Offers it to Mae:

             CINDY
      Daycap?

             MAE
      Not today. Gotta run.

She sweeps her belongings back into her purse. We NOTE her 
KEYS - as their chain catches on her purse strap. 

Mae heads for the back exit. Morning light floods in as she 
turns and blows a kiss to Cindy.

             MAE 
      Sleep tight!

She steps out into the waking city. As she clips away, we 
hear a JINGLING THUD. 

             BANNISTER
      Hear that?

Bannister reaches for the KEYBOARD. REWINDS a couple seconds: 
Mae heads out the exit. Again, we hear a JINGLING THUD.

             BANNISTER 
      Sounds like keys to me.

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - DAY

Bannister and Sparky talk to Mae as she towel dries her hair.

             BANNISTER 
      I told her where she dropped her 
      keys. She barely seemed surprised. 

Mae nods, nonchalant. Pays Bannister some coin. 

             BANNISTER 
      Some people are careless. Things 
      show up as regularly in their lives 
      as they disappear...

Mae heads for the door. Nods goodbye at Bannister and Sparky.

             MAE
      See you around. 

She exits the room. Shuts the door behind her. 

             BANNISTER 
      ... They don’t hold on to anything 
      too tight.

A beat, then - Bannister glances down at his desk. Sees Mae’s 
forgotten her JADE EARRINGS. 

             BANNISTER 
      Expect others to pick up for them...

Sparky runs to catch Mae at the door. But she’s already gone. 

             BANNISTER 
      I had other messes to attend to.

Bannister shrugs: pockets the earrings. 

CUT TO:
INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE (MONTAGE)

A dour couple, both with post-tank wet hair, stare at the 
SCREEN: Replaying a memory of them arguing in their kitchen. 

             BANNISTER 
      Punch and Judy come to reminisce 
      about fights they had. Who said 
      what. How did it start. In the he-
      said, she-said of their marital 
      demise, I’m the court stenographer.

OFF the couple, now arguing about the on-screen scene in a 
fractal of discontent, CUT TO:

LATER: The ON-SCREEN reminisence of an adorable GOLDEN 
RETRIEVER running beside a TEENAGED BOY through a field. 

             BANNISTER 
      Most clients come to remember the 
      good times. Some have to look back 
      farther than others...

ANGLE ON a wheelchair by the tank; an ARMY shirt hung over it. 

             BANNISTER 
      After the war, Hank found civilian 
      life didn’t fit anymore. He took to 
      self-medicating: popping betel in 
      the underground with the other 
      broken toys. 

Bannister crosses to the tank - stares down at HANK (30s), a 
legless amputee, smiling as he relives better days.

             BANNISTER 
      Occasionally, I hook him up with a 
      different fix...

OFF Hank’s smile as he moves his phantom limbs...

             BANNISTER 
      But memories, even good ones, have 
      a voracious appetite. If you’re not 
      careful... they consume you...

LATER: BANNISTER helps BENNIE (80s), a frail widower, into 
his jacket as he dresses, post-reminisence. 

             BANNISTER 
      Since his wife died, the old-timer 
      comes every day... 

THE SCREEN is freeze-framed on Young Bennie cooking dinner 
with his then-young wife, clearly in love.

             BANNISTER 
      His past life’s more full than his 
      present... his only tie to this 
      world? Pinklepurr...

Sparky hands Bennie a pet case housing his pet SIAMESE CAT.

             BANNISTER 
      Still, he’s lived a full life... 

LATER: ROSA SANCHEZ (30s, pretty) floats in the tank.

ON SCREEN: Rosa kisses a HANDSOME OLDER LOVER (50s) beneath 
the ceiling fan of a cheap hotel room.

             BANNISTER 
      Miss Lonelyhearts has spent the 
      last three years hung up on some 
      old beau. Every week she gets back 
      the one that got away. I offered 
      her a hard copy of the projection 
      to rewatch anytime. She says it’s 
      not the same as being there. 
        (then)
      Who am I to judge?

LATER: Bannister drops a dated FLASH DRIVE labeled “ROSA 
SANCHEZ” in a filing cabinet. Slides the cabinet closed. 

             BANNISTER 
      I’m just a keeper of lost moments... 

Bannister locks the file with a KEY he pries from a loose 
plank of wood in the doorframe. Then double secures the 
cabinet by typing a CODE into an electronic lock. 

             BANNISTER 
      But those moments keep me too...

He exits the office. Passes Sparky - who’s pulling down the 
Murphy bed.

             SPARKY
      ‘Night, Nick.

             BANNISTER
      ‘Night, Sparky.

EXT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - NIGHT

The NIGHTLIGHTS rain their hail of colorful ads upon the 
city. (NOTE: One NightLight broadcasts breaking news, 
“Skyvert CEO Walter Sylvan Dead at 67.”)

In the streets, the rush hour cram of driverless cabs darts 
silently past. The only gas vehicles are the occasional 
RICKSHAWS - cheap diesel trikes selling food and tchotchkes. 

             BANNISTER 
      ... The usual things people want 
      lose their appeal.

Bannister passes a rickshaw where a young couple kisses 
lustily as they wait for a bao. He eyes them pityingly:

             BANNISTER 
      Happiness is just the first step to 
      loss. Someone always ends up in the 
      tank.

He passes a BETEL-STAND (a telephone booth-sized Plexiglas 
box). Inside, a BETEL-GIRL (20s), in a translucent plastic 
bikini, sells BETEL-CHEWS (hallucinogens arranged in colored 
pastel pills the size of gumballs). 

She lasciviously rolls a betel-chew over her lips, enticing. 

             BANNISTER 
      Still, there’s no siren song like a 
      regret in the making.

The girl swallows the chew, then spits out its shell and 
smiles invitingly at him. Exposes raw, bloody gums. The red 
gums morph into...

EXT. COCONUT CLUB - NIGHT

The RED NEON of the “Coconut” sign. Bannister pays the 
bouncer; descends the stairs as a distant song rises up:

             MAE 
      I'll be seeing you / In every 
      lovely summer’s day / In everything 
      that’s light and gay...

INT. COCONUT CLUB - LOUNGE - NIGHT

Mae sings at the mic. She’s more natural on a stage than in 
life. Her eyes closed, her body relaxed - she looks 
transported, almost innocent. Bannister watches, riveted:

             MAE
      I’ll find you in the morning sun / 
      And when the night is new / I’ll be 
      looking at the moon...

Bannister orders a drink. Pulls Mae’s earrings from his 
pocket. Watches the jade pendulum swing back and forth.

             BANNISTER 
      I told myself I was just returning 
      her earrings.

She blinks open her eyes. Smiles directly at Bannister - like 
she expected to see him there. 

        MAE
But I'll be seeing you...

BANNISTER 
She saw right through that.

OFF Bannister, swirling the ice cube in his glass...

TIME CUT: The ice has melted to a sliver. Bannister rests his 
glass in the coaster as a shadow falls over him. Mae. 

He slides the earrings to her.

             MAE
      You coulda called me to pick ‘em up.

             BANNISTER
      Thought I’d do you a favor.

             MAE
      You really wanna help, drink up. 
      The more you drink, the more I get 
      tipped. 

             BANNISTER
      Not my vice.

             MAE
      What is?

It’s an obvious come-on. She stares him down, challenging.

He considers a beat. Then changes the subject. Sincere:

             BANNISTER
      You have a beautiful voice.

For the first time, Mae looks taken aback. Vulnerable.

             MAE
      Four years working here - you’re 
      the first man ever complimented my 
      voice. 

TIME CUT TO: A bottle of nearly-drained bourbon later, Mae 
and Bannister lean over their drinks, talking flirtatiously:

             BANNISTER
      Why did you cry?
        (off her confusion)
      In your reminiscence. Before you 
      went on stage...

             MAE
        (flushes, embarrassed)
      Shit, I forgot you saw that.
        (then)
      Nerves. Happens before every gig. 
      When I step on that stage - they 
      don’t wanna see a woman in a thrift-
      store dress, wondering how she’ll 
      make rent. They want to see 
      something perfect. Untouchable. 
      They want to be lied to... 

             BANNISTER
      You don’t seem like you’re lying.

             MAE
      Then I guess it’s working.
        (then)
      Your turn. How’d you start in the 
      memory gig?

             BANNISTER
      After the war, the world got 
      sentimental. I cashed in.

             MAE
      How unsentimental of you. 
        (then, presses)
      So it had nothing to do with 
      helping your fellow troops? Sparky 
      told me you served. That where you 
      got your limp?

             BANNISTER
      Not everyone likes looking back. 

             MAE
      An archaeologist who doesn’t care 
      to reminisce?

             BANNISTER
      You don’t have to use your wares to 
      peddle them. 

Mae studies him carefully. Pieces something together:

             MAE
      You mean... you’ve never been in 
      the tank?

             BANNISTER
      Like you said. I’m not sentimental.

He sips his drink. Ends the conversation. Mae changes tack:

             MAE
      What about the ones who are? Bet 
      you see a lotta kinky sex stuff in 
      the reminiscences, don’t you?

He smiles a vague admission. She presses on:

             MAE 
      What else? 
        (off his guarded look)
      No names. Just stories... 

             BANNISTER
      I see a lot of crimes. Used to 
      freelance for the D.A. - recording 
      witness testimony. 

             MAE
      Bet that got ugly.

             BANNISTER
      So does the sex. 

             MAE
      What’s the weirdest reminiscence 
      you ever saw?

Bannister hesitates. Then takes a swig of his drink. Admits:

             BANNISTER
      There was a comedian. Good one, too. 
      Used to come once a week for a nudge 
      to his grade-school blacktop. A 
      group of kids beat him up real bad. 
      Tore his clothes. Pissed on him. 
      Laughed while he cried. And in the 
      middle of it, he has a ricochet - a 
      natural memory within a reminiscence 
      - and it’s... lovely.

             BANNISTER
        (then)
     He remembers his mother combing his 
     hair that morning. Fixing the 
     collar of his shirt. Kissing his 
     forehead as he leaves for school...

             MAE
     Then what?

             BANNISTER
     He snaps out of the ricochet. Back 
     to his ass-kicking.

             MAE
     That’s it? 

             BANNISTER
     That’s it.

Mae sits back, puzzled:

             MAE
     Why not just reminisce about his 
     mother? Why go through the pain of 
     remembering the bullies at school?

             BANNISTER
     I asked him once. Know what he said? 
        (off her look)
     “For the punch line.” 

             MAE
     For the punch line... I don’t get it.

             BANNISTER
     Me either.

They lock eyes. She smiles. Coaxes one out of him. CUT TO: 

INT. MAE'S LOFT - NIGHT

Mae leads Bannister into the loft he saw in her reminiscence.

             MAE
     Sorry it’s so messy.

             BANNISTER
     Nothing I haven’t seen before.

She smiles - that’s right. Kicks off her shoes.

             MAE
      You want some water? I got tap -
        (grabs a bottle of vodka)
      - and Russian.

             BANNISTER
      Tap’s fine.

She weaves to the sink. Drops some ice cubes in a glass. 
Fills it at the faucet. Bannister steps behind her. 

Mae turns. He leans in. Kisses her. She hesitates a moment. 
Then kisses back. First slowly. Then fiercely.

The ice in the glass tinkles as the water runs into it. Mae 
hoists herself onto the sink’s ledge. Hikes up her skirt. 
Pulls him to her. As they move together...

The cheap cabinets shake. The glass overflows with water. 
Runs into the sink, down a pile of dirty dishes. 

INT. MAE'S LOFT - MORNING

Light filters through the blinds. Bannister blinks awake in 
bed. Sees Mae cooking at her small stove.

             MAE
      Hope you’re hungry for dinner.

Bannister consults an alarm clock by the bed: it’s 6 a.m. Mae 
brings a plate to the bed: lamb chops. She explains:

             MAE 
      With my hours, everything’s 
      backwards.

She offers him a WINE GLASS with hot coffee inside.

             MAE 
      Coffee. I lost my mug.

             BANNISTER
      Under the bed, by a lipstick, a 
      stocking, and your...
        (delicately euphemistic)
      Neck massager... 

             MAE
      You’ve been snooping in my- 

             BANNISTER
      Saw it in your projection. 

Mae searches under the bed. It’s exactly as he said.

             MAE
      How come I didn’t remember the mug?

             BANNISTER
      When people reminisce, they tend to 
      notice the same things they were 
      focused on in the moment. The 
      things that were on the periphery 
      stay on the periphery. Hiding in 
      plain sight.

             MAE
      So without you watching, my keys 
      would have been lost forever?

             BANNISTER
      In rare cases, people repeat the 
      same reminiscence so many times - 
      they notice new things. But it 
      takes practice. You could end up 
      practically Mobius. 

             MAE
      That why you never go in the tank? 
      Afraid of going Mobius?

Bannister kisses her neck. Inhales deeply.

             BANNISTER
      Memory’s like perfume. Better in 
      small doses. 

She traces her finger down a scar on his stomach. The 
remnants of a nasty war injury. 

             MAE
      Maybe you haven’t made the right 
      memories. 

Bannister takes her hand. Flips her on to her back. He kisses 
her neck. Closes his eyes. Slips inside her. Then, a voice:

             SPARKY 
      Fuck. You wanna have to disinfect 
      the tank again?

Suddenly, Bannister is wrenched from Mae. He FLOATS up, away 
from the bed while Mae continues to moan and writhe, oblivious. 

As he reaches for her, in vain... 

SMASH TO:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - NIGHT

Bannister gasps as Sparky yanks him, soaking, from the tank. 
EVERYTHING WE’VE PREVIOUSLY SEEN HAS BEEN HIS REMINISCENCE.

             BANNISTER
      Put me back! 

             SPARKY 
      She’s gone, pal! Let her go... 

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - NIGHT

His hair still wet, Bannister sits on Sparky’s bed. Sparky 
swigs a bottle of whiskey; studies his friend, concerned. 

             SPARKY
      Two months, you’ve been playing 
      your own archaeologist. This has to 
      stop or you’ll end up a burner... I 
      can’t keep turning a blind eye.

             BANNISTER
      I’m the boss. Not you. And I’ve 
      turned a blind eye to plenty.

Bannister stares, significant, at the bottle of whiskey. 

             SPARKY
      Difference is - I know the answer 
      to my problems ain’t at the bottom 
      of a bottle. But you’re searching 
      for something in that tank you 
      won’t ever find. 

             BANNISTER
      People don’t pack up and disappear 
      after a year. Not without word...

             SPARKY
        (sighs, covers old ground)
      She settled up with her landlord. 
      Emptied her apartment. Told the 
      club not to book her any gigs...

             BANNISTER
      She would have told me.

Sparky nods toward a BLUE VASE in Bannister’s office, with 
some rotted flowers.

             SPARKY
      What about the flowers? Leaving 
      them the day she vanishes? Maybe it 
      was her way of saying goodbye. 

             BANNISTER
      Maybe she wanted to brighten the 
      room. I don’t know. I wasn’t there. 

             SPARKY
      She dropped off the flowers. 
      Chitchatted. Left. And never came 
      back.

             BANNISTER
      But why?

             SPARKY
      Why does it matter? She’s moved on. 
      You should too. 
        (then, inspired)
      Hey... what if I call you a girl? A 
      real beaut. Red hair. And not on 
      betel-nut. Got a great smile...

             BANNISTER
      I don’t want a whore!

             SPARKY 
      Then how ‘bout a dose of reality? 
      It wasn’t all rainbows and unicorns 
      between you two. She was trouble. 
      Things got bad. Maybe you should 
      reminisce about that next time you 
      go for a dunk.

Sparky leaves, slamming the door. Alone, Bannister thinks:

             BANNISTER 
      Sparky doesn’t understand. I don’t 
      need a reminder of the bad times...

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - 4 MONTHS AGO (FLASHBACK)

(NOTE: “Flashbacks” are natural memories. Unlike the crisp 
tank-induced reminiscences which are exact recreations of the 
past - FLASHBACKS are hazier, organic memories.)

Bannister puts a memory card in the files of his cabinet. 
Locks up as someone sneaks up on him. 

             BANNISTER 
      Good memories are elusive... 

He turns to find Mae. She smiles. Holds up a bento box. 

             MAE
      Surprise. I brought “dinner.”

Inside is a breakfast of eggs, bacon, pancakes. Bannister 
sweeps her in his arms. As they kiss...

             BANNISTER 
      They’re watercolors, washing away 
      before they set...

The image of Mae begins to dissolve and we find ourselves...

EXT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - NIGHT 

Bannister locks up for the night. 

             BANNISTER 
      But bad memories? They stain deep.

He descends the steps. Is surprised to find someone waiting 
in the shadows at the foot of the stairs. 

             BANNISTER 
      They’re always just a ricochet 
      away... 

The shadowy figure looks up. It’s MAE - her red hair barely 
visible from beneath the hood of her coat. 

             BANNISTER
      Where have you been?

             MAE
      I’m sorry... I...

Her voice cracks, emotional. He rushes to her. Grabs her in 
his arms. Holds her tight a beat. 

Then pulls back. Spots a mean BRUISE on her cheek. 

             BANNISTER
      What the hell happened to you?

             MAE
      It was just an accident.

Bannister studies the bruise. Sees knots of blue.

             BANNISTER
      This accident had knuckles.

             MAE
      It was just a dumb drunk from work.

             BANNISTER
      At work? Where the hell was security?

She hesitates a little too long. Bannister sees through it:

             BANNISTER 
      You’re lying. 
        (then, insistent)
      Who were you with?

             MAE
      Someone from work.

             BANNISTER
      So if I went to the club right now-

             MAE
      Not the Coconut Club. I ran into a 
      boss from an old job up north. Guess 
      he didn’t like the way I quit.

             BANNISTER
      Who the hell’s this old boss?
        (off her look)
      What are you hiding?

Mae hesitates a beat. Realizes all she has left is the truth.

             MAE
      Before I knew you; years before I 
      even came to New York. I hit hard 
      times. I was skint. I needed work. 
      Any work... It was a lifetime ago. 

Her gaze travels, significant, to a betel-girl in her stand. 
In disbelief, Bannister scoffs:

             BANNISTER
      You were a betel-chew whore?

             MAE
      I wasn’t a whore.

             BANNISTER
      ‘Only girls who do that are whores 
      or junkies.

Mae blanches. Without knowing - he’s hit the truth.

             MAE
      I started off on pinks. Made it 
      feel like summer in my head. Pretty 
      soon I worked my way from pastels 
      to primaries. Then the hard stuff.

             BANNISTER
      Metallics.

             MAE
      An expensive habit, but I worked 
      the high-end clubs. Got myself a 
      dealer discount.

             BANNISTER
      Who was your boss?

             MAE
      We all have things we don’t want to 
      look back on.

Bannister studies her. Still doesn’t quite believe her:

             BANNISTER
      I would have seen it...

             MAE
      Maybe you only saw what you wanted 
      to see.

She hooks her fingers into her mouth. Snaps a DENTAL BRIDGE 
from her front teeth. Exposes raw, BLOODY GUMS - the telltale 
sign of an junkie. Bannister backs away, repulsed:

             BANNISTER
      All this time, you lied.

Ashamed, Mae puts her bridge back in. Shakes her head:

             MAE
      I’m not that girl anymore. I 
      bottomed out... sobered up. It took 
      years. Then, I came here. Got a 
      real singing gig. Met you. Things 
      were going so good... I figured 
      maybe I deserved a clean slate. 
      Shoulda known. I’m always on the 
      wrong side of “maybe.” 

She starts to walk away. Bannister watches her go. 
Conflicted. Angry. Betrayed, but also... in love.

             BANNISTER
      Wait... 


She turns. The SWOOP of her cloak takes us back to...

THE PRESENT: Bannister’s still on the stoop outside his 
office, his key in the door. Mae was just a memory. He locks 
up. Walks into the night, alone. 

EXT. COURTHOUSE - NEXT DAY

A bright new morning. A sea of lawyers in sharp suits and 
stiff WHITE WIGS (like those worn by UK lawyers and judges) 
bustle up and down the court’s marble steps. Among them is...

A lithe, starch-wigged lawyer in a pantsuit sharp as a 
switchblade. This is AVERY (40s). She checks her watch. Looks 
around for someone. Doesn’t find them. Beelines for a cab. 

INT. CAB - DAY

Avery slides into the seat in the driverless vehicle. 
Immediately, the interface asks: 

             INTERFACE
      What is your destination, please?

Before Avery can respond, the opposite cab door opens. In 
slides Bannister. Avery smiles at him. Responds to the cab:

             AVERY
      79th and Amsterdam.

             INTERFACE
      Please buckle up. It’s the law.

Both Avery and Bannister oblige. The car begins to move.

             AVERY
      Thanks for meeting me.

Avery pulls off the white wig. Reveals spiky black hair with 
pink tips. A young neo-punk under the stodgy work getup.

             BANNISTER
      Sparky said you have a deposition? 

She studies Bannister, deciding whether to trust him:

             AVERY
      I hear you’ve been hitting the tank. 
      Something about a missing girl?

             BANNISTER
      Sparky should keep his mouth shut.

             AVERY
      I need you on your game. Attorney 
      General’s been working this case 
      for years. 

             BANNISTER
      If you don’t trust me, go to a pod. 

             AVERY
      Hackers would leak this testimony 
      in nanosecs. 

Bannister smiles, confident.

             BANNISTER
      Then it seems you have no choice. 
        (presses again)
      Who’s the witness?

             AVERY
      Enforcer for a syndicate turning 
      state’s. He worked for Big Joe up 
      north in Boston. Now he’s 
      spearheading New York expansion. So 
      you know there’s a lotta dirt in 
      that skull of his. I need 
      everything he witnessed or did: the 
      hits, racketeering, bribery, 
      prostitution, drugs...

             BANNISTER
      You know I don’t like these jobs. 

             AVERY
      Can you afford to say no? 

             BANNISTER
      Can you afford it if I do?

Avery smiles. He’s got her. She presses a folded piece of 
paper into his palm.

             AVERY
      Our proposed fee. Along with 
      safehouse time and directions. 

             BANNISTER
      I’ll think about it.

The cab pulls to a stop and scans Avery’s money card.

             INTERFACE
      Thank you for your payment. We hope 
      you enjoyed your ride.

The doors automatically unlock. Avery turns to Bannister.

             AVERY
      Can I spot your ride home?

             BANNISTER
      I’ll walk. 

             AVERY
      How analog of you. Lemme know if 
      you want the gig.

She exits the car. Then leans back in.

             BANNISTER
      And, Nick? Stay outta the tank. 
      Whoever this girl is, you’re better 
      off without. Trust me, I haven’t 
      fucked anything without ‘trodes 
      since the war. Once you go bot. You 
      never go back.

She slams the door and walks away. Bannister pockets the 
paper she gave him.

             BANNISTER  
      I should get dry. But even without 
      the tank, the memories come...

Bannister turns to the side: sees his past self and Mae 
making frantic love in the backseat of the car. 

             BANNISTER  
      Daydreams that edge their way into 
      the present...

Bannister steps out of the car, leaving the phantasmagoric 
lovers to it. Walks out to:

EXT. STREET - DAY

             BANNISTER 
      Fraying its edges. Staining its 
      colors...

He stops at a corner for a red light. 

             BANNISTER 
      I see her walk on every street...

FLASHBACK TO: The same street. He walks arm in arm with Mae. 
Instead of waiting for the light, she jaywalks into traffic. 

Bannister’s terrified for her, but the cabs swerve harmlessly 
around her in automatic collision-avoidance mode. Mae laughs, 
reckless, as she beckons for him to join her.

BACK TO PRESENT: Bannister’s light changes to green. He walks 
onward. Passes a TACO FOOD STAND. Glances inside...

             BANNISTER 
      I hear her laugh in every haunt...

FLASHBACK TO: Mae feeding him a bite of taco at the stand. 
Salsa stains his shirt. She LAUGH as she wipes it off. 

BACK TO PRESENT: A BUS passes by. Wipes us to: 

INT. BANNISTER’S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Bannister washes his face. Dries it. Looks in the mirror. 

             BANNISTER 
      She tucks herself in the corners of 
      every room.

FLASHBACK TO: Bannister dries his face, staring into the 
mirror. He catches Mae’s reflection as she applies her 
lipstick behind him. 

INT. BANNISTER’S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Bannister sits alone on a couch in a dark room lit by a floor 
lamp. He drinks a bourbon and stares out at the NightLights. 
(NOTE: One NightLight should read, “Skyvert stock steady 
despite Walter Sylvan’s death.”) As Bannister stares outside:

FLASHBACK TO: Bannister, seated on the same couch, alone. 
Then Mae enters. Sits beside him. 

             BANNISTER 
      She’s a ghost in my waking hours. A 
      stain on my sleep. 

Mae rests her head on his lap. He strokes her hair.

             BANNISTER 
      She’s a neon NightLight in a 
      starless sky. I can’t look away... 
      I can’t turn her off.

Bannister turns off his lamp. The room goes dark. The 
NightLights illuminate him as he truly is in: 

PRESENT DAY... a man stroking the empty space where Mae's 
hair used to be. 

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - MORNING

Sparky tries to detain a FAT-CAT client charging for the door.

             SPARKY
      He’ll be here any sec.
        (trying to stall him)
      Hey, how ‘bout this... we throw in 
      an extra session... on the house. 

It’s no use. Fat-cat slams the door shut and disappears. A 
moment later -

Bannister enters. Sparky stares daggers at his partner. 

             SPARKY 
      You’re late. We lost the banker. 

             BANNISTER
      I saw. 

Bannister pours a coffee. Sparky follows him, stressed:

             SPARKY
      We’re in trouble, Nick. Regulars 
      are jumping ship. Punch and Judy 
      got divorced. Miss Lonelyhearts 
      musta moved on to a new beau. Even 
      the old widower ain’t been back... 
      Pretty soon, we’ll need tanks to 
      remember money in our pockets. 
        (off his look)
      Are you even listening?

Bannister downs his coffee. Speaks calmly:

             BANNISTER
      Get me the kit.
        (off his look)
      I’ll take Avery’s job.

             SPARKY
      Thought you swore off those gigs.

             BANNISTER
      Like you said. We need the money.

EXT. HUNAN PALACE RESTAURANT - NIGHT 

A chintzy Chinese pagoda that’s seen better days. The windows 
are boarded, the paint peeling, and a “CONDEMNED” sign hangs 
from the door. 

KIT in hand, Bannister raps on the door five times. Then:

             BANNISTER
      Got any pu pu platter?

The door opens a crack. HARRIS, an undercover Fed, peeks out:

             HARRIS
      Not the code, Bannister. 

             BANNISTER
      Yet you know it’s me.

             HARRIS
      You alone?

             BANNISTER
        (annoyed, sarcastic)
      I brought a plus-one.

             AVERY 
      Let him in, Harris.

The door opens a crack. Bannister steps inside. 

CUT TO:

INT. HUNAN PALACE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Bannister opens his REMINISCENCE KIT. Meticulously lays his 
tools out on a lazy Susan.

In the distance, Avery stands guard over the witness: FALKS 
(40s, pockmarked, neck thick as a hula hoop). Meanwhile, 
Harris cleans out a huge FISH TANK, lamenting: 

             HARRIS
      I’m gonna stink like sushi for days.

Tools ready, Bannister runs a hose into the fish tank and 
starts filing it with water. 

             BANNISTER 
      Courts used to rely on eyewitness 
      testimony. Pin the tail on the donkey 
      would have been more reliable. 

Bannister pours some chemicals into the water.

             BANNISTER 
      The tank’s view to the past is 
      crystal clear. But in cases like 
      this, it’s rarely pretty.

ANGLE ON the chemicals swirling in the water...

TIME CUT TO: The same water, now with FALKS in it. The Kit’s 
LED projector plays Falks’s reminiscences against the wall. 
Bannister, mid-deposition, prompts into the mic as... 

ON SCREEN: BIG JOE (40s), crime boss, whispers in Falks’s ear. 

             BANNISTER 
      Falks had enough to put Big Joe 
      away for life... 

ON SCREEN: A brutally-massacred couple in a hotel. Their 
throats slit. Their naked bodies sprawled on the bed.

             BANNISTER 
      Whether it was settling scores...

ON SCREEN: Falks moves through the “hall” of his mind. Opens 
a door to a scene of him and some of Big Joe’s thugs trashing 
a bodega as the owner and her husband beg for mercy. 

             BANNISTER 
      Enforcing local taxes...

ON SCREEN: Another hall. Another door. Here, Falks brings 
boxes of new betel-nut chews to a girl in a Plexiglas stand. 

             BANNISTER 
      Dealing with distribution...

She rolls out her tongue hungrily. He pops a BETEL-CHEW on 
it. Slaps her ass casually as she swallows. 

             BANNISTER 
      Or greasing wheels of influence.

ON SCREEN: A swish crowd parties around a pool in a room 
recreated to look like a RAIN FOREST, complete with exotic 
caged animals. Betel-girls who look like supermodels offer 
billionaires chews from ‘40s-style cigarette boxes. 

END MONTAGE: As the party scene plays, Bannister prompts:

             BANNISTER
      Quite the guest list at this party.

ON SCREEN: Falks scans the room. Clocks a SILVER FOX, lapping 
up a GOLD chew from a betel-girl’s cleavage. 

             AVERY 
      There’s the councilman...

Falks clocks a beautiful woman vomiting in a planter.

             HARRIS 
      That’s the actress - won all those 
      awards a couple years back. 

Falks beelines for a scowling goon, with SPIKED steel 
knuckles, looking over the crowd in the corner.

             AVERY 
      That’s Spike, Big Joe’s main 
      muscle.

Spike moves aside to allow Falks a seat next to BIG JOE.

             AVERY  
      And there’s Big Joe himself, 
      holding court.

ON SCREEN: A cigarette-box noses into Falks’s POV.

             BETEL-NUT GIRL
      Can I tempt you, gentlemen? 

Bannister reacts to the girl’s voice. 

             BANNISTER
      Wait. Who was that?

ON SCREEN: Big Joe eye fucks the girl. Speaks in Sino-slang:

             BIG JOE
      Lookit this fine nu.

Falks follows his gaze up the betel-girl’s slim thighs, to 
the white of her exposed midriff, to the breasts she rolls a 
betel-chew over and finally... to her face. 

Bannister catches his breath. The girl wears too much makeup. 
Her hair’s a platinum blonde bob. Her accent’s phony-posh. 
But she has the same smile. The same eyes. 

IT’S MAE... years before he met her. 

             BIG JOE 
      I don’t trip at work. But you can 
      bring some by my room, tonight. 

Mae smiles, nervous, as Big Joe fingers the hem of her skirt.

BACK TO BANNISTER who shakes as he watches Mae on screen. 

             HARRIS
      Ask him about the councilman - Big 
      Joe’s got half of Boston in his 
      pocket.

Bannister says nothing. He’s lost, staring at Mae.

             AVERY
      Bannister? We gotta know what other 
      government’s on the take.

Bannister considers them a beat, then:

             BANNISTER
      The girl. When did you next see her?

             AVERY
      What the hell!

But it’s too late. The screen flashes to:

INT. BIG JOE’S BOSTON PENTHOUSE - HALL - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

Falks stands outside the master bedroom. Platinum Mae clicks 
her way up the marble stairs in a pair of stilettos.

             PLATINUM MAE
      I’m here to-

             FALKS
      You should pop a silver. I hear the 
      trailers are great when you’re 
      getting fucked.

             PLATINUM MAE
      I’m not a whore.

             FALKS
        (shrugs, unconcerned)
      Take the gold. It makes becoming 
      one easier.

He opens the bedroom door. Smiles, lascivious, as she enters:

INT. HUNAN PALACE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Bannister’s gutted as Mae disappears into Big Joe’s bedroom.

             AVERY 
      Get back on subject, Bannister!

Harris grabs the mic from Bannister. Barks his own prompt:

             HARRIS
      Tell us about the councilman! How’d 
      Big Joe get him in his pocket? Was 
      it bribery? Extortion?

Suddenly, the computer starts BEEPING wildly. Falks begins 
THRASHING in his tank like a fish out of water. And the 
screen image cuts to digital snow. 

             AVERY
      The fuck! What the fuck is that!

Bannister sits back calmly in his chair. Crosses his arms.

             BANNISTER
      He’s blanking. 
        (to Harris)
      You really should let the 
      professionals do the prompting.

             HARRIS
      I just asked a question- 

             BANNISTER
      You asked a leading question. 
      Presupposed Big Joe had that 
      councilman in his pocket. Apparently, 
      he didn’t. There’s no memory to 
      access, so you hit static - put Falks 
      in a neurological whitespace. 

The machine’s beeping gets more rapid and insistent. Falks’s 
thrashing intensifies. Bannister shakes his head:

             BANNISTER 
      He blanks more than a couple 
      minutes - he’ll get brain damage.

Avery grabs the mic from Harris. Hands it to Bannister. 

             AVERY
      Fix it. Get him back.

Bannister hesitates before taking the mic.

             BANNISTER
      No more interruptions? 

             AVERY
      Goddamn it, Bannister! Just do it!

             BANNISTER
      I’ll take that as a yes.

Bannister slides on the mic. Prompts soothingly:

             BANNISTER
      It’s all right. You took a misstep. 
      Opened an empty door. But now, 
      you’re back. Back to something you 
      know...
        (then)
      Tell me about the girl... the 
      platinum blonde...

Harris groans. Avery pushes over her chair, pissed. But 
Bannister continues - no turning back... 

             BANNISTER
      When was the last time you saw her?

INT. BIG JOE’S PENTHOUSE - HALL - MORNING (REMINISCENCE)

Falks knocks on Big Joe’s door. Platinum Mae answers in a 
silk robe. She looks different. Classy. Well-kept as a 
Pekingese. She’s Joe’s pet now. Falks is respectful:

             FALKS
      Sorry to wake you. Joe told me to 
      pick up the week’s supply.

Mae opens the door. Waves him in. 

INT. BIG JOE’S PENTHOUSE - MAIN ROOM - DAY (REMINISCENCE)

A room full of sports memorabilia and photos of Mae and Joe. 
They’ve made a lot of memories together. Mae pours coffee.

             PLATINUM MAE
      Cuppa? 

             FALKS
      I should just hit the safe and go-

             PLATINUM MAE
      I insist.

Falks takes the cup Mae offers. Drinks swiftly.

             AVERY 
      Why are we on this bullshit!

Falks spots a SUITCASE by the door. Mae clocks his gaze:

             PLATINUM MAE
      He’s taking me to Ibiza for my 
      birthday.

Falks nods. Downs the coffee. Places it on the table:

             FALKS
      I should get the betel-chews...

The word “chews” comes out distorted - muffled. Falks rises. 
Stumbles a little. His world is going blurry. 

             HARRIS 
      What’s wrong with the feed!

             BANNISTER 
        (watches the screen)
      It’s not the feed...

ON SCREEN: Falks is remembering things as he experienced 
them. He looks down at his hands. They’re turning black. 
Rotting. He looks up at Platinum Mae - her face a decaying 
mask. We’re in a FIRST-PERSON ACID TRIP.

             FALKS 
      You dosed me? Why...

He glances again at the suitcase. Behind it, he can make out 
another bag filled with a stash of betel-chews. All GOLD. 

Disoriented, Falks looks up. Sees Mae charging him with a 
raised baseball bat. WHAM. She nails him. Lights out.

INT. HUNAN PALACE - NIGHT - INTERCUT

The screen is BLACK. Harris and Avery are freaking out.

             HARRIS
      He’s fucking our deposition!

Avery approaches Bannister. Leans. Looks him in the eye.

             AVERY
      We brought you here to do a job. 
      Not to chase some druggy slut-

             BANNISTER
        (stands, resolute)
      Get yourself another archeologist. 

He rips off his mic. Storms from the room. 

CUT TO:

EXT. MANHATTAN STREETS - NIGHT

Bannister charges down the street, reeling from Falks’s 
reminiscence. 

             BANNISTER 
      Everything about her was a lie...

Mae’s voice comes back to taunt him. 

             MAE 
      Maybe you only saw what you wanted 
      to see...

In a passing cab, he imagines he sees himself and Mae locked 
in a lovers’ embrace. But now...

The couple pulls apart. They are strangers - not embracing - 
but arguing. The woman’s face is streaked with tears.

             BANNISTER 
      My memories mock me...

He stops at an intersection. Imagines Mae jaywalking into a 
flood of cabs. She beckons him to join. His own words come 
back to haunt him:

             BANNISTER 
      She waits in every street...

Bannister steps after her... HONK. An old, non-automated 
RICKSHAW nearly plows him over. Bannister stumbles back - the 
Mae of his memory is gone. The rickshaw driver curses at him 
in Spanish as he speeds past. 

Bannister keeps walking. Passes an alley. Imagines Mae 
laughing in a darkened corner:

             BANNISTER 
      Laughs in every haunt...

Mae turns. Reaches into her mouth. Pulls out her teeth. 
Laughs through her bloodied gums.

Bannister stumbles onto a new street. Stops at:

EXT. MAE’S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Bannister remembers walking Mae home the FIRST NIGHT they 
met. She wears the red dress from her lounge act.

             BANNISTER 
      She’s a neon NightLight in a 
      starless sky. I can’t look away...

	    RED MAE 
	I’m not a whore.

	BANNISTER 
	You lied to me!

Bannister remembers Mae grabbing his collar, leading him up 
the stairs of her building. As they enter the building, his 
vision of them fades. The street is once again empty.

             BANNISTER 
      I can’t turn her off...

Drunk, he chokes down his grief. SLAMS his fist against a 
garbage can. Just then -

The LIGHT in Mae’s studio flicks on. This is NOT A MEMORY. 

It’s REAL. Bannister watches, shocked, as Mae’s silhouette 
passes before the window, undressing. CUT TO: 

INT. MAE’S APARTMENT BUILDING - STAIRS - CONTINUOUS

Bannister pounds on Mae’s door furiously.

             BANNISTER
      Open up, Mae. I know you’re there.
        (a beat, then - he slams 
         the door, furious)
      I’ll break this door down if you 
      don’t-

Silently, the door swings open. A backlit woman steps into 
the hall. And though the hair and silhouette is the same...

It’s not Mae. It’s CINDY, the blonde from the Coconut Club.

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT

Cindy runs a bath. Kicks off a heel. Massages her foot.

             BANNISTER
      What’re you doing here?

             CINDY
      I could ask you the same thing.

Bannister studies her as she lights a cigarette.

             BANNISTER
      You work at the Coconut Club with 
      Mae, don’t you?

             CINDY
      ‘Til she quit.

             BANNISTER
      You seen her since?
        (she shakes her head)
      Then what the hell are you doing 
      here?

             CINDY
      I live in Jersey. Mae used to let 
      me crash here after a long shift. 
      Figured she wouldn’t mind. This 
      place is paid till the end of the 
      quarter.

Bannister studies her a beat. Believes her story.

             BANNISTER
      How’d you get in?

             CINDY
      Used the spare.

Bannister looks at her, curious. Cindy holds up a KEY.

             CINDY 
      I told her it’s dangerous. But she 
      always keeps one under the mat. Said 
      it saved her ever being locked out.

As this hits Bannister like a ton of bricks... 

CUT TO:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - NIGHT

Bannister charges in. Sparky’s immediately concerned.

             SPARKY
      Shouldn’t you be at the meet?

Bannister pushes past him, into...

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Bannister rummages through his desk for a voice recording 
labeled “CABIN.” Plays it in the RECORDER as he strips:

             BANNISTER
      You’re going on a journey. Your 
      destination? A place and a time 
      only you know...

Sparky runs in as Bannister heads for the tank.

             SPARKY
      What the hell are you-

             BANNISTER
      Everything about Mae was a lie. 
      Even how we met. Did you know she 
      used to work for Big Joe? 

             SPARKY
      The Boston gangster? 

             BANNISTER
      I saw her. In the deposition... 

             SPARKY
      You asked about Mae in the depo? 
      Let her go, Nick! She wouldn’t have 
      wanted this.

             BANNISTER
      You don’t know what she wanted. No 
      one does. 

             SPARKY
      I know this...

He fishes a WRINKLED PAPER from his pocket. Hands it over.

             SPARKY 
      A week after she disappeared, I 
      found this slipped under our door.

Bannister unfolds it and reads: “Remember Orpheus and 
Eurydice? Don’t look back. Love, Mae”

             BANNISTER
      How could you not tell me? 

             SPARKY
      I thought it would make things 
      worse.

             BANNISTER
      It does. Between us... Get out. 
      You’re fired. 
        (off his hesitation)
      GET THE HELL OUT!

Sparky backs out of the room. Bannister climbs into the tank.

             BANNISTER
      Imagine your mind like a long hall 
      with a series of doors. Behind some 
      doors is darkness. Behind others...

He PLUNGES his head beneath the DARK water of the tank. Sinks 
lower and lower in the murky water until it begins to clear 
into a sun-dappled blue... We find ourselves UNDERWATER IN:

EXT. LAKE - DAY (REMINISCENCE)

Mae swims by in a two-piece, her hair trailing behind her 
like a mermaid. Bannister grabs her ankle. A moment later - 

             BANNISTER
      ... It’s spring again...

They surface into the bright sun for air. Mae kisses him.

             MAE
      I love you. 
        (off his look)
      You’ll believe it one day.

Gingerly, he touches the fading bruise on her cheek. 

             MAE 
      It’ll be gone soon.

She splashes him playfully. She rises out of the lake. Races 
naked up the shore, toward a CABIN surrounded by pines...

INT. CABIN - HALL - DAY (REMINISCENCE)

Bannister follows Mae's dripping footsteps down a hall lined 
with Bannister’s childhood photos. Mae touches a frame:

             MAE
      Your parents left you this place?
        (off his nod)
      You must have been close.

             BANNISTER
      They were good parents.

             MAE
      How come you never talk about them?

             BANNISTER
      It’s like trying to describe a song 
      without humming it. How do you sum 
      up someone you lost?

             MAE
      I can do my parents up with a 
      couple four-letter words. 

             BANNISTER
      You never talk about them.

             MAE
      If you don’t got something good to 
      say... ‘Sides, I hit the road when 
      I was fourteen.

             BANNISTER
      Little young, isn’t it?

             MAE
      I looked older. By the time I got 
      off the streets... I felt it, too.

Bannister studies her tenderly, wishing he could save her 
from the past:

             BANNISTER
      How did you finally get off the 
      streets?

             MAE
      I musta been seventeen, eighteen... 
      Hitching through the country. 
      Running out of options, food, and 
      favors... 
        (then)
      One day I stumble on this little 
      road that sounded like something out 
      of a fairy tale. “Lullaby Lane.” Can 
      you believe it? I followed it till 
      it dead-ended in this pink barn. It 
      seemed totally surreal at the time - 
      later I found it was supposed to be 
      red, but the sun faded it to this 
      pale pink. I’d never seen anything 
      like it. That first night, I crashed 
      in the stables... Felt so good to 
      have a roof over my head, I slept 
      in. Next morning, the owner - Myrna - 
      found me. Instead of kicking me out, 
      she gave me a room. Let me stay as 
      long as I needed. 

             BANNISTER
      Did you ever see her again?

             MAE
      Years later, after I bottomed out, 
      I locked myself in that same room 
      to detox off the betel. All the 
      places I’ve been - it’s the only 
      one where I actually felt safe.

Bannister touches her face gently. 

             BANNISTER
      You’re safe with me.

             MAE
      I hope so.

She reaches back. Unties her bikini top. Turns:

             MAE 
      Wanna give me the rest of the tour?

OFF Mae tossing the bikini toward him, 

CUT TO:

INT. CABIN - BEDROOM - DAY (REMINISCENCE)

Dusty baseball caps and toys shake on a shelf. Beneath them, 
the old, wood headboard of a twin bed slams against the wall.

             BANNISTER
      You take her in places where even 
      before you met her, you dreamt of 
      her...

As Mae and Bannister have sex, he runs his thumb along the 
bridge of her front teeth. More mesmerized than repulsed:

             BANNISTER
      Even the broken parts you find... 
      you want. 

Mae moans. Kicks over a lamp. It shatters and we SMASH TO:

EXT. CABIN - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

A black sky lit only by stars. On a distant horizon, the 
city’s NightLights shine like a faraway firework. Mae and 
Bannister watch from the porch. She stares at the stars:

             MAE
      I almost forgot what the sky looked 
      like before they turned it into a 
      giant billboard.

Bannister brushes some stray hairs from her cheeks. Stares at 
the bruise in the moonlight.

             BANNISTER
      You ever gonna tell me who did this?

             MAE
      Let’s leave it behind us.

             BANNISTER 
      There is no “behind.” No “ahead,” 
      either. Time doesn’t work that way. 
      Time used to be a line. Now? It’s a 
      deck of cards scattered on a table. 
      Can’t order it any more than you 
      can order stars in the sky. 

Mae throws her arms around him. 

             MAE
      Then I choose this moment. Only 
      this one.

             BANNISTER
      You can’t do that. 

             MAE
      We could stay here. Find work. Who 
      needs the city? We’d be happy... 

Bannister smiles a bit. Then sees the look on her face:

             BANNISTER
      You’re not serious...

She hesitates a moment. Deciding. Then:

             MAE
      People spend their whole lives 
      chasing some perfect moment. What 
      if we’ve found ours?

             BANNISTER
      We can always come back.

             MAE
      What if things change?

             BANNISTER
      This won’t. Not for me.

He kisses her, tender.

             BANNISTER  
      It was the last night we had 
      together. Even without knowing 
      that, I didn’t want it to end...

Their kissing grows more passionate. She slides to sit on top 
of him. As she straddles him, he kisses her neck and the tops 
of her breasts. She unbuttons his shirt. Suddenly -

The porch swing begins to sway - subtly at first, then more 
violently. As Mae kisses him - Bannister notices the entire 
porch is beginning to SHAKE - then the cabin itself.

Mae keeps kissing him, oblivious. Even as the quiet of the 
night is replaced by DEAFENING SIRENS and the sound of people 
WAILING. 

Finally, the walls of the cabin begin to CRUMBLE and fall to 
the ground. Revealing behind them...

... PITCH BLACKNESS. We are in...

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - TANK - MORNING

Bannister blinks awake inside the dark waters. Hoists himself 
out of the tank. Yanks the respirator out. Sees:

The walls around him are indeed shaking. And a deafening 
chorus of wailing and shrieking is rising up from the street.

The vibrations from the ruckus have caused his RECORDER to 
fall off the windowsill. The feed to the tank has come 
unplugged and Bannister’s voice plays in the room:

             BANNISTER
      After she fell asleep.... You 
      picked her up. Carried her to bed. 
      Imagined a life where every night 
      would always end like this-

Bannister SNAPS the recorder off. Puts on a robe. CUT TO:

EXT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - DAY

Bannister stumbles outside to investigate the commotion. The 
sidewalks are packed with observers watching...

A WAILING - the loud, ostentatious funeral processions thrown 
for the dead with money. Professional mourners beat their 
breasts and wail into megaphones. Large, elaborate floats 
memorialize different chapters of the deceased’s life. LED 
projectors graffiti every wall with images of the deceased. 
Priests throw coins to street viewers who cry along. 

Bannister turns to a NEIGHBORING woman, who dabs at her eyes.

             BANNISTER
      Another wailing?

             NEIGHBOUR
      The richer they die, the louder 
      they wail.

             BANNISTER
      Who’s this one for?

             NEIGHBOUR
      You been in a cave? CEO of Skyvert. 
      Owned all the NightLight airspace.

The Priest Float passes by. The Neighbour screams and wails. 
They throw a couple coins her way. As she pocket them: 

             NEIGHBOUR 
      ‘Least the bastard can buy me a 
      beer.

The final float passes with the deceased’s son, JEREMY SYLVAN 
(17), and the widow, TAMARA SYLVAN (40s), her face hidden 
beneath a black veil. A gust of wind ruffles the widow’s veil 
- reveals a patrician beauty, her eyes glazed from heavy 
sedation. Bannister stares at the face. Mutters:

             BANNISTER
      I knew her.

The Neighbour shoots him a knowing look.

             NEIGHBOUR
      The widow? I’ll bet. Lots of 
      friends and family comin’ out of 
      the woodwork now that there’s an 
      estate to settle...

She gives him a wink and heads away. Bannister stares after 
Tamara. This isn’t a con. He really did know her. He recalls:

INT. BANNISTER’S OFFICE - 15 YEARS EARLIER (FLASHBACK)

Tamara Sylvan (25), now a couture-clad beauty in her prime, 
pushes a wad of bills toward him.

             TAMARA
      There’s more where that comes from-

             BANNISTER
      Money isn’t the problem. 

             TAMARA
      It’s just a few extra jolts. 

             BANNISTER
      I never go above twenty-five.

             TAMARA
      Other people do.

             BANNISTER
      Other people care more about lining 
      their pockets than preserving your 
      brain cells. Besides... it wouldn’t 
      help. You’re looking for something 
      you can’t get by reminiscing. 

             TAMARA
      A few years ago, I was his 
      everything. Now, he barely sees me. 
      I want things back like they were. 

             BANNISTER
      I won’t burn you ‘cuz your 
      husband’s neglectful. Maybe you 
      should get him in the tank - remind 
      him what he’s missing. 

             TAMARA
        (laughs, bitterly)
      Tank’s for the people who get left 
      behind. Men like him? They move on. 

OFF Young Tamara dabbing at her eyes... SMASH BACK TO:

EXT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - DAY

Bannister watches Tamara’s float disappear down the street. 

             BANNISTER 
      I never imagined, years later... 
      I’d be the one standing still. 

             BANNISTER
      But if I was to stand still... I 
      was determined to stand alone.

Bannister pulls on his hat. Walks down the street, against 
the crowd. CUT TO:

INT. MEMORABILIA INC. POD - REMINISCENCE ROOM - DAY

A bright, cheerful room housing TANKS and comfortable chairs 
for guests. At the base of each tank is a SCREEN playing the 
nostalgic’s reminiscence. On the wall hangs a banner: 

“Memorabilia Inc. Long-Term Pods for the Time of Your Life.” 

HAL (40s), gives Sparky and Bannister a tour:

             HAL
      Everything’s automated. Prompts are 
      pre-recorded. Food is intravenous. 
      Waste is emptied through catheters- 

He drones on while Bannister thinks to himself:

             BANNISTER 
      Sparky always said he’d rather be 
      in a tank than work in a pod. But 
      this is the best I can do... I 
      can’t take him where I’m going.

Sparky examines the state-of-the-art tech, skeptical:

             SPARKY
      You got so many doodads and 
      whatnots - waddya need me for?

             HAL 
      Some of our medium-term nostalgics 
      have guests during visiting hours.

OFF a young mother and her children, sitting by their 
grandmother’s tank - cheering as they watch her reminiscence 
about being crowned high school homecoming queen. 

             HAL 
      They find the human element 
      comforting. 

             SPARKY
      So I’d be window dressing. 

             HAL 
      You’d also monitor vitals and power 
      spikes. Make sure there’s no burns. 

He leads them out of the room, into...

INT. MEMORABILIA INC. POD - HALL - DAY

             HAL 
      Of course, less supervision is 
      needed for long-term guests on loop.

Hal leads them through a set of doors:

INT. MEMORABILIA INC. POD - CATACOMBS - DAY

A dimly-lit room stacked with tanks stacked like graves in a 
catacomb, as high and far as the eye can see. 

             BANNISTER 
      The Mobius room. For nostalgics who 
      never leave the tank...

Hal leads Sparky through the room, talking shop. Bannister 
lingers, staring into the glass coffins as he walks:

             BANNISTER 
      A controversial practice, but since 
      its widespread adoption, suicides 
      are down ninety percent. Why end it 
      all when you can begin again?

OFF A TANK: An OLD WOMAN remembers herself as a young prima 
ballerina dancing with her Prince Charming. 

             BANNISTER 
      Why be alone when you can be 
      adored?

OFF ANOTHER TANK: a FAT MAN remembers his father teaching him 
to ride a bike. He peddles down a sidewalk, wobbly...

             BANNISTER 
      Why grow old? When you can stay 
      always on the verge of becoming the 
      exact person you’d dreamt you’d be?

OFF FAT MAN’S TANK: As his father lets go of the bike and the 
little boy he once was races away.

Bannister stops in front of an empty tank. Sees his own 
reflection in the glass...

             BANNISTER 
      The past fits everyone better.

Hal’s voice interrupts Bannister’s thoughts:

             HAL 
      Isn’t that right, Mr. Bannister?

             BANNISTER
      Pardon me?

             HAL 
      I was just telling Mr.-

             SPARKY
      Sparky.

             HAL 
      Mr. Sparky. We normally don’t hire 
      such... senior techs. 

             BANNISTER
      Your pod’s been trying to buy out 
      my shop for a long time. You hire 
      Sparky, you get the best of it.

             HAL 
      We’d love to have the both of you-

             BANNISTER
      It’s a one-man deal. 

Hal looks at Sparky’s shaking hands, dubious. Then:

             HAL 
      You could start tomorrow.

Sparky hesitates, unsure. Looks to Bannister, hopeful:

             SPARKY
      I’m sure Nick needs me a couple 
      more weeks to tie up-

             BANNISTER
      Start as soon as you want.

Bannister turns on his heel, cold, and heads for the door. 

INT. MEMORABILIA INC. POD - HALL - DAY

Bannister passes a nostalgic being pushed on a gurney toward 
the catacombs. He motions to the TECH:

             BANNISTER
      Just a second?

He looks at the nostalgic’s toe-tag. It’s BENNIE, the widower 
who used to come to his shop to reminisce about his wife. 

             TECH
      You know him? 

Bannister nods. Looks at the feed.

ON SCREEN: Benny (70s) and his wife (70s) sit on a porch. His 
wife pets a Siamese cat. All look happy. Content.

Bannister’s glance shifts to the tank. On top of it rests a 
frayed collar with the name “Pinklepurr.” He touches it:

             TECH 
      Keep it if you want. 
        (nods to a cabinet of IV 
         bags and syringes)
      ‘Pental he’s on? He won’t miss it.

Bannister releases the collar. Not sentimental.

             BANNISTER
      Thanks. I’m fine.

The Tech nods. Pushes the widower into the catacombs. 

             BANNISTER  
      He’s better off here...

Before the catacomb doors close, Bannister glimpses Sparky 
slipping his arms into a new white tech coat. 

             BANNISTER  
      They both are...

Bannister beelines for the drug cabinet. Surreptitiously 
breaks the lock. Opens the cabinet. Grabs a SYRINGE and a few 
vials of thiopental. CUT TO:

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT 

Bannister hails a cab. Steps inside: 

INT. CAB - NIGHT

             INTERFACE
      What is your destination, please?

             BANNISTER
      Boston. 


They begin to move through the packed streets. 

             BANNISTER  
      The human brain has a billion 
      neurons...

Bannister stares out at the sea of pedestrians. PULL OUT TO:

EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT

Banister’s cab joins a chain of city traffic:

             BANNISTER 
      ... All with a thousand connections 
      to other neurons...

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Bannister’s ride races north on highway arteries flowing with 
red of taillights and the white of headlights.

             BANNISTER 
      ... Adding up to a trillion 
      connections, each leading to a 
      different moment or memory...

INT. CAB - NIGHT

Bannister stares out the window - his reflection gliding over 
a highway sign: “WELCOME TO BOSTON.” 

             BANNISTER 
      With all these connections, it was 
      easy for some memories to slip 
      through the cracks. Fade away. 

EXT. BOSTON BETEL-BAR - NIGHT

The cab pulls up to a high-class BETEL-BAR. At the entrance, 
Harajuko betel-girls dance and wave techno streamers. 
Bannister steps out of the vehicle. 

             BANNISTER 
      Not anymore...

A betel-girl blows a kiss at him. He heads into the bar.

INT. BOSTON BETEL-BAR - NIGHT

A vast space filled with googie hipsters and steampunk suits. 
Betel-girls dance on raised platforms - amping the crowd.

Bannister locks eyes on the mobster, BIG JOE, being ushered 
by BODYGUARDS into a private BACK ROOM of the club.

             BANNISTER 
      ... Now, there’s no such thing as 
      bygones.

His eyes stalk Big Joe as he recedes into the back room.

A betel-girl, enhanced to look like an ANIME, approaches:

             ANIME BETEL-GIRL
      You want one, mister? 

Below her tits is a cigarette box full of betel-chews. 

             ANIME BETEL-GIRL 
      All the colors in the rainbow.

             BANNISTER
      I’m looking for something stronger. 
      Silver, platinum... maybe even a 
      little gold.

             ANIME BETEL-GIRL
      It’s illegal to distribute 
      metallics in this state. 

She starts to walk away; Bannister grabs her. Pulls her back.

             BANNISTER
      I’m not a narc. I’m just looking 
      for a good time. I hear Big Joe’s 
      the man to go to...

             ANIME BETEL-GIRL
      No one talks to Big Joe.

             BANNISTER
      Then consider me “no one.”

He slips her some coin. A bit more. Finally, she relents. 

             ANIME BETEL-GIRL
      I’ll get you halfway there. Then 
      you’re on your own.

She nods for him to follow. As they weave through the crowd:

Bannister reaches into his pocket. Finds the SYRINGE he stole 
from the pod. He shoves it up his sleeve.

Anime leads him to a BURLY BOUNCER guarding a back room. 
Tells the guard over the noise of the club:

             ANIME BETEL-GIRL 
      He wants to talk to Big Joe.

             BOUNCER
        (sizes him up)
      Big Joe don’t wanna talk to you.

Bannister thinks fast. Pulls a name from Falks’s reminiscence:

             BANNISTER
      Sure he does. I’m a friend of 
      Spike’s. He said Joe’d hook me up.

Bouncer studies him a beat. Then, nods for Bannister to...

INT. BETEL-BAR - BACK ROOM - NIGHT

The same room Bannister saw in the deposition. It’s a 
postmodern Hieronymous Bosch. Trippers frolic in the grotto. 
Betel-girls dance and fuck for high rollers. EXOTIC ANIMALS 
prowl in cages for the trippers’ amusement.

Bannister approaches Big Joe, who eats a bowl of raw meat 
with chopsticks. Two GUARDS flank him. The Bouncer whispers 
into Joe’s ear. Joe nods. Sends the Bouncer away. Then -

Big Joe beckons for Bannister to approach. He smiles:

             BIG JOE
      Friend of Spike’s, eh? You got guan 
      xi with me, pal? 

             BANNISTER
      I’m looking to graduate from 
      pastels. You’ve got heavy metals.

Big Joe seems amused. Sizes up Bannister:

             BIG JOE
      Vet, huh. You folks even starch your 
      sentences. I’m a patriot. But the 
      war’s over, pengyo. Now’s the time 
      to be civil-like. Show some 
      motherfuckin’ manners. Per instance, 
      if I talk about guan xi; you don’t 
      jump straight into commerce. 

             BIG JOE
      Per instance, if I call you pengyo - 
      you return it with an appellation 
      your own: something friendly, but 
      respectful. Erring, given the power 
      differential between us, on the 
      motherfuckin’ respectful. Per 
      instance, I smile benevolent and 
      welcome at you. I don’t need to do 
      that. It’s social graces. Noblesse 
      oblige. Motherfuckin’ minzi. But 
      you? You get all laconic with some 
      Dirty Harry jaw clench. Now I’m not 
      looking for a kowtow. But a polite 
      nod, a smile that engages the eyes? 

             BANNISTER
      I just want to score some tinsel.

Big Joe leans toward Bannister, who still does not smile.

             BIG JOE
      You got balls. Bocce-sized. Like 
      Hamlet over there...

He gestures to a LION HEAD mounted on the wall.

             BIG JOE 
      Before the Boston zoo went belly 
      up, he lived in a big motherfuckin’ 
      cage with a big motherfuckin’ sign: 
      “King of Beasts.”

Big Joe raises a bite of dripping meat to his lips.

             BIG JOE 
      Who’s the king now?

Bannister refuses to flinch. Insists again:

             BANNISTER
      All I want is some gold. An eight 
      bag.

             BIG JOE
      Bulk, eh? There’s the bocces again. 
      You got so much swagger, you’ll buy 
      without a taste? 

Big Joe snaps at a betel-girl. She brings a cigarette box of 
metal betels to Bannister. 

Under Big Joe’s watchful eye, Bannister takes a gold ball. 
Chews. Swallows. Spits out the shell. After a beat:

             BANNISTER
      Fine. Let’s discuss payment. 

             BIG JOE
      Don’t you get it, my friend? 
      Payment is not the wunti holding up 
      this here transaction...

A guard GRABS Bannister’s arms from behind. Big Joe gets 
right up in Bannister’s face. Slips a brass knuckle on.

             BIG JOE 
      It’s trust. Guanxi. Per instance: 
      your “friend” Spike’s been dead for 
      years. 

He PUNCHES Bannister in the face. Bannister falls back. Spits 
blood. Big Joe’s guards hold him down while...

             BIG JOE 
      Spike didn’t send you. 

Big Joe WRENCHES open his mouth. Rips out a HEALTHY TOOTH.

             BIG JOE 
      And you’re no user.

Big Joe’s fist SLAMS toward Bannister. CUT TO BLACK:

LATER... a SPLASH. Bannister awakes to a BUCKET of water 
thrown at his face. He coughs. Sits up. Finds himself in:

INT. BETEL-BAR - BACK ROOM - CAGE - NIGHT

A large cage linked to an adjoining cage with OPHELIA, an 
angry TIGRESS, prowling inside. Bannister’s hands are tied 
behind his back. Big Joe approaches the bars.

             BIG JOE
      You’ve got yourself in a 
      predicament, pengyo. 

BANNISTER’S POV: Big Joe’s voice is distorted and his 
movements leave gold TRAILERS (hallucinogenic streaks) in 
their wake. The betel-chew hallucinogen is taking hold. 

             BANNISTER
      I’m looking for my woman. 

             BIG JOE
      Your woman? She suck my dick? That 
      why you here? 
        (off his look)

             BIG JOE 
      Chill. More nus suck down this shit 
      than 7-Up. It’s a rite of passage.

Joe waves, dismissive. Starts to walk away. Then:

             BANNISTER
      She played baseball with your 
      goon’s head. Made off with a case 
      of golds. 

Big Joe stops in his track. Turns, suddenly interested:

             BIG JOE
      You’ve seen my favorite chanteuse. 
      Tell me... where?

             BANNISTER
      She was in New York. Disappeared a 
      couple days after her old boss beat 
      her up.

             BIG JOE
      So you come to my jia looking to 
      settle the score. Sorry, pengyo, I 
      haven’t seen her in years. 

             BANNISTER
      You’re lying. 

             BIG JOE 
        (laughs at his gall)
      I’m lying? I’m lying...

Big Joe turns serious. Strides toward the cage.

             BIG JOE 
      You ever hear a swan song, pengyo? 
      It originates from the Ancient Greek 
      belief that when a swan dies, this 
      otherwise-mute bird sings what is 
      meant to be the most transportive 
      yinyue you’ve ever fucking heard. I 
      cannot comment on the veracity of 
      this ornithological anecdote. But I 
      do got insight into the more 
      metaphorical aspects of the term. 
      Per instance, the thinking goes that 
      the moment before a person dies - 
      everything they’ve been holding back 
      pours out in a swan song - a moment 
      of truth, if you will...

As Big Joe lectures, Bannister struggles to wrench his hands 
from their ropes. It’s slow, laborious work, made slower by 
the fact his betel high is kicking in full throttle. 

             BIG JOE 
      But I know for a fact: dying 
      motherfuckers are the biggest liars 
      there is. Put a gun to a man - and 
      you get some of the sweetest 
      fictions ever told. It’s beautiful, 
      really. Sometimes I wish I had a 
      notepad. But it’s not even for my 
      benefit. They’re lying to 
      themselves. Trying to convince 
      themselves they got no regrets, 
      their shit don’t stink - 
        (sings, glib)
      They did it theirrrrr way...
        (then)
      ‘Course, it’s all bullshit.

Bannister’s wrists bleed from chafing at the loosening ropes.

             BIG JOE 
      You know who doesn’t lie? The 
      people who put ‘em in their mortal 
      predicament. The moment before you 
      kill someone is very liberating. 
      Very intimate. It’s the one moment 
      in your life - you can tell someone 
      a secret and you know for damn sure 
      they’re not gonna repeat it. 
        (off the tigress in cage)
      So before you and Ophelia get 
      acquainted...

Big Joe grips the bars. Locks eyes with Bannister.

             BIG JOE 
      Truth. I haven’t seen Mae since she 
      skipped out years ago. And it’s not 
      for lack of trying. I even put a 
      reward on her head. Broke my heart 
      when no one cashed in. See, it 
      wasn’t just about the betel she 
      stole. With that girl, it was... 
        (hand to his heart)
      Ai. Real ai. Funny how love sounds 
      like a cry of pain. But chinks were 
      smart that way. They knew - you 
      can’t have one without the other. 
      So trust when I gao su ni: I never 
      saw our mutual friend again: if I 
      had, I wouldn’t have beat her... 

             BIG JOE 
      I would have snapped her whore head 
      right off her whore neck and 
      mounted it next to Hamlet over 
      there. Any questions?

             BANNISTER
      Would you like to see her again?

Suddenly, Bannister wrenches his hand free from the rope. 
Shakes the SYRINGE from his sleeve, and PLUNGES the needle 
into Big Joe’s hand. Then he YANKS Joe’s arm through the bars 
of the cage. Hovers his thumb over the plunger. 

As Joe reaches for a gun tucked in the back of his pants...

             BANNISTER 
      Don’t move. There’s enough 
      thiopental to make you Mobius for 
      three lifetimes. ‘Less it kills you 
      on the spot.

Big Joe’s guards unlock the cage. Run in. Thanks to the 
hallucinogen, time seems to slow down for Bannister:

             BIG JOE
      Shoot this motherfucker!

In a flash, Bannister SLAMS the plunger on the syringe - 
INJECTS Big Joe. Then grabs Big Joe’s gun through the bars. 

BAM. Bannister shoots Guard 1. He goes down, hard. The BLOOD 
splatters, shooting out in a cataract of gold trailers.

Guard 2 aims at Bannister. GRAZES his arm. Bannister drops 
his gun. Rolls to Guard 1. Uses his body to absorb the 
gunfire from Guard 2. 

Behind them, Ophelia ROARS, enticed by the smell of blood. 
The sound distracts Guard 2. Bannister sweeps his feet. He 
goes down, leaving diagonal trailers in his wake.

Bannister and the guard wrestle for the gun, sliding in the 
slick puddle of Guard 1’s blood. Around the cage, a couple 
betel-chewers notice the fracas. But instead of being 
disturbed, they watch, mesmerized as the frenetic movements 
of the fight weave trailers all over the cage.

Back in the cage, Guard 2 reaches the gun. Bannister pushes 
it away just as he fires off a couple rounds. A couple 
trippers admire the bullets’ trailers as they sore across the 
room and lodge in a passing betel-girl’s head. 

Guard 2 slams Bannister against the rails. Ophelia SWIPES 
through the bars of the cage at him just as...

Bannister flips Guard 2 against the rails. SWIPE. Ophelia 
runs her claws down the guard’s back. He drops to his knees, 
screaming, as blood seeps through his shirt.

Bannister stumbles out of the cage. As he leaves, he PULLS a 
lever, lowering the division between the cages. 

Ophelia stalks into the cage with Big Joe and his downed 
guards. She’ll eat well tonight. 

EXT. BOSTON BETEL-BAR - NIGHT

Bannister stumbles out of the club, cradling his arm where 
he’s been shot. He hails a cab. Opens the door:

             INTERFACE
      What is your destination-

             BANNISTER
      New York. Take me home...

He stumbles into the car and collapses across the seats, a 
bloody mess. As he pulls away, CUT TO:

INT. BANNISTER’S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Exhausted, Bannister stumbles into his room. Flips on the 
lights. Is startled to find Sparky pouring himself a drink. 


             BANNISTER
      Sparky? 

             SPARKY
      I know you wanted to be alone. But-

Before Bannister can react, Mae steps out of the kitchen with 
a homemade BIRTHDAY CAKE laced with candles. 

             MAE
      Surprise!

             SPARKY
      Your gal insisted.

TIME CUT: The cake is eaten. Sparky snores on the floor, 
bleary from booze. Mae curls up with Bannister on the couch. 

             MAE
      Tell me a story.

             BANNISTER
      What kind of story?

             MAE
      One with a happy ending. 

             BANNISTER
      No such thing as a happy ending. 
      All endings are sad. Especially if 
      the story was happy.

             MAE
      Then tell me a happy story and end 
      it at the middle. 

He places his hand against hers, touches her fingertips.

             BANNISTER
      Ever hear of Orpheus and Eurydice? 
      They were a couple. Very in love. 
      Till one day, Eurydice died. 

             MAE
      That’s a horrible story! 

             BANNISTER
      I’m not at the middle yet. Orpheus 
      descended to hell. Begged the devil 
      to release her. The devil agreed: 
      Orpheus could take Eurydice by the 
      hand and lead her back to the land 
      of the living. But there was one 
      condition. He couldn’t look back 
      until they’d escaped the gates of 
      hell or Eurydice would be stuck in 
      the underworld forever.

             MAE
      So what happened?

             BANNISTER
      Orpheus took her hand and led her 
      back to life. 

             MAE
      And they lived happily ever after?

Her voice is obscured by a KNOCKING filling the room. With 
each of the knocks, the air in the room seems to ripple.

             BANNISTER
      What?

             MAE
      And they lived happily ever-

More KNOCKS drown her out. 

Bannister stands. Figures someone’s at the door. He crosses 
to it. Opens it to find...

SPARKY, waiting in the hall, holding the tank’s prompt 
recorder, unplugged in his hands.

Confused, Bannister turns back to the room - sees a second 
Sparky still sleeping on his floor.

He turns back to the Sparky at the door, who speaks:

             DOOR SPARKY
        (muffled, distorted)
      Get up. Get the hell up, will ya?

             BANNISTER
        (straining to understand)
      What?

As he speaks, a trail of BUBBLES leaves his mouth. CUT TO:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - MORNING

Bannister blinks awake inside the dark tank - air bubbles 
from the respirator float around him. Beyond them, looming 
over the tank is...

Sparky, holding the unplugged RECORDER in his hands as he 
waits for Bannister to come to. 

OFF Bannister hoisting himself out of the tank... CUT TO:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - DAY

Still bloody and missing a tooth from the night before, 
Bannister sits bundled in a robe on Sparky’s Murphy bed.

Sparky sets a tank KIT down heavily in front of Bannister. 

             SPARKY
      Avery dropped off your kit. I told 
      her I don’t work with you no more. 
      She said, then throw it out for all 
      she cares.

Bannister pulls a bloody napkin from his mouth - exposes the 
gap where his tooth used to be.

             BANNISTER
      Guess she’s still pissed about the 
      deposition?

             BANNISTER
        (then, awkward)
     Thanks for dropping it off.

Sparky nods. Starts for the door. Then... changes his mind. 
He pulls up a chair by Bannister. Motions to his shoulder.

             SPARKY
     Lemme see.

             BANNISTER
     It’s just grazed. 

Sparky hoists up his sleeve. Exposes the ugly gunshot wound.

             SPARKY
     You oughta go get patched. 

             BANNISTER
     Scars make the man.

             SPARKY
     Infections make the corpse.

Sparky grabs a FIRST AID tin from under the bed. He cleans 
the wound. Finds something:

             SPARKY 
     You got a souvenir in there. 

He GRABS a whiskey bottle. Bannister reaches for it. But 
Sparky pulls it away. Drains most of it himself. Bannister 
grimaces as the alcohol bites into the blood.

Sparky holds a flame to a pair of TWEEZERS. Reaches into the 
wound, searching for the bullet. Bannister sweats, pained:

             SPARKY 
     You fire me so you could kill 
     yourself faster?

             BANNISTER
     You here to help me finish the job?

Sparky smiles. Pulls the bullet out of Bannister’s arm. Then 
he wraps gauze around the wound - tying it in a tight KNOT.

             SPARKY
     This’ll hold you... for a while.

Sparky packs the first aid kit. Readies to leave:

             SPARKY 
     Better go. Traffic’s fucked with 
     all the protests.

             BANNISTER
      Protests?

             SPARKY
      The stargazers?
        (off his look)
      Goddamn Bannister, you gotta get out 
      more. Bunch of folks protesting the 
      NightLights now that the CEO’s 
      kicked it. While his estate’s in 
      flux - they’re hoping to cram in 
      some new laws - make it so the night 
      sky’s filled with stars instead of 
      hemorrhoid cream and yogurt ads.

             BANNISTER
      Tamara’d lose a fortune.

             SPARKY
      Who the hell’s Tamara?

             BANNISTER
      The widow? She came to me once, 
      long time ago, for a consult.

             SPARKY
      Guess you’re a full-service shop. 
      Cater to the wife and the mistress.

             BANNISTER
      What do you mean?

             SPARKY
      Miss Lonelyhearts, remember? The 
      beau she couldn’t get over. That 
      was the rich NightLights stiff. 

Bannister FLASHES to a memory of Miss Lonelyhearts’s 
reminiscence of her affair. The memory is vague and blurred.

             BANNISTER
      You sure?

             SPARKY
      Pull her file if you don’t believe 
      me. 

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - DAY

Bannister unlocks his filing cabinet while Sparky looks on. 

             BANNISTER
      What’s Lonelyhearts’s name again?

             SPARKY
      Rosa. Miss Rosa Sanchez.
        (then, concerned)
      Your short-term memory’s going.

             BANNISTER
      Don’t start with that.

             SPARKY
      You’re spending too much time in 
      the tank. Soon you won’t remember 
      your own name without a dunk.

Bannister runs his thumb over the “S” files. Reads aloud: 

             BANNISTER
      Salt, Samuel, Sarnoff... no Sanchez.

OFF BANNISTER’S what-the-fuck... TIME CUT TO:

LATER: Sparky and Bannister sit on the floor, sorting through 
files. They’ve turned the office upside down searching.

             BANNISTER 
      Someone stole it. 

             SPARKY
      You sure you remembered to put it 
      away after her last session? 

             BANNISTER
      How could I forget? 
        (off his look)
      My memory’s fine, okay? I wasn’t 
      even using the tanks then. Rosa’s 
      last session was months ago. I 
      haven’t even seen her since... Mae 
      left.

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - DAY (FLASHBACK)

It’s Bannister’s first consultation with Mae. He points to 
the filing cabinet. 

             BANNISTER
      ... The living have secrets. So I 
      keep my records hard copy. 

She looks at it with interest as we CUT TO:

LATER: Mae brings a waffle dinner to Bannister’s office.

            MAE
      Hurry up. Before it gets cold.

He locks up his files, dialing the code. He glances back. 
Instead of setting the table, Mae watches him intensely. 

BACK TO SCENE: Bannister turns to Sparky, the truth dawning.

             BANNISTER
      Mae was the only one with access... 

Sparky anticipates where this is going. He shakes his head.

             SPARKY
      No way she would steal some random 
      file. Besides, I woulda noticed her 
      rifling through the cabinets.

Bannister’s glance falls on the empty blue VASE.

             BANNISTER
      That last day. When she brought the 
      flowers. Were you with her?

             SPARKY
      ‘Course I was.

             BANNISTER
      The whole time?

Sparky hesitates as he glances at the vase. CUT TO:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - DAY (REMINISCENCE)

SPARKY’S POV: The same vase, now full of hyacinths, sits on a 
small coffee table in the lobby. Sparky and Mae sit on the 
Murphy bed. Toast coffee mugs. Mae pours liquor into hers. 

             MAE
      Nightcap?

             SPARKY
      It’s seven a.m.

             MAE
      Not in my time zone. 

Sparky nods. She pours a healthy shot into his drink. 

             MAE 
      To you, Sparky!

She toasts him. They each swig, happily. 

             MAE 
      How come they call you Sparky, 
      anyway? From the...

She mimes putting electrodes on her head. He shakes his head:

             SPARKY
      Nah. Before that. During the war, I 
      did munitions work. Twisting little 
      wires in little drones.

             MAE
      Your patriotic duty.

             SPARKY
      I wanted to do my part. And, we 
      needed the money.

                   MAE
	   “We”?


             SPARKY
 	  My ex. 


             MAE
      You had a wife?

             SPARKY
      A son, too. It didn’t last. I tried 
      to do right by them. Even stopped 
      drinking...
        (wistful, then)
      But the rub about being dry... The 
      mind is clear. But the hands... 
      they shake. 
        (then)
      Was only a couple wires. But it lit 
      up the place like Independence Day. 

             MAE
      Was anyone hurt?

             SPARKY
        (shakes his head)
      Hurt the bottom line. Management 
      shut the plant. Moved the work to 
      bots. That last day, with everyone 
      off to the breadlines and some off 
      to enlist... I remember how they 
      said it... “Thanks a lot, Sparky.” 
      “Nice one, Sparky.” Like they were 
      spitting the word. The wife packed 
      up and left - not that I blame her. 
      I went back to the bottle. 

             SPARKY
      Only thing saved me from drowning 
      in it was Bannister. He takes to 
      lost causes like I take to liquor. 
        (raises his mug)
      So we got ourselves this détente.

He swallows the booze, trying to forget. Mae studies him.

             MAE
      What’s your real name?

Sparky hesitates. It’s been a long time since anyone’s asked.

             SPARKY
      George. George Sanders.

             MAE
      A good name. It suits you.

Despite himself, Sparky’s eyes water. He hides it: 

             SPARKY
      ‘Scuse me. Gonna hit the head.

She nods. Sips her drink. Sparky makes his way to:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - BATHROOM - DAY (REMINISCENCE)

As Sparks takes a piss, he glances at his reflection in a 
cracked mirror over the urinal. Whispers at it:

             SPARKY
      George. George Sanders...

His voice cracks over his last name. As though years of 
disuse have made it impossible to say. Then he hears...

A METAL SCRAPE from outside. George hurriedly zips his pants.

             SPARKY 
      You all right, Mae?

             MAE 
      Fine, Sparky!

As Sparky washes his hands, PULL OUT TO REVEAL:

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - DAY - INTERCUT

Sparky’s in the tank as Bannister watches his memory.

Bannister crosses to the filing cabinet. Opens it. Hears the 
same METAL SCRAPE. He punches the cabinet, furious. Then:

ON SCREEN: Sparky walks out of the bathroom to find...

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - LOBBY - DAY (REMINISCENCE) 

Mae leaving Bannister’s office. He studies her, suspicious. 
She points to the vase of flowers she’s left on the office 
window ledge. 

             MAE
      Just dropped off the flowers. Don’t 
      they look sweet?

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - DAY - INTERCUT

Bannister stares from the screen to the vase on his window. 
Then, he grabs the vase and SMASHES it onto the ground. 

LATER: Sparky dries off from the tank. He stares at the 
smashed vase. Cautions his friend. 

             SPARKY
      Don’t jump to conclusions, Nick.

But Bannister’s mind is already made up. He heads for the 
door as Sparky calls after him:

             SPARKY 
      At least get the tooth fixed!

EXT. 5TH AVENUE / 42ND STREET - DAY

Tooth not fixed, Bannister works his way toward a massive 
stone building. Over its towering arches are etched:

“NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY.” But an LED “HOUSING” sign now 
hangs over the word “Library.” The once-great cultural 
institution is now a tenement building. 

INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY TENEMENT - ATRIUM - DAY

A DOORMAN snoozes at the checkout counter. Bannister RINGS 
the ancient bell on his desk, startling him awake.

             BANNISTER
      Sanchez? Rosa Sanchez’s residence.

The doorman stares, rummages through an old CARD CATALOGUE 
whose files have been repurposed to hold addresses.

             DOORMAN
      West wing, 206. Between Ancient 
      Greece and Poetry.

Bannister pushes through a turnstile. Enters a great hall 
that now serves as a common atrium where some thug tenants 
barbecue (using old books for kindling). He turns into:

INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY - WEST WING - DAY

The shelves, now boarded with drywall, serve as walls for row 
after row of small, windowless apartments. 

Bannister finds the area where the Poetry and Greek wings 
meet. Knocks at door 206. SOPHIA (20s) wearily answers.

             BANNISTER
      I’m looking for Rosa? 

Sophia looks him over head to toe - sizing him up.

             SOPHIA
      You Freddy’s pop?
        (off his confusion)
      How good a friend were you?

             BANNISTER
      We have business together.

             SOPHIA
      You mean had. 
        (off his look)
      Rosa’s dead. Accident at the docks 
      almost three months ago, now.

             BANNISTER
      I’m so sorry. Are you family?

             SOPHIA
      Just a roommate. Two years we 
      shared this dump - but I barely 
      knew her. Only person she talked to 
      was Freddy.

             BANNISTER
      Who’s Freddy?

             SOPHIA
      Her son? 
        (off his look)
      You didn’t know about Freddy? 

She trudges to a dingy bookcase. Finds a PHOTO of FREDDY (3), 
a dimpled, brown-eyed boy. This is FREDDY.

             BANNISTER
      Cute kid. Who’s the father?

             SOPHIA
      No idea. Rosa never said.

             BANNISTER
      Then where’s Freddy now?

             SOPHIA
      My guess, bottom of the Hudson. 
      Disappeared the same night as his 
      momma. He was only three. Easy to 
      miss a little guy like that in a 
      river drag.
        (then)
      Real shit hand those two got. Sorry 
      to break it to you.

Bannister nods, grim. Sophia presses the door closed. 
Bannister turns down a hall, defeated. As he walks, we see 
the SHADOW of a man following him. CUT TO:

EXT. MEATPACKING DISTRICT - HIGH LINE - DAY

The raised subway / public garden of the HIGH LINE is now 
filled with overgrown weeds and graffiti and surrounded by 
water. The erstwhile meatpacking district is totally flooded: 
transformed into a modern-day Venice. 

10th Ave. is now a BUSTLING WATER MARKET crammed with 
colorful canoes, packed flank to flank. In each canoe, 
merchants sell hot dogs; baos; souvenirs; betel-chews, etc.

A lattice of small wooden planks links the canoes so merchants 
can walk from one boat to another. Bannister skirts along the 
bridged walkways. On his SMARTPHONE he consults an article:

“Mother and son illegals presumed drowned in Flower Market 
Accident.” Above it is a photograph of Rosa’s bloated body, 
floating in the water by a dock, surrounded by flower petals. 

Bannister beelines for the cluster of canoes brimming with 
flowers. This is the FLOATING FLOWER MARKET where Rosa died.


He approaches an OLD LADY cutting thorns off roses.

             BANNISTER
      Did you know Rosa Sanchez? She 
      worked here until an accident-

The Old Lady waves him off, dismissive.

QUICK CUTS OF Bannister approaching other boat workers. All 
of them ignore him or wave him away. HOURS LATER...

Bannister, sweating and exhausted, talks to a SUNBURNT MAN 
sweeping dead petals from his canoe.

             BANNISTER 
      I just have a couple questions 
      about Rosa. I won’t mention you-

             SUNBURNT MAN
      Told you. Never heard of her.

Sunburnt’s stonewalling. Bannister looks away, disappointed. 
Clocks TITCH (6), a skinny, precocious girl watching intently 
from a distant flower boat. He calls out:

             BANNISTER
      Hey! 
        (she stands, skittish)
      Wait. I just want to talk...

Titch gives him the finger. Takes the planks, jumping from 
boat to boat, to disappear further into the market. Bannister 
follows: steps onto Sunburnt’s boat. Sunburnt swats at him: 

             BANNISTER 
      Sorry...

Bannister makes his way from boat to boat, toward the girl. 
She sees him coming. Gains speed, running nimbly as a colt. 

Bannister’s progress is clumsier. The vendors curse and swat 
at him as he leaps onto their boats. He gets tangled in the 
plastic clotheslines of a boat selling secondhand clothes. 

He leaps onto a food boat. His bad leg gives out. And he 
falls fast - catching himself centimeters from faceplanting 
in a boiling bowl of soup. Meanwhile...

Titch has reached the far shore. Bannister picks himself up. 
Begins leaping the final boats toward her. 

Titch sees him coming - runs into the street just as a 
RICKSHAW bears down upon her. 

At the last moment, she stumbles backward, out of harm’s 
way... and into Bannister’s arms. She struggles against his 
grip:
    
             TITCH
      Stop crampin’ me. I got papers, pig.

             BANNISTER
      I’m not a cop. I’m just a friend of 
      Rosa Sanchez’s who wants to help.
        (releasing her slightly)
      What’s your name? 

             TITCH
      Titch. 

             BANNISTER
      You knew Rosa, didn’t you?

             TITCH
        (shrugs, noncommittal)
      Freddy and me hung.

             BANNISTER
      You hang the day of the accident?

             TITCH
      Accident my ass. Sewer rats like us 
      don’t slip off no boards. And we 
      don’t drown ‘less you hold us down.

             BANNISTER
      So what do you think happened?

             TITCH
      Ask the bitch that took Freddy! 
        (off his look)
      I told the pigs - but they don’t 
      see shit ‘less it goes down in a 
      penthouse.

She spits on the ground, jaded beyond her years.

             BANNISTER
      I care. Tell me about this woman 
      you saw with Freddy. 

             TITCH
      Some redhead bitch, bought flowers 
      from Rosa that same day. Didn’t 
      even haggle coin. Shoulda known 
      shit was up. She was even nice to 
      Freddy. But something ‘bout how she 
      looked at him gave me the creeps.


             BANNISTER
      Did she give Rosa the creeps?

             TITCH
      Not until the very end. Red 
      whispered something to her. 
      Whatever it was - Rosa goes gringo 
      blanco. Starts crying. 

             BANNISTER
      What happened next?

             TITCH
      Hell if I know. Shit was getting 
      too adult. I bailed.

             BANNISTER
      Did you see the woman again?

             TITCH
        (nods)
      That night, Freddy fished off the 
      docks - while Rosa hosed boat. I 
      was bringing him some bait when I 
      hear Rosa screaming, “Run, Freddy, 
      Run!” Next thing I know, that crazy 
      redhead comes out of nowhere. Grabs 
      Freddy and books it with him crying 
      his goddamn head off. Never saw 
      either of ‘em again. 

             BANNISTER
      The woman who took Freddy. This her? 

Bannister opens a photo of Mae on his watch. The girl nods:

             TITCH
      That’s her all right.

OFF the photo of Mae, smiling for Bannister’s lens, CUT TO:

EXT. HIGH LINE - SUNSET

Bannister stares at Mae’s photo as the boaters pack up their 
wares and hose down their boats.

             BANNISTER 
      Who was she? Who, when not with me?

PUSH IN on the photo’s pixilated colors. These Seurat dots 
MORPH into flower petals floating in the now-empty canal. 

PULL OUT to reveal it’s night. The boats are gone. The 
markets closed. Bannister is alone. He pockets Mae’s photo. 
Heads for home. Walks into: 

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT

A quiet underpass. Bannister takes the pedestrian sidewalk as 
an automated car whizzes past silently. Behind him, he hears 
footsteps, gaining speed. 

Bannister glances back, but it’s too dark to see the other 
pedestrian. He picks up his pace. So do the footsteps...

Headlights from a passing car cast against the tunnel wall 
the shadow of: the man behind Bannister as he pulls out a 
BATON and charges toward him. Bannister turns just as...

WHAM. The baton SMASHES into his face. CUT TO BLACK. 

A long moment of DARKNESS, then...

             MAE 
      Are you awake?

INT. BANNISTER’S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Bannister blinks awake. He’s back in his own bed, lying 
curled toward the window. Mae lies behind him, her leg thrown 
over his body. She hoists herself up. Whispers:

             MAE
      I love you.

Bannister closes his eyes, taking in the confession.

             MAE 
      You can say it back, you know. 

He turns on his back. Stares up at her. Says nothing.

             BANNISTER
      Lot of people say it. Mean it, too. 
      Till time makes liars of ‘em.

             MAE
      You only believe in truths you can 
      control. How does it feel, being so 
      honest?

Disappointed, she drops back onto the bed. Bannister turns 
back on his side. Stares silently into the night. CUT TO:

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Bannister blinks awake. Finds himself in a white, antiseptic 
room. An IV in his wrist. Sparky leans in toward him: 

             SPARKY
      You’re awake. Thank god. The docs 
      kept you under while they patched 
      you. Touch and go, but now you’re 
      good as new. Even fixed the tooth.

Bannister touches his mouth. Finds a shiny new tooth to 
replace the missing one. 

             BANNISTER
      How long have I been here?

             SPARKY
      Little over a week. Rickshaw found 
      you half-dead in the street. You 
      don’t remember what happened?

Bannister thinks back, recalls nothing. 

             BANNISTER
      No.
        (rising from bed)
      But I will.

He sits up in bed. Rips out the IV, determined. CUT TO:

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

As before, Bannister hears footsteps. Turns just as a BATON 
hits him in the face. Banister hits the ground. Stares up at 
his attacker: sees the backlit figure of a man we’ll come to 
know as DENTS (40s), huge with a deeply-SCARRED NECK.

Bannister tries to pick himself up, but Dents steps on his bad 
leg. Bannister yells in agony. Dents showers him with blows 
from the baton. Through his ringing ears, Bannister hears:

             DENTS 
      Forget about the girl. She’s not 
      your business no more.

As Bannister bleeds on the ground, Dents spits out a betel-
chew shell and walks away. The last thing Bannister sees 
before blacking out is its GOLD SHELL rolling toward him. 

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - NIGHT

The SCREEN is frozen on the gold betel-shell. Sparky tries to 
help Bannister out of the tank, but Bannister takes out his 
respirator and insists:

             BANNISTER
      Again.

             SPARKY
      You wanna get burned? Have this 
      beatdown in your brain forever? 

             BANNISTER
      I’ll do it till the image is 
      crystal fucking clear. Again.
        (lifts the respirator)
      With a little more juice.

Sparky wrenches the HEADPIECE off Bannister’s head. Throws it 
against the ground. Bannister leaps out of the tank, furious. 

             BANNISTER 
      What are you doing?

             SPARKY
      Saving your junky ass.
        (off the screen image)
      While you were reliving your time as 
      a human piñata, I did some digging. 
      I think I can place this guy.

Sparky REWINDS Bannister’s reminiscence. FREEZES on a frame 
where a passing SmartCar vaguely illuminates Dents’s face. 
Bannister studies the thug’s snarling mug and scarred neck. 

             SPARKY 
      Recognize this?
        (Bannister shakes his head)
      Funny. All this time you been 
      chasing Mae. Reliving the past. But 
      it’s always been your past. Through 
      your eyes.

He pulls MAE’S FILE. Plugs her REMINISCENCE in the computer. 
ON SCREEN, a familiar scene plays:

INT. COCONUT CLUB - STAGE - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae’s POV as she slowly walks onto the stage of the club. 
Steps into the bright spotlight. She approaches a mic. 

Mae faces an audience of shadowed men. Ignores a catcall. A 
PIANIST begins to play. She begins to sing:

             MAE
      When I grow too old to dream / I’ll 
      have you to remember / When I grow 
      too old to dream / Your love will 
      live in my heart...

As she sings, she looks around - her eye falling on several 
shadowed customers. 

             SPARKY 
      Now watch...

             MAE 
      So kiss me, my sweet / And so let 
      us part / And when I grow too old 
      to dream...

Mae’s glance falls to the back corner of the room. A man 
LIGHTS a cigarette. In the glow of his match, we see the 
faint outline of the same silhouette. It’s DENTS.

             MAE 
      Your love will live in my heart...

INT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - OFFICE - NIGHT - INTERCUT

Bannister stares at the dual images, concludes:

             BANNISTER
      He was watching her. 

Bannister PRINTS the frozen image of Dents’s face.

             SPARKY
      What are you doing?

             BANNISTER
      I find him, I find Mae. 

He pockets the image. Heads for the door, but Sparky warns:

             SPARKY
      Unless she’s lost. Lost person’s 
      like a lost memory. You can’t find 
      a thing defined by absence. 
        (off his look)
      In the time you knew her, how much 
      did you really know her? How much 
      did you really look?

             BANNISTER
      I didn’t need to. She was always 
      right there.

             SPARKY
      Women. So simple till they leave 
      you. Then, how infinitely complex 
      they become.

             BANNISTER
      Guess you’d know, Sparky.

He steps out. Slams the door behind him. 

CUT TO:

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

A shut door. Bannister knocks three times. A shifty JANITOR 
chewing on a toothpick opens the door and sizes Bannister up. 
Bannister bribes him with some coin. The Janitor spits the 
toothpick out. Then opens the door and beckons him into...

INT. WHITE HALL - NIGHT

A long, sterile hall gleaming like a futuristic spaceship. 
The hall is lined with doors; each with a small window 
covered by a sliding panel. As they walk down the hall, the 
Janitor opens the panels. Lets Bannister peek inside.

Behind each door is a 10x10 padded, soundproof room. In each 
antiseptic room, a person wearing a pair of GOGGLES and a 
WIRED, FUTURISTIC BODYSUIT gyrates and moans sexually. 

This is a SEX SHOP: the newest way to safely indulge every 
fantasy. The goggles let the user view any fantasy from a 
first-person perspective, while the wired bodysuit provides 
corresponding physical stimulation to nerve endings.

It’s a tableau of erotic dumbshows. They pass a fat man 
pantomiming getting spanked; a woman taking part in an 
invisible threesome; a thin man choking his invisible mate. 
Finally, they reach the end of the hall... 

A LITHE WOMAN moans as she straddles an invisible partner. 
Bannister watches her a beat, then nods at the Janitor. 

The Janitor silently unlocks the door to the room...

INT. SEX ROOM - NIGHT

Bannister strolls into the padded room, past the gyrating 
woman who’s moaning, oblivious, in her own digital fantasy. 


             LITHE WOMAN
      Fuck... fuck... fuck...

Bannister flips the switch in a CONTROL PANEL, turning the 
simulation off. The woman plummets from ecstacy to annoyance.

             LITHE WOMAN 
      FUCK! What the fuck!

She rips off her goggles to reveal she’s - AVERY, the D.A. 

             BANNISTER
      You weren’t returning my calls. 
      Thought I could catch you here in 
      private. I need help.

             AVERY
      You screw my deposition, then you 
      screwed my screw, and now you 
      expect my help? 

             BANNISTER
      I’m running out of friends, Avery.

Her anger softens as she sees he’s in bad shape. 

             AVERY
      Must be if you’ve come to me. 

             BANNISTER
      I’m sorry about the deposition. I 
      know Big Joe’s a big catch for you.

             AVERY
      Was. Someone turned Big Joe into 
      tiger kibble.

             BANNISTER
        (poker-faced)
      Any idea who?

             AVERY
      Witnesses were too hopped on betel 
      to help. And the D.A.’s office is 
      not about to waste resources playing 
      avenging angel for a psychopathic 
      mobster. Whoever did it got lucky.
        (then, significant)
      He should try to stay that way. 

             BANNISTER
      No one’s a miser with luck. Only 
      way to use it is to use it up.

Avery sees he’s not backing down. She relents:

             AVERY
      What do you want?

             BANNISTER
      Your gov file access. I need an ID 
      on this guy.

Bannister pulls out the printout of DENTS’s image.

             AVERY
      You’re looking for him because...

             BANNISTER
      We have a mutual friend.

             AVERY
      This about that girl again? 
        (off his look)
      Tell you what, I’ll spot you an hour 
      in this place. You can bang a simu 
      of her. Or a dozen simus of her. Any 
      way you want. No judgments. Just get 
      her out of your head.

             BANNISTER
      Please. Avery.

He looks down at the image of Dents. She swats it away. 

             AVERY
      You don’t need my files. I know 
      that sociopath. Name’s Colin Dents. 
      Used to be a cop. 

             BANNISTER
      Used to be?

             AVERY
      Ran the beat in Boston. Then got 
      transferred here. We fast saw why. 
      He was too bent even for our 
      crooked force. We could never prove 
      it, but word was, he was running 
      side scams for extra coin. 
      Blackmail, intimidation, taking 
      cuts of betel sales. Disappearing 
      key witnesses - and I’m not just 
      talking gang bangers. I’m talking 
      women and children.
        (then)
      This sonofabitch was so bad, his own 
      men tried to burn him to the ground. 

             AVERY
      ‘Course fire can’t kill the devil. 
      But it did leave some pretty scars.
        (off Dents’s scarred neck)
      He never bothered to patch ‘em. 
      Wears ‘em as a badge of pride. 

             BANNISTER
      Any idea where he is now?

             AVERY
      Force suspended him indefinitely. So 
      he did what any other agro-sociopath 
      looking for a dayjob does. 

             BANNISTER
      He went private? 

             AVERY
      Penthouses always need goons. He 
      moonlit with all the big fams: 
      Lius. Rochesters. Andruses. Sylvans-

             BANNISTER
      As in Walter Sylvan, NightLights 
      CEO?

             AVERY
        (nods)
      Know him?

             BANNISTER
      Met his wife once. Maybe it’s time 
      to get reacquainted.

             AVERY
      I doubt she’ll remember you-

             BANNISTER
      Don’t underestimate my charms.
        (kisses her forehead)
      Thanks, Avery. 

Avery wipes the spot he kissed her with the back of her hand - 
unaccustomed to human fluids. As Bannister leaves, she warns:

             AVERY
      Careful, Nick. Dents has quite the 
      body count. Hate to see you pad 
      that number.

But Bannister just waves as he crosses out the door...

EXT. SYLVAN TOWER - DAY

An opulent art deco highrise in the toniest part of town. 
Bannister stares up at the tower, impressed. Enters:

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - BUILDING LOBBY - DAY

A gilded lobby full of mirrors and mahogany. A BELLMAN 
studies Bannister as he approaches:

             BELLMAN
      Do you have an appointment?

             BANNISTER
        (bluffing)
      Yes. With Ms. Sylvan.

The Bellman consults his appointment book. 

             BELLMAN
      You’re Thomas?
        (off his nod)
      We were expecting you at two.

             BANNISTER
        (shrugs, cavalier)
      I’m a little early. 

             BELLMAN
      I suppose she won’t mind. 

The Bellman nods for Bannister to take the elevator. 

             BANNISTER
      Which floor’s hers?

             BELLMAN
      All of them. 

Confused, Bannister steps into the elevator. Sees...

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - ELEVATOR - DAY

... there’s only one button - “SYLVAN.” He presses it. As the 
brass doors churn closed and it whirs to life, CUT TO:

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - LOBBY - DAY

The elevator deposits Bannister in a massive space filled 
with Renaissance furniture and art. 

In the corner, a grand automatic piano plays Mozart. 
Bannister watches the keys, moving in ghostlike perfection. 

Heels click across the marble floor. A MAID approaches:

             MAID
      Mrs. Sylvan’s two o’clock?

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - GLASS ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

The Maid walks Bannister into a second glass elevator linking 
the ten floors of the Sylvan property. She hits “PENTHOUSE.”

They travel through floor after floor of immaculately-
preserved rooms - each decorated with original furniture from 
a different era of history (i.e., medieval, art deco, modern). 

             BANNISTER
      Quite a collection.

             MAID
      Mr. Sylvan was quite the collector. 
      Most of the MET was auctioned here.

             BANNISTER
      It barely looks lived-in.

             MAID
      Mrs. Sylvan prefers the penthouse. 
      And her son keeps mostly to his 
      room. You know high schoolers.

They stop on the penthouse floor. The Maid opens the door to:

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - PENTHOUSE - DAY

A vast open floor, entirely unfurnished, save a WALLED AREA 
in a corner of the penthouse. From within its thin walls 
comes the sound of TICKING. The Maid leads him toward it: 

             MAID
      This way, please. 

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - WALLED AREA - HALL - DAY

A portion of the walled area has been designed to look like 
the dingy hall of a modest apartment building. 

The TICKING comes from a WHITE DOOR at the end of the hall. 
Next to the door is a HAT RACK with a HAT and TWEED JACKET. 
The Maid gestures for Bannister to put them on. 

             MAID
      Try to stick with the script. 

The Maid turns on her heel. Leaves Bannister alone. Hesitant, 
he knocks. The door opens a crack. Out of it peeks:

TAMARA SYLVAN. Her hair is unbrushed. Her eyes wild. Her skin 
pale from lack of sun. She speaks in an urgent whisper:

             TAMARA
      You came!

She grabs him with a wiry arm and wrenches him inside.

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - WALLED AREA - TAMARA’S ROOM - DAY

The room has been decorated to look like an old studio 
apartment. Cuckoo clocks line the walls and lie in disrepair 
on the floor. The furnishings are sparse and threadbare.

             TAMARA
      Did anyone see you?

Bannister hesitates, unsure. After a beat, Tamara answers as 
though he’s already responded.

             TAMARA 
        (relieved)
      Thank god. Daddy would murder us. 
      I’ve been here since he found out. 
        (then, emotional)
      What are we going to do?

She collapses in a chair and weeps softly. Seems to wait for 
some movement from Bannister. He watches, impassive: 

             BANNISTER 
      Most burners are torn apart by the 
      worlds they straddle - the real one 
      around them and the one replaying 
      in their mind.

Tamara suddenly snaps out of her girlish reverie. Barks:

             TAMARA
      You’re supposed to stroke my hair!

When Bannister doesn’t move, she acts out his part of the 
script. Begins to stroke her own matted hair, soothing. 

             BANNISTER 
      Only the rich mold the world to 
      meet their delusions.

             BANNISTER
      Do you remember me? We met once-

Tamara covers her ears, traumatized by his words.

             TAMARA
      Walter, please-

             BANNISTER
      Name’s Bannister. I’m here about 
      Colin Dents. 

For a moment, Tamara looks confused. Then she recedes back 
into her burned memory. She gazes lovingly at her stomach. 

             TAMARA
      They say you can’t tell yet. But I 
      know it’s a boy.

She guides Bannister’s hand to her stomach. He pulls it away. 

             BANNISTER
      Your boy’s grown now.

She guides his hand to her stomach yet again.

             TAMARA
      Are you happy? Tell me you’re happy.

He wrenches his hand away. Rips off Walter’s hat. 

             TAMARA 
      Put it back on! Put it on!
        (then, back in trance)
      It’s silly, there’s no music.

             BANNISTER
      Dents worked security for you. Ring 
      a bell?

             TAMARA
      “Blue Danube.”

She laughs, hysterical. Then holds her hands out, adamant.

             TAMARA 
      Ask me to dance!

             BANNISTER
      Listen to me! A woman is dead. Her 
      son is missing. And your old 
      security guard is mixed up in it.

Tamara stares, trying to process. Then she closes her eyes. 
Sways slightly, as though listening to a song. 

             TAMARA
      I hear it, Walter... I hear-

She rests her head on Bannister’s shoulder. Rocks in a 
swaying box step. At a loss, Bannister DRAGS her to the door. 

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - WALLED AREA - HALL - DAY

Bannister pulls her down the half-constructed hall and out of 
the walled area into:

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - PENTHOUSE - DAY

The empty penthouse. He points to the tiny walled-off area 
meant to house Tamara’s delusions. 

             BANNISTER
      I’m done playing. Tell me about 
      Dents. 

Tamara’s eyes uncloud. She stares at him with near clarity.

             TAMARA
      You’d have to ask my husband.

             BANNISTER
      Your husband is dead.

             TAMARA
      Nonsense. Walter and I are 
      expecting our baby any day now...

She looks down at her stomach lovingly. Then balks. It’s so 
flat. She studies her hands - the wrinkled fingers.

             TAMARA 
      When are we?

             BANNISTER
      It’s been years, Tamara.

He ushers her to the window. She sees the ghost of her 
reflection in its glass. Touches her wrinkled cheek.

             TAMARA
      What a strange thing to happen to 
      one so young.
        (then, remembers)
      When did I change?

             BANNISTER
      Over time, like everything changes.

             TAMARA
      Not Walter’s tastes. Those stayed 
      fixed on the young and beautiful. 

             BANNISTER
      Did you know about his affair with 
      Rosa?

             TAMARA
      One of many flowers.

             BANNISTER
      Only this one was different. She 
      had a child. But now she’s dead. 
      And the child is missing. 

             TAMARA
      Walter never liked sharing. That’s 
      why he told Dents.

             BANNISTER
      Told him what?

             TAMARA
      Kill them. Kill them both. 

She shudders at the thought: revolted.

             BANNISTER
      You heard him order the hit?

             TAMARA
      He’s not the man I thought he’d be. 
      When you’re young, you think the 
      future will be one thing. You see 
      it play out like a string of 
      dominoes. You have no idea... the 
      things that are lined up.

             BANNISTER
      When Walter hired Dents, was there 
      another woman with him? 

             TAMARA
        (thinks a beat, then)
      Did anyone see you?

She begins to sway, dancing again. Her mind in the past:

             BANNISTER
      Was there a redhead with Dents? 

             TAMARA
      Thank god. Daddy would murder us... 
      I’ve been here since he found out. 

             BANNISTER
      Focus, Tamara! I need to know where 
      that woman is!

             TAMARA
        (still in reminiscence)
      What are we going to do?

             BANNISTER
        (sighs, defeated)
      Fine. At least tell me about Dents. 
      Do you know where he went?

             TAMARA
      That horrible man... He chased the 
      orbs... Like golden pearls.

             BANNISTER
      You mean betel? Dents was chewing? 

             TAMARA
      Down, down, down, he sank. Good 
      riddance, I say. Trash like him 
      belongs underground.

             BANNISTER
      Underground... You mean he went to 
      the Underground? 

Her eyes glaze over. Bannister shakes her roughly and yells:

             BANNISTER 
      Come on, Tamara. Stay with me.

Alerted by the yelling, a bodyguard barges in with the Maid 
and JEREMY SYLVAN (still wearing his high school uniform).

             JEREMY SYLVAN 
      What is going on?

             MAID
      I thought he was here for the 
      reenactment.

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      Get him out! Now!

Jeremy sees his mother crying, confused, in a corner. 

             JEREMY SYLVAN 
      Mom? Mommy?

Instead of speaking, she holds up the Walter’s old hat. 

             TAMARA
      Please...

Reluctant, Jeremy takes the hat in his hands. Puts it on. 
Gets ready to play his dead father’s part. 

Meanwhile, Bannister and the guard exchange blows. 

             TAMARA 
      They say you can’t tell yet. But I 
      know it’s a boy...

Tamara smiles, calm. Takes her son’s hand and places it on 
her belly. Utters the familiar line:

             TAMARA 
      Are you happy? Tell me you’re happy.

Jeremy holds up his hands, inviting her to dance:

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      I’m so happy I feel like dancing.

             TAMARA
      It’s silly. There’s no music!

Reluctantly, Jeremy plays his dead father’s part.

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      We don’t need music, Sparrow. 
      What’s your favorite song?

Another guard rushes in. They corner Bannister. Punch him in 
the gut. He doubles over. Meanwhile... 

             TAMARA
      “Blue Danube.”

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      On the count of three, imagine it. 
      From the very beginning. I will, 
      too.

The guards grab Bannister. Drag him towards the door. 

             JEREMY SYLVAN 
      One... two... three...

             TAMARA
        (closes her eyes, moved)
      I hear it, Walter. I hear it...

They dance to a song only they hear as Bannister’s dragged 
from the room. 

EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - NIGHT

Bannister, looking worse for wear, walks down a quiet street. 
He stops by a BOARDED UP area of the sidewalk. Atop the 
boards are a cluster of spent BETEL-SHELLS.

             BANNISTER 
      The only link to Mae was Dents. And 
      the only link to him was a bad 
      habit...

Bannister brushes the betel-shells aside. Then pries a plank 
of WOOD off the ground, revealing a set of stairs. 

             BANNISTER 
      So I chased it down to where bad 
      habits are a way of life...

As he descends, tilt up to a faded SUBWAY SIGN. 

             BANNISTER 
      The Underground.

INT. SUBWAY - NIGHT

The empty underground is lit by dim emergency lights. A Thai 
man plays the erhu - its strings screech like a dying cat. 
The subway’s been closed for years and is now a no-man’s land 
of lost souls and discarded trash.

Bannister sweeps some ancient newspapers off a subway seat 
and sits. Presently, a distant LIGHT shines from within the 
tunnel. The light glows brighter as the vehicle approaches. 
But it isn’t a train. Instead...

A MOTORBOAT, carting a platform made of old water bottles and 
debris, floats toward him in the brackish waters that have 
flooded the subway lines.

The boat’s CAPTAIN, a bum dressed in rags, stares up at 
Bannister, expectant. Bannister tosses him some coin. Then 
steps onto the boat’s platform. The Captain throws the boat 
into gear and tugs him into the tunnel...

INT. SUBWAY TUNNELS - NIGHT

In the flickering glow of the emergency lights, Bannister 
takes in the denizens of this underworld: An old woman bathes 
herself in the filthy water. A couple kids fish for detritus 
from a ledge in the tunnel. A burner claws at the walls, 
talking to himself. A homeless man with a dog warms a can of 
beans over a small fire.

Bannister passes through another tunnel. The water grows 
littered with small floating balls - BETEL-SHELLS. Bannister 
watches them bobbing up and down. Then:

The engine to the boat cuts out. Bannister looks around, 
curious about why they’ve stopped. The captain whistles to 
someone in the darkness. Before Bannister can react -

A bag is thrown over his head. His world goes dark as a few 
sets of strong arms grab him. CUT TO: 

INT. N/R TRAIN - NIGHT

The bag is pulled off Bannister’s head. He finds himself 
tied, arms akimbo, to the metal handrails inside an OLD 
SUBWAY TRAIN. The floor of the train puddles with water 
tinted pink from rust or blood. 

The people in the train look like commuters - if the next 
stop on the line was hell. Burners, homeless, and the insane 
sit in plastic chairs, jeering at Bannister.

At the end of the train are two makeshift thrones constructed 
of subway detritus. The thrones are flanked by two THUGS with 
machine guns. Suddenly, the doors at the end of the subway 
swing open. In enter...

THE JUSTICES: two pale, tall, androgynous individuals dressed 
in makeshift chainmail comprised of the watches, necklaces, 
and rings poached off of underground visitors. 

The CLERK, a broken-looking busker in a tattered hospital 
gown, stands. Calls down the subway train:

             CLERK
      Order! The tribunal is in session.

One of the thugs releases a burst of MACHINE GUN fire. 
Immediately, the train falls silent - save for a druggy on 
the side seats, puking quietly into his lap. 

             JUSTICE 1
      We are gathered here for the trial 
      of the flatlander...

The Clerk pulls Bannister’s license from his jacket. Reads: 

             CLERK
      Nicholas Bannister. Will you mount 
      a defense or admit guilt?

             BANNISTER
      I just came down here looking for a 
      couple friends.

             JUSTICE 1
      The flatlander stipulates to freely 
      entering our domain in search of 
      “friends.”

             JUSTICE 2
      Admission to the crime of trespass - 
      noted!

Justice 1 and 2 nod, solemnly. Then:

             CLERK
      On to the next charge. 

             BANNISTER
      What charge is that?

             JUSTICE 1
      If innocent, you need not know.

             JUSTICE 2
      If guilty, you already do.

             JUSTICE 1
      Who are these so-called friends you 
      seek? 

The Clerk clears his throat.

             CLERK
      I would like to enter into evidence 
      - Exhibit A and Exhibit B. 

The Clerk pulls the printout of Dents and a photo of Mae from 
Bannister’s jacket. Places them before the Justices - who 
scrutinize them silently. 

             CLERK 
        (off the photos)
      Exhibit A. Exhibit B. 

             JUSTICE 2
      Why would you seek these friends 
      here?

             BANNISTER
      They like betel. Stuff you can’t 
      get above ground. Metallics. So I 
      figured I might find ‘em here. 

             JUSTICE 1
      If you need to find your friends, 
      perhaps they aren’t so friendly. 

             JUSTICE 2
      Perhaps, indeed, they’re hiding 
      from you.

             JUSTICE 1
      Because, perhaps, you are a narc.

             BANNISTER
      I’m not a narc.

             JUSTICE 2
      A common refrain... for narcs. 

             JUSTICE 1
      They come here preaching 
      liberation...

             JUSTICE 2
      Rehabilitation. 

             JUSTICE 1
      They do not see - the dimensions we 
      inhabit here...
        (points to her head)
      Are far more wondrous than what 
      their sad, sober worlds conceive. 

             BANNISTER
        (mutters)
      Until they O.D.

             JUSTICE 1
      The body cannot always withstand 
      the bliss of the mind. It is of 
      little consequence.

             JUSTICE 2
      A hard concept for a narc to grasp. 

             BANNISTER
      I’m not a narc!

             JUSTICE 1
      So you said. Twice.

             JUSTICE 2
      Note: he protesteth too much.

The Justices share a look. The Clerk ventures: 

             CLERK
      Is the tribunal prepared to issue 
      its sentence? 

The Justices nod solemnly. 

      JUSTICE 1
	Trial by drowning.

	JUSTICE 2
	Trial by drowning. 

Bannister tries to protest - but the train erupts in loud 
cheers from the bloodthirsty crowd.

             JUSTICE 1
      If you survive, you prove your 
      innocence. 

             JUSTICE 2
      If you die, we confirm your guilt.

The thugs throw open the subway doors. Outside, more 
observers have gathered for the drowning. The thugs unchain 
his arms, but shackle his legs to long metal chains. 

             BANNISTER
      That doesn’t make sense.

             JUSTICE 1
      Our court values simplicity over 
      sense. Much more democratic.

             JUSTICE 2
      Everyone can be a simpleton. Not 
      everyone can be sensible.

The thugs remove Bannister’s watch. Hand it to the Justices. 

             CLERK
        (off Bannister’s look)
      Tribunal fees. 

Outside, the motorboat revs its engine. The crowd roars with 
anticipation. Bannister begins to sweat.

             JUSTICE 1
      Fear not. Justice will be served.

             JUSTICE 2
      The tribunal has never been wrong.

The thugs chain the loose ends of Bannister’s leg shackles to 
the motorboat. The boat REVS its engine as the crowd starts 
feverishly chanting: “Drown the Narc! Drown the Narc!”

Desperate, Bannister grabs the subway railing - straining 
against the pull of the boat. A thug SLAMS the butt of his 
gun into Bannister’s solar plexus. He crumples over, releases 
the railing and falls to the ground. 

The boat surges forward, dragging Bannister down the length 
of the train floor and out the door. A second before he drops 
into the water - Bannister GRABS onto the subway door. 

EXT. SUBWAY TRAIN - CONTINUOUS

Bannister hangs over the filthy water, clinging for his life. 
As the crowd screams around him, Bannister’s fingers start to 
slip. He has only a second left. Then, a voice rings out: 

             MAN 
      He’s not a narc! I can vouch! 

The crowd quiets as a wheelchair-bound man pushes through the 
crowd. It’s HANK, the vet Nick gave free reminiscences to.

INT. SUBWAY TERMINAL - DAY

A bonfire with vets and homeless gathered round. Bannister 
sits apart from the crowd with Hank - who turns the photo of 
Mae in his hands. 

             HANK
      Go home, man. You don’t belong here.

             BANNISTER
      Not till I get a lead on ‘em.

             HANK
      You’re shootin’ without a spotter, 
      Nick. This gal’s got you so spun-

             BANNISTER
      This isn’t just about Mae. My 
      client’s dead. Her son’s missing. 
      No one else cares. 

             HANK
      Don’t care too much. You’ll live 
      longer.
        (then, sighs, reluctant)
      Come with me.

Reluctant, Hank leads Bannister into a shabby TENT.

INT. HANK’S TENT - CONTINUOUS

The small space is equipped with a cot. An electric cooker. 
And a 3-D DOT-PRINTER. Hank presses a button - the printer 
whirs to life, creating an object.

             HANK
      You go around here, asking 
      questions about your girlfriend and 
      her partner - they’ll peg you for a 
      narc so fast - only thing’ll save 
      you is gills. Or this.

Hank reaches into a desk drawer. Hands Bannister a six-pack 
of metallic chews.

             BANNISTER
      What’s this?

             HANK
      Next best thing to gills. You gotta 
      blend.

Hank reaches for Bannister’s jacket. Rips the sleeves. 

             BANNISTER
      This is my good jacket!

             HANK
      That’s the problem.

Hank claps some dust onto it. Wrinkles the jacket’s collar. 
Studies the results critically. Then - 

             HANK 
      In case you don’t blend so good...

Hank crosses to his 3-D printer. Grabs the object it printed. 
A working plastic GUN. He places it in Bannister’s hands. 

             HANK 
      Completely untraceable. Holds six 
      rounds.

             BANNISTER
      Print me some extra bullets in case 
      the lynch mob starts up again?

             HANK
      If it does, you’ll have five extra. 
        (significant)
      Beats drowning.

Bannister nods his thanks. Heads for the door.

EXT. HANK’S TENT - CONTINUOUS

Bannister exits the tent. Feels the eyes of the others on 
him. Sizing him up as a flatlander.

He conspicuously takes a metallic chew from the bag. 
Swallows. The others turn away, suspicions allayed.

Bannister makes his way toward a darkened tunnel. As the 
blackness engulfs him. We begin a MONTAGE...

INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - DAYS LATER (MONTAGE)

Weary and rumpled, Bannister flashes the photos of Mae and 
Dents to a group of New-Age hippies. They wave him away.

As he leaves, a skinny drugged-up HIPPY grabs him in a kiss - 
pushes a BETEL-CHEW into his mouth with her tongue. CUT TO:

INT. SUBWAY LINE - DAYS LATER (MONTAGE)

Bannister moves through the tunnels on the platform of a 
motorboat. He flashes the photos at the other travelers. None 
recognize Mae or Dents. Dejected, he pops a betel-chew. 

INT. TUNNEL - DAYS LATER (MONTAGE)

Bannister sits, slumped on a narrow ledge overlooking the 
water. His clothes are tattered. His hair, disheveled. His 
eyes glazed. The betel has taken its toll. 

He attempts to show Mae’s photo to one of the druggies next 
to him. But it slips from his hand and falls into the water. 
The glow of her red hair is the last thing to be engulfed in 
the black waves. OFF this blackness

CUT TO:

INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - NIGHT

Bannister lies on the ground, sleeping off a bender. A boot 
nudges him awake. It belongs to a straggly-haired BURNOUT.

             BURNOUT
      You the guy flashing those photos 
      all the time?
        (off his look)
      I think I saw your man around the 
      Prince Street stop. He’s shopping 
      for metallics. And he ain't asking 
      nicely. 

Bannister pulls himself up. Starts to leave. 

             BURNOUT 
      Don’t I get some sugar?

He hands the burnout his entire bag of remaining betel-chews. 
Then disappears down the tunnel toward...

INT. PRINCE STREET STATION - SUBWAY PLATFORM - NIGHT

Gun in hand, Bannister races to the end of the tunnel. As he 
approaches Prince Street Station, he hears an argument. He 
ducks into the shadows and sees:

DENTS shaking down a scrawny, one-eyed dealer in an EYEPATCH.

             EYEPATCH
      Really, Dents. Precious metals is, 
      y’know... precious. I got no more.

Dents PULLS a knife. Uses it to flip up the dealer’s eyepatch 
- exposing a scarred socket.

             DENTS
      ‘Member what happened last time you 
      let me down?

Eyepatch swallows. Then squeezes out a tight smile.

             EYEPATCH
      I do. That’s why I got backup.

A JUNKY cohort sneaks up behind Dents. Levels a gun at the 
back of his head. Dents tsk-tsks Eyepatch. 

             DENTS
      You never learn, do you.

Without turning, he swings his knife back into Junky’s groin. 
Junky screams and drops, clutching his privates. 

Dents picks up the Junky’s gun. Aims it at Eyepatch. 

             DENTS 
      Give me everything you got.

Eyepatch hands him a bag of metallics. Dents takes it. Then -

SHOOTS Eyepatch in the foot. Eyepatch screams.

             DENTS 
      I said, everything.

Eyepatch hands over a second bag of metallics.

             EYEPATCH
      That’s over a grand worth.

             DENTS
      I’m short on coin. And you’re short 
      on manners. Let’s call it even.

Dents heads for the door. Eyepatch yells after him:

             EYEPATCH
      You’re fucked, man! You can come in 
      here and bust shit up. But you don’t 
      pay - the tribunal’ll have your ass. 

             DENTS
        (turns and smiles)
      Then they’d better not find out.

BAM. He shoots Eyepatch dead. Then turns to leave.

Bannister checks his gun is loaded. Follows Dents up the 
subway steps and out into...

EXT. MIDTOWN STREET - DAY

Bannister blinks - blinded by the first sun he’s seen in 
days. Ahead of him, Dents buys a BURNER PHONE from a coolie 
at a tech stand. Phone in hand, Dents ducks into...

EXT. MIDTOWN ALLEY - DAY

Bannister follows at a distance as Dents makes a call:

             DENTS
      Miss me? We gotta meet... I need 
      coin. Tide me to the payoff...

             BANNISTER 
        (whispers to himself)
      Mae...

A rickshaw chugs down the street. The gas motor drowns out 
Dents’s conversation. Bannister pushes closer. Hears:

             DENTS
      You ungrateful little bitch. We’re 
      partners, remember? I go down for 
      this - you do too. 
        (then, menacing)
      I’ll be seeing you real soon. 

Dents hangs up. Tosses the phone in the trash. A plume of 
smoke rises from its electronic parts. 

             BANNISTER
      I knew he would lead to Mae...

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT

Bannister follows Dents through Times Square: packed with the 
usual neon lights, suffocating crowds, and now... 

INTERACTIVE HOLOGRAPHS, created when storefront scanners ID 
pedestrians and present them with tailored, 3-D ads.

As Bannister passes a clothes shop - a DAPPER MAN holds a 
perfectly-sized suit up against Bannister. 

             DAPPER MAN
      Come on in! We’ve got your size!

Bannister pushes through the holograph. Sees Dents turning 
slowly in the street - enraptured by a holographic ad meant 
just for his eye. He ducks into a nearby shop.

Bannister tries to follow, but a pneumatic BLONDE blocks him.

             BLONDE
     Hey, handsome, want company?

             BANNISTER
     Not tonight.

He tries to walk around her. But she suddenly multiplies into 
three playful brunette TRIPLETS. 

             TRIPLETS
     How about us? The more the merrier.

The Triplets multiply into an array of SEXY GIRLS that circle 
Bannister, blocking his view of Dents.


             SEXY GIRLS
      Whatever your fantasy, we’ll give 
      you what you want.

The girls part, making a path to a SEX STORE with prostitutes 
in the window. Then they disappear.

Bannister scans the street wildly for Dents. No sign of him.

Then he spots his figure in the distance, walking briskly 
away with a familiar REDHEAD.

Bannister reacts. At long last: MAE. He follows them to...

EXT. DENTS’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A shitty Midtown apartment with a rusted fire escape. Dents 
escort Mae into the building. A few moments later - the light 
on a fifth floor apartment turns on. Dents walks to the 
window. Closes the shades.

Bannister checks his gun. Makes his way to the fire escape. 
Begins the climb to Dents’s flat. 

CUT TO:

EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT

The fire escape deposits Bannister at Dents’s kitchen window. 
From the next room come sounds of Dents and Mae.

             DENTS
      Take off your shirt. That’s right.
        (a beat, then)
      Now the skirt.

Bannister reacts, sickened to the core. He jimmies open the 
kitchen window. Crawls inside as he hears:

             DENTS
      Come here...

INT. DENTS’S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Old betel-shells and beer cans litter the floor. A flickering 
fluorescent light casts shadows of the dead flies caught in 
its plastic shade. Bannister creeps to the living room as:

             DENTS
      On your knees. 

He hears Dents unbuckle his belt. Moves toward the room: 

INT. DENTS’S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dents sits on a Murphy bed with his back to Bannister as Mae, 
her face obscured, kneels on the ground, giving him head. 

Bannister creeps up behind Dents. Takes out his gun and COLD 
COCKS him. Dents falls to the ground, out cold. 

Bannister turns the gun on Mae, who crawls for the window, 
hysterical. He levels the gun at the back of her head.

             BANNISTER
      Stop, Mae.

She turns to face him. Only the tear-stained face that looks 
up toward him isn’t Mae’s.

             REDHEAD
      Please, don’t hurt me...

Bannister realizes the woman’s the redheaded hooker he saw 
advertised in the sex shop hologram. He lowers his gun.

             BANNISTER
      Get out of here.

LATER: Dents’s living room is ransacked; his drawers emptied, 
closets spilled open, bed torn apart. Amidst this chaos is...

The sound of lovemaking. We follow it to its source...

INT. DENTS’S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Projected on the tile wall is Rosa’s reminiscence of her 
affair with Walter Sylvan. Below the projection...

Dents is zip-tied to the radiator, out cold. A FLASH DRIVE 
pings his face. Bounces off. 

             BANNISTER
      Time to wake up, Dents.

Bannister sits on the bathtub ledge, Rosa Sanchez’s STOLEN 
REMINISCENCE FILE open on his lap. It’s filled with hundreds 
of flash drives. Bannister flicks another one at Dents. As 
Dents comes to:

             BANNISTER
      I found the file Walter Sylvan 
      hired you and Mae to steal. Figured 
      you’d keep a copy for yourself. I 
      could call the cops right now. Or 
      we could work something out. 

             BANNISTER
        (leans in, conspiratorial)
     See, I’m not after you. All I want 
     is Mae... Tell me where she is. 

Dents stops struggling. Stares at Bannister. Begins to laugh.

             BANNISTER
     What’s so funny?

Dents smiles sadistically, a cat playing with his mouse.

             DENTS
     I seen a lotta dead men. One with 
     his throat cut open like a gill. 
     Another with guts tore open so wide 
     he had a picture window where his 
     belly button was. But the look on 
     their faces didn’t compare to...
        (off Bannister’s face)
     What Mae leaves behind. See, the 
     dead are resigned to their fates. 
     They know they been had. But Mae’s 
     victims? Even as they bleed out, 
     they still got that look. That hope. 
     Like maybe they got it all wrong. 
     Maybe they got her all wrong. 

             BANNISTER
     I have a pretty good picture of 
     Mae. And you. 

Bannister pulls out a syringe. Fills it with thiopental as:

             BANNISTER
     Walter Sylvan was dying. Wanted to 
     make sure his legacy was intact. 
     But there was a problem... Freddy.
        (flicks the syringe)
     You were hired to take care of the 
     kid and anything linking him back 
     to Sylvan’s estate. Including his 
     mother and her reminiscences. 

Bannister approaches with the needle. Dents eyes it, warily. 

             DENTS
     What the hell’s that?

             BANNISTER
     Thiopental. Gets you nice and 
     relaxed for the tank.

He STABS the syringe into Dents’s neck. As Dents struggles: 

             BANNISTER
      Go ahead and fight. Just makes the 
      sedative absorb faster.

Abruptly, Dents stops moving. Bannister pulls out the needle.

             BANNISTER
      Tell me about Mae. What did she do 
      with Freddy? Bring him to you? Kill 
      him herself?

Dents blinks slowly, the sedative kicking in.

             DENTS
      What’s the point if you can rip it 
      from my head?

             BANNISTER
      Context helps with the prompts. 
      Saves tank time.
        (then)
      Here’s an easy one. Where’s Mae now?

             DENTS
        (groggily)
      You gotta hard-on for yourself. 
      Think you’re some avenging hero?

We see him through Dents’s eyes: haggard from betel; pale; 
desperate; angry. Suddenly, our hero looks like a villain. 

             DENTS
      You’re just an empty man looking 
      for a woman to blame. 

Dents’s eyes close. His jaw slacks. Out cold. 

Bannister grabs a switchblade from his pocket. Leans over 
Dents. Considers a beat, then - CUTS the zip-ties off. 

He drops the blade to the ground. Grabs Dents under the 
shoulders. Drags his limp body toward the tub / makeshift 
tank. As he struggles to heave the body...

Dents’s eyes FLICK open. Sharp and focused. In a flash, he 
grabs the discarded SWITCHBLADE. STABS Bannister in the calf.

Bannister yells, stunned. Dents GRABS his knees - bringing 
him to the floor. He holds the knife to Bannister’s throat: 

             DENTS
      Betel’s an upper. Takes more than a 
      syringe of ‘pental to knock me out.

He raises the knife, readying for the kill strike. Then stops -

Bannister’s grabbed his gun from the back of his pants. He’s 
aiming square at Dents’s heart. A shocked moment, then - 

Dents dives out of the bathroom as... BAM! BAM! BAM! 
Bannister fires after him. But he’s already gone.

INT. DENTS’S APARTMENT BUILDING - STAIRS - NIGHT

Dents, disoriented from thiopental, bounds down the steps. 
Bannister follows, limping from his bleeding calf... 

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Dents runs across the busy street; looks for somewhere to 
run. BAM! Bannister’s exited the building and begun firing at 
him. A fleet of passing cabs provide momentary cover.

An old man in a RICKSHAW food stand works the corner. Dents 
brandishes his knife. Unhooks the food stand. Straddles the 
man’s trike and peels into traffic, away from Bannister.

Bannister looks around for another rickshaw. But his only 
option’s a passing cab. Bannister hails it. Climbs in. 

INT. CAB - NIGHT

Bannister slides behind the emergency steering wheel. 

             BANNISTER
      Follow that trike. 

             INTERFACE
      Invalid option. Please enter your 
      destination.

             BANNISTER
      Drive north. Fast!

             INTERFACE
      State law requires you fasten your 
      harness. 

Bannister jams his safety belt on. The car starts moving. But 
they’re going half the speed Dents is traveling at.

             BANNISTER
      Can you go faster?

             INTERFACE
      This vehicle optimizes speed and 
      safety via our patented algorithms 
      and 360-degree echolocution tech-

Bannister sees Dents make a sharp left. 

             BANNISTER
      Turn left onto Broadway! 

The cab pulls to the intersection. Slows for a yellow light.

             BANNISTER
      Keep going! 

             INTERFACE
      Invalid option. 
        (as the light changes)
      Red light.

Bannister grips the emergency steering wheel. Attempts to 
manually drive the car through the red. No dice.

             INTERFACE
      Manual override is for emergency 
      use only.

Bannister pounds the steering wheel, furious. Passengers in 
nearby cabs stare. Finally, the light changes. 

EXT. BROADWAY - CONTINUOUS

As Bannister’s cab turns onto the street, he sees Dents, in 
the distance, speeding past all the other cabs which, in 
collision-avoidance mode, part to make way for him. Bannister 
realizes to catch Dents, he’ll need to override the cab’s 
automation. He kicks the interface. Shatters it. 

             INTERFACE
        (with digital static)
      Damage detection: interface.

He pulls wires from behind the interface. 

             INTERFACE
      Damage detection: air conditioning. 
      Damage detection: speed control.

Bannister’s cab speeds up. Dents sees Bannister gaining 
speed. To lose him, Dents veers the WRONG WAY down a one-way 
street. Bannister tries to follow:

             BANNISTER
      Turn left! 

             INTERFACE
      Invalid option. One-way street.

They reach the next one-way street, with traffic flowing in 
the direction Bannister needs to travel.

             BANNISTER
      Left! Now!

The cab obeys. As they run parallel to Dents... 

Bannister fidgets with the wiring behind the interface. The 
windshield squirts fluid, the horn beeps, and the radio flips 
from channel to channel. Finally, he finds the right wire:

             INTERFACE
      Emergency manual control activated.

The recessed steering wheel extends toward Bannister. The 
brake and accelerator emerge from the floor. 

Bannister’s in control. He pulls the handbrake. Fishtails a 
180. Speeds down a connecting street to follow Dents. 

EXT. ONE-WAY STREET - CONTINUOUS

Bannister turns the wrong way down the busy one-way street. 
Dents is only a couple blocks ahead of him.

             INTERFACE
      Illegal action. One-way street-

He hurtles toward the oncoming traffic, but the cabs 
automatically pull to the side of the street, parting for him 
like guppies for a shark. 

Suddenly, an old rickshaw pulls into the street. Without 
automation - its driver isn’t fast enough to move out of the 
way. They’re headed for a CRASH course. With seconds to lose -

Bannister SLAMS on the brake. Pinwheels into the road. Cabs 
scatter to avoid him. Bannister’s car CRASHES into a fire 
hydrant. A cataract of water shoots into the air. 

             INTERFACE
      Impact detection-

Through the hydrant water, Bannister sees Dents turn down an 
alley. He FLOORS the cab. Peels away from the hydrant. 

EXT. MARKET STREETS - CONTINUOUS

Bannister chases Dents through market-packed streets. 
Pedestrians scream and duck for cover as they topple stalls. 

Dents turns sharply down a NARROW ALLEY with a flight of 
STAIRS leading down to a PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY skirting the 
waterline below. The walls of the tight alley sheer Dents’s 
trike, sending a cascade of sparks in his wake. 

Bannister pulls up to the alley - but his cab is too wide to 
fit down it. Instead, he revs his engine and speeds ahead on 
the market streets which overlook Dents’s walkway.

Bannister races along the high road, hugging the GUARDRAIL 
which overlooks the drop to Dents’s road and the water. He 
keeps his eye on Dents - gaining speed. 

Finally, Bannister pulls even to Dents. But there’s no way to 
get down to the waterline. He stares ahead at a curve in the 
road. Instead of slowing down, he speeds up. 

             INTERFACE
      Caution. Impact imminent-

Bannister floors the accelerator. SMASHES through the 
guardrail. The car FLIES into the air. The ground hurtles 
toward him as he nosedives toward certain death. Then:

EXT. PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY - CONTINUOUS

A second before impact, the car deploys both internal and 
external emergency airbags. The airbags break the cab’s fall. 
It lands on the walkway at the exact moment Dents’s trike 
smashes into it in an explosion of dust and chaos.

INT. CAB - INTERCUT

Bannister is momentarily stunned by the impact. Then:

             INTERFACE
      Airbags deployed...

Bannister unfastens his harness. The airbags begin to 
deflate. He pushes through them for the door. Meanwhile:

EXT. PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY - INTERCUT

Dents’s trike is a crumpled, burning scrap of metal. Bleeding, 
Dents crawls slowly away from the blazing car just as - 

BOOM - the fire reaches the trike’s engine and causes an 
explosion - raining trike bits all over the walkway. Dents 
lies flat on the floor, covering his head. When at last the 
world goes quiet and the debris stops falling - 

Dents turns around to inspect the damage. Finds himself 
staring straight up at the muzzle of Bannister’s gun. 
	
CUT TO:

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT

Bound and sedated, Dents sits naked in Mae’s tub as it fills 
with water. Bannister checks the water. Then straps the tank 
HELMET and RESPIRATOR on Dents. As he works, he talks aloud:

             BANNISTER
      I should have known not to waste 
      time talking to you. Men love their 
      secrets. Hold onto ‘em tighter than 
      their lovers, their money, their 
      morals... Secrets are the one thing 
      you actually can and do take with 
      you when you go... 
        (then)
      At least, they were.

Bannister injects a syringe into Dents’s neck. Tosses it on 
the floor near two other used syringes. 

             BANNISTER
      Extra thiopental.
        (off Dents’s glazed look)
      Won’t kill you. Though detox from 
      betel might. 

Succumbing to the drugs, Dents’s eyes close. Bannister frees 
Dents’s hands. He sinks into the water. 

Bannister crosses to his KIT. The computer shows Dents’s 
vitals at a steady low thrum. Satisfied, Bannister puts on 
his mic. Begins to prompt in a soothing voice:

             BANNISTER
      Imagine your mind like a long hall 
      with a series of doors...

On the computer, the model of Dents’s brain flashes with the 
silver synapses of his neurons. PUSH IN on the neurons as:

             BANNISTER
      Behind each of those doors is a 
      memory. In a moment, we will open a 
      door...

We race along the path of the synapsing neurons until they 
dead end at the image of a CLOSED WOODEN DOOR.

             BANNISTER
      A door that leads to Mae...

The door creaks open. We are transported to:

INT. COCONUT CLUB - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae finishes her song as Dents watches from the crowd. 

             MAE
      ... So let us part / And when I grow 
      too old to dream...

INT. MAE’S LOFT - INTERCUT

Bannister watches Mae on screen through Dents’s eyes. She 
looks soulful. Uncorrupted. This is the Mae he fell for.

             MAE
      Your love will live in my heart / 
      Your love will live in my heart...

The song ends. Mae walks off stage. Bannister prompts Dents:

             BANNISTER
      But you weren’t there to hear her 
      sing, were you?

We PUSH IN to the COMPUTER as another door pops up ON SCREEN:

EXT. COCONUT CLUB - BACK ALLEY - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

The back door swings open. Mae walks out: scrubbed of makeup 
and dressed casually - she looks younger, innocent almost. 

Dents watches from the shadows as Mae puts a cigarette 
between her lips. Fumbles through her purse for a light. 

While she’s preoccupied, he rushes toward her. He’s almost 
upon her when, instead of pulling a lighter from her purse... 

Mae pulls out a TASER. Aims it at Dents.

             MAE
      Not one step closer.

Dents steps out of the shadows, calm:

             DENTS
      Is that any way to treat an old pal?

             MAE
      I don’t know you, pal.

             DENTS
      But I know you. You died your hair. 
      Took some time to kick the chews, 
      by the looks of it. But you’re 
      still the same girl used to sell me 
      metallics at the clubs.
        (then)
      You’re Big Joe’s old nu. 

Mae circles Dents warily, Taser raised.

             MAE
      I don’t know who that is.

             DENTS
      Easy come, easy go, huh? Too bad. 
      Big Joe still has a hard-on for 
      you.... ‘Specially after you stole 
      all his betel and disappeared.

Panicked, Mae realizes she’s busted. She FIRES the Taser, but -

Dents KNOCKS it from her hands and PUSHES her to the ground. 
Presses his knee on her windpipe. As she chokes:

             DENTS
      Is that any way to treat a friend?
        (off her look)
      That’s right - we’re gonna be pals. 
      See, I’m not gonna rat you out. But 
      I expect a little quid pro quo.

She struggles to talk. He eases his knee off her throat. 

             MAE
      What do you want from me?

             DENTS
      I want you to do what you do best. 
        (takes out a photo of 
         Bannister)
      To him.

INT. MAE’S LOFT - INTERCUT

Bannister reacts to seeing his photo in Dents’s hand.

             BANNISTER
      So you chose the mark. And she 
      reeled him in?

ON SCREEN: Dents’s POV as he watches from afar as Sparky lets 
Mae into the office the morning she “lost her keys.” 

             BANNISTER
      	Seduced him... 

ON SCREEN: Dents watches from the shadows the first night Mae 
walks Bannister back to her loft. 

ON BANNISTER, who spits out the ugly conclusion.

             BANNISTER
      ... Then screwed him and never 
      looked back.

Suddenly, the computer starts BEEPING wildly and Dents begins 
to THRASH in the tank. He’s blanking. 

Bannister clutches his mic and tries to calm him:

             BANNISTER
      It’s all right. You took a misstep. 
      Opened an empty door. But now 
      you’re back... 

Bannister paces, searching for a different prompt. Then:

             BANNISTER
      After Mae made contact with the 
      mark - she met with you again.

Suddenly, Dents stops thrashing. The computer’s BEEPING 
abates. The SCREEN’S STATIC clears. In its place...

ON SCREEN: We see silver neurons rushing toward a series of 
doors. One of the doors swings open and reveals: 

INT. DENTS’S APARTMENT - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

Mae standing at the threshold to Dents’s place, crying.

             MAE
      I can’t do it. 

Dents roughly pulls her in. Shuts the door behind them. 

             MAE
      This woman whose file you want me 
      to steal. What’ll happen to her?

             DENTS
      Does it matter? 

             MAE
      It will to her... to Nick...

             DENTS
      Aw, that gimp screw a conscience 
      into you? Quick reminder- 

He PUNCHES her hard in the face. She CRASHES into the wall 
beneath the window. 

Dents hoists her up. Pushes her bloody face against the cold 
glass. In its reflection, we see him as he sneers:

             DENTS
      In our line of work, a conscience 
      gets you killed.

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT

Watching the scene, Bannister looks like he’s been punched. 

             BANNISTER
      It was you.

His own memory FLASHES to...

EXT. CABIN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

Mae, with a BRUISE on her cheek, as she sits on the porch 
with Bannister. She turns to him, hopeful: 

             MAE
      We could stay here. Find work. Who 
      needs the city? We’d be happy... 

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT - INTERCUT

Bannister speaks as much to himself as for the prompt: 

             BANNISTER
      She tried to back out. But I 
      brought her back here... to you.

ON SCREEN: Dents’s silver synapses take us to:
INT. COCONUT CLUB - LOUNGE - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae sits across from Dents. Slides an envelope to him. He 
opens it. Sees hundreds of FLASH DRIVES.

             DENTS
      You sure you got the whole file?

             MAE
        (nods, then)
      What are you gonna do with them?

Instead of answering, he stands to leave. Mae stops him:

             MAE
      You a pervert, Dents? You get off 
      watching other people make love? 

             DENTS
      You watched the flash drives.

Mae ignores the threat in his voice. Presses on:

             MAE 
      I recognized the girl’s boyfriend. 
      That rich guy, Sylvan, the one who 
      hired you?
        (off his look)
      Gotta be a lotta coin in a job for 
      him.

             DENTS
      You’ve done your part. By this time 
      tomorrow, it’ll all be over.

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT - INTERCUT

             BANNISTER
      But it wasn’t over, was it? 

ON SCREEN: Silver synapses take us to...

INT. BOAT - BELOW DECK - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE) 

Rosa cleans the flower boat. Suddenly, someone holds a knife 
to her throat. Dents. She sees him reflected in a cracked 
mirror hung over the door. 

             DENTS
      Where’s your son?

Suddenly, an ELECTRIC SIZZLE. Dents falls to the floor, 
spasming. Rosa stands over him with a TASER. MAE’S TASER.

             ROSA
      She told me you were coming.

As Dents writhes on the floor, Rosa threatens with the Taser:

             ROSA
      Tell your boss to leave my son and 
      me alone. We don’t want anything. 
      No money. No contact. No-

BAM. Dents sweeps her legs. Rosa goes down, the Taser 
clattering out of reach. As Rosa crawls to the door, Dents 
picks himself up. Retrieves his blade. But by the time he 
looks up... Rosa has fled the boat.

EXT. DOCKS - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Dents chases Rosa down the docks. She’s sure-footed on the 
boards, swiftly putting space between her and Dents. Then:

She sees Freddy on land, fishing by the water. 

             ROSA
      Run, Freddy! Run!

Freddy looks up at her, frozen in fear. 

She looks back at Dents, running with the BLADE in his hand. 
Knows she has to buy Freddy some time to escape.

Rosa stops in her tracks. Turns toward Dents. Then CHARGES 
him - trying to shove him off the docks.

She barrels into the thug with all her might. But he doesn’t 
fall. Instead, they struggle on the boards. Rosa fights like 
an animal. But she’s no match for Dents’s sheer size. 

He shoves her roughly to the ground. She hits her head on a 
deck ballast. Loses consciousness.

Dents kicks her body into the water. As it sinks...

Dents looks up. Sees Freddy alone and unprotected. Then -

A flash of motion from the shadows. MAE runs out. Whisks 
Freddy in her arms. And steals off into the night. 

INT. MAE’S LOFT - INTERCUT

Bannister is stunned by what he’s seen. Moved, he touches the 
screen where Mae runs away. Whispers:

             BANNISTER 
      You saved him... 

He smiles, a wave of relief cresting over him. Then prompts 
Dents, gloating: 

             BANNISTER
      She got away from you, you 
      sonofabitch.

Suddenly, a familiar BEEPING. The computer turns to STATIC 
and Dents begins to thrash. He’s blanking. 

Bannister realizes something’s wrong about his prompts. 

             BANNISTER
      No... 

He paces, trying to calm the spiral and soothe Dents.

             BANNISTER
      It’s all right. You opened an empty 
      door. But now, you’re back... Back 
      to something you know...

The beeping subsides somewhat. But Dents is still in a 
whitespace. Bannister sits, at a loss.

             BANNISTER
      Back to...

He strains to think of a prompt. Then, he spots a single 
strand of her red hair on Mae’s pillow. He picks it up. 
Gingerly turns it in his fingers. Thinks aloud:

             BANNISTER
      Mae...

Suddenly, the SCREEN comes to life with an image:

EXT. BANNISTER & ASSOCIATES - NIGHT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae glances around, furtive. Then scrawls on a note:

“Remember Orpheus and Eurydice? Don’t look back. Love, Mae”

             BANNISTER
        (realizes aloud)
      She came back. She came back 
      again... For me...

Mae slides the note under Bannister’s door. But as she 
leaves, Dents emerges from the shadows. Pulls a gun:

             DENTS
      You know what they say about 
      conscience...

INT. MAE’S LOFT - INTERCUT

Bannister stands abruptly, toppling his chair. Panicked by 
the turn this reminiscence is taking: 

             BANNISTER
      What did you do to Mae?

ON SCREEN: The image changes to:

INT. MAE’S LOFT (REMINISCENCE)

Mae tied, bloody and bruised, to the very chair Bannister was 
sitting in. Her eyes follow Dents as he circles her:

             DENTS
      Where is the boy?

Mae grits her teeth. Stares at him, silent.

WHAM! He backhands her across the face. She topples backward 
in her chair. It splinters beneath her. Mae groans. 

             DENTS
      Where is the boy?

Mae spits blood. Tries to sit up in her loosened constraints.

             DENTS
      Where is the boy?

Dents BACKHANDS her again, knocking her back to the ground.

Mae stares up at him - obstinately silent. He kneels before 
her. Speaks almost gently:

             DENTS
      Your silence touches me. Really. 
      It’s a gift. See, this is the fun 
      part for me. 

             DENTS
      Get some cardio - some company - 
      nice coffee machine for some 
      lattes...
        (checks his hands)
      I haven’t even bruised my knuckles 
      yet. But sooner or later, you’ll 
      tell me what I need to know. That’s 
      when things get easier for you. But 
      it’s my least-favorite part of the 
      job. 
        (then)
      Do you know how hard it is to get 
      bloodstains out? To scrub for DNA? 
      You’re a slender girl - but tall. 
      Disposing of your body - it’s gonna 
      take some work. So feel free to 
      prolong this. Make the good times 
      last. 

He grabs her by the hair. Yanks her to her feet. 

             DENTS
      You think that’s a problem?

Her eyes well up, she pouts - feigning vulnerability. 

             MAE
      Please... Don’t hurt me. 

She touches his shirt, seductive. Even tries to smile at him.

             MAE
      We can work something out... 
      Together... I know we can.

             DENTS
      There she is. My old Mae.

Her smiles widens, full of hope. Then - he slams her against 
the wall. Squeezes her throat. As she struggles:

             DENTS
      Save the theatrics, sweetheart. I 
      don’t give a shit about your 
      sympathetic backstory; your 
      charming jokes; your bedroom eyes. 
      Your pussy could be the portal to 
      Shangri-la for all I care. 
        (squeezes tighter)
      I’m not like other men. I don’t 
      wanna own you or tame you or fuck 
      you or flatter you. I’m not gonna 
      underestimate you or overvalue you. 
      I’m an enlightened man. A feminist. 


             DENTS
      When I look at you - I don’t see 
      man or woman, virgin or whore. I’m 
      not judging you. I’m just using you 
      for the one thing you’re good for.
        (then, as she turns blue)
      Tell me where the boy is.

He releases his grip. She falls against the wall, WHEEZING as 
she struggles to catch her breath.

             MAE
      Ya... Ya... You...

             DENTS
      Enunciate, bitch. Where’s the boy?

Finally, between gasps, Mae manages:

             MAE
      You already know. I told you once.

             DENTS
      You didn’t tell me shit-

             MAE
      My safe place... where I went when 
      I was a kid. 

Mae stares into Dents’s eyes. But we realize she’s not 
talking to him. She’s seeing past him and talking to...

INT. MAE’S LOFT - INTERCUT

... Bannister. As Bannister watches her through Dents’s POV - 
he realizes what she’s trying to tell him: 

	   MAE (ON SCREEN)
	The pink barn.

	BANNISTER
	The pink barn.

Mae nods like she can see Bannister through the screen.

             MAE (ON SCREEN)
      You already know the way.

INT. CABIN - HALL (FLASHBACK)

As before: Mae, in her bikini, tours Bannister’s house. She 
recalls her troubled childhood, describing:

             MAE 
      ... this little road that sounded 
      like something out of a fairy tale. 
      “Lullaby Lane.”

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT

ON SCREEN: Mae draws closer to Dents - her face filling the 
screen as she approaches. She speaks tenderly, lovingly:

             MAE
      You were right all along. 

She takes Dents’s hand, imagining that it is Bannister’s. 
Holds it to her cheek, genuinely moved.

             MAE
      People like us don’t fall in love. 
      We plummet to places dark and deep. 
      But love? Love is the thing we 
      climb to. If we can just hold on.
        (then)
      I wish I could have held on longer, 
      Nick.

At the sound of “Nick” - Dents grabs Mae roughly. 

             DENTS
      ‘The fuck do you think you’re 
      talking to?

Mae stares back at him, steely-eyed and clear. Tells Dents:

             MAE
      The man who’s going to kill you.

             DENTS
      You stupid bitch.

Enraged, he throws Mae to the ground. KICKS her stomach.

             DENTS
      You think someone’s coming for you? 

Losing control, he kicks her over and over and over again. 
Blood spurts. Bones crack. But he doesn’t stop. 

             DENTS
      Who’s gonna save you, bitch? Who’s 
      gonna save you now?

Dents gives a final kick, then steps away from Mae. Her limp 
body stares back at him. Her eyes are lifeless as a glass 
doll’s. But on her lips, the faintest trace of a smile.

INT. MAE’S LOFT - NIGHT

Bannister rips off his mic and turns away from the screen, 
unable to watch more. He cries quietly as...

ON SCREEN: Dents drags Mae’s body to the kitchen. Wraps her 
in garbage bags. As he works, we glimpse him in a mirror: his 
body splattered in blood; his eyes like a wild animal. 

Meanwhile, Bannister stifles his tears. Walks to the tank. 
Stares down at Dents, who floats calmly in the water.

Bannister takes out a SWITCHBLADE from his pocket - hovers it 
over Dents’s sleeping body. Draws the blade back. Then 
PLUNGES it toward Dents’s chest. Only, at the last minute -

Bannister stops himself. Hands shaking, he drops the blade. 
Then, he leans over Dents’s floating body and whispers:

             BANNISTER
      Mae was wrong. I won’t kill you. 
      Dying is easy - a few moments of 
      suffering, then - nothing. No fear, 
      no pain, no grief.
        (then)
      You deserve more than nothing. You 
      deserve to remember. 

Bannister puts his HEADSET back on. Prompts Dents:

             BANNISTER
      You are back in the long hall of 
      your mind. 

ON SCREEN: Silver synapses takes us back to Dents’s hall. As 
he glides down the hall, past a series of doors...

             BANNISTER
      At the end of the hall is a door. A 
      door you’ve tried to forget...

ON SCREEN: Dents sees a door boarded over with caution tape 
strung from it. He hesitates, fearful.

             BANNISTER
      A door you’ve boarded shut. But 
      it’s always been there... waiting. 

ON SCREEN: Dents’s eyes go wide with terror. He tries to back 
away from the door - but the prompt already has him in its 
lull - pulls him helpless to the door.

             BANNISTER
      You know what’s behind that door. 
      Your worst fear. Your worst pain.
        (then, smiles sadistic)
      How did you get your scars, Dents?

ON SCREEN: The doorknob begins to glow MOLTEN RED. Inside, we 
hear a fire raging. Dents screams, but his screams make no 
sound in the hall of his memories.

             BANNISTER
      Open the door. 

Despite himself, Dents grabs the knob. His hand sizzles and 
burns. The door swings open. He takes his hand off the knob - 
its skin has been seared off, exposing raw flesh.

He glances through the door. Inside is a RAGING INFERNO - his 
memory of the arson incident gone wrong. 

As he stands at the threshold, Dents’s clothes begin to burn. 
His hair smokes. The scars on his chest glow red and raw. 

             BANNISTER
      Feel the fire? Burning just like it 
      did that night. But this night will 
      never end. This night will be with 
      you for the rest of your life...
        (with evil relish)
      Step inside, Dents...

ON SCREEN: Dents steps into the fire. The flames engulf him. 
He begins to scream in anguish.

             BANNISTER
      ... Burn.

Bannister turns the KIT’s VOLTAGE from 25, past 50, into the 
red-zoned 75, then all the way to 100. The computer beeps 
ominously as it SEARS the fire irrevocably into Dents’s brain. 

Dents writhes in the tank, seized by pain that will never end.

Bannister puts on his hat. Walks silently from the room.

EXT. MEMORABILIA INC. POD - DAY

Sparky sits on a park bench, enjoying his lunch break. A 
shadow falls across him. He looks up, startled: 

             SPARKY
      Nick...
        (off his look)
      I’d ask how you’ve been - but from 
      the looks of it, I don’t wanna-

             BANNISTER
      I burned someone... 
        (before he can react)
      On purpose. 

His words hang in the air. Sparky panics a beat, confused. 
Then launches into a forced laugh. 

             SPARKY
      You’re such a kidder, Nick. Joking 
      about something like that. 
        (then, significant)
      Everyone knows it would get you 
      more time than murder. But I always 
      loved that perverse sense of humor-

             BANNISTER
      It’s not a joke.

Sparky sees Bannister’s not backing down. He hisses:

             SPARKY
      You gotta death wish? D.A.'ll pluck 
      that little confession right outta 
      my head with the tank- 

             BANNISTER
      I want them to.

He hands Sparky an envelope. Inside are TWO FLASH DRIVES.

             SPARKY
      What is this?

             BANNISTER
      Reminiscences. From Rosa Sanchez. 
      And Colin Dents - the man who 
      killed her and Mae... 

             SPARKY
      Mae, she’s...

He doesn’t have to finish the sentence. He knows from the 
look on Bannister’s face that Mae is dead. 

             BANNISTER
        (off the flash drives)
      I need you to get them to Avery. 

             SPARKY
      She’ll depose me. Ask about you.

             BANNISTER
      I’ll tell you everything she’ll 
      want to know. Including where 
      Rosa’s son is- 

             SPARKY
      Rosa has a son?

             BANNISTER
      The heir to the Sylvan estate.

             SPARKY
      Look, with this kind of 
      information, you could make a deal. 
      You could go to Avery yourself...

             BANNISTER
        (smiles, evasive)
      After Avery deposes you. You’ll get 
      a note explaining everything. 

             SPARKY
      Why not tell me now?

             BANNISTER
      All in good time. First, you have 
      to hear my full confession. 

He takes a seat next to Sparky. 

             BANNISTER
      It started with a walk-in; said 
      she’d lost her keys. Needed a 
      nudge...

CUT TO:

As he begins his story, 

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - TAMARA’S ROOM - DAY

Tamara waltzes with another “Walter,” this one played by her 
son, Jeremy. He wears his father’s hat as he hums “Blue Danube”and dances with his mother, lost in the moment. Then -

A door slams. Bannister strolls into the room. Jeremy 
immediately pulls away from Tamara. 

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      What the hell are you doing here?

             BANNISTER
      Security let me in.
        (flashes his gun)
      I can be quite persuasive.

Tamara continues dancing alone, unaware of the interruption.

             BANNISTER
      We need to talk.

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      I have nothing to say to you.

             BANNISTER
      Then I’ll talk, you listen.
        (off his look)
      I know the truth. You hired Dents 
      to kill Rosa and her son so you’d 
      get your daddy’s money to yourself.

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      This is bullshit.

             BANNISTER
      Your own mother tried to tell me. 
      Said “Walter” hired Dents for the 
      hits. She confused you and your 
      father. Easy to see how... 

He eyes Walter’s old hat, which is still perched on Jeremy’s 
head. Jeremy rips it off guiltily.

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      Mother gets confused-

             BANNISTER
      Not about this. Dents proved it 
      with a phone call.

EXT. MIDTOWN ALLEY - DAY (FLASHBACK) - INTERCUT

Bannister follows at a distance as Dents makes a call:

             DENTS
      I need coin. Tide me to the 
      payoff...
        (listens, then enraged)
      You ungrateful little bitch. We’re 
      partners. Remember? I go down for 
      this - you do too. 

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - TAMARA’S ROOM - INTERCUT

             BANNISTER
      I thought he was calling a woman I 
      was looking for. Now I know, she 
      was already dead. So was your 
      father. The dead don’t take 
      calls... but you do.

Bannister takes out a cell. Dials the number he saw Dents 
call. Jeremy’s phone begins to RING in his pocket.

             BANNISTER
      Shoulda tossed your phone.

Jeremy slumps into a chair. Tamara glances up from her 
dancing - a small part of her aware her son is in trouble. 

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      Name your price. I’ll have as much 
      as you need once the estate clears.

             BANNISTER
      I doubt that. Your half-brother 
      Freddy, though, he’ll be quite 
      comfortable. 

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      Freddy... he’s...

             BANNISTER
      Alive, yes... 

EXT. LULLABY LANE - FARMHOUSE WITH A PINK BARN - DAY

Hidden on the sidelines, Bannister watches a fleet of cop 
cars pull up to the quaint house. The house’s white-haired 
owner, MYRNA (60s), waits for them on the porch with a 
smiling brown-eyed boy... FREDDY. 

             BANNISTER
      Two hours ago, the cops picked him up 
      from a nice old lady on Lullaby Lane.

Sparky steps out of the first squad car. Walks sweetly up to 
Myrna and Freddy. He hands the boy a lollipop. The kid 
smiles. With Myrna’s encouragement, he takes Sparky’s hand. 
Lets him lead him to the squad car.

CUT BACK TO...

INT. SYLVAN TOWER - TAMARA’S ROOM - INTERCUT

Bannister continues his conversation with Jeremy:

             BANNISTER
      The cops will be here for you soon.

Jeremy visibly pales. But Tamara continues in her reverie. 
She crosses to the door. Opens it. Invites in a ghost:


             TAMARA
      Thank god. Daddy would murder us. 
      I’ve been here since he found out.
        (then, emotional)
      What are we going to do?

Tears stream down Jeremy’s face. Shaking, he asks Bannister:

             JEREMY SYLVAN
      How long do I have?

Bannister slides his gun to Jeremy. 

             BANNISTER
      Up to you. One bullet left.

Jeremy grabs the gun. Aims it at Bannister. Bannister shrugs:

             BANNISTER
      Go ahead. Just one more crime to 
      think back on when you’re rotting 
      away in jail. You’ll have a lot of 
      time to reminisce. But me? I’m 
      tired of looking back. The past is 
      a prison you can’t ever escape. So 
      please, take the shot.
        (then, significant)
      Between memory and oblivion - I 
      know which torture I’d choose.

Bannister rises and heads for the door, his back to Jeremy.

Tamara sees Jeremy cock the gun. She dimly wants to help - 
but she can’t shake loose of the past she’s stuck in. 

             TAMARA
      They say you can’t tell yet. But I 
      know it’s a-

BAM. Bannister stops in his tracks. Looks back. 

Jeremy is slumped on the table. His mother stands behind him, 
her dress stained with his blood. She places her dead son’s 
hand on her stomach.

             TAMARA 
      Are you happy? Tell me you’re happy.


CUT TO:

Bannister closes the door softly behind him. 

EXT. MANHATTAN STREETS - NIGHT

Alone, Bannister saunters down the streets, toward his home. 
Stares up at the NightLights that bloom in the sky.

One of the headlines reads: “NightLights future in jeopardy 
as heir, Jeremy Sylvan, arrested for murder.” 

             BANNISTER
      It’s been said that when one door 
      closes, another opens... 

Suddenly, the headline disappears. As do all the lights in 
the sky. They’re replaced with -

The simple beauty of the dark sky and its distant stars.

Bannister smiles at the sight. 

             BANNISTER
      As an archaeologist, I know better... 

He unlocks the door to his apartment. Steps inside to...

INT. DARK HALL - CONTINUOUS

A long, dark hall filled with doors. 

             BANNISTER
      There is no such thing as a closed 
      door. A finished moment... 

Bannister moves down the hall, glancing in the half-open 
doors. Inside each, he glimpses a VIGNETTE from his past: Mae 
slipping off her dress in the office; Mae and him drinking at 
the Coconut Club; Mae bringing him morning “dinner” in bed...

             BANNISTER
      Life is a hall filled with doors, 
      half-open. And behind every door...

More doors: Mae with her black eye, arguing with him on his 
stoop; Mae slamming Falks with a baseball bat.

             BANNISTER
      An infinity...

More doors: Mae laughs with Sparky in the office; Mae 
pleading with Dents for her life; Dents beating Mae.

Bannister pauses at a door. Inside, Mae lies broken on the 
floor. Her eyes cloud over as she takes her last breaths. 

             BANNISTER
      Even death is not an end. It is 
      simply another door. 
        (off Mae’s death)
      But it is not the one you stopped at. 

Bannister turns away from the door. Instead of being morose, 
he looks healthy, strong, full of hope. 

He opens another door: Inside, he writes a letter in his 
apartment. We catch the words: “...my house in the country...”

He tucks the letter into an envelope addressed to “Sparky.” 

Bannister turns back into the hall. Walks to a half-open door 
glowing with light. He pushes it open. The light takes us to:

INT. BANNISTER’S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

As before, the night of Bannister’s birthday. The cake is 
mostly eaten on the coffee table. Sparky sleeps on the floor.

Mae curls in Bannister’s lap on the couch. Smiles:

             MAE
      Tell me a story.

             BANNISTER
      What kind of story?

             MAE
      One with a happy ending. 

             BANNISTER
      No such thing as a happy ending. 
      All endings are sad. Especially if 
      the story was happy.

             MAE
      Then tell me a happy story and end 
      it at the middle. 

He places his hand against hers, touches her fingertips.

             BANNISTER
      Ever hear of Orpheus and Eurydice? 
      They were a couple. Very in love. 
      Till one day, Eurydice died. 

             MAE
      That’s a horrible story! 

             BANNISTER
      I’m not at the middle yet. Orpheus 
      descended to hell. Begged the devil 
      to release her. The devil agreed: 
      Orpheus could take Eurydice by the 
      hand and lead her back to the land 
      of the living. But there was one 
      condition. He couldn’t look back 
      until they’d escaped the gates of 
      hell or Eurydice would be stuck in 
      the underworld forever.

             MAE
      So what happened?

             BANNISTER
      Orpheus took her hand and led her 
      back to life. 

             MAE
      And they lived happily ever after?

This time, unlike the past reminiscence, Bannister responds:

             BANNISTER
      And they lived happily ever after. 

Bannister and Mae kiss. It’s the ending they never got. 

PULL OUT TO SEE the scene plays on a small screen in:

INT. BANNISTER’S CABIN - DAY

In a tank in his childhood bedroom floats Bannister. But he’s 
no longer the young lover kissing Mae in the reminiscence. 
Nor the haunted man who chased down her killer. 

Twenty years have passed. His skin is wrinkled. His eyes 
lined. His life support is controlled by tubes and machines. 

A recorder plays an old recording of his voice. We realize 
the V.O.s WE’VE HEARD THROUGHOUT THE FILM HAVE ALL BEEN 
RECORDED PROMPTS FOR A GRAND, LOOPED REMINISCENCE ABOUT MAE.

             BANNISTER
      Not long after, she fell asleep.... 
      You picked her up. Carried her to 
      bed. Imagined a life where every 
      night would always end like this...

OFF THE SCREEN IMAGE of Bannister carrying Mae to bed. 

             OLD MAN
      Now play it again... From the 
      beginning, like I taught you.

A precocious little girl, HANNA (8), approaches the computer. 
Scrolls Bannister’s audio recording back to the start.

             BANNISTER
      It’s bad for business, but it’s 
      true. There are certain moments 
      that never leave you...

ON SCREEN: As before, Bannister enters his office. 

As the recording plays, Hanna turns to the Old Man and asks:

       HANNA
	Grandpa, why did he want it 
	over and over? Why doesn’t he 
	skip the bad parts?

	BANNISTER
	They tug at you like the slow 
	refrain of a song you heard 
	long ago.... 

ANGLE ON “Grandpa” - it’s SPARKY (now in his late 70s). The 
years have stooped his back and clouded his eyes, but he 
looks happy; at peace. A man who’s outlived his mistakes.

             GRANDPA SPARKY 
      Guess he’s still waiting.

             HANNA
      Waiting for what?

             BANNISTER
      ... they remain always as real to a 
      man as the minute they happened...

Grandpa Sparky smiles as he remembers something:

             GRANDPA SPARKY
      The punch line.

ON SCREEN: Bannister enters his lobby. Sees a hooded woman 
standing next to Sparky. She looks up as Bannister enters. 
The hood falls away. Reveals a shock of red waves. Mae.

             BANNISTER
      ... Like the moment I met her.

CUT TO BLACK.

THE MIDDLE

