               SECTION 6

                 by

               Aaron Berg

VERVE Hart
CALIBER Marshall

The secret origins of MI-6...

...based on declassified events.

THE UNION JACK FLAG

Ragged, burnt. Stitched linen from the Great War torn with 
bullet holes. Hung on a wall, a somber reminder of the 
sacrifices made. Suddenly a frayed corner lifts, revealing --

A WALL SAFE

hidden behind the flag, a heavy steel strongbox; the key is 
inserted, metal door CREEEAAKS as it sways open. Inside are 
PAPERS, WAR MEDALS, a REVOLVER -- a beat -- then in slides a 
CLASSIFIED FILE; we glimpse at the cover, an official stamp: 

*** EYES ONLY *** 
*** HIS MAJESTY’S SECRET SERVICE *** 
*** MI-1(c) ***  

Then the safe SLAMS SHUT as --

             ENGLISH RECEPTIONIST
	(O.S.)
      Care for tea?

INT. BRITISH EMBASSY -- DAY

A posh but stately office for diplomats, old-fashioned.

The bookish ENGLISH RECEPTIONIST at the door holds a tea tray 
as patrician officials pass by behind her, at leisure. Staff. 
Mostly quiet save for a few “G’mornings.” 

She smiles to a NAVAL OFFICER at the safe. He LOCKS IT, hides 
the key in the fabric of the flag before facing her; the look 
in his eyes doleful, burdened by what he just locked away.

             BRITISH NAVAL OFFICER
      No, ah...not today.

INT. RECEPTION, BRITISH EMBASSY -- DAY

Sitting alone the receptionist pours hot Earl Grey into a 
porcelain cup. Adds 2 sugar cubes, stirs. Blows. About to 
take a sip when -- THE FRONT DOOR BURSTS OPEN. 

In from the cold stumbles a frost-covered RUSSIAN CADET (22). 
Young, panicked. Blood stains frozen to his husky overcoat, 
REVOLVER stuck to a bare hand like a tongue to a winter pole.

He CLANKS the gun on the desk; sheer terror in his eyes --

             RUSSIAN CADET
        (in Russian)
      Hide, hide me...

             BRITISH NAVAL OFFICER
        (approaching)
      You’re in the wrong house, boy...

He shoves the cadet to the door. Beat. They share a look, 
brief, one of recognition ... as if they know each other.

                                      2.

             RUSSIAN CADET
        (his best English)
      Please...

             BRITISH NAVAL OFFICER
      This isn’t Russia. You’re on 
      British soil now, understand?

BRAKES SQUEAL OUTSIDE

The officer glances out the sash window as antique-looking 
ARMY TRUCKS pull up outside the courtyard, followed by a 
thick armor-plated PUTILOV CAR with twin turret machine guns; 
looks strange, as if Model-T made a tank, the world’s first.

RUSSIAN SOLDIERS in husky grey coats & Ushanka hats burst out 
of the trucks armed with WW1 rifles, boots CRUNCHING snow.

             BRITISH NAVAL OFFICER
      You led them right to us...

DOORS CRASH OPEN

Dozens of “Red” troops pour in, rifles raised.

             BRITISH NAVAL OFFICER
      How dare you barge in here. This is 
      the British Embassy, man, property 
      of the Empire. You have no right to-

BLAM  BLAM  BLAM

The officer spasms as bullets punch his chest spitting bloody 
chunks of flesh & fabric everywhere. 

Instantly the cadet ducks as a spray of bullets chase him 
into the embassy, cutting through the startled receptionist, 
and her tea cup. It SHATTERS. More GUNFIRE ERUPTS.

A massacre. UNARMED DIPLOMATS race for the stairs as bullets 
mash the balustrade, gunning them down. Bodies slump back 
down the stairs, rolling brokenly to the bottom as others 
dive under tables, quivering as the troops execute them: 

BLAM  BLAM  BLAM

This isn’t fiction - it’s history. 

                                      3.

A WOUNDED DIPLOMAT WRITHES ON THE FLOOR 

Gurgling blood as an imposing Russian commander steps forth, 
a bald-headed figure of death. Impassively plants his boot 
over the diplomat’s throat, squashing his larynx like a bug.

This is NIKOLA GROZNY (30s), an imperious Bolshevik for the 
CHEKA SECRET POLICE, early predecessors of the KGB.

             GROZNY
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      The boy, find him.

                                  CUT TO:

THE RUSSIAN CADET 

Shaking with fear as he slips out a back door, slides on some 
ice near a snow drift on this bitter-cold Oktober morning. 

This is LEONID KANNEGISSER (22), and though we don’t know it 
yet he’s just assassinated the Chief of the Cheka in 
Petrograd (Moisei Uritsky). 

BLAM BLAM BLAM 

Troops in the street spot the cadet, their shots ZIP by, 
missing by inches. As they cut him off....  

EXT. REAR COURTYARD, BRITISH EMBASSY -- DAY

The cadet retreats back to the embassy when - BLAM - a single 
bullet punches his chest; blood drips into the snow as he 
drops to his knees before GROZNY, SMOKING GUN IN HAND.

His bald head cooling in the brisk air as the troops circle, 
form a FIRING SQUAD around the wounded cadet, taking aim... 

Insert: PETROGRAD, RUSSIA - Oktober 1918

AS SHOTS RING OUT

EXT. BIG BEN -- DAY

CHIMES RING THE HOUR as the sprawl of WESTMINSTER PALACE lay 
spread before us, iconic, much as it is today. 

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      We’ve lost contact with our embassy 
      in Petrograd... 

A 3-LITER ENGINE ROARS

                                      4.

EXT. WHITEHALL, LONDON -- DAY

...as a pristine SILVER ROLLS-ROYCE speeds past Parliament, 
veering around all the other puttering MODEL-T MOTORISTS, 
spooking the horses in DRAWN CARRIAGES. Welcome to...

Insert: LONDON, ENGLAND - November 1918

Streets here seem both oddly familiar and entirely strange; 
the modern sights we know plucked away like weeds as though a 
century of industry was simply thinned out. 

This is Britain in the shadows of the First World War.     

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Our stations in Moscow, Kiev, Minsk. 
      They’ve all gone silent.

EXT. WAR OFFICE BUILDING -- DAY

Tires SCREECH as the antique-looking roadster parks.

Out steps the driver, cane first. You might expect an old man   
not some rugged playboy still in his prime. Eyes searing with 
a hardened intelligence as he bitterly leans on his silver-
tipped walking stick, refusing to let it slow him down.

This is MANSFIELD CUMMING (50s), chief director of MI-1(c), 
British Foreign Intelligence. 

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Here’s what we know: two Bolshevik 
      leaders were assassinated on the 
      same day, both in broad daylight. 
      Vladimir Lenin in Moscow. Moisei 
      Uritsky in Petrograd, Chief of the 
      Cheka there. Lenin may still pull 
      through but Uritsky won’t...

CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK 

INT. HALLWAY, WAR OFFICE -- DAY

Cumming’s CANE hits the tile as he marches through a warren 
of maze-like passages filled with dull men in dull suits.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Shot dead by some Russian cadet, as 
      we’ve just learned...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      5.

INT. WAR ROOM -- DAY

A map of RUSSIA spread across a coffee-stained conference 
table in a windowless bunker choking with cigarette smoke.

Here sits the IMPERIAL WAR CABINET COMMITTEE led by the man 
at the head of the table, PRIME MINISTER DAVID LLOYD GEORGE. 
The distinguished faces before him too young to look so old.

             CUMMING
      Soon after, our embassy in Petrograd 
      went down. Overrun by Red Army 
      troops, possibly Cheka police...

             PRIME MINISTER
      Any word on the staff?

             CUMMING
      Presumed dead. Every soul.

Everyone at the table reacts, grim mutters.

Except for the quietly observant fellow stuck in the middle, 
a “young” WINSTON CHURCHILL (43) just sprouted wrinkles, 
recently appointed Secretary of War; new to the debriefings.

             PRIME MINISTER 
      Who’s behind this attack?

Cumming slaps a DOSSIER FILE on the table; out spill B&W 
PHOTOS of the same stone face with a devilish beard:

             CUMMING
      General Ivan Vostok. Commanded the 
      North Russian Front during the war. 
      Brutal tactician. Awarded the Order 
      of Saint George, first class. Their 
      highest military honor. Recently 
      assigned to oversee command of 
      Kronstadt prison where he’s been 
      working hand-in-hand with a cunning 
      Cheka agent named Nikola Grozny to  
      butcher counter-revolutionists.

Churchill stirs, twists a photo to study Vostok’s face.

             PRIME MINISTER
      Christ, another godless Bolshevik.

             CUMMING
      Vostok’s no Bolshevik. He’s Russian. 
      His patriotism isn’t political, Prime 
      Minister. It’s for the Motherland.  
      To defend against invaders.

                                      6.

             NAVY ADMIRAL
      Our envoys at the embassy are 
      hardly invaders.

             CUMMING
      I’m not so certain. 
        (off their shock)
      Vostok ordered those troops to 
      infiltrate the building in pursuit. 
      They were hunting for someone.

             PRIME MINISTER
      Someone?

             CHURCHILL
      Uritsky’s assassin.

Cumming shoots a look at Churchill, sizing the new kid up.

             PRIME MINISTER
      Do we know who this cadet is?     
      Or why he shot Uritsky?

             NAVY ADMIRAL
      We need to respond, a retaliatory 
      strike would-

             PRIME MINISTER
      Great War just ended, Admiral, I’m 
      not about to engage England in 
      another. I want facts. Cumming... 
        (turns to him)
      Send your best man in to Petrograd. 

             CUMMING
        (stirs; clearly bothered)
      Respectfully, sir...our enemies 
      have changed. Tactics, methods.  
      Our spies are not trained to deal 
      with this level of ... brutality.
        (a beat; then)
      War has shattered the old world. 
      It’s not the same as it once was.

             PRIME MINISTER
      Neither are you, I fear... 
        (notes Cumming’s cane)
      Not so certain it’s the world that 
      was shattered...but your nerves.

Cumming glances at his cane, looks away - he might be right.

             PRIME MINISTER
      Send your man.

                                      7.

EXT. A WINTER WONDERLAND -- DAY

Snow falls on a slumbering turn-of-the-century arctic town 
caught in a long cold winter. Over this is PIANO MUSIC, a 
soft melody from Tchaikovsky, familiar; Swan Lake maybe...

Insert: HELSINKI, FINLAND - December 1918

INT. DINING ROOM, “ESPA” RESTAURANT -- DAY

An elegant place facing the Esplanadi, heart of the city. 

Cold snow outside, warm candles inside where we find the 
PIANO PLAYER, a distinguished British gentleman, epitome of 
English aristocracy. This is THOMAS HAWTHORNE (30s).

An envelope slides over his sheet music: *** EYES ONLY ***  
Hawthorne stops playing, looks up at the courier, OLIVIA, an 
attractive British siren bundled in layers of winter gear.  

He considers taking her coat, but takes the envelope instead.

             HAWTHORNE
      Duty calls.

EXT. BRITISH EMBASSY, PETROGRAD -- DAY

A horse-drawn SLEIGH slows outside the building we saw before 
only now, weeks later, smothered by drifts of snow piled high 
over every window, blocking them from the sun.

Off the sleigh steps a man bundled in winter gear, looks like 
some explorder climbing Everest. HAWTHORNE. Pays in coins. 
Then treks toward the snow-blocked door as...

ACROSS THE STREET, ALLEYWAY

...in a parked car sit TWO CHEKA SPIES, watching Hawthorne. 
Sipping Vodka to stay warm. Once he’s inside, they drive off.

INT. BRITISH EMBASSY, PETROGRAD -- DAY

Quiet as the grave. Dark, cave-like. Hawthorne CLICKS on a 
small BEACON LIGHT, early flashlight for soldiers in the 
trenches. Battery-powered. Barely works. Light flickers as it 
cuts past the RECEPTION DESK riddled with bullet holes.

Hawthorne removes his hood, can’t believe what he’s seeing --

             HAWTHORNE
      Bloody hell...

                                      8.

As he pans the light he finds a STAIRCASE dotted with crimson-
black patches. BLOOD STAINS. Congealed pools. Hears a CRUNCH 
under his step, looks down; bullet casings litter the floor. 

Hawthorne kneels, picks up a shell, mind racing...

                                  CUT TO:

THE UNION JACK FLAG

Lifted by Hawthorne revealing the WALL SAFE hidden behind it. 

Snow blows in through a shot out window as he inserts the key 
hidden in the flag, opens the safe. Reaches in and retrieves 
the MI-1(c) CLASSIFIED FILE: *** EYES ONLY ***

He studies the cover intensely: this is what he came for.

             GROZNY
	(O.C.)
        (in Russian)
      Welcome to Russia...

Hawthorne spins --

             GROZNY
      ...comrade.

GROZNY 

stands in the doorway, bald head steaming. Flanked by armed 
CHEKA AGENTS, including the two from the parked car outside.

Hawthorne reaches into his jacket, pulls a TRENCH LIGHTER, 
thin, made from a bullet shell. FLICKS the flintwheel, 
holding it to the file: trying to burn the evidence.

But this type of lighter doesn’t emit a flame like a Zippo, 
only SPARKS off the tip of a charred rope stuffed in the thin 
brass tube. He FLICKS REPEATEDLY for the embers to catch when 
- BLAAAM - HAWTHORNE DROPS, SHOT IN THE ARM BY GROZNY.

He loses the lighter, stumbles, RACES OUT OF THE OFFICE, 
bleeding down the hall; scrambling, reaching the back door; 
FILLED WITH SNOW. Dead end. Hawthorne is trapped. Shit.

The agents catch up, beat Hawthorne as they arrest him.

Hawthorne drops the file. Grozny approaches, patient, picks 
up the file, cover smeared with Hawthorne’s blood --

             GROZNY
        (reads; in English)
      Eyes Only, His Majesty’s Secret 
      Service...

INT. GULAG TORTURE CHAMBER -- LATER

The wounded Hawthorne sits tied to a chair, stripped of his 
coat and gear in a stone cell somewhere deep in the bowels of 
a dark, dank terrifying Russian fortress. A CAGE DOOR OPENS.

                                      9.

             HAWTHORNE
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      I was not trespassing. Scavenging. 
      Looting for goods to sell. Please.  
      I am a Russian citizen-

             RASPY VOICE
        (in English)
      You are not Russian...

From the shadows steps the raspy voice, GENERAL VOSTOK (40s), 
his hardened face identical to the photos we saw earlier. 

             VOSTOK
      Your accent is from education. 
      Oxford I imagine. Clothes tailored. 
      No, you are a British spy... 
        (waves the file)
      And you came for this.

Vostok thumbs the pages -- JUMBLED LETTERS, SECRET CODES --
encrypted between royal letterhead watermarks; the last page 
signed by KING GEORGE V...which intrigues Vostok the most.

             VOSTOK
      Military orders. Signed by the King 
      of England. But they are encrypted.

Vostok approaches, closer:

             VOSTOK
      Tell me, do you know pain?

He presses on Hawthorne’s blood-soaked bandage. 

HAWTHORNE HOWLS

             VOSTOK
      Stings, yes? As a man of privilege 
      you’ve never quite felt it before. 
      The fear, the terror...

Next to Hawthorne, a set of gothic tools, wickedly shaped; 
medieval, stained in blood. INSTRUMENTS OF TORTURE.

             VOSTOK
        (selects one)
      Here in Kronstandt...you will.

                                      10.

INT. WAR ROOM, LONDON -- DAY

Hawthorne’s TRENCH LIGHTER clanks across the table. 

The distinguished faces stare, speechless. Churchill picks up 
the lighter, swallows hard, wracked with guilt over it.

             CHURCHILL
      What will they do to him?

             CUMMING
      Torture. Interrogate. Execute.  
      Good day, gentlemen.   

A grim Cumming CRUMPLES the envelope the lighter came in.

             PRIME MINISTER
      Cumming... 
        (pulls him aside)
      May as well tell you this now -
      I’m dissolving your position.

             CUMMING
      Dissolving?

             PRIME MINISTER
      Cutbacks, all departments. Across 
      the board. Treasury’s idea. Fewer 
      heads, fewer hats. That sort of 
      thing. Come New Year, Section 5 
      will inherit active operations. 

             CUMMING
      Section 5? You want the army to 
      handle intelligence services?

             PRIME MINISTER
      In defense of the realm, yes.   
      MI-5 is quite capable. Besides, the 
      armistice has been signed. League 
      of Nations meets in Paris for the 
      Peace Conference come January. As 
      such, your attendance down here 
      will no longer be needed. 
        (beat; explains)
      War’s over, Cumming. Go home.

Cumming pauses, suddenly not so ready to leave.

             PRIME MINISTER
      As you said, the world has changed. 
      So must we with it.

CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK

                                      11.

INT. HALLWAY, WAR OFFICES BUILDING -- DAY

Cumming’s CANE strikes the tile -- harder than usual -- as he 
carries a box stuffed under his arm, items from his office.

As he reaches the door to leave for good --

             “PENNY”
      Director Cumming?

Cumming stops, looks back at a strikingly attractive young 
PERSONAL “PENNY” SECRETARY, the only woman in sight here.

             “PENNY”
      War Secretary wants to see you.

CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK

EXT. ANOTHER HALLWAY, WAR OFFICES -- DAY

Not Cumming’s cane this time - HIGH HEELS

Hers, stepping in stride as she leads Cumming down the hall.  
Try as he might Cumming can’t help but stare at the shapely 
curves of her backside; snickers like a schoolboy as --

ICE CLANKS IN A TUMBLER

INT. ANTE ROOM, OUTSIDE THE WAR SECRETARY’S OFFICE -- DAY

“Penny” pours a drink -- SCOTCH -- what spies drink. Hands it 
to Cumming who sits, waiting for the door to open. Casually 
he notices a stack of books on her desk: all on PARIS.

             “PENNY”
      Anything else you’d like?

Cumming considers her offer, coils another boyish smirk.

             CUMMING
      Most definitely.

             “PENNY”
        (playful)
      Could have you reprimanded you know, 
      cited for improper conduct. 

He shrugs, nonchalant.

             CUMMING
      Was already dismissed once today. 
      Doubt they’ll sack me again.

                                      12.

             “PENNY”
      Not very gentlemanly, are you?

             CUMMING
      Why, you prefer men who are gentle?

He smiles, big charm. She reacts, flustered for a response 
when abruptly --

             CHURCHILL
	(O.C.)
      Director Cumming?

Churchill, at his door, motions for Cumming to enter.

             CUMMING
      Secretary Churchill.

INT. OFFICE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WAR -- DAY

At the wet bar Churchill pours himself a “Papa cocktail” - a 
smidgen of Johnny Walker cloaked in ice water.

             CHURCHILL
      Understand you’re a Navy man, 
      started out some 20 years ago in 
      Naval intelligence I hear.

             CUMMING
      If there is such a thing.

Churchill feigns a polite smile, sips, then --

             CHURCHILL
      Bolshevism. It must be strangled in 
      its cradle, wouldn’t you agree?

             CUMMING
      I do. But did Uritsky’s assassin?

Churchill pauses, forgot he was in the presence of a 
spymaster; proceeds with caution.

             CHURCHILL
      I pulled your service file from 
      Ministry archives: war records, 
      personal background. Strangely all 
      the pages had been ... redacted.

             CUMMING
        (giving nothing away)
      Hm, that is strange.

Cumming smugly sips his drink; then -- 

                                      13.

             CHURCHILL
      Kannegisser. Leonid Kannegisser. 
      Uritsky’s assassin. Just a boy, 
      really. Russian cadet recruited by 
      one of our Naval officers working 
      outta the embassy. Lad was angry, 
      wanted revenge for the execution of 
      his...friend...an anti-Bolshevik 
      officer. Thought we could use that 
      to fuel a coup, topple the Cheka in 
      Petrograd. Help the White army 
      reclaim the city from the Reds.

             CUMMING
      Dangerous game.

             CHURCHILL
      Gets more dangerous, I’m afraid.
        (sinks in his chair)
      Your man Hawthorne wasn’t sent on a 
      fact-finding mission. He was there 
      to recover a top secret file... 
        (beat)
      Classified, Eyes Only.

             CUMMING
      File? What file?

             CHURCHILL
      The worst kind: one with the King’s 
      name on it. In ink.

Cumming stirs, knows exactly what this means:

             CUMMING
      Sanction papers. Orders, to 
      assassinate Bolshevik leaders.

Churchill stills, won’t confirm it -- doesn’t have to.

             CUMMING
      If the Russians have found it-

             CHURCHILL
      -could be used to incite a second 
      world war, yes I’m well aware.

             CUMMING
      Least tell me you had enough bloody 
      sense to encrypt the thing.

             CHURCHILL
        (nods)
      OTPs, One-Time-Pads.

                                      14.

             CUMMING
      Those ciphers can’t be cracked-

             CHURCHILL
      -unless the field agent is-

             CUMMING
      -compromised. Christ, why wasn’t I 
      notified of this operation?

             CHURCHILL
      Because you’d’ve obstructed it.

             CUMMING
      Damn right I would have.

Cumming SLAMS his glass down on the desk, disgusted.

             CHURCHILL
      Council intends to fold foreign 
      intelligence under one roof.

             CUMMING
        (groans; distaste)
      Let me guess - Section 5.

             CHURCHILL
      Operations are already underway in 
      the colonies up north, fighting the 
      Irish. Conflicts mounting in India, 
      Africa. All across Europe. You know 
      better’n I that MI-5s a broadsword, 
      not a scalpel...no precision. 
        (beat; sips)
      How long would it take the Russians 
      to decode the papers?

             CUMMING
        (shrugs)
      Depends how long the agent can 
      withstand interrogation.

             CHURCHILL
      Don’t believe we teach that 
      technique up at Oxford.

             CUMMING
      We should. 

Cumming stands, heads for the door when --

             CHURCHILL
      What if I told you the OTP is 
      merely a decoy cipher.

                                      15.

             CUMMING
        (stops)
      There’s an ulterior code?

             CHURCHILL
      Hidden on the page, unseen.

             CUMMING
      Buys you some time, not much. 

             CHURCHILL
      Enough perhaps to send in another 
      man and mop up this mess.

Beat. Cumming turns, looks back at Churchill:

             CUMMING
      Seem to recall I was dismissed from 
      active duty.

             CHURCHILL
      I’m reinstating you, temporarily.  
      Brief reprieve from early retirement.

             CUMMING
      I won’t send another man to his 
      death. I can’t.

             CHURCHILL
      They know the risks, Cumming.

             CUMMING
      But not the enemy.

             CHURCHILL
      You do.

             CUMMING
        (haunted)
      All too well.

As Cumming steps out --

             CHURCHILL
      Dammit man, where’s your honor, 
      your loyalty?

             CUMMING
      Gave both to the war. Along with  
      my marriage, my leg. And my son.   
      The hell did you give?

Cumming leaves, his cane CLICK-CLICK-CLICKS down the hall as 
Churchill listens, alone at his desk sipping his drink.

                                      16.

INT. MOVIE PALACE, LONDON -- NIGHT

A grand theater, luxurious in architecture. 

Projected on the silver screen is the famous “closet scene” 
from DW Griffith’s silent masterpiece BROKEN BLOSSOMS. The 
feather-frail ingenue writhes on the floor as her drunken 
brute of a father POUNDS on the door in a terrible rage...

The audience is tense, everyone on the edge of their seat, 
everyone except CUMMING, bored asleep, awoken suddenly by a 
sharp elbow from his wife, MAY (40s), a graceful Scottish 
heiress who seems more sad and hurt than angry at him.

As the PIPE ORGAN swells --

EXT. MOVIE PALACE, LONDON -- NIGHT

The audience exits, shuffling under the marquee, passing 
Cumming and his wife who wait at VALET, staring in silence. 
Although standing together they seem a thousand miles apart. 

As the Rolls Royce pulls up, May abruptly steps away, 
fighting tears as she flags a passing taxi.

             CUMMING
      May-

             MAY
      This isn’t going to work, Mannie. 
      I’ve tried, I have...

             CUMMING
      Come back to the house.

             MAY
      Don’t ask me to go back there, 
      Mansfield, please ... that’s not a 
      house, it’s a memorial for our son.

Cumming reacts, hurt but hardly surprised.

             CUMMING
      Divorce then?

             MAY
      Separation, for now.

She slides into the taxi; it drives off, leaving Cumming 
behind on the side of the road.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Your mother’s finally left us... 

                                      17.

INT. FOYER, CUMMING’S HOME -- NIGHT (RAINING)

Cumming steps in, soaking wet. And alone. A man who’s lost 
everything: his job, wife ... and his sobriety.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      S’just you’n me now, my boy,   
      you’n me...

INT. STUDY, CUMMING’S HOME -- NIGHT (RAINING)

SCOTCH FILLS A TUMBLER, NEAT

Cumming swigs it like medicine, pours another. Rain trickles 
down windows as he toasts the PORTRAIT enshrined above the 
mantle of a handsome young man, his son... 

This was ALASTAIR.

             CUMMING
      To honor, and loyalty.

BRIEF FLASHBACK

Quick cuts, soundless memories: a CAR speeds down a dark road 
in the French countryside; IT FLIPS; rolls into the ditch; 
CUMMING WRITHES, his LEFT LEG horribly pinched in the wreck. 

                             BACK TO SCENE:

CUMMING

Downs the drink, wipes his lips dry, eyes welling with pain. 
Anger taking hold as he THROWS the tumbler. Staggers as it 
SHATTERS, drunkenly bumps a GLOBE, spins it defiantly. 

Then rights himself, slowing the rotation with a finger 
stopping on: PETROGRAD

             CUMMING
        (sneers)
      Honor...

He traces his finger through the BALTIC SEA, passing Finland 
on his way down to: GREAT BRITAIN

             CUMMING
        (sobering)
      ...loyalty.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      18.

INT. SMOKING LOUNGE, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- NIGHT

A stuffy members-only Gentleman’s Club packed with pompous 
men of power milling around gilded Christmas trees.

             CUMMING
	(O.C.)
      I have terms...

Churchill turns, faces a mostly sober Cumming.

             CUMMING
      Most of our spies are recruited out 
      of Cambridge, taught to rub elbows 
      with the rich. Trained in diplomacy.  
        (a beat; then)
      I need one trained to kill.

             CHURCHILL
        (aghast; pulls him aside)
      An assassin? You must be joking.

Beat. He’s not.

             CUMMING
      One man, off His Majesty’s Service. 
      To do what the other agents can’t: 
      fight back. I’ll need a small section 
      budget to prepare him. And an office 
      to operate from. Discrete, off site.

Churchill pauses, reluctant -- but Cumming isn’t budging.

             CHURCHILL
      Stubborn sonuvabitch. You know 
      there’s a lot more at stake here 
      than just your career, Cumming... 
        (concedes)
      Who exactly do you intend to recruit?

Cumming pauses, isn’t entirely sure actually --

A CAR HORN BLARES

EXT. WHITEHALL, WESTMINSTER -- DAY

Some puttering CAR SWERVES, nearly clips a scruffy WAR VET in 
uniform who slaps it as it goes by, cursing. 

This is ALEC DUNCAN (20s), lithe in build but lethal in the 
way he moves, a ferocity buried under his medal-decorated 
ARMY JACKET. Beard a mangled nest of snarls. Eyes piercing.  
Like a wolf among these sheep, a predator seeking prey.

                                      19.

EXT. SIDEWALK, WHITEHALL -- DAY

Wealthy citizens with somewhere to be and something to do. 
LAWYERS, BUREAUCRATS and POLITICIANS. Prey stalked by Duncan; 
eyes darting, searching. Always on the hunt. 

OOOOMPH

Duncan bumps into a puffed up BANKER who reacts, irate at 
first but then softens when he sees Duncan’s WAR MEDALS.

             DUNCAN
      Honest knock, sir, honest knock.

             BANKER
      You fought in the war?

             DUNCAN
      Bled in the trenches out on the 
      Western Front, for King’n Country, 
      yessir.

             BANKER
      Yes, King and Country. Good day.

As the banker walks off...

Duncan looks down at the GOLD POCKET WATCH he just picked, 
swaying like a pendulum from a fingerless glove, METAL CHAIN 
stuck to his palm - as if there were a magnet underneath.

             DUNCAN
      King and Country my ass.

INT. SHITHOLE PUB -- DAY

Shilling coins RATTLE across a sloppy table. 

In the corner, a game of POKER in progress. FOUR MEN, ex-con 
types in rumpled working class clothes, sweating a big pot.  

The fifth man is --

             DUNCAN
      Call.

CLAAANK

Atop the pot he drops the GOLD WATCH; players pause, crooks 
who know it’s not enough. By far. They shoot looks. Duncan 
unpins the WAR MEDALS from his chest, adds ‘em to the pile. 

His face stone, unreadable.

                                      20.

             BRUTE
      Show ‘em.

Cards drop around the table.

The beefy tattooed BRUTE has trips Queens; others make 
smaller pairs. Duncan shows a JACK OF SPADES. They SNICKER. 
Then he shows them 3 MORE JACKS: Clubs, Hearts, Diamonds. 

The snickering stops.

             BRUTE
      Oy, you filthy thieving cheat...

THE BRUTE FLIPS THE TABLE, ENRAGED 

cards flutter as he slashes Duncan’s throat with a RAZOR, 
trimming his beard, close shave; blood trickles. 

Too close. 

Instantly, Duncan clamps onto the brute’s wrist before he can 
swing again, reaches his other hand under his belt buckle for 
a slab of metal; has a predatory gleam in his eye as: 

THWAACK

Duncan SMASHES the brute’s nose with a lightning jab; snaps 
the bridge in half with a sick crunch of cartilage; the sound 
of it strange; not bone-on-bone -- BRASS KNUCKLES -- a close-
quarters weapon for soldiers stuck in the trenches...

...the stunned brute slumps to the floor, defenseless. 

DUNCAN POUNCES

kneels over his fallen foe, punching again and again and ... 
as the other players pull him off, DUNCAN SWINGS AT THEM, 
wild haymakers that hit hard in the ribs, gut -- solid THUDS.

From outside -- A BOBBY WHISTLE BLOWS 

Duncan HEARS IT, scoops as much of the scattered pot he can -- 
including the gold watch & his medals -- then slips out a 
BACK WINDOW sprinting down a narrow alleyway just as...

BOBBIES BUST IN

Chase after Duncan; one kneels next to the brute lying flat 
on the floor, gurgling blood, face a broken bloodied mess; 
the Bobby, a squat bull of a man named CASTLETON, removes his 
helmet in disgust, eyes narrowing out the window in disgust.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      21.

INT. SCULPTOR’S STUDIO -- DAY

PLASTER CAST FACES OF WAR, dozens of them, frozen in agony, 
haunting molds of grotesquely disfigured men hideously 
deformed by horrific wounds in combat; hanging on the wall...

DUNCAN STARES AT THE FACES, SOLEMN 

He’s seen them before. The real ones. In battle. Can still 
hear their cries ... men he served with, bled with...

             WESTMORE
	(O.C.)
      Duncan...you look like shit.

Duncan looks away, hands the watch to another VET IN UNIFORM, 
an officer, back to us, facing a paint-splattered SCULPTOR 
who accepts the stolen watch reluctantly.

             WESTMORE
      Take it. Fine gold watch it is. 
      Well, mostly gold anyway...

The vet exchanges the watch for a flesh-colored partial 
prosthetic TIN MASK, facial features painted on. Eerily real. 
Eye, lashes, brow. He puts it on, dignity restored. 

THE TIN MASK FACES DUNCAN. Light reflects off the metal edges 
which barely cover the stretching wrinkled scars creeping out 
from underneath hiding some sort of hideous facial deformity.

This is MATTHEW WESTMORE (20s).

             WESTMORE
      Looks aren’t everything these days.

EXT. LONDON BRIDGE -- SUNSET

A haze of GREY SMOG settles over a decrepit stone overpass, 
sooty coal smoke defining LONDON FOG in the industrial age. 
MOTORISTS putter by overworked masses inhaling the poisonous 
fumes as a STEAM BARGE drifts between the archways below. 

             KIDS
      ...falling down, falling down.  
      London Bridge is falling down...
      My...fair...lady.

Ragged ORPHANS play “Bridge”...on the bridge. Their hand-held 
arch drops, snares a GIGGLING GIRL. Suddenly a BOBBY OFFICER 
appears -- CASTLETON -- shoos them along, then gazes down 
over the side of the bridge, assessing the site below.

As the kids scamper...

                                      22.

EXT. EAST END, UNDER THE BRIDGE -- NIGHT

...their footsteps patter away as we creep into the shadows 
along the muddy river bank and find --

SKID ROW, A COLONY OF VAGRANTS 

Living under the bridge, forgotten ghosts. VETERANS mostly, 
wounded warriors missing limbs. Others suffering shell-shock, 
obvious PTSD symptoms. Quivering thousand-yard stares... 

DRUNKS sharing bottles, curled fetal under blankets of 
newspapers. Lipless BURN VICTIMS warm by the fire, their skin 
peeling from white phosphorous, chemical weapon from the war. 

Others wear TIN masks more crude & medieval than Westmore’s.

UP AGAINST THE STRUCTURE

Stringy mince meat is dropped for a STRAY FERAL CAT that 
steps out from a crack in the archway to scarf.

Duncan gently pets it.

                                  CUT TO:

             WESTMORE
	(O.C.)
      Furball brings fleas, ya know.

             DUNCAN
      Keeps the rats away.

             WESTMORE
      I like rats. Tasty. Like the ones 
      we chewed on in the trenches...

Westmore NIBBLES his teeth.

Duncan tosses Westmore the BRASS KNUCKLES. He catches them, 
notes the condition in which they’re returned.

             WESTMORE
      Came in handy, I see.

             DUNCAN
      So did this.

Duncan removes his fingerless glove. Underneath is the 
crudely constructed MAGNET GADGET we suspected. So strong, 
THWIIICK, it picks up the BRASS KNUCKLES. Westmore smirks.

             WESTMORE
      Always said you had a magnetic 
      charm.

                                      23.

             DUNCAN
      Brass isn’t magnetic you know.

             WESTMORE
      Trench knife. Made of iron. Blade 
      snapped off after I stuck a man 
      with it during that raid assault. 
      Same night you were captured...

Captured ... the word hits a chord with Duncan, deep down.

Westmore moves to an arch, slides a LOOSE BRICK out from the 
stone facade revealing a SECRET WEAPONS CACHE, a private arms 
depot collected from the war stocked with trench raiding 
weapons: REVOLVERS, BAYONETS, a SPADE SHOVEL, PICKAXE...

He puts the brass knuckles back in as --

             DUNCAN
      What is all that junk anyway?

             WESTMORE
      Souvenirs, from the war. Wouldn’t 
      believe half the shite all these 
      Tommies here hung onto. Revolvers 
      from Prague, maps from Rome...

He digs, pulls out a French-labelled bottle of CHAMPAGNE.

             WESTMORE
      Champagne from Champagne. Found 
      this while we were in France...

Duncan snatches the bottle.

Moves to the embankment chewing away the cork foil; looks out 
over the river -- LONDON AT NIGHT -- soft fog lit by early 
electricity; a majestic glow, picturesque...a place worth 
fighting for, dying for - which Duncan has - and would again.

             WESTMORE
      Why’re you under this bridge, Duncan? 
      Ain’t ugly like me, broken like them.

             DUNCAN
      We’re soldiers, Matty. Soldiers 
      protect their own.

             WESTMORE
      I’m no soldier. Neither are you. 
      Not anymore. The things we’ve done. 
      War made us into monsters...

Duncan reacts, about to say something when --

BA-BOOOM

The sky suddenly lights up as BA-BOOOM, BA-BOOOM. 

                                      24.

Is London being bombed? 

Not quite -- 

FIREWORKS OVER THE THAMES

Celebrating New Years.

Duncan POPS the cork, gets a quick sip of foaming champagne 
before Westmore snatches the bottle, stands on the rocks. 

As he HOISTS the bottle --

             WESTMORE
        (a soldier’s hymn)
      Hear-hear to the Kaiser, that sonuva 
      bitch. May his balls drop off with 
      the seven-year itch. May his arse be 
      pounded with a lump of old leather. 
      Till his arsehole can whistle...
             DUNCAN & WESTMORE
      BRITAIN, OY BRITAIN FOREVER!

BA-BOOOOOM, BA-BOOOOOOOOM, BOOOOOOOOOOOOM

                                  CUT TO:

A CAGE DOOR SLAMS OPEN

INT. GULAG DUNGEON, KRONSTADT -- DAY

A NAKED BODY, dragged in, deposited on the stone floor. 

Bruised, beaten; covered in burns & blood stains. Tortured. 
Curling onto a bed of hay like an animal. Hair & beard 
ragged, overgrown, filled with snarls of vomit. 

Believe it or not this is HAWTHORNE, hardly the gentleman we 
last saw. Looks more like a vagrant now...

...eerily like a shadow of Duncan.

             GROZNY
	(V.O.)
      A British spy caught in the act of 
      espionage, carrying royal orders 
      signed by the King of England...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      25.

INT. VOSTOK’S COMMAND QUARTERS, KRONSTADT -- DAY

Grozny hands the EYES ONLY file to Vostok who sits at his 
desk shaving himself - without cream. His skin like leather 
as he slowly erases the bristles, rinses the razor in a bowl.

Grozny notes a “CCCP” BADGE on the desk, hammer & sickle 
insignia identical to the one on Grozny’s chest.

             GROZNY
      Do not forget your badge, comrade.

Vostok doesn’t blink, continues grooming as Grozny moves to a 
shelf, selects a bottle of VODKA, pours a drink. 

             VOSTOK
      The orders he was caught with?

             GROZNY
      Half decoded. Enough so to presume 
      why after killing Uritsky the cadet 
      sought sanctuary inside the British 
      embassy. We believed it was for 
      diplomatic immunity, but in 
      truth...the boy had been recruited.

             VOSTOK
        (stops)
      An asset? These are attack orders?

             GROZNY
      Yes. But it will take some time to 
      decode the entire document.

             VOSTOK
      Assemble our best cryptographers, 
      immediately. They work night and 
      day to decipher every word in full. 
        (explains)
      This is the evidence Russia needs 
      to unite the Red and White armies 
      and end our civil war by turning 
      our guns on a new common enemy...
        (zealous)
      London will fall.

Grozny toasts his drink.

             GROZNY
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      To peace. Land. And bread.

             VOSTOK
      Spoken like a true Bolshevik.

                                      26.

EXT. TOWER BRIDGE, LONDON -- DAY

The two platforms yawn, raising for a MERCHANT SHIP...

Insert: LONDON - January 1919

EXT. DOCKLANDS, PORT OF LONDON -- SAME

Just up river crews of DOCKWORKERS load & unload supplies. 
SHIFT SUPERVISORS oversee the grueling process as a hoist 
crane lifts a heavy wooden crate, revealing --

CUMMING, SPEAKING WITH A UNION BOSS

EXT. PITCH, UNIVERSITY FIELD -- MID-DAY

A BLUR OF LEGS kick up chunks of sod as dirt-stained bodies 
cluster in a RUGBY SCRUM. A crunching tackle. More pile on, 
rough play between heated rivals: OXFORD v CAMBRIDGE. 

Like a scout, CUMMING studies the players intently as...

SCREEEEEECH

INT. LONDON UNDERGROUND -- NIGHT

A SUBWAY TRAIN ROARS BY

Off the Central Line down an adjacent tunnel CUMMING observes 
dozens of dirt-smeared WORKERS burrowing like ants, laying 
heavy steel rails in a TUNNEL SHIELD, toiling to build a new 
line when suddenly - ZZZZZT - an electrical generator blows.

As another train SCREEEEEEECHES by --

                                  CUT TO:

WHAAAM

The back door of a PADDY WAGON swings open...

EXT. METRO COURTYARD -- DAY

Releasing SHACKLED IRISH PRISONERS from the transpo box;  
BOBBIES swing their billysticks, beating the prisoners as 
they are led into the METROPOLITAN POLICE STATION of...

Hanging Sign: New Scotland Yard

                                      27.

INT. METRO BOOKING DESK, NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- DAY

The line is stopped. A stick whacks a MANGY IRISH PRISONER 
who snaps, manacled hands lashing out. Constables rush in, 
bash the lad into submission, pinning him to the floor...

             MACREADY
      Damn Irish.

...where the mangy prisoner is KICKED in the gut by newly 
appointed Police Commissioner NEVIL MACREADY (50s), a war-
time army commander; hates the Irish with severe prejudice.

             MACREADY
      Filthy animals’ll split the Kingdom 
      to pieces if we let ‘em...
        (spits on him)
      Lock this trash in a box. 

Macready turns to Cumming, strangely piqued by the brutality.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      I hear MI-5 asked Metro to supply 
      manpower for National Security, 
      mobile patrolmen for surveillance...

INT. PUB, LONDON -- NIGHT

Cumming & Macready chug pints in a dive packed with Bobbies.

             MACREADY
      Five wants to drill holes in horse 
      carriages, sneak around’n eavesdrop 
      on everyone’s dirty knickers. So?

             CUMMING
      So I’m interested in the men being 
      recruited. I need one. Someone a 
      bit...rough around the edges. 

             MACREADY
        (smirks)
      What’sa matter Cumming, run outta 
      rich twits to pluck from academy?

Cumming pushes his pint aside.

             CUMMING
      Assignment is undeclared. 
      Officially unofficial. No heirs,  
      no offspring. No family.

                                      28.

             MACREADY
      Have you tried the orphanage?

             CUMMING
      I’m serious.

             MACREADY
      So am I. Orphans have nothing to 
      lose. They’re driven, determined to 
      make a difference. 

             CUMMING
      Not looking for a crusader.

             MACREADY
      No, you want a junkyard bulldog...

Macready wipes the sudsy white foam from his mustache.

             MACREADY
      ...one you can unleash.

EXT. FLEET STREET, LONDON -- DAY

DUNCAN, BUMPING SHOULDERS IN A CROWD

Forcing his way through a zoo of humanity.

They won’t get out of Duncan’s way. So he BUMPS HARDER, 
nearly bowls an unsuspecting gentleman over.

It catches the attention of a BOBBY PATROLMAN across the 
street - CASTLETON - he follows Duncan, instincts on alert. 
Duncan senses him, spots him following. Tries to retreat --

OOOOMPH

Duncan collides with a STREET VENDOR, nearly knocks the man’s 
tray into the gutter. Items rattle: LACES, BUTTONS, LIGHTERS. 

Still standing, the vendor reaches out...Duncan braces, ready 
for a fight. Instead, the vendor straightens Duncan’s war 
medals, polishes one with his thumb.

             VENDOR
      You’re a soldier, lad...

Duncan looks him over...

Spots a VICTORY MEDAL on his collar - and a limp sleeve where 
his other arm should be; tray held up by shoulder straps. 

He’s a disabled veteran. 

Flanked by other disabled EX-VET STREET VENDORS nearby, 
wounded warriors working for a living, prideful.

The vendor reaches into his tray, digs...

                                      29.

             VENDOR
      In the eyes of the Almighty, our 
      King...and that poor soul you see 
      looking back at you in that 
      reflection each’n every morning. 
        (beat)
      You’re a soldier...

...hands Duncan a BUTTON for the one missing on his jacket, 
up near his heart. Duncan hadn’t noticed.

             VENDOR
      Act like one.

                                  CUT TO:

THE BUTTON

Backlit by the drum fire, the tiny pin holes flicking...

EXT. EAST END, UNDER THE BRIDGE -- NIGHT

Duncan stares, clearly still haunted by the vendor’s words.

             WESTMORE
      What’s with the button?

Westmore playfully tries to snatch it. 

Duncan stuffs the button in his pocket, gazes into the river, 
lost, has that thousand-yard stare soldiers have...

             WESTMORE
      You okay, Alec? Look like you’ve 
      seen a ghost.

Suddenly - WHISTLES BLOW

Outta nowhere a DOZEN BOBBIES storm the colony, POLICE RAID. 
Billysticks CRACK bones, dropping vets to the mud; boots 
STOMP fingers, faces; kicking them while they’re down.

Among the police is CASTLETON, the squat bull patrolman who 
spotted Duncan; followed him here. Looking for a fight.

DUNCAN & WESTMORE RUN, dashing toward the other side where 
suddenly MORE BOBBIES APPEAR, blocking the only way out.

                                      30.

             SUPERINTENDENT
      Awright, slow down ya rotten filth, 
      slow it right down...

The surly SUPERINTENDENT spits in disgust, twirls his stick.

Trapped like rats, a few vagrants SPLASH into the icy river 
to swim for it -- they don’t get far -- dragged back to the 
muddy embankment by Bobbies, held down in the mud. 

The Bobbies now have the bridge under control.

             SUPERINTENDENT
      This ain’t no inn for the ugly, 
      yeah. Gotta take you Tommies in fer 
      vagrancy. Problem is, Paddy Wagon 
      won’t hold more’n six so...
        (twirling his stick)
      Who here wants’ta go fer a ride?

THE BOBBIES ATTACK

In the scuffle Westmore RACES for his weapons cache; but 
before he can reach it he’s KNOCKED DOWN, his tin mask 
trampled into the mud. Duncan tries to help but...

             DUNCAN
      MATTHEW.

BOBBIES RUSH IN

6 on 1, attacking with brute force. 

Duncan absorbs the blows from their billysticks, refuses to 
go down; the more he resists, the harder they hit. Harder 
they hit...the angrier he becomes.  

DUNCAN STRIKES BACK

Crashes into the nearest Bobbie, SNAAAPS the man’s wrist, 
wrenching away his billyclub. DUNCAN SWINGS THE STICK.

Ferocity unleashed like a lion at the circus who’s been poked 
for the last goddamn time. BONES CRAAACK on impact: chins, 
ribs, shins. 6 on 1 - and the 6 aren’t winning.

As the last Bobbie drops to the mud, DUNCAN RISES, chest 
heaving, lungs on fire from the fight...so are his eyes, 
searching, finding his next target --

             SUPERINTENDENT
        (spooked; stammers)
      W-wait now, there’s no need to-

                                      31.

CLIIICK 

A REVOLVER is cocked, barrel aimed at DUNCAN’S BACK as --

             WESTMORE
      ALEC.

BLAAAM -- WESTMORE LUNGES INTO THE SHOT 

Blood BURSTS out his back as the bullet punches through.  
Like a sack of rocks he drops to the mud, limbs limp.

             DUNCAN
      MATTHEW.

Duncan sinks to his knees, pressing his hands over Westmore’s 
wound; BLOOD GURGLES BETWEEN HIS FINGERS.

             DUNCAN
      MEDIC, I NEED A MEDI-

CRAAACK

His SKULL WHIPPED from behind, Duncan flops over Westmore, 
slumped in the mud like soldiers killed in battle. Emerging 
behind him, gripping the smoking gun -- CASTLETON.

A PHONE RINGS

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CUMMING’S HOME -- NIGHT

Bells scream like a fire alarm down the empty halls until --

             “PENNY” SECRETARY
      Hello? 

CHURCHILL’S “PENNY” SECRETARY

Same young woman who summoned Cumming earlier, now standing 
naked in his foyer. Her curves slipping in and out of shadow.

             “PENNY” SECRETARY
      Yes, he’s here. 
        (beat)
      No, he’s...asleep. 
        (beat; would rather not)
      Hold please.

As she sets the phone down --

                                  CUT TO:

CUMMING, IN THE STUDY

Passed out naked, rolled in a rug on the floor; nose sniffing 
an empty bottle of Scotch.

                                      32.

             “PENNY” SECRETARY
      Mannie...? 

Gently she tries to shake him awake.

             “PENNY” SECRETARY
      Mansfield...
        (clears her throat)
      Captain Cumming?
        (hates herself for this)
      Sir.

Unsure what else to do -- WHAAACK -- SHE SLAPS HIS FACE

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- NIGHT

The tires on Cumming’s Rolls-Royce SCREEECH to a stop, 
squeezing between paddy wagons as...

CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK

INT. NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- NIGHT

CUMMING, MARCHING 

still hung-over, looks like hell, collar unbuttoned as he 
passes a dozen OFF-DUTY OFFICERS entering the --

INT. JAIL HOUSE, NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- CONT.

Cumming studies the squad of Bobbies from the bridge.  
Nursing injuries. Beaten so bad it’s near comical: broken 
arms in slings, noses jammed with cotton plugs, etc.

             CUMMING
      Helluva night, eh boys?

             MACREADY
      Cumming...

Macready nods to the man beside him.

             MACREADY
      Said you needed someone rough...

                                      33.

CASTLETON

Twirling his revolver like a cowboy, proudly patted on the 
back by fellow officers. 

Which rubs Cumming the wrong way.

             CUMMING
      Rough, yes, but not reckless.

Cumming approaches, regards Castleton with disdain. SLAPS the 
gun from his hands. It CLANKS off the tile.

Sudden silence; tension fills the room.

             CUMMING
      Takes nerves to shoot a man in the 
      back. An unarmed man without a face 
      at that. Hardly impressive.

Castleton flares his nostrils, looks ready to charge.

             CUMMING
      I want to speak with the prisoners.

             MACREADY
      Prisoners?

             CUMMING
      Who caused all this carnage.

             MACREADY
      Well, ah, actually...

Macready isn’t exactly sure how to explain this but --

             MACREADY
      There’s just the one.

             CUMMING
        (immediately piqued)
     One?

A CELL DOOR SLAMS SHUT

INT. JAIL CELL, NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- NIGHT

Cumming is locked inside. 

Inmates SHOUT from down the hall, crying for freedom. 

Damn Irish.

                                      34.

             CUMMING
      Duncan. Alec Duncan...

Cumming scans the POLICE REPORT in his hand.

             CUMMING
      Vagrancy, larceny. Assault with a 
      deadly weapon on six officers-

             DUNCAN
      Five.

Cumming looks up, intrigued.

Deep in shadow is DUNCAN, laying on the cot; eerily still 
like a newly caged zoo animal, stained with mud.

             CUMMING
      Says here six.

             DUNCAN
      First one I hit with my fist,    
      not a weapon.

             CUMMING
      Judging the sight of the walking 
      wounded I passed, I’d say your fist 
      qualifies as a deadly weapon.

Cumming studies Duncan carefully -- he’s recruiting him.

             CUMMING
      What happened out there?

             DUNCAN
      Self defense.

             CUMMING
      Not under the bridge... 
        (beat)
      I meant the war.

Cumming nods to the medals on Duncan’s jacket.

             CUMMING
      Paths of glory lead to the grave, 
      so they say.

             DUNCAN
      The hell do you want?

             CUMMING
      Have some work needs to be done.

                                      35.

             DUNCAN
      Work?

             CUMMING
      For the MI, section 1-c.

             DUNCAN
        (beat; puts it together)
      M-I, Military Intelligence...
      I’m not a spy.

             CUMMING
      What are you then?

             DUNCAN
      A soldier.

Cumming stirs, reminded of an old adage:

             CUMMING
      Soldiers win wars, my boy... 
      Spies prevent them. 

Cumming opens an EVIDENCE ENVELOPE, pours out something 
small. Flips it to Duncan: it’s his BUTTON.

             DUNCAN
      Why should I help you?

             CUMMING
        (shrugs)
      King. Country. Loyalty. Honor.  
      Pick one. 
        (beat; serious)
      I can offer you a clean slate.  
      Have all the charges dropped. Your 
      brothers-in-arms under the bridge? 
      I can protect them. No more raids.

             DUNCAN
      If I come work for you.

Cumming nods.

             CUMMING
      War split the world wide open. 
      Zealots and extremists crawled up 
      through the cracks. Now using 
      terror-tactics to intimidate...
        (beat; deadly serious)
      Bout time jolly ol’ England 
      intimidates back. 

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- NIGHT

Duncan emerges from the building like a man on a mission.   
Passes Cumming - and his Rolls-Royce - seemingly unimpressed, 
barely noticing it as he marches by.

                                      36.

             CUMMING
      Need a lift?

             DUNCAN
      I’ll walk.

             CUMMING
      War Office. Bright and early.  
      Be there.

Duncan keeps marching...

EXT. EAST END, UNDER THE BRIDGE -- NIGHT

...his boots STOMP in the mud along the embankment, a 
familiar sight of the Thames along London.

A LOOSE BRICK is pulled from the structure, opening the 
secret WEAPONS CACHE. Duncan digs, retrieves the REVOLVER.

RIVER EMBANKMENT

Duncan SPLASHES mud off his face. Water ice-cold, jolt to the 
system. As his beard drips dry he spots his REFLECTION in the 
rippling surface. LIGHT BOUNCES OFF SOMETHING BELOW.

Sunk in the mud is WESTMORE’S TIN MASK, flesh-colored paint 
washing off; cracks splintered across it...Duncan’s face 
reflected over, as if wearing it, looks like a monster...

Duncan plucks it from its watery grave as --

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. NEW SCOTLAND YARD -- NIGHT

Shift change. 

A handful of Bobbies arrive as others leave. Among those 
heading for the pub is the SUPERINTENDENT...

...and CASTLETON, still reeling from Cumming’s dress down.

             SUPERINTENDENT
      S’all right, lad. Forget it.    
      Feel better after a pint or two...

                                      37.

SIDEWALK, DOWN THE STREET

As they walk by, a SHADOW emerges from an alleyway and 
follows them; walks in step to not make a sound. 

             SUPERINTENDENT
      Filth deserved more’n a bullet to 
      the back, I say...

THE SHADOW IS DUNCAN

Eyes sharp, a predator hunting prey. Getting closer, closer, 
reaches into his pocket for the revolver, tightens his grip, 
finger curling on the trigger when --

             SUPERINTENDENT
      Shame he pulled through...

DUNCAN PAUSES

             SUPERINTENDENT
      Ugly sonuvabitch came outta surgery 
      o’er London Royal, still breathin’.
        (beat; prickish)
      Next time, aim for the head, eh?

CRAAACK

Duncan PISTOL-WHIPS the superintendent across his skull. 
Before he slumps to the sidewalk Duncan swings the revolver, 
barrel between the eyes of CASTLETON, wide with shock.

DUNCAN, EYES ENRAGED

Convinced he came to do this. 

Castleton quivers; a dark patch soils his crotch as a stream 
trickles out the leg of his pants. He’s pissed himself.

Duncan reacts, lowers the barrel...

...then walks away. 

                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECOVERY WARD, LONDON ROYAL HOSPITAL -- NIGHT

A curtain WHISKS aside, revealing a patient on the bed 
stirring post-operation, coming down off a morphine drip. 
Face sweaty, hands jittery. This is --

             DUNCAN
      Matthew?

                                      38.

IT IS WESTMORE

Alive, face wrapped in bandages. Eyes open but unfocused, 
mind lost in a haze of drugs. Duncan tries to scoop him from 
the cot, stand him up; Westmore’s legs flop, knock over an 
empty bedpan. A young NURSE notices, rushes over --

             NURSE
      What in God’s name...?
        (sets his legs back)
      He can’t walk. Spine was broken. 
      Lucky to even be alive...

Duncan puts Westmore down. Looks away. Sets something on the 
bedside table: WESTMORE’S TIN MASK.

             NURSE
      Are you his friend?

She turns - DUNCAN IS GONE

             VOSTOK
	(V.O.)
      The endeavors of men, as time has 
      proven, are determined not by 
      tyrants and conquerors but by those 
      who trade in secrets...

INT. GULAG TORTURE CHAMBER, KRONSTADT -- MORNING

A group of RUSSIAN CRYPTOGRAPHERS sit shoulder-to-shoulder 
hunched over a creaky table, scribbling furiously to piece 
together the KEY PAD used to decipher the EYES ONLY papers.

             VOSTOK
      Spies have always steered the fate 
      of the world...

Over their RUSTLE speaks Vostok, pacing like a panther. 

             VOSTOK
      In the book of Hebrews they were 
      sent over the walls of Jericho...

As he speaks we realize it’s not to the cryptographers.

             VOSTOK
      Before that, Sun Tzu sent men into 
      foreign lands to learn the secrets 
      of their enemy. Genghis Khan ordered 
      double agents to incite war. And the 
      Spartans of Greece often exchanged 
      cleverly coded messages on papyrus 
      swapped between identical batons... 

                                      39.

Vostok moves around a body strung up, dangling like a bell.

             VOSTOK
      These efforts, separated by vast 
      gaps of time and space, remain tied 
      by a single common thread. 

He stops, looks up at the face of the dangling body.

             VOSTOK
      Do you know what that is?

HAWTHORNE, IN STRAPPADO BONDAGE

Arms above his head -- from behind his back -- straining as 
he dangles like a fish on a hook before Vostok, feet off the 
ground, weighed down by a heavy sandbag...

The pain is immense.

             VOSTOK
      When caught, they all suffered.  
      As you do now. As you will for 
      quite some time...

A 3-LITRE ENGINE ROARS 

EXT. WHITEHALL, LONDON -- DAWN

Cumming’s ROLLS-ROYCE speeds by, swerves around a slow public 
bus picking up COMMUTERS, INDUSTRIAL WORKERS.

EXT. WAR OFFICE BUILDING -- DAY

The car parks. Cumming steps out, cane first. Clocks the 
streets, looking for Duncan.

No show.

             CUMMING
      Damn.

Cumming hobbles toward the door, like before, only rather 
than entering as he normally would, he continues walking...

CROSSING THE MALL

Passing the iconic ADMIRALTY ARCH as he makes his way toward 
an EMPTY APARTMENT BUILDING across the street.

CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK

                                      40.

INT. WHITEHALL COURT, EMPTY BUILDING -- DAY

Cumming marches, CANE ECHOING as he weaves through a maze of 
empty unfinished spaces lit by beams of sunlight. 

He enters the LIFT, an early industrial cage; as it rises --

                                  CUT TO:

THE LIFT-CAGE OPENS

Cumming steps out, crosses a cavernous floor, empty save for 
the structural beams and a lonely mop bucket.

INT. CUMMING’S OFFICE, TOP FLOOR -- NIGHT

Dusty attic beams over a sturdy oak desk with no chair.       
Cumming enters, stops --

             CUMMING
      How the hell did you find me?

DUNCAN, GAZING OUT THE WINDOW

             DUNCAN
      You’re slow, easy to follow.

Cumming crosses: CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK

             DUNCAN
      And loud.

They stand side-by-side, iconic, quietly observing.       

             DUNCAN
      King. Country. Loyalty. Honor.  

             CUMMING
      Yes. So, which is it?

             DUNCAN
      Pick one.

Beat. Then --

             DUNCAN
      You need a chair.

             CUMMING
      And you a shave. Shower wouldn’t 
      hurt either.

Off Duncan’s look --

                                      41.

INT. BATH HOUSE, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- DAY

Old men bob in a steam-filled hot springs pool. Relaxing. 
Breathing the vapors. Suddenly their eyes tense as a VAGRANT 
walks by wearing a stained army uniform: it’s DUNCAN.

             WOMAN’S VOICE
	(V.O.)
      Alec Duncan, BEF, Expeditionary 
      Force on the Western front...

DUNCAN SHOWERS

High-pressure hot water PATTERS on the pure-white basin floor 
as Duncan steps naked into the stream. You wouldn’t believe 
the layers of filth that wash off. As the much soaps away...

             WOMAN’S VOICE
      Spent a few winters halting the 
      German advance. Honored for his 
      efforts. War Medals for Valor, 
      Gallantry. Victoria Cross. 

SCARS APPEAR 

Scattered over his body, a long history with violence. 

             WOMAN’S VOICE
	(V.O.)
      Was captured near the end of the 
      campaign in a chemical attack, 
      mustard gas in a trench raid.  
      Saved his Quartermaster, Matthew 
      Westmore. Couldn’t save himself...

CUMMING, MARCHING DOWN THE CLUB HALLS

Trying his damndest to ignore the CLUB MANAGER trailing him, 
buzzing like a fly, won’t go away.

                                CROSS-CUT:

             CLUB MANAGER
      ...rules are rules, sir. This club 
      is for members-only. Guests are not 
      permitted to use the facilities.

BACK TO DUNCAN, IN A CHAIR

Tense as a RAZOR BLADE pauses near the scruff on his throat, 
the poor CLUB BARBER staring: where to begin?

             WOMAN’S VOICE
      He was taken to a German POW camp. 
      Year later...he escaped. Found his 
      way home after the war ended.

                                      42.

BACK TO CUMMING, IN THE HALLWAY

He reaches a door, unable to shake the pest as he enters.

             CLUB MANAGER
      Sir, I’m afraid I must insist...

INT. LIBRARY, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- DAY

One of the finest collections in all of London.

             CLUB MANAGER
      Your guest cannot stay.

A beautiful British siren looks up, her nose buried in one of 
the many books here. This is ELLIE LOCKHART (20s). It’s her 
they were discussing (and her VOICE we’ve been hearing).

             CLUB MANAGER
      Women are not permitted.

             LOCKHART
      Article nine-clause two, club rules. 
      On matters of National Security all 
      facilities within shall be opened to 
      those who serve the crown loyally. 
        (stern; with authority)
      Including women. 

The Club Manager snatches the book away from her.

             CLUB MANAGER
      Preposterous. What idiot would 
      write such a ridiculous clause?

             LOCKHART
      His Majesty, King George V. 
      He’s a charter member. 

Lockhart steps by, approaches Cumming who smirks, impressed.

             CUMMING
      You must be my secretary, Mis’ess...?

             LOCKHART
      Lockhart. Miss Lockhart. And I’m not 
      your secretary. Churchill sent me, 
      to evaluate your recruit. Now...
        (holds up an army dossier)
      Shall we begin?

                                 BACK TO:

                                      43.

DUNCAN, BEING SHAVED

Beard trimmed down first, then splashed with foamy cream.   
As the razor slowly SCRAAAPES away the stubble...

             LOCKHART
	(V.O.)
      Duncan’s a combat soldier, trained 
      in trench warfare...

                              QUICK INSERT:

CUMMING, IN THE LIBRARY

Sitting with Lockhart at a reading table.

             LOCKHART
      Personally I doubt he’s qualified s
      to complete the assignment.

             CUMMING
      You mean survive it.

             LOCKHART
      It doesn’t matter if he survives, 
      from what I understand.

             CUMMING
      It matters to me.

             LOCKHART
      Why?

             CUMMING
      Because the last man I trained for 
      this sort of thing never came home.

             LOCKHART
      Last man?

BRIEF FLASHBACK

Quick cuts, soundless: same speeding CAR as before only now 
we see it being chased by another car; exchanging GUNFIRE; 
shots salt the doors, shatter windows; a TIRE BLOWS; the lead 
car FLIPS again, same as before, rolls into the ditch...

Cumming, haunted, looks away as --

             CUMMING
      My son.

                             BACK TO SCENE:

                                  CUT TO:

                                      44.

STEAMED MIRROR

A hand wipes a streak through the condensation, revealing --

DUNCAN, CLEAN CUT

Is this even the same guy?

                                  CUT TO:

DUNCAN’S ARMY JACKET

Washed & ironed flat; medals polished ... 

AND THE BUTTON SEWN IN

             DUNCAN
      Good as new.

END SEQUENCE

INT. LIBRARY, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- DAY

Duncan enters wearing his newly pressed jacket, looks sharp. 
Much to the surprise of Cumming and Lockhart.

             CUMMING
      Duncan, you look...groomed.

Duncan eyes Lockhart, immediate chemistry between them:

             DUNCAN
      Don’t believe we’ve had the 
      pleasure.

             CUMMING
      This is Miss Lockhart. She’s here 
      to supervise your evaluation.

             DUNCAN
      Evaluation?

             LOCKHART
      To observe your qualities. Mental 
      and physical. Decide if you’re 
      mission-ready. Or not.

             DUNCAN
      Think I can decide that for myself.

             LOCKHART
      Let’s leave the determinations to 
      those most qualified to make them.

                                      45.

She stands, passes Duncan on her way to the door as:

             LOCKHART
      You’ve been out of commission some 
      time now. Living under a bridge. 
      Fighting cops and card players.  
      Not planning to have you pickpocket 
      watches off the street, you know. 

She pauses at the door --

             LOCKHART
      If in three days I’m not convinced 
      you’re ready for this assignment, 
      I’ll find someone else who is.

Duncan glares, not sure he trusts her. She glares back, 
definitely doesn’t trust him.

She steps out, leaves.

             CUMMING
      I procured a room for you upstairs. 
      You’ll stay here while we run a few 
      tests, shake off the rust.

             DUNCAN
      Tests?

BLAM  BLAM  BLAM  

INT. MID-FLOOR, EMPTY BUILDING -- DAY

BLAM  BLAM  BLAM  CLICK

Six shots and the cylinder of Duncan’s REVOLVER is spent.  
The target on the far wall peppered, evenly grouped shots. 

             CUMMING
      Reload.

Duncan shakes out the shells from the wheel, reloads six new 
shots. As he does, Cumming walks toward him from the target. 
By the time Duncan loads the last bullet CUMMING REACHES HIM, 
puts a small gun to Duncan’s head, pulls the trigger: CLICK.

             CUMMING
      You’re dead. 
        (off Duncan’s glare)
      Need to be faster. Few paces is all 
      it took for me to close the gap on 
      you - and I’ve only got one leg.

                                      46.

             DUNCAN
      Was fast enough in the trenches.

             CUMMING
      You’re not in the trenches anymore. 
      This...is far more dangerous. 

Duncan glances around the empty site, hardly agrees.

             DUNCAN
      Buildings aren’t battlefields.

             CUMMING
      Where I’m sending you, they are. 
      Here...

Cumming takes the revolver, gives Duncan his smaller gun --  
a WEBLEY SELF-LOADING .455 MK I -- pistol of the Royal Navy. 
Duncan hefts it, heavier than it looks.

             CUMMING
      Webley self-loader, semi-automatic. 
      Beats your bulldog revolver any day. 
      Compact, easy to conceal. Short range 
      accuracy spot on. Rate of fire much 
      faster. Reload speed no contest...

Cumming hands him a BOX MAGAZINE. Duncan SLAPS it in, cocks 
the slide. Aims. Fires -- BLAM -- his shot misses completely. 

Cumming bats an eye; you missed? 

             DUNCAN
      Recoil’s a bit different.

Duncan adjusts his stance, FIRES again: BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM. 
Every shot punches the target. A dead eye display.

             DUNCAN
      That’s better.

ON THE TARGET

Close enough to see the ends of the slugs sticking out, 
failed to penetrate the target as deep as those from the 
revolver which punched clean through.

             DUNCAN
      Stopping power isn’t quite the same.

Cumming snatches the Webley, fires a shot POINT BLANK at the 
target -- BLAAAAAM -- the target is thrust across the floor. 

Cumming hands the pistol back to Duncan, satisfied.

                                      47.

             CUMMING
      Stops fine to me. Best of all, 
      slide won’t breach on an empty 
      clip. Means your enemy won’t know 
      when your gun is dry. Just you. 

Duncan, sly grin at the gun, starting to appreciate it as --

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      You already know how to shoot a 
      man...

MONTAGE SEQUENCE:

Duncan FIRES his new Webley at a MOP BUCKET, each shot 
punching it across the floor, rickety wheels squeaking as the 
last shot drops the bucket down the OPEN LIFT SHAFT.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      I can show you how to flush him out 
      of position, move him like a pawn 
      across a chess board...

Lockhart observes, ears muffled in this crude indoor SHOOTING 
GALLERY lined with sacks of cement bags & boarded windows.

As the mop bucket crashes below --

             DUNCAN
      You’re expecting more mop buckets 
      in the field?

EXT. ROOFTOP, EMPTY BUILDING -- DAY

BLAM -- Cumming shoots at the ground -- BLAM -- boots jump 
backwards as the shots hit inches from -- BLAM -- Duncan’s 
toes, jumping again, heels slipping on the building’s edge -- 
DUNCAN NEARLY FALLS -- at the last second, Cumming grabs him:

             CUMMING
      Always look before you leap.

Duncan reacts -- it’s the lesson he needs to learn most.

INT. DUNCAN’S ROOM -- NIGHT

Duncan, SHIRTLESS PUSH-UPS NEAR HIS COT, scars showing.     
He struggles, clearly out of shape; no rhythm whatsoever; 
eyes trying to focus on something below his chin as --

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      Some cocktail ya got there...  

                                      48.

EXT. ROOFTOP, EMPTY BUILDING -- DAY

A wad of cloth is jammed into a BOTTLE OF FINE SCOTCH.

             LOCKHART
      It’s an improvised incendiary.

LOCKHART FLICKS A TRENCH LIGHTER

An ember catches the cloth; as it burns --

             DUNCAN
      Incendiary...you mean a bomb?

Duncan takes a cautious step back. 

So does Cumming.

             LOCKHART
      Use any bottle, breakable container. 
      Fill it with flammable liquids. 
      Alcohol, gasoline. Wad the bottle 
      neck for a wick. Light it, throw it. 

She does. 

CRAAAACK. The bottle SMASHES on a wall and -- WHOOOOOSH -- a 
FIREBALL BURSTS instantly into the air then disappears. 

             DUNCAN
      Wasn’t very lady-like.

             LOCKHART
      My purview is psychological warfare, 
      not parasols and proper etiquette. 
      You want a lady, I suggest you go 
      solicit one on Regent street.

She tosses him the TRENCH LIGHTER, walks off.

             DUNCAN
        (aside; to Cumming)
      She scares me.

             CUMMING
      Yeah.

             DUNCAN
      I kinda like it.

             CUMMING
      Me too.

Off Duncan’s look --

                                      49.

INT. CUMMING’S OFFICE, ATTIC ROOM -- NIGHT

Cumming uncurls a map, pins it to the wall. A lamp spotlights 
the borders of PETROGRAD, inland from the BALTIC HARBOR. 

Several X’s mark the city’s entry points. 

             DUNCAN
      Targets?

             CUMMING
      Access points. 

DUNCAN, MORE PUSH-UPS

Fluid now, arms pumping like pistons, finding his rhythm, 
eyes fixed like a hawk on whatever’s below his chin --

                                CROSS-CUT:

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      I know how to slip you into any 
      city, any country. Any time of day. 
      But...how you get out is up to you.

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      You want me to improvise my escape?

BACK TO SCENE

             CUMMING
      It’s not improvising if you prepare 
      for every possible scenario.

             DUNCAN
      And if there is no escape?

             CUMMING
      There’s always an escape. Just have 
      to look for it.

Cumming shoves a DOSSIER FILE at Duncan.

             CUMMING
      Homework. Know your enemy. Odds are 
      he knows us.

DUNCAN STOPS, SWEAT POURING

muscles bulging raw strength; winded, sore; picks up the 
thing on the floor he’s been staring at: a photo of VOSTOK. 

                                CROSS-CUT:

                                      50.

He takes it, sets it in a pile on the cot next to Cumming’s 
DOSSIER FILE, spread out; sifts for another photo... 

KRONSTADT

Aerial view of the fortress. He lays it down to study, then 
repositions for more push-ups...only this time puts his feet 
up on the cot, ELEVATED, more excruciating; veins throb as:

             CUMMING
	(O.C.)
      Daimler, Crossley, Bentley, Austin...

INT. GARAGE, WAR OFFICE MOTOR POOL -- NIGHT

A stored collection of British MOTOR VEHICLES from the war. 

Cumming stands near an AUSTIN CAR, sleek chassis, used mainly 
as transportation for officers to and from the front lines. 

             DUNCAN
      Already know how to drive a car.

             CUMMING
      But can you escape one, say it’s on 
      fire? Because your father couldn’t.

Daggers shoot from Duncan’s eyes as Cumming tries to remove 
the car’s wooden floorboards. He struggles, board stuck:

             CUMMING
      Simply lift and remove the 
      floorboard...
        (can’t; tries again)
      Simply lift...

Duncan steps forward, raises his boot - seemingly to stomp 
Cumming’s head but -- THUMP -- KICKS OUT THE FLOORBOARD.

As he steps away, Lockhart approaches Cumming, makes a note. 

             LOCKHART
      He has a lot of hostility.

             CUMMING
      I noticed.

             LOCKHART
      Curious...are you training him? 
      Or is he training you?

Cumming reacts, isn’t entirely sure.

END SEQUENCE

EXT. WAR OFFICE BUILDING -- NIGHT

Exhausted from the day Cumming labors toward his ROLLS-ROYCE. 
Senses someone behind him, following...

                                      51.

             DUNCAN
      Nice ride.

             CUMMING
      Your father was a chauffeur, died 
      in a car fire during the bomb raids 
      back in ‘14. He teach you to drive?

             DUNCAN
      Let me park the car in the garage a 
      few times.
        (a beat; then)
      You know how he died?

             CUMMING
        (nods)
      I’m the reason he’s dead.

BRIEF FLASHBACK

Quick cuts, soundless: aftermath of the CAR CRASH, a burning 
wreck as a BLOODIED CUMMING struggles to crawl out; trapped, 
leg pinned down, won’t budge. FLAMES INTENSIFY. Desperate he 
picks up a shard of metal, stares at the razor-sharp edge, 
then glances at the ankle of his trapped leg... 

                             BACK TO SCENE:

CUMMING 

looks away, wracked with guilt, the memory all too painful.

             CUMMING
      Couldn’t get back to London in time 
      to warn anyone about the air raids. 
      Tried. Lost my car, my leg. My son. 
        (shrugs)
      Guess we both lost someone that day.

Duncan shifts, uncomfortable.

             DUNCAN
      Why me? 
        (off Cumming’s look)
      Had to be other recruits out there, 
      more qualified. Trained for this 
      sort of thing...

                                      52.

             CUMMING
      I scoured greater London in search 
      of England’s best’n brightest...
        (shrugs)
      All I found was you. 

             DUNCAN
      Not very reassuring.

             CUMMING
      You’re a raging bull in a bloody 
      china shop, Duncan. Trained to 
      charge into battle, loyally, for 
      King’n Country. Which you did, many 
      times. But it’s not your skills in 
      combat that interest me...it’s your 
      ability to survive I admire most. 
        (beat)
      I know about the POW camp. You spent 
      a year there before you escaped. 
      Torture. Interrogation. Conditions 
      most men would find intolerable. Yet 
      somehow...you found your way home. 

He steps closer, drilling deep into Duncan --

             CUMMING
      I’m not looking for the man who 
      knows the road to hell, Duncan...
        (earnest)
      I’m looking for the one who rode 
      his way out. 

Off Duncan’s look --

EXT. OPEN TOP, DOUBLE-DECKER BUS -- NIGHT (DRIVING)

A wobbly passenger bus bounces down cobbled London streets. 
Duncan sits alone in back as a WORKMAN disinfects empty seats 
with a handheld pump spray, sterilizing for Spanish flu.

As the bus drives on --

                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECOVERY WARD, LONDON ROYAL HOSPITAL -- NIGHT

Duncan crosses to the corner where he last saw Westmore but:   
THE COT IS EMPTY.

             DUNCAN
      Matthew...?

WHEELS SQUEAK

Duncan turns, sees a young NURSE pushing an empty wheelchair.

                                      53.

             DUNCAN
      The man who was in this bed, Westmore. 
      Matthew Westmore. Where is he? 

             NURSE
      This is a hospital. We hold 
      patients here, not prisoners. 
        (pushes on)
      S’cuse me.

As she wheels the empty chair away --

             CHURCHILL
	(V.O.)
      Miss Lockhart approved your recruit 
      fit for assignment...

INT. SMOKING LOUNGE, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- NIGHT

Churchill, deep in thought, sitting fireside with a cigar. 
Flames CRACKLE as Cumming rests in the chair next to him.

             CHURCHILL
      She likes him. I, however, do not. 
        (explains)
      Men of lower class standing have 
      less at stake than a nobleman. 
      Commoners. Vagrants, criminals. 
      They could never be as loyal to 
      King and Country as men of high 
      moral-social standing. Men like us.  
      Men who have proven their loyalty 
      with honor, and not just blood.
        (puffs; gestures)
      Which is why...

Churchill motions for a NAVY CADET (maybe 19) in uniform to 
approach. Young handsome. Stands between them.

             CHURCHILL
      Vetted this sailor myself. Quite 
      qualified for our mission abroad. 
      Speaks Russian. And his family 
      pedigree is...impressive. As such, 
      he has much at stake here, like us.

             CUMMING
        (scrutinizing the cadet)
      Stakes...

Abruptly, Cumming kicks his foot up on a table, unsheathes a  
thin DAGGER hidden in the hilt of his cane and -- THUNK -- 
CUMMING STABS HIS OWN LEG. The blade wobbles in his shin. 

On cue, the cadet PUKES behind Churchill’s chair.

                                      54.

             CUMMING
      Stakes is precisely why I picked 
      the man I did: he doesn’t have any. 
        (the point)
      With nothing at stake, he has 
      nothing to lose.

As Cumming PLUCKS the dagger from his fake leg --

A CATAPULT SNAPS

Slingshot triggered by mechanical hydraulics; a RUSSIAN 
SEAPLANE launches off a cliff, then drops like an anvil onto 
a rocky seaside outcropping, EXPLODING on the waves below...

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. LAUNCH PAD, KRONSTADT FORTRESS -- NIGHT

The flames arc, nearly singeing VOSTOK who turns away in 
disgust. Lights flicker, power surge in the generator as 
Grozny approaches, a PAGE from the Eyes Only file in hand. 

             GROZNY
        (of the crash)
      Your aerial surveillance program is 
      proving costly for Mother Russia, 
      comrade. Is it necessary? Already 
      our battleships patrol the northern 
      passage. Minefield along the south. 
      Watch towers on all four corners 
      armed with anti-aircraft artillery.
        (certain of it)
      Nothing can escape Kronstadt.

             VOSTOK
      I command the defenses of this 
      fortress, comrade. Not Lenin. Not 
      Trotsky. Not Stalin. Certainly not 
      Dzerzhinsky and your Cheka police. 
        (beat; cools)
      Our prisoner, has he divulged the 
      ulterior cipher?

Grozy nods, FLICKS a lighter. Holds the flame to the page. 
Suddenly, between the jumbled lettering, WRITING APPEARS, 
scorched into print on the page. MORE JUMBLED WORDS.

                                      55.

             GROZNY
      Invisible ink. The new code is 
      impossible to crack without the key.

             VOSTOK
      You’re certain?

             GROZNY
      Quite. Which is why I’ve ordered an 
      agent to London to purchase the 
      code from an old contact of mine.

Vostok sours, faces the KRONSTADT NAVAL HARBOR behind him. 

Beyond the launch pad are dozens of RUSSIAN SAILORS scraping 
ice off the decks of BATTLESHIPS gathering in the bay.

             VOSTOK
      Enough time for the navy to gather 
      in full, prepare for launch...

He turns, faces Grozny --

             VOSTOK
      Return to the headquarters. Post 
      extra watchmen outside the embassy, 
      as a precaution.

             GROZNY
      You believe the British will come 
      for the prisoner?

             VOSTOK
      They will come for this.
        (taps the decoded page)
      I would.

A PHONE RINGS

INT. CUMMING’S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Cumming takes down the portrait of his son, stares...as if 
this is goodbye; other items nearby packed in a box.

The phone continues to RING, like an alarm...

IN THE FOYER

             CUMMING
        (answers ... listens)
      Yes ... boat, which boat?

                                      56.

EXT. LONDON DOCKLANDS -- NIGHT

Looking up at the icy hull of a Finnish CARGO VESSEL moored 
on the Thames; ropes CREAKING; waving a FINNISH FLAG.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      My contact in Finland says there’s 
      a Russian spy aboard this ship...

INT. SHIPPING OFFICE, DOCKLANDS -- NIGHT

Seeing the same vessel out the window as the CREWMEN step 
down the gangplank, given coins, a day’s pay for shore leave. 
Watched by Cumming who CRUMPLES the ship’s manifest; no help.

             CUMMING
      I need you to find him.

             LOCKHART
	(O.C.)
      What about Duncan?

Cumming turns to LOCKHART who smears dabs of rouge onto her 
cheeks and lips; rosy red like a street tart, a tightly wound 
corset hidden under an overcoat, rather seductively. 

Hard to believe this is the same bookish woman from before.

             CUMMING
      He’s not trained for this... 
      You are.

                                  CUT TO:

THE CREWMEN, STEPPING OFF THE PIER

Salty Finnish sailors, welcomed to London by PROSTITUTES, 
waiting as they do most nights. Flirting, fawning. Taking men 
by the arm, escorting them to a nearby shithole pub.

LOCKHART, AMONG THEM

silky smooth leg poking out as she adjusts her stocking; 
unlit cigarette stick dangling from her mouth.

             LOCKHART
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      Match? Any of you boys have a 
      match? 

A MATCH IS LIT

By a bald man with a square jaw, hard Eastern European 
features -- KOUROV -- blows out the match.

                                      57.

EXT. SHITHOLE PUB -- NIGHT

A rowdy, raucous crowd HOWLS inside, DRUNKS in various moods 
of intoxication: angry, giddy; LAUGHING, mugs SHATTERING.

Suddenly the door SWINGS OPEN; out spills --

LOCKHART

Glancing, every direction; a drunk reaches out for her to 
come back in; she SLAPS his hand away, not interested.

             LOCKHART
	(V.O.)
      I lost him...

INT. SHIPPING OFFICE, DOCKLANDS -- NIGHT

Lockhart, washing off her make-up, clearly frustrated.

             LOCKHART
      He went to get a couple pints, 
      never came back.

             CUMMING
      Did you identify him? 

             LOCKHART
      No. But I found this.

She holds up a RUSSIAN MATCHBOOK, written in Cyrillic, 
propaganda for the Bolshevik party. Cumming takes it, flips 
it open; scribbled on the inner flap we see: MARTOV-OXFORD. 

                                MATCH CUT:

PROF. MARTOV - UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD

A faculty sign etched with the school’s iconic badge...

INT. FACULTY OFFICE -- DAY

The door opens; in steps MARTOV (50s), wiry intellectual, 
tweed jacket, horn-rim specs. Looks like a MARXIST, is one. 

Sets his briefcase on a desk stacked with POLITICAL DOCTRINES 
most notably the “Communist Manifesto” by Karl Marx. Closes 
his door, locks it; opens the Manifesto, revealing a HOLLOWED 
CORE with a smaller book inside, tightly bound...

Martov removes the smaller book, flips the pages: jumbled 
lettering just like in the EYES ONLY file...only this book 
has the full encryption alongside it: a CIPHER CODE BOOK.

                                      58.

INT. DINING HALL, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- NIGHT

An upscale supper club, packed, elite patrons chattering. 

At a table for two sits Duncan. In a dinner suit. Itching at 
the bow tie around his neck, as if it were a noose. He flips 
the FRENCH MENU over, confused, as if he can’t read it. 

Heads turn as a STUNNING WOMAN enters, wearing an elegant 
evening dress. She passes a wiry man wearing horn-rimmed 
specs -- it’s MARTOV -- clutching the CODE BOOK, anxious.

Must be Duncan’s lucky day because the stunning woman crosses 
to his table and stops. Duncan looks up, likes what he sees:

             DUNCAN
        (soaks her in; smirks)
      Now that’s more lady-like.

THE STUNNING WOMAN IS LOCKHART

             LOCKHART
      Try not to get the wrong idea. 

She sits, the WAIT STAFF pulling her chair.

             DUNCAN
      Wrong idea? So this isn’t a test?

             LOCKHART
      A test? 

             DUNCAN
      To see if a soldier like me can 
      handle high society situations.
      Infiltrate the upper class. Mingle 
      with distinguished men, maybe even 
      charm a beautiful woman...

He takes her hand...

Kisses it like a gentleman. She softens, wasn’t expecting to. 
Quickly JERKS her hand away. Duncan smirks, amused; clearly 
not as uncomfortable in here as she had assumed.

             LOCKHART
      Have you ordered?

             DUNCAN
      No, I ah-

             LOCKHART
      You can’t read the menu. It’s fine. 
      I’ll order.

                                      59.

             DUNCAN
        (in French; fluent)
      Je peux lire l'amende menu... 
        (shrugs; explains)
      Just nothing on it I wanna eat.

She reacts, impressed, immediately tries to hide it. 

             LOCKHART
      Parlez-vous français?

             DUNCAN
      Oui, parfaitement.
        (German; Italian; Spanish)
      Ich spreche auch Deutsch...
      E italiana...
      Y un poco de español.

             LOCKHART
      Cunning linguist. You learn all 
      that in school?

             DUNCAN
      POW camp mostly, back in the war.  
      I was the only Englishman there.  
      No choice but to listen, and learn. 
      From the guards, other prisoners...

             LOCKHART
      Were any of them Russian?

             DUNCAN
        (in Russian; fluent)
      Like the Marxist behind you?

Duncan nods to Martov, still at his table across the floor. 
Lockhart reacts without looking, surprised he knew:

             DUNCAN
        (explains)
      His drink. Vodka, chilled. Better 
      suited for the proletariat than the 
      bourgeoisie in here...  
        (baiting her)
      Ex-boyfriend?

             LOCKHART
      Ex-colleague. Martov. Cryptanalyst. 
      Code-breaker in the war, Room 40 
      under Admiral Hall. Sold a few of 
      those secrets to our Allies: 
      French, American. Russians. Back 
      before the Bolsheviks took over. 
      Seemed harmless enough at the time.

                                      60.

             DUNCAN
      So what’s he doing here?

             CUMMING
	(O.C.)
      Old habits die hard.

Cumming steals a chair from a nearby table, joins them.

             CUMMING
      Martov likes to wine-n-dine before 
      he makes his deals. 

             DUNCAN
      You knew he’d be here?

             LOCKHART
      I tracked him from his office on 
      campus.

             DUNCAN
      So this isn’t a test?

             CUMMING
      Test’s over... 
        (beat)
      So’s your training.

SCREEEEEEECH

INT. PLATFORM, LONDON UNDERGROUND -- NIGHT

A metal shriek trumpets the train’s arrival.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      A Russian spy slipped into London 
      last night on the docks...

Tired COMMUTERS line up. Among them is MARTOV, nervous, 
trying not to be as -- WHOOOSH -- the train doors open. 
Commuters spill out. Martov rudely pushes his way through the 
crowd, fighting to get onboard before the doors close.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      We know he intends to meet Martov 
      but don’t know where. 

As the doors close -- DUNCAN SLIPS ONBOARD -- his dinner suit 
replaced with his ARMY JACKET, much more comfortable.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      I need you to shadow the professor, 
      identify his contact. And observe 
      their meeting without being seen.

                                      61.

OOOMPH 

Duncan “accidentally” bumps into Martov.

             DUNCAN
      Honest knock, sir, honest knock. 
      S’cuse me.

Martov HUFFS as Duncan steps by, finds another spot in the 
over-crowded car.

As the train JERKS to depart --

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Truthfully, I’d prefer Lockhart be 
      sent on this, but considering their 
      shared professional history-

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      Are you asking me to help...

                            QUICK CROSS-CUT:

BACK IN THE RESTAURANT

At the table --

             DUNCAN
      ...or are you ordering me to?

Cumming smirks.

             CUMMING
      Pick one.

INT. SUBWAY CAR -- CONT.

Bouncing along the tracks, not nearly as level as today.

As the car speeds along, DUNCAN glances over at Martov just 
as he’s approached by KOUROV, the bald man from the docks; 
after Kourov hands him a padded envelope Martov reaches into 
his jacket for the CODE BOOK he brought...

...only it’s not there; Martov pats his pockets, befuddled, 
suddenly realizing he’s been pickpocketed...Martov clocks the 
car, skittish now as he searches for --

             DUNCAN
      Lose something, comrade?

Duncan flashes him a cocky grin, raising the CODE BOOK he 
lifted off Martov, waving it.

                                      62.

KOUROV

Instantly pissed, shoves Martov aside, the padded envelope 
spilling onto the floor, CASH NOTES at people’s feet as --

Duncan elbows past COMMUTERS as Kourov pursues him; Duncan 
quickly reaches the forward door for the next car, glances 
back at Kourov -- THEY LOCK EYES -- the chase is on.

BETWEEN CARS

Duncan steps out, NOISE DEAFENING before he steps into --

THE NEXT CAR

Duncan slides in, keeps moving, shuffling between commuters; 
Kourov right behind him, doesn’t bother to shut the door, 
barrels through the crowd, knocking people over, gaining...

KOUROV WIELDS A KNIFE

A thin stiletto hidden up his sleeve, sliding into his palm, 
weapon of a well-trained assassin.

Duncan doesn’t see it, reaching out for the next forward door 
when suddenly -- SHIIINK -- Kourov stabs the stiletto deep 
into Duncan’s arm, immediately releasing his grip on the --

CODE BOOK

Kourov catches it, retracting the stiletto as he stealthily 
continues through the door Duncan opened.

Duncan, stunned, arm strangely limp all of a sudden; glances 
down at his hand, BLOOD DRAINING DOWN HIS ARM, dripping off 
his fingers onto the floor; he looks up as --

KOUROV MOVES INTO THE NEXT CAR

Casual, as if nothing happened -- Duncan reacts, pissed -- 
grits his teeth, then staggers into the NEXT CAR as...

KOUROV

Glances at the CODE BOOK, then quickly -- and discretely -- 
folds and inserts a few DOCUMENT PAGES inside before stuffing 
the whole thing in his jacket pocket; mission accomplished.

SUDDENLY -- WHAAAM -- DUNCAN SMASHES KOUROV INTO THE WALL

Headfirst, glass from the nearby window SHATTERING, lets in a 
GUST OF WIND, air in the tunnel screaming as the train speeds 
down the rails while they fight.

                                      63.

KOUROV, STUNNED -- GRABS A HOSTAGE

Human shield, tip of his stiletto pressed to their throat; 
bleeding from his forehead, Kourov blinks when he sees Duncan 
still coming at him -- other commuters GASP as -- DUNCAN 
SMASHES THE HOSTAGE’S HEAD BACK INTO KOUROV’S FACE -- no 
hesitation, breaking Kourov’s grip. AND NOSE. Blood gushes.

Kourov -- wasn’t expecting that either -- suddenly outmatched 
he stumbles for the forward door, wipping blood as he trips 
and staggers into the --

CONDUCTOR’S CAB

Dead end; no more cars. 

Just an old MOTORMAN at the controls, leaning out the window, 
watching tracks; turns as Kourov enters.

             MOTORMAN
        (said it a thousand times)
      Sorry lad, no civilians allow-

KOUROV SHOVES HIM ASIDE

peers out at the tracks, trapped; the motorman is about to 
cuss him out, notices the stiletto, thinks better of it; 
slips out the door past --

DUNCAN 

He enters, locks the door with his bloodied arm...

...it’s just the two of them now.

KOUROV SWINGS THE STILETTO

Cuts Duncan across the leg; BLOOD SPEWS; Duncan RAMS Kourov 
into the controls; knocks the THROTTLE forward -- the train 
accelerates -- REACHING TOP SPEED AS --

THE TRAIN VEERS AROUND A SHARP TURN, nearly derails, the 
entire cab sways like a liferaft on the ocean.

Kourov thrusts at Duncan, cuts him again; Duncan GROWLS, 
swings but Kourov dodges and stabs again and again, a blur of 
quick pricks along the meat of Duncan’s shoulder.

Duncan drops to a knee. KOUROV CIRCLES. A shark about to 
strike when suddenly -- LIGHT FLOODS THE CAB -- bright, 
getting brighter; OUT THE WINDOW Kourov & Duncan both can see 
the next PLATFORM STATION dead ahead...

WITH ANOTHER TRAIN ON THE TRACKS

                                      64.

Ohshit...

DUNCAN REACHES OUT, PULLS THE BRAKES 

SCREEEEEEECH 

... too late ...

THE TRAINS COLLIDE -- WHOOOOOOOOMPHHHHH -- tremendous impact, 
cars SMASH together; steel frames bend, SNAPPING, rivets 
BURSTING, shrieks of twisted metal; an unbelievable ROAR.

AWAITING COMMUTERS on the platform react, SCREAMING as they 
scramble for cover before a HAZE OF DUST kicks up, smothering 
the entire station in a dense smog as...

DUNCAN & KOUROV

Are tossed in the cab like socks in a dryer; crashing to the 
floor before everything stills; SILENCE.

Beat.  

That unnerving calm after an accident when nobody’s sure what 
in the hell just happened.

Then -- 

DUNCAN CHOKES DUST

Banged up, bleeding, still alive; ears BUZZING as he hears a 
noise, looks up to see KOUROV CLIMB OUT A WINDOW, stumbling 
from the derailed wreck, disappearing into the haze.

As Duncan peels himself off the crooked floor --

INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM -- CONT.

A dust-filled haze as Duncan wafts for air, can’t see shit; 
smog blocking the light; people on the ground, hurt, dazed, 
bloodied; eyes wide with shock; terrified victims.

DUNCAN

caked in dust, scanning for KOUROV; spots him as he hops off 
the ledge of the platform, limping on a BROKEN LEG past the 
derailed wrecks before disappearing into the SUBWAY TUNNEL.

             DUNCAN
        (wincing)
      Shit...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      65.

IN THE SUBWAY TUNNEL

Pitch black. Flickers of light from low voltage bulbs, 
current glitches from early electricity. Hard to see, easier 
to hear: BOOTS CLOMP, echoing as Duncan enters the tunnel. 

He stops, listens. The other boots stop. Silence. Cautious, 
Duncan moves deeper, what little light there is from the 
platform nearly fading when -- ANOTHER TRAIN ROARS BY. 

Streaking down another track -- LOUD AS HELL -- which is 
precisely when the STILETTO SLASHES AT DUNCAN’S THROAT. 

KOUROV

striking from the shadows, swinging wildly -- a wounded 
animal is a dangerous one -- HE STABS AT DUNCAN’S WINDPIPE -- 
going for the jugular, every ounce of strength he has left; 
tip pricking Duncan’s throat -- BUT GOING NO FURTHER... 

Unbelievably: DUNCAN HAS CAUGHT THE BLADE WITH HIS BARE HAND

He SQUEEZES tight -- HIS CLENCHED FIST OOZING BLOOD -- won’t 
let go ... the more it hurts, the angrier Duncan gets ...

A helluva fight: two brutal warriors locked in mortal combat.

Until - POP - a flickering BULB BURSTS; the two backlit now 
as Duncan, as if energized by the moment, bends Kourov’s arm 
back and -- CRAAACK -- snaps Kourov’s elbow the wrong way... 

KOUROV HOWLS

Doesn’t scream long as -- THUNK -- Duncan buries the stiletto 
up to the hilt in Kourov’s chest. Kourov staggers, shocked to 
see his own knife stuck in him. Then -- 

SCREEEEECH -- ANOTHER TRAIN SCREAMS AROUND THE TRACK 

Headlights SHINE on the two of them -- ohshit -- quick Duncan 
digs into Kourov’s pocket, grabbing the CODE BOOK just as --  

THUUUUUD

DUNCAN LEAPS OUT OF THE WAY as the train explodes through 
Kourov who instantly disappears with a sick THUUUD.

As the train ROARS by, Duncan glances at the CODE BOOK in his 
hand, opens it to find the DOCUMENT PAGES Kourov hid inside.

Duncan reacts to what he’s found, mind racing as we --

                                  CUT TO:

                                      66.

INT. PUBLIC REST ROOM, LONDON UNDERGROUND -- NIGHT

Water rushes as Duncan rinses a BLOODIED TOWEL over the sink; 
blood drains. He soaks it again, blots the dozen or so fresh 
pricks dotting his body... 

...new scars to go with the old.

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      Haven’t killed a man since the war. 
      Broken a few bones along the way,  
      nothing lethal though.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Does it bother you, killing?

Duncan glances into a broken mirror, studies himself --

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
        (matter-of-fact)
      No.

EXT. STAIRWELL - LONDON UNDERGROUND -- NIGHT

Duncan hands the CODE BOOK over to Cumming.

             DUNCAN
      This bothers me though.

He shows Cumming the DOCUMENT PAGES he found; Cumming 
snatches them, reading as --

             DUNCAN
      What do they say? 

Cumming looks up, uncertain if he should tell him --

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Russians found the ulterior cipher 
      in the file...

INT. OFFICE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WAR -- DAY

At last we see Kourov’s DOCUMENT PAGES: carbon copies of    
MI-1c’s ENCODED FILE complete with jumbled invisible ink.

Holding them, Churchill sinks in his chair.

             CHURCHILL
      They have the assassination orders 
      then...

                                      67.

             CUMMING
      But haven’t decoded them, not yet. 
      That’s why they sent a spy to 
      London - to buy the translation.

Churchill shifts, something must be done ... now.

             CHURCHILL
      Your recruit left quite the mess. 
      Derailed two trains in the tube. 
      Sheer miracle no one was killed.

             CUMMING
        (protective)
      He did his job. 

             CHURCHILL
      Yes, well, let us hope he doesn’t 
      leave an alike trail of destruction 
      on his way to Russia. Is he ready?

             CUMMING
      Nearly. Another week-

             CHURCHILL
      Another week and our worst secrets 
      spill out, in detail. Could be used 
      against us to wage another World War. 
      Our embassy in Petrograd was already 
      butchered. Next strike may hit our 
      very shores. England cannot wait...
        (gravely serious)
      Send your man.

BRASS KNUCKLES

Removed from the secret cache in the stone wall as --

             WESTMORE
	(O.C.)
      Thief.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. EAST END, UNDER THE BRIDGE -- NIGHT

Duncan reacts, looks over at WESTMORE, cracked mask back on, 
stuck in a wooden wheelchair. Warming himself with a bottle 
of booze, clearly drunk.

             DUNCAN
      Matthew... 
        (takes him in)
      How are you?

                                      68.

             WESTMORE
      Crippled.

             DUNCAN
      I can get you help.

Westmore tries to wheel away, but gets stuck in the mud. 
Duncan pushes him free.

             WESTMORE
      Don’t need your charity, mate.  
      All the king’s horses and all the 
      king’s men...can all go rot in hell.

Westmore digs out a crushed cigarette, pats for a match. 
Duncan FLICKS the trench lighter. Westmore PUFFS, takes in 
his old friend’s new clean-cut appearance, amused by it.

             WESTMORE
      New face. Clothes. Seems as though 
      England gave you everything...and 
      left nothing for me.

             DUNCAN
      You were my Quartermaster back in 
      the war...

             WESTMORE
      I was your superior officer. 
      What of it?

             DUNCAN
      You may not want my help, mate.  
      But I sure as hell need yours.

Westmore reacts, takes the lighter, studies it; then --

             WESTMORE
      Might have a few souvenirs lying 
      around, could come in handy...with 
      a few modifications, of course. 

Off Duncan’s smirk --

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Officially you’re unofficial...

EXT. LONDON DOCKLANDS -- DAWN

As sunlight rises over the Thames...

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Caught there will be no rescue...

DUNCAN 

crosses the gangplank onto a weathered CARGO VESSEL loading 
crates of tea for export. 

                                      69.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      No recognition of your existence. 
      No prisoner exchange. You’ll be 
      tortured, interrogated. Executed.

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      So...don’t get caught.

A SHIP HORN BLARES

BACK UNDER THE BRIDGE

                            BEGIN CROSS-CUT:

Westmore digs into the cache, hands Duncan some gadgets: 
BRASS KNUCKLES, HAND MAGNET ... and a COAT HANGER.      

Duncan gives him a crooked look: a coat hanger? 

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Sounds like a raw deal, but being 
      off his Majesty’s Service does give 
      you one distinct advantage...

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      Which is?

INT. BAR LOUNGE, ROYAL AUTOMOBILE CLUB -- NIGHT

CUMMING & DUNCAN, sharing a drink; the conversation they’ve 
been having is taking place right here:

             CUMMING
      License to kill. 

Duncan pauses mid-sip - Cumming is deadly serious.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      His name is Thomas Hawthorne...

INT. PRIVATE QUARTERS, CARGO VESSEL -- DAWN

Duncan sets his bag on the cot. Clocks the cramped space. 
Steel walls and a porthole. Not unlike a prison cell. 

Home Sweet Home.

                                      70.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Piano teacher, was giving lessons 
      in Helsinki. Spying on the emerging 
      Finnish government there before we 
      ordered him to Petrograd. 

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      So it’s a rescue mission then.

BACK IN THE BAR

Now Cumming pauses mid-sip:

             CUMMING
      Not quite. You need to find him, if 
      he’s still alive. And the file he 
      was caught with. Both are likely 
      being held in the Kronstadt naval 
      yard in the bay outside Petrograd. 

             DUNCAN
      How do you know?

             CUMMING
      Because that’s where I’d hide them. 
      Most heavily guarded fortress in 
      the world...

Cumming slides Duncan a cigar-sized METAL TUBE, tiny holes 
dotted along the tip, air vents for an early-mod SUPPRESSOR. 

             CUMMING
      Find the man. Find the papers. 
      Destroy both.

Duncan reacts, wrestles with what he’s being asked to do.

             DUNCAN
      I’m not an assassin.

             CUMMING
      You’re whatever England needs you 
      to be.

EXT. STERN - CARGO VESSEL -- DAWN

Seeing the ship leave port.

Duncan at the railing dressed like a crewman; thick coat, 
knit hat. Alone he sifts an EYES ONLY mission file, finds a 
photograph of a handsome regal man we recognize: HAWTHORNE.

The look on his face tells us he’s conflicted about this.

                                      71.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      You’ll travel as part of the crew. 
      A contact will meet you on the 
      docks, take you across the Baltic 
      into Russia. A courier I’ve used. 
      Knows the way to the embassy...

EXT. UNDER THE BRIDGE -- NIGHT

QUICK SHOTS: Westmore unwinds the neck of the hanger, cuts 
the wire in half; SMASHES one end flat with a brick; curls 
the half-wire around the trench lighter, slides it off... 

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Once there you may need to crack 
      the safe, empty it, if it isn’t 
      already. Can you handle that?

INT. CARGO HOLD, CARGO VESSEL -- BELOW DECK

...Duncan inserts Westmore’s self-made SNAPPER PICK into the 
lock on a shipping crate; flicks the spring; THE BUMPER HITS; 
flicks again, again -- the lock drops -- CLANKS on the floor.

Damn thing works.

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      I know a few tricks.

BACK IN THE BAR

             CUMMING
      Leave no trail. Nothing that can 
      link England to the papers... 
      Yourself included.

             DUNCAN
      And the embassy?

             CUMMING
        (downs his drink)
      Burn it.

INT. PRIVATE QUARTERS, CARGO VESSEL -- DAY

Duncan sits on the cot, cleaning the WEBLEY; slides the 
breach rapidly, spreading oil evenly across the gun metal.

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      This man of yours, Hawthorne-

                                      72.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      You can’t save him so don’t even try. 
      If he’s still alive he’ll have been 
      tortured so severely I doubt he’ll 
      have enough strength to stand. Better 
      you kill him, for his sake. And yours.

Finished, Duncan grabs the SILENCER, screws it in...

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      I can’t just leave a man behind.

...aims at a LIFE VEST hanging on a hook, fires - BLAAAAM - 
the shot echoes in the cabin, LOUD, anything but silent.  

Ears ringing, he inspects the vents on the barrel tip as --

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Soldiers win wars, Duncan...

BACK IN THE BAR

             CUMMING
      Spies prevent them. This is how.
        (knows it’s distasteful)
      If I was ten years younger I’d send 
      myself ... don’t make me regret 
      sending you.

                                  CUT TO:

CARGO SHIP - CARGO HOLD, BELOW DECK

Duncan manually DRILLS more holes into the suppressor tips, 
blows away the shavings. Screws it back into the Webley;  
aims at a wooden crate, FIRES -- PFT -- much better.

             CUMMING
	(V.O.)
      Boat to Helsinki leaves at dawn...

BACK IN THE BAR

             CUMMING
      Be on it.

END SEQUENCE

EXT. CARGO VESSEL, NORTH SEA -- NIGHT

Lightning FLASHES as the ship crashes into a wall of water, 
violent swells splashing the deck. 

As the THUNDER bellows --

                                      73.

INT. CARGO HOLD, CARGO VESSEL -- SAME

Duncan helps the crew keep the cargo locked down. We don’t 
notice at first, but as enough bodies pass by we suddenly 
realize Duncan is the only one with a LIFE VEST on.

As the boat sways, Duncan is knocked backwards into a crate. 
The strap of his vest gets caught on a nail. Duncan tries to 
rip it free; can’t. Suddenly, the gruff CAPTAIN appears 
holding a knife to Duncan’s throat. HE SLASHES.

Cuts the strap of Duncan’s vest, which falls away.

             BRITISH CAPTAIN
      We sink, we drown. 
        (snickers)
      Better that way, believe me.

As the boat SWAYS again --

             CHURCHILL
	(V.O.)
      Does your man understand what he’s 
      been asked to do?

INT. CHURCHILL’S OFFICE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WAR -- DAY

Cumming nods, exhausted. Looks ready to retire, willingly.

             CUMMING
      He’ll do it, whether he understands 
      it or not. Question is, do we 
      understand what we’ve asked of him?

             CHURCHILL
      He knows the risks.

             CUMMING
      And the enemy. All too well.  
      Better than I ever did.

Churchill studies him, carefully.

             CHURCHILL
      This wasn’t about your son, was it? 
      Because it won’t bring him back.

BRIEF FLASHBACK

Quick cuts, soundless: CUMMING, trapped in the car. Flinching 
as GUNSHOTS pop along the wreckage. Cracked glass shatters. 
GERMAN SPIES firing from the road, at their car. Rushing in. 

                                      74.

Cumming digs out his REVOLVER. Fires six shots. Not enough. 
Two spies left. Still coming, have Cumming dead to rights. 
Suddenly the spies SPASM, riddled with bullets. Drop dead. 

Cumming looks over his shoulder at the smoking barrel of a 
WEBLEY PISTOL -- THE EXACT SAME GUN HE GAVE DUNCAN -- held by 
the driver of the wreck, crushed under the steering wheel. 
Bloodied, broken. Dying. Just saved his father’s life.

This was ALASTAIR CUMMING.

                             BACK TO SCENE:

CUMMING 

forever haunted by the worst memory of his life...

...turns toward the door to leave when --

             CHURCHILL
      Cumming, one last thing... 

Cumming stops, pausing at the door.

             CHURCHILL
        (curious)
      The hell happened to my secretary?

Cumming glances at the RECEPTION DESK outside...

All the books on Paris are gone -- as is “Penny” -- replaced 
by a much older and meaner-looking RECEPTIONIST who has 
neatly arranged the desk...and removed all the booze bottles.

             CUMMING
      Requested a transfer, so I heard. 
      To Paris for the peace accord.

             CHURCHILL
      That request was denied. By me. 
      Twice in fact. How strange.

             CUMMING
        (giving nothing away)
      Yes, strange.

With that, CUMMING BOWS OUT, cane echoing down the hall: 

CLICK ... CLICK ... CLICK

                                  CUT TO:

                                      75.

EXT. GRAVEYARD, OUTSIDE PETROGRAD -- NIGHT

Clouds of HOT BREATH cool in the arctic air as PRISONERS are 
lined up in a frigid field of crumbling tombstones along the 
crooked treeline of a black forest. Detainees from Kronstadt. 

             GROZNY
	(O.S.)
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      You are not citizens of Russia, nor 
      martyrs of this Civil War...

Grozny paces before the headlights of the ARMY TRUCKS we saw 
outside the embassy earlier. Flanked by a squad of armed 
CHEKA AGENTS, rifles ready but strangely not aimed.

             GROZNY
      You are insects...and insects must 
      be exterminated.

Suddenly the twin turrets on the armor-plated PUTILOV CAR 
CRANK-CRANK-CRANK forward; the Gatling-like muzzles fire: 

BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM

The thunderous ROAR of heavy machine gun fire unleashes a 
wall of shock & awe; twin PM-M1910 MAXIM PULEMYOTs.

Grozny watches the slaughter with sick glee as the bodies are 
pummeled, geyers of blood erupting as they drop, hitting the 
frozen earth hard, without mercy. Finally the guns stop. 

Silence. Then a CHEKA AGENT approaches Grozny --

             CHEKA AGENT
      Sir, the ground is too frozen to 
      dig any deeper.

An exhausted GRAVEDIGGER stands near a shallow MASS GRAVE.

             GROZNY
      Let them freeze. A lesson for the 
      others in town.

             CHEKA COURIER
      Sir, this just arrived. Sent to 
      headquarters at the Winter Palace.

The CHEKA COURIER hands Grozny an envelope with a British 
flag stamped on it, postmarked from ENGLAND.

             GROZNY
	(O.C.)
      This came from London... 

                                  CUT TO:

                                      76.

INT. VOSTOK’S COMMAND QUARTERS, KRONSTADT -- DAWN

Vostok reaches into the envelope, finds a pair of horn-rimmed 
GLASSES, same specs worn by the Marxist in London. 

Cumming’s response to the envelope Vostok sent earlier.

             VOSTOK
      Alert security. Every port in the 
      Baltic. Post watch guards outside 
      the embassy night and day... 

Vostok CRUSHES the wire frame in his hand.

             VOSTOK
        (in English)
      The British are coming.

EXT. A WINTER WONDERLAND -- DAY

Snow falls on an arctic harbor in the Gulf of Finland as the 
weathered CARGO VESSEL pulls into port.

Insert: HELSINKI, FINLAND - January 1919

EXT. BOW, CARGO VESSEL -- SAME

Duncan, at the railing, breath puffing in the chilly air... 

Holds out the EYES ONLY file on Hawthorne, puts his TRENCH 
LIGHTER to it, flicks; a FLAME APPEARS, soft orange, an early 
Zippo-like modification by Westmore. Duncan grins, likes it. 

As the FILE BURNS --

EXT. DOCKS, HELSINKI PORT -- DAY

ICE CRAAAAACKS as the cargo vessel tugs on the frozen mooring 
lines. CREWMEN in winter boots CLOMP off the gangplank, 
unloading the ship’s cargo; icicles shake off as they work. 

Duncan breaks away, moves toward the mainland passing --

             FINNISH FERRYMAN
      Need boat to Russia, friend?

Duncan stops, regards the lanky FERRYMAN stomping his feet to 
keep warm, flashing a toothy grin -- this is his contact?

             FINNISH FERRYMAN
      Come, I take you.

                                      77.

INT. FERRY BOAT -- SAME (DOCKED)

As the Ferryman unmoors the line to disembark, DUNCAN BOARDS. 
Clocks the empty deck. Same ferry from Petrograd only here 
there are no other passengers onboard. Strange. 

             DUNCAN
      This a private charter?

CLICK

Ferryman turns, levels a revolver at Duncan as a trio of 
husky Russian CHEKA AGENTS appear, blocking every escape. 

Duncan reacts, pissed he walked right into a trap.

             FINNISH FERRYMAN
      You come quietly, da? You make no 
      trouble.

Ferryman’s thick Finnish accent is now a thick RUSSIAN one.

As they close in, Duncan discretely removes a snow glove, 
reaches under his belt buckle...

             DUNCAN
      No trouble.

THWAAACK - A BRASS KNUCKLE PUNCH

The nearest Russian drops, nose gushing blood. 

With a fury Duncan stuns the other two Russians with body 
blows as the startled Ferryman aims, about to fire. Duncan 
bowls him into the wall; Ferryman hits hard, drops his gun.

We’ve seen Duncan angry before, never this lethal. Whereas 
the Bobbies under the bridge were beaten, these men are 
absolutely brutalized. Given license to kill: HE USES IT.  
The Cheka agents pause, weren’t expecting a death match.

DUNCAN ATTACKS; grabs a fistful of someone’s hair, drives his 
brass-fist into the back of their neck, crushing the cervical 
vertebrae. Gushing Nose tries to rush Duncan, gets tossed out 
the port window; GLASS SHATTERS as he SPLASHES into the sea. 

Dazed, the Ferryman goes for his gun -- DUNCAN REACHES WITH 
HIS GLOVED HAND -- way out of reach, yet somehow...

THE GUN SLIDES A FEW INCHES INTO DUNCAN’S GLOVE

Ferryman reacts, bewildered. How’d that happen?  Quick, 
DUNCAN COCKS THE GUN, aims, about to fire when -- CRAAAACK -- 
FERRYMAN DROPS, knocked out cold from behind by:

                                      78.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Didn’t your mother warn you about 
      accepting rides from strangers?

OLIVIA NIGHTINGALE (20s), a seductive British femme fatale, 
wielding a spring-loaded BLACKJACK stick. Looks familiar, 
she’s the same female courier we saw at Hawthorne’s piano.

             DUNCAN
      She should’ve warned the strangers 
      about me.

She smirks, collapsing her BLACKJACK as --

             NIGHTINGALE
      Welcome to Helsinki.

INT. BOATHOUSE, DOCKS -- DAY

Nightingale pulls Duncan in from the cold, locks the door.  
He comes face-to-face with a RUSSIAN NESTING DOLL as:

             NIGHTINGALE
      That display back there, you enjoy 
      waltzing right into traps like that?

             DUNCAN
      Best way to spring ‘em. 

She moves to a small icehouse FIRE PIT, flames snuffed.   
Adds a handful of COAL from a bag; reaches for a fuel can 
marked HIGH OCTANE. Pours. Then SCRAAAAPES a metal stick 
along the pit -- SPARKS FLY -- ignite a fire: WHOOOOOOOSH.

As the coal burns --

             DUNCAN
      Who are you?

             NIGHTINGALE
      A courier, for the War Office.  
      Been stationed here at this frozen 
      outpost a few months now. Guess 
      that makes this the British embassy 
      in Finland, unofficially anyway.

Duncan notices the EMPTY BOAT RAMP, strange.

             DUNCAN
      Courier...so where’s your boat?

             NIGHTINGALE
      Long story...

                                      79.

DUNCAN PINS HER TO THE WALL

Buries his Webley pistol under her chin, startlingly fast.

             DUNCAN
      So start with your name.

CLICK - she presses her own pistol to his.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Olivia. Olivia Nightingale.

             DUNCAN
      Nightingale. Like the nurse?

             NIGHTINGALE
      I volunteered for the Red Cross, 
      back in the war. Boys needed hope. 
      Name seemed to inspire them.

             DUNCAN
      So what’s your real name?

             NIGHTINGALE
      What’s yours? 

             DUNCAN
      Duncan. Alec Duncan.

             NIGHTINGALE
        (doubts it)
      You’re real name ... is the same as 
      your cover?

             DUNCAN
      Never thought about it.

             NIGHTINGALE
      You should.
        (beat)
      Cumming said you were different. 
      Unlike any spy he’s sent before.

             DUNCAN
      How’s that?

             NIGHTINGALE
      They were all gentlemen... 
      You’re anything but.

Duncan senses her sincerity, lets go.

                                  CUT TO:

A CHARTER MAP ROLLS OUT: GULF OF FINLAND

Shows just how damn close they are to Russia; only thing 
between Helsinki and Petrograd are a series of small skerries 
and rocky islands, the last one being --

                                      80.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Kronstadt... 
        (beat)
      An island Naval fortress off the 
      coast of Petrograd. Patrolled by 
      skiffs night and day. Honestly, if 
      your goal is to slip into Russia, 
      be easier to enter from Siberia by 
      crossing the Arctic circle.

SHE ROLLS OUT ANOTHER MAP: KRONSTADT 

The fortress sits high above a jagged shoreline of rocks, 
WATCH TOWERS jutting from all four corners.

Almost looks like a RUSSIAN ALCATRAZ.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Battleships patrol the bay here. 
      Anti-aircraft guns watch the skies. 
      Can’t fly over it, can’t sail 
      around it. Leaves one option. Here.

She points again, this time at a MINEFIELD, drawn on the map; 
doodles of explosions, skull & bones...

             DUNCAN
      Minefield?

Duncan pours HIGH OCTANE fuel into his TRENCH LIGHTER as:

             NIGHTINGALE
      Before Russians closed the borders 
      I was crossing the gulf two, three 
      times a week for drops. Know every 
      skerry, sandbar and breakwater 
      along the way. And I’m telling you, 
      right now, this is the only way in.

Duncan turns, faces the EMPTY BOAT RAMP again, wondering --

             DUNCAN
      So...where’s your boat?

Off her look --

             NIGHTINGALE
	(V.O.)
      There, on the pier...

                                      81.

EXT. FINNISH NAVAL YARD -- NIGHT

Under the cover of night, lit by pulsing lights powered by 
humming generators, a small fleet - FINNISH COASTAL DEFENSE. 
A few NAVAL GUARDS patrol the docks. All seen from behind...

A CONCERTINA WIRE FENCE

Crude obstacle from the war, barbs spooled along trenches. 
Duncan & Nightingale approach, locked out as --

             NIGHTINGALE
      Docked inside that boathouse.

She points to a BOATHOUSE on the end of the farthest pier. 
Duncan studies the fence, looking for a way in...  

             DUNCAN
      Plenty of other boats we could 
      take.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Not like this one. Agile enough to 
      evade, fast enough to escape...

             DUNCAN
      Yeah? Then how’d it end up in here?

Duncan has an idea...

Slides on his HAND MAGNET, reaches for the wire - eeeerrk - 
pulls the concertina close, wooden post straining as he digs 
out his TRENCH LIGHTER, holds it to the barbed wire...

FLICKS THE FLINTWHEEL -- WHOOOOOSH -- A BLUE FLAME SPITS OUT 

intensely hot, the high octane fuel melting the wire just 
LIKE A TORCH WELDER; as the wires SNAP free --

             NIGHTINGALE
      Fins spotted me returning from 
      Russia. Thought I was a Cheka spy. 
      Was delayed on a pick up in 
      Petrograd. Agent never showed...

THE FENCE COLLAPSES

As they cross over it, carefully minding each step --

             NIGHTINGALE
      I waited. Longer’n I should have. 
      Didn’t get back before dawn. Was 
      outta fuel when they caught up. Had 
      to jump ship, barely got away.

                                      82.

EXT. DOCKS, FINNISH NAVAL YARDS -- NIGHT

Ice clings to everything as Duncan & Nightingale discretely 
make their way down the pier toward the BOATHOUSE. 

As a pair of guards pass by, they dart toward the door; 
padlocked shut. Nightingale looks around for another way in. 
Points to a narrow window high above, reaches for it. 

Duncan has a better idea. Pulls out the SNAPPER PICK, inserts  
it, flicks, hits the bumpers, flicks again...padlock opens.

Slipping inside, Duncan quietly closes the door as one guard 
reappears, looking back across the docks, scratching his head 
as if he heard something...

INT. BOAT HOUSE, FINNISH NAVAL YARDS -- NIGHT

Eerie creaks, cold metal chains, frozen ropes and wood. Looks 
more like a storage garage than launch pad. Engine blocks 
dangle from the rafters like 2-ton Christmas decorations; 
DAMAGED BOAT HULLS, flipped over, awaiting repairs.

Duncan & Nightingale scurry along, quiet as mice.

             NIGHTINGALE
        (whispering)
      Should be right back here...

Rounding a corner they stop before a 40-foot toothpick 
hanging from rail chains. It’s a CMB, Coastal Motor Boat.  
Wave skimmer with a massive engine borrowed from an airplane. 

And it’s real. Revolutionary hydroplane hull constructed of 
lightweight plywood. Yes, plywood. 

             DUNCAN
      That? That’s not a boat. It’s a pile 
      of driftwood the ocean spit out.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Thin. Lightweight. Incredibly fast. 
      Fifty knots, open sea. Outrun any 
      battleship, evade any cruiser.

             DUNCAN
      Not from the ceiling it won’t.

Nightingale finds the crank-controls; moves the chain-rail 
rack manually. Each turn echoes a CLICK-CLICK-CLICK as...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      83.

OUTSIDE THE BOATHOUSE

Seeing the padlock dangling on the door, unlocked. 

Studied by the suspicious FINNISH GUARD; knew he heard 
something. Reacts when he hears the muffled CLICK-CLICK-CLICK 
of the manual rail echoing inside...

                                 BACK TO:

INT. BOAT HOUSE, FINNISH NAVAL YARDS -- NIGHT

As the CMB shifts sideways over the narrow wet launch --

             NIGHTINGALE
      Year ago Royal Navy sent a flotilla 
      of these to sink German U-boats. 
      Bee stingers, torpedo-charged runs. 
      But to achieve top speed the hull 
      had to be shaved razor thin. So 
      thin, in fact, one shot too close 
      to the fuel tanks and...
        (gestures Ka-Booom)
      Only skimmer left in one piece.

             DUNCAN
      You speak like you were a sailor.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Father was. And my brothers.     
      All three of ‘em. 

THUUNK

The rails align, the CMB now dangling directly over the water 
of the wet launch.

             NIGHTINGALE
      There. Now to bring her down...

She cranks another lever, starts lowering the CMB.

             DUNCAN
      Careful.

             NIGHTINGALE
      I got it, I got it...

As the boat drops halfway - THE FINNISH GUARD APPEARS - 
behind them, watching. Stunned. Not quite sure what to do.

Duncan smirks, caught red-handed.

                                      84.

             DUNCAN
        (Finnish accent)
      Haloo. 

Panicked, the guard reaches around back for his slung rifle. 
Duncan beats him to the draw, whips out his WEBLEY SILENCER, 
aims and fires - PFT PFT PFT - not at the guard...

...but at the chain above him, holding up an ENGINE BLOCK; 
they SNAP loose, engine dropping -- WHOOOOOMPH -- hitting 
loud, nearly crushing the guard who leaps outta the way.

             DUNCAN
      Time to go.

DUNCAN 

throws Nightingale into the dangling boat -- PFT -- shoots 
the rail release, dropping the CMB; Nightingale reacts, 
falling as the boat SPLASHES into the water below. 

Chains RATTLE, still hooked to the CMB.

             DUNCAN
      REMOVE THE CHAINS.

Nightingale, stunned, unsnaps the chain-hooks as Duncan keeps 
his silencer trained on the guard who peeks out from behind 
cover and -- PFT, PFT, PFT -- Duncan pushes him back toward 
the door, moving him like a pawn on a chessboard...

...just like Cumming showed him, in training.

The guard stumbles out the door, calling for help. Quick, 
Duncan SLAMS his shoulder into a tall shelf, knocking it over 
to block the door; stopping the other guards outside who now 
BANG on the door, trying to get in.

Duncan RELOADS, slaps in a new clip lighting quick as --

             NIGHTINGALE
      C’MON.

Nightingale REVS the engine. 

It ROARS in the warehouse, loud, like an airplane -- which is 
where the engine comes from. As she reaches for the throttle,  
DUNCAN RUNS, sprinting toward the speeding boat as...

THE DOOR BUSTS OPEN, Finnish guards breaking through, 
watching in amazement as DUNCAN LEAPS from the walkway...

AND LANDS IN THE CMB, HARD

                                      85.

             DUNCAN
      GO, GO, GO.

NIGHTINGALE THROTTLES UP

The powerful engine ROCKETS them out of the boathouse just as 
the guards OPEN FIRE, guns blazing, shots peppering the water 
alongside the CMB as it leaves the boathouse, escaping. 

ON THE CMB - FLEEING THE NAVAL YARDS

             NIGHTINGALE
        (over the noise)
      TOLD YA SHE WAS FAST.

             DUNCAN
      AND LOUD. ALL OF RUSSIA IS GONNA 
      HEAR US COMING.

             NIGHTINGALE
      NOT IF WE USE THESE.

She tosses an OAR to Duncan who reacts:

             DUNCAN
        (incredulous)
      WE’RE GONNA PADDLE INTO PETROGRAD?

             NIGHTINGALE
      TRUST ME, I’VE DONE THIS BEFORE.

As the CMB speeds off into the night --

DARK WATERS

A thin sheet of floating ice cracks apart against the thick 
hull of a RUSSIAN PATROL SKIFF. Though faint, in the distance 
we hear the rumble of ANOTHER ENGINE bouncing over the waves.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

             RUSSIAN SAILOR
	(O.C.)
        (subtitle)
      Hear that comrade...?

EXT. RUSSIAN PATROL SKIFF -- NIGHT

The young RUSSIAN SAILOR perks up, lifts his hat to hear. 
Shivers. Cold to the bone. Noise of the other engine fades.

             RUSSIAN SAILOR
      Cut the engine, cut the engine...

                                      86.

The RUSSIAN SKIFF PILOT complies. 

It’s quiet, except for the waves slapping the sides. The 
sailor flips on a SEARCHLIGHT, pans it over the water, into a 
DENSE FOG, the evening mist spreading thick...

...through it we catch a glimpse of another boat’s wake.

             RUSSIAN SAILOR
      He went into the mist...

             RUSSIAN SKIFF PILOT
      Radio the other side to intercept.

Suddenly, a shadow appears in the mist, drifting closer... 

The two Russians fumble for their rifles, muscles slowed by 
the cold as they try to steady their aim; out of the fog a 
steel-spiked floating shell appears: a NAVAL MINE. 

Both sailors react, properly spooked --

             RUSSIAN SAILOR
      They’re in the minefield.

             RUSSIAN SKIFF PILOT
      Who would be so crazy to cross it 
      at night?

                                  CUT TO:

DUNCAN, IN THE COLD FOG 

Frost nipping at his nose as he steers; staring at 
NIGHTINGALE, laying flat on the bow of the CMB, a lookout, 
points which way to turn...

DUNCAN CRANKS THE WHEEL

Silently - emphatically - she points to turn the other way. 

He does. Glances over the starboard as a spiked RUSSIAN NAVAL 
MINE drifts by, close. Too close. Quick, DUNCAN GRABS AN OAR, 
pokes it between the horns, carefully pushing it away.

That’s not frost on his nose - it’s frozen beads of sweat.

NIGHTINGALE POINTS AGAIN 

Too late. WHOOOOMPH. They hit something. Duncan cringes, 
waits for the explosion...it doesn’t come. Beat. Duncan opens 
an eye, looks -- sees two RUSSIAN SAILORS -- cringing like 
him, both realizing it’s not a mine they hit: BUT EACH OTHER.

                                      87.

DUNCAN JUMPS ONTO THE RUSSIAN SKIFF

No hesitation as he leaps over Nightingale swinging the OAR -- 
CRAAAACK -- solid blow to the first Russian sailor, nearly 
flips him over into the icy waters as...

ANOTHER MINE DRIFTS BY

Misses the skiff by inches, detonator horns narrowly scraping 
past the hull -- NOW HEADED DIRECTLY TOWARD THE CMB.

Nightingale sees it --

             NIGHTINGALE
      Ohshit...

DUNCAN TOSSES HER THE OAR

She catches it, stabs at the mine to push it outta the way; 
wooden tip squeezing between the spiked-horn detonators, 
nearly triggers one; an incredibly tense moment as...  

Duncan disarms both Russians, tosses them overboard into the 
sea; ICE CRACKS, splashing as they slap the water swimming 
back to their skiff before their muscles freeze up.

Thinking quick, Duncan RIPS OUT the skiff’s fuel line, 
tossing the hose as he hops back into the CMB; shares a look 
with Nightingale to make sure she’s ok, then REVS the engine. 

As the CMB disappears into the fog...

             DUNCAN
      Bet you haven’t done that before.

EXT. BLACK FOREST SHORELINE -- SUNRISE

Duncan hops off the boat onto the rocky shores of -- 

Insert: PETROGRAD, RUSSIA - January 1919

He turns to push the CMB back out to sea when Nightingale 
debarks to anchor the boat, wrapping a rope around the 
shedding bark of a thick pine tree nearby. 

The wooden CMB perfectly camouflaged in the treeline.

             DUNCAN
      You’re not coming.

             NIGHTINGALE
      You want to find this man, you’ll 
      need my help.

                                      88.

             DUNCAN
      Too dangerous. You could get hurt.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Chivalry, from you? 

Duncan ignores her, makes his way toward a GRAVEL ROAD when --

He stops.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Cheka patrols drive that road.   
      All day. Standing orders to shoot 
      on sight at anyone suspicious.

             NIGHTINGALE
      We can cut through the forest.  
      Know a shortcut into the city. 
        (beat)
      This way.

She skips over the road, ducking into the forest.

Duncan glances back at the road, debating whether or not he 
should follow her...

EXT. BLACK FOREST -- DAY

Duncan, following her. 

Pushing through thistly frost-covered pine branches, BRANCHES 
WHIPPING his face, hard, sting like hell.

             DUNCAN
      Should’ve taken my chances on the 
      bloody road.

EXT. GRAVEYARD, OUTSIDE PETROGRAD -- DAY

Nightingale emerges from the trees, leads Duncan cautiously 
through the burial grounds. They pass a shallow grave packed 
with CORPSES frozen stiff, arms & knees crooked in the cold. 
Gruesome to see. We’ve been here before: the execution site.

Nightingale looks away; Duncan doesn’t. Studying the faces, 
frozen in agony -- looking for someone -- HAWTHORNE.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Victims of the Red Terror campaign. 
      Thousands executed by Cheka police. 
      Mass slaughter across the country. 
      Russia’s civil war... 

                                      89.

Duncan moves on, least bit bothered.

             NIGHTINGALE
      You act as though you’ve seen all 
      this before.

             DUNCAN
      Escaped it, POW camp outside Berlin 
      near the end of the war. Easier to 
      kill prisoners than to feed them.

She catches up, studies his face - as cold as the air.

             NIGHTINGALE
      You’re not afraid of death, are 
      you?

A TRUCK APPROACHES, PARKS

They hear it, duck for cover as the GRAVEDIGGER steps out.

             NIGHTINGALE
        (has an idea)
      You know how to drive?

Duncan shrugs.

             DUNCAN
      Took the Family out for a spin a 
      few times.

Off her look --

EXT. STREETS OF PETROGRAD -- DAY

Blanketed in snow, a typical winter day here. 

Horse-drawn SLEIGHS carry people across town; very few autos. 
It almost looks like London save the storefront signs all 
written in Cyrillic. As the gravedigger’s TRUCK speeds by --

             NIGHTINGALE
	(V.O.)
      You have a family?

INT. TRUCK -- SAME (SPEEDING)

Bouncing along. Duncan shifts, a natural at the wheel. 

             DUNCAN
      Served one, a long time ago.  
      Before the war. Was just a boy 
      then. Father was a chauffeur.

                                      90.

             NIGHTINGALE
      And your mother?

             DUNCAN
      Died when I was born...
        (beat)
      Family let us stay on.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Nice of them. Must’ve given you 
      some sense of loyalty, I hope. 
        (curious)
      This family, where do they reside?

             DUNCAN
      Buckingham Palace.

Beat.

Nightingale’s jaw drops.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Family...you drove the Royal Family?

             DUNCAN
      Father did, mostly. I filled in on 
      occasion. Took the Queen mum for a 
      spin in the country once. Got lost. 
        (smirks, remembering)
      That was a helluva day.

DUNCAN SHIFTS AGAIN

EXT. BRITISH EMBASSY, PETROGRAD -- DAY

Same courtyard, now packed with SNOW DRIFTS curling up over 
the roof, smothering the entire building. 

             NIGHTINGALE
	(O.C.)
      There’s the embassy...

Rolling tires CRUNCH SNOW as the truck slows, coasting.

Duncan studies the grounds; spots a PARKED CAR with two heads 
inside, hot breath puffing on the cold windshield.

             DUNCAN
      It’s being watched. 

             NIGHTINGALE
      I’ve got an idea.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      91.

INT. PARKED CAR -- DAY

Two uniformed CHEKA AGENTS sit inside, cold & utterly bored. 
Sipping Vodka to keep warm. One HUMS a familiar tune; 
Tchaikovsky’s 1812 Overture, off-key; annoys the other.

TAP TAP TAP

Knuckles wrap the glass; the driver rolls the window, 
revealing NIGHTINGALE, cigarette dangling from her lips.

Cheka driver smiles, his lucky day --

             NIGHTINGALE
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      You boys have a match?

BLACK

Hearing a CRUNCH of snow, shovelled by hand; suddenly a beam 
of light EXPLODES through as Duncan punches a hole in the 
packed drift, the sheen of his BRASS KNUCKLES shimmering...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. LOBBY - BRITISH EMBASSY -- DAY

Duncan slides in through a snow-hole in the front door;   
cave-like, windows all blacked by snow, as if an avalanche 
swallowed the place whole. 

WHOOOSH

Duncan ignites his TRENCH LIGHTER, a torch in the darkness, 
eyes adjusting, seeing BULLET-HOLES in the reception desk, 
stains of blood frozen to the floor.

The same sight Hawthorne witnessed.

             DUNCAN
      Bloody hell...
        (what Cumming said)
      Buildings are battlefields.

                                  CUT TO:

OUTSIDE THE EMBASSY - ON THE CHEKA PATROL CAR

Windows fogged, hearing LAUGHTER inside...

...in the backseat, a wild party underway, smoke hovering, 
Vodka spilling as Nightingale pours another shot into the 
bottle’s cap, swigs it; hands it to the driver, his turn. 

                                      92.

BACK IN THE EMBASSY

Duncan enters one of the offices, ransacked, spots what he’s 
looking for -- UNION JACK FLAG -- on the wall; Duncan lifts 
it, revealing the WALL SAFE behind it, wide open, emptied. 

THE CHEKA PATROL CAR

Nightingale climbs over the seat -- and the Russians -- not 
nearly as drunk as she’s pretending to be.

They are.

                                 BACK TO:

             NIGHTINGALE
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      Thanks for the drink boys, next 
      round’s on me...

She reaches for the door when it suddenly opens; she spills 
out into the snow, looks up at --

             GROZNY
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      Clever girl...

GROZNY GRABS A FISTFUL OF HAIR

Lifts Nightingale to her feet; she’s about to scream when a 
RUSSIAN ARMY TRUCK pulls up, ARMED CHEKA AGENTS HOP OUT, 
surround the building; making way as the PUTILOV ARMORED CAR 
arrives, turrets turning, CLANK CLANK CLANK, on the embassy.

             GROZNY
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      ...but not clever enough.

                                 BACK TO:

DUNCAN - INSIDE THE EMBASSY

Rips the UNION JACK FLAG off the wall; unscrews the cap on 
his trench lighter, pours the high octane fuel over it as...

             GROZNY
	(O.C.)
      Looking for something, comrade?

Duncan spins, behind him -- GROZNY, GUN TRAINED -- flanked by 
a squad of armed CHEKA AGENTS stomping through the snow-hole.

             GROZNY
      Or some one perhaps?

DUNCAN THROWS THE FLAG ON THE FLOOR, SURRENDERING

It lands at the feet of the Cheka agents, sniffing fumes...

                                      93.

             GROZNY
      You are the second man I’ve caught 
      in here. Third counting the boy I 
      killed. You realize of course you 
      are too late. We already seized the 
      papers ... and have decoded them.

             DUNCAN
      I doubt that.

             GROZNY
      Why would you doubt it?

             DUNCAN
      Because if you had decoded them... 
      You wouldn’t need to be here.

DUNCAN FLICKS THE LIGHTER

Tosses it on the fuel-soaked flag -- WHOOOOOSH -- a fireball 
erupts, scorching the Cheka agents who drop their rifles, 
fingers singed; as they CLANK on the floor Duncan immediately 
takes a step toward Grozny who FIRES -- BLAM

The WILD SHOT grazes past Duncan’s ear as Grozny’s aim is 
pulled wide, the gun yanked into -- DUNCAN’S HAND MAGNET

Duncan wrenches Grozny’s gun away -- AIMS IT AT HIM -- the 
building BURNS around them, FLAMES SPREADING fast as...

             GROZNY
      What kind of spy are you?

             DUNCAN
      I’m not a spy.

DUNCAN FIRES -- BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM -- AT THE WINDOWS

The instant they crack -- WHOOOOOOOSSHH -- an AVALANCHE 
floods the floor, burying the Cheka agents under several feet 
of compacted snow; Grozny barely manages to leap clear as...

SUNLIGHT FLOODS THE EMBASSY

Blinding; windows letting in a cool breeze with a full view 
of the courtyard outside; Duncan squints, eyes adjusting on 
the PUTILOV ARMORED CAR on the street, guns trained...

...Duncan only has a split-second to drop before...

                                      94.

BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM

HEAVY MACHINE-GUN FIRE RAKES THE EMBASSY

A wall of rapid fire explodes from the turrets, streaking 
through the open windows, shredding everything in sight.

DUNCAN ROLLS FOR COVER

Grozny grabs a scorched rifle off the floor, hunts for Duncan 
-- THEY EXCHANGE FIRE -- brief, cut off by the roaring fire, 
FLAMES FANNED by their gunfire and sudden surplus of oxygen.

THE EMBASSY IS NOW A RAGING INFERNO

Grozny, can’t stand the heat, flees out the front door, snow 
drift around the hole melting as...

BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM 

Both Putilov turrets concentrate on Duncan, rip through the 
burning walls as he retreats back into the...

RANSACKED OFFICE

Gunfire still coming, relentless, shredding the room’s WOODEN 
SUPPORT BEAMS; Duncan reacts, hears the structure MOAN as...

THE BURNING CEILING COLLAPSES

Duncan rolls under the desk, covered from the flaming debris -
- BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM -- but not from gunfire; 
shredding the desk to splinters, flushing Duncan out... 

DUNCAN CLIMBS THE COLLAPSED CEILING

Shots streaking under his boot heels as...

THE FLOOR ABOVE - DUNCAN

...pulls himself up, racing toward a STORM WINDOW, never 
slows as he SLAMS HIS SHOULDER INTO IT, full force; EXPLODES 
out it; fresh air; tumbling wildly down a tall snow drift, 
arms & legs flailing as he spills out onto the street...

                                  CUT TO:

...directly into the path of the --

PUTILOV ARMORED CAR

             DUNCAN
      Shit.

                                      95.

CLANK CLANK CLANK

Turrets swivel into position, about to fire when unbelievably 
-- DUNCAN SPRINTS AT THE ARMORED CAR -- a mad charge, nose 
flaring like a bull as -- BOOOM  BOOOM  BOOOM -- turrets fire

DUNCAN HITS THE DECK, SLIDES ON THE STREET

Glides on a patch of ice, slipping right under the car, 
looking up, seeing the WOODEN FLOORBOARD above his head...  

DUNCAN WHIPS OUT HIS WEBLEY SILENCER

Aims up at the floorboard and FIRES: PFT PFT PFT PFT PFT PFT

INSIDE THE PUTILOV

Both TURRET GUNNERS SPASM, shot from below, slumping dead as 
Duncan empties the full clip of his automatic.

Silence. The guns stop firing.

DUNCAN 

catches his breath, lungs heaving ... BLAAAAM ... a shot 
ricochets next to his head, close; quick he rolls out from 
under the stalled Putilov, whipping around as --

GROZNY FIRES AGAIN - BLAAAAM 

The shot misses, barely; Grozny crosses the “battlefield” 
toward Duncan, levering the bolt-action rifle as...

DUNCAN RELOADS 

ejects the clip, SLAPS in a new one -- realfuckinfast -- 
beats Grozny to the draw, SILENCER inches from Grozny’s head. 
Grozny stops dead in his tracks; surrenders.

As the embassy burns behind them --

EXT. RUSSIAN ARMY TRUCK -- DAY

Grozny THUDS on the back carriage, thrown down next to 
NIGHTINGALE, bound like a prisoner. As Duncan frees her --

             NIGHTINGALE
      The embassy’s on fire...

             DUNCAN
      I know.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      96.

GROZNY, GAGGED

Tied to the truck carriage like a POW as Duncan & Nightingale 
climb into the cab.

             NIGHTINGALE
      You know? Whaddya mean you know? 
      Did you burn it down on purpose?

He did.

             NIGHTINGALE
      WHY?

Duncan REVS the diesel engine.

             DUNCAN
      Orders.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Orders???
        (exacerbated)
      What else were you ordered to do?

GROZNY, HEAD LIFTED FROM ICY WATERS

Face blue from being dunked in the cold once too often; 
stings like hell, deep down...

                                  CUT TO:

             GROZNY
        (shivering)
      ... go ... to ... hell ...

EXT. BLACK FORREST SHORELINE -- SUNSET

Duncan dunks Grozny again, been at this a while now; 
Nightingale looks away, can’t stomach the interrogation.

WIDER we see Grozny’s been tied to the trough of the CMB, 
still anchored at the shoreline; MUFFLED SCREAMS UNDERWATER; 
air bubbles bursting at the surface as DUNCAN PULLS HIM UP. 

Grozny GASPS, mouth nearly frozen shut, can barely speak:

             GROZNY
        (teeth clattering)
      KRONSTADT ... 
        (beat)
      They are in Kronstadt ..
        (beat)
      ... papers, the agent ...

INT. VOSTOK’S COMMAND QUARTERS, KRONSTADT -- DUSK

Vostok sips a glass of vodka, stares out the window in his 
tower as an ASH-COVERED SKY spreads across the horizon, 
almost look like storm clouds, spreading for miles...

                                      97.

             RUSSIAN OFFICER
        (subtitled)
      General, reports from Petrograd say 
      the British embassy was burned to the 
      ground. The city is under attack.

             VOSTOK
      The city isn’t under attack...   
      ...the attack is coming here.

Vostok holds up the EYES ONLY file: 

The INVISIBLE INK CYPHER hidden between the lines has been 
burned into view but ... every word is still encrypted.

             VOSTOK
      Move the fleet from the island. 
      Give passage to any boat that 
      attempts to enter our harbor...
        (ominous; in English)
      We’ll draw them to us.

Vostok faces the window again as...

             NIGHTINGALE
	(V.O.)
      This is insane...

EXT. CMB -- DUSK (DRIFTING)

Nightingale, at the wheel, breath puffing as --

             NIGHTINGALE
      You plan to sneak into Kronstadt, 
      the most heavily guarded naval base 
      in the entire world...alone?

DUNCAN TURNS, WEARING GROZNY’S CHEKA UNIFORM

             DUNCAN
      Not alone...right, comrade?

He faces GROZNY -- wearing Duncan’s winter gear -- his hands 
bound like a prisoner, face red from the cold.

As Duncan GAGS him -- 

                              DISSOLVE TO:

                                      98.

KRONSTADT

Appearing in the mist, fortress searchlights panning the 
waters around it revealing an armada of PATROL SKIFFS and 
BATTLESHIPS circling the island like sharks. 

Insert: KRONSTANDT NAVAL FORTRESS - January 1919

             NIGHTINGALE
	(V.O.)
      I take it back - this isn’t 
      insane...

EXT. CMB -- NIGHT (DRIFTING)

Nightingale cuts the engine.

             NIGHTINGALE
      It’s suicide.

Duncan scans the jagged rocks surrounding the island.

             NIGHTINGALE
      What’re you doing?

             DUNCAN
      Improvising.

             NIGHTINGALE
      For a way in?

             DUNCAN
      Way out, actually. Need an escape.

DUNCAN’S POV

Seeing a DRAINAGE PIPE sticking out near the rocks...

That’ll do.

             NIGHTINGALE
      You sure about this?

Duncan stands, suits up... 

HAND MAGNET under his glove; BRASS KNUCKLES under his belt; 
SNAPPER PICK in a pocket; WEBLEY SILENCER in his jacket.

A soldier-spy geared for war.

             DUNCAN
      I’m sure.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      99.

EXT. KRONSTADT HARBOR -- NIGHT

The CMB drifts past a REFUELING SKIFF tugging a huge gas hose 
to one of the larger BATTLESHIPS in the bay. As it approaches 
the DOCKS, a pair of RUSSIAN SOLDIERS toss mooring ropes to --

             DUNCAN
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      Catch of the day comrades...

ON THE DOCKS

Duncan shoves Grozny onto the planks like a prisoner.

             DUNCAN
      British cod, from London. Caught 
      him at the embassy...

Grozny wriggles, squirming to alert the two soldiers when - 
THWAAACK - Duncan kicks him, hard.

             DUNCAN
      Help me take him inside to the 
      prison cells. 
        (to Nightingale; sincere)
      Dasvidaniya.

They exchange looks. Brief nod of thanks before she clears 
the boat away from the dock, leaving him behind...

A CELL DOOR CREAKS OPEN

INT. GULAG DUNGEON, KRONSTADT -- DAY

The two Russian soldiers drag Grozny, drop him on the floor. 

             RUSSIAN SOLDIER
      You must sign over his custody. 
      Official documentation.

             DUNCAN
      Of course... 
        (reaches into his jacket)
      Here’s my pen.

CRAAAAACK

In a blur, Duncan draws his Webley silencer, striking the two 
soldiers quick. They slump on the floor, knocked out cold 
next to Grozny who looks up at --

             DUNCAN
      Which cell?

                                     100.

INT. VOSTOK’S COMMAND QUARTERS, KRONSTADT -- DAWN

Vostok slaps the EYES ONLY file on his desk.

Next to it -- a MAP OF THE BALTIC -- strategic, spread out 
with clusters of SILVER WARSHIP TOKENS surrounding Kronstadt 
like some kind of board game. This is the RUSSIAN FLEET.

Vostok “sails” one of the warship tokens out of the Baltic, 
down to another island -- GREAT BRITAIN -- where he moves the 
piece up along the Thames and...stops on London.

Vostok steps away from his desk, grabbing the PRISON KEYS as 
he leaves his office...

INT. GULAG DUNGEON CORRIDOR, KRONSTADT -- MOMENTS LATER

Duncan inserts the SNAPPER PICK into the locked door, flicks 
the bumpers, UNLOCKS the door.

It CREEEEAKS open slow...

INT. GULAG DUNGEON CELL, KRONSTADT -- SAME

...light spills over a ragged prisoner curled on a pile of 
hay like an animal.

             DUNCAN
	(O.C.)
      Hawthorne...

HAWTHORNE ROLLS OVER

Beaten, bruised; a ghost of the man he once was.

Duncan approaches, an executioner, aims the long barrel of 
the silencer at Hawthorne’s head.

             HAWTHORNE
      Finally, thank god...

Hawthorne closes his eyes, mercifully relieved.

Duncan tightens his finger on the trigger, about to fire; 
can’t; Hawthorne’s disheveled face haunting him, reminding 
him of his brothers-in-arms under the bridge...

DUNCAN THROWS GROZNY DOWN

He lands next to Hawthorne who looks up, surprised --

             DUNCAN
      Can you walk?

INT. GULAG DUNGEON CORRIDOR, KRONSTADT

Hawthorne stumbles, legs weak. Duncan helps him walk, 
approaching the stairs.

                                     101.

             HAWTHORNE
      What are you doing?

             DUNCAN
      Rescuing you.

As they near the STAIRS...

DUNCAN ABRUPTLY TURNS DOWN ANOTHER HALL

             HAWTHORNE
      Isn’t that the way out?

             DUNCAN
      Trust me, I’ve done this once 
      before.

As they move off -- VOSTOK APPEARS ON THE STAIRS

Keys rattling as he steps down the stairwell with two guards, 
marching toward Hawthorne’s cell. Vostok unlocks the door, 
enters thinking he’ll find Hawthorne...

FINDS GROZNY INSTEAD

             HAWTHORNE
	(V.O.)
      London sent you?

INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR, KRONSTADT -- SAME

Duncan nods, stops next to a FLOOR DRAIN grate.

             HAWTHORNE
      What year is it anyway?

             DUNCAN
      Year?

             HAWTHORNE
      How long have I been here?

             DUNCAN
      Few months.

Duncan YANKS the grate off, lowers Hawthorne down as --

             HAWTHORNE
      Months? That’s all?

                                     102.

             DUNCAN
        (empathizes; been there)
      Feels like years...I know.

Duncan lets go.

Hawthorne drops into the DRAIN TUNNEL below, splashes in a 
puddle of dirty storm water; WHIFFS an awful stench.

Duncan is about to lower himself down when --

             VOSTOK
        (in Russian)
      THERE, STOP HIM.

VOSTOK

Down the corridor, flanked by the guards who spot Duncan, 
racing after -- DUNCAN DROPS DOWN THE HOLE

INT. DRAIN TUNNEL, KRONSTADT

SPLASHES THE SAME DIRTY PUDDLE -- picks himself up quick, 
hustling Hawthorne deeper into the tunnel as...

THE KRONSTADT GUARDS JUMP DOWN THE HOLE

                                  CUT TO:

DOWN THE TUNNEL

Duncan splashes blindly through ankle-deep sluice; slows at a 
forking tunnel, checks the water for which direction it’s 
flowing, follows it out...

             DUNCAN
      This way.

THE KRONSTADT GUARDS reach the forking tunnel, not sure which 
way they went; they stop, listen for a clue --

HAWTHORNE SLIPS

Slides down a slick downslope in the tunnel; the guards hear 
him, immediately pursue. 

DUNCAN 

helps Hawthorne up, hears their FOOTSTEPS splashing, catching 
up -- trapped, he draws his WEBLEY SILENCER, takes aim...

             HAWTHORNE
      Over here...

                                     103.

HAWTHORNE

Stumbles toward an orb of light where the tunnel ends; stops 
at the edge; water pours over the spillway of the same 
DRAINAGE TUNNEL we saw earlier outside the island.

As Hawthorne starts to climb down --

             DUNCAN
      There’s a boat waiting, over by the 
      rocks. The pilot-

             HAWTHORNE
      Olivia?

             DUNCAN
      She’ll take you home.

             HAWTHORNE
      What about you?

             DUNCAN
      Have to hold ‘em off here, buy you 
      enough time to get away.

             HAWTHORNE
      What do I tell London?

A beat. Then --

             DUNCAN
      That you escaped...on your own.

THE KRONSTADT GUARDS APPEAR

             DUNCAN
      GO.

DUNCAN FIRES - PFT PFT PFT 

Not to kill them, to slow them down; push them back for cover 
long enough for HAWTHORNE TO CLIMB OUT THE TUNNEL, down onto 
the rocky shoreline where he looks around as ... CLICK

DUNCAN, OUT OF AMMO

Drops the gun; the guards step out, rifles raised as -- 

             VOSTOK
	(O.C.)
      You nearly made it...

VOSTOK APPEARS

Steps out from the shadows of the tunnel as...

                                     104.

             VOSTOK
      But nobody escapes Kronstadt.

Behind Vostok -- 10 MORE GUARDS APPEAR -- Russian soldiers, 
Vostok’s best infantry, moving in on...

DUNCAN

Clearly outnumbered, hardly intimidated; reaches for his 
BRASS KNUCKLES, slides them on...

...predatory gleam in his eye.

             VOSTOK
        (in Russian; subtitled)
      Arrest him.

DUNCAN FIGHTS THE KRONSTADT GUARDS

Knocks out the first guard with solid strike to the chin; 
drops like a sack of rocks as Duncan pummels the next guard 
with a series of body blows so ferocious we can hear RIBS 
BREAKING with each colossal punch.

For a moment, it almost seems like Duncan is going to punch 
his way out of this...

...then the other 10 guards rush in.

DUNCAN FIGHTS THEM ALL

Vostok watches, piqued by the brutality of this man, 
intrigued to see such a savage foe.

DUNCAN TIRES, starts to take a few more blows than he can 
handle, beaten down to the ground until...

He stops fighting back.

             VOSTOK
	(V.O.)
      I must admit, you are nothing like 
      any of the other agents I’ve ever 
      encountered before...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. GULAG TORTURE CHAMBER, KRONSTADT -- NIGHT

Duncan’s arms lift up behind his head, wrists tied to a hook; 
shirt stripped away, chest naked; body beaten, bruised.

             VOSTOK
      Savage, brutal...

                                     105.

Vostok circles, noticing the scars on Duncan.

             VOSTOK
      ...such violence for a British spy.

             DUNCAN
      I’m not a spy.

Vostok stops, faces him.

             VOSTOK
      No. You are a soldier, like me. 
      Honorable. Loyal to your country. 
      You would die for it, yes? In this 
      way, we are not so different...

He steps aside; glances at Duncan’s WEAPONS & GADGETS laid 
out on a table one by one.

Vostok inspects the Webley, unscrews the silencer.

             VOSTOK
      I like your toys. 
        (beat)
      The British Secret Service must be 
      more desperate than I thought. My 
      spies say they have shut down their 
      intelligence program. MI-1c, I 
      believe it was called...
        (beat)
      Like you, it is no more. 

He sets the Webley down.

Picks up the BRASS KNUCKLES, approaching Duncan with them.

             VOSTOK
      Do you know pain?

THHHWAAAACK

Vostok punches Duncan with the brass knuckles.

Duncan winces, doesn’t scream.

             VOSTOK
      Yes, you know it well.

Vostok removes the brass knuckles.

Hands them to GROZNY, mad as hell, waxy blotches of blisters 
scar his face -- nose, ears, chin -- third degree frostbite, 
ugly but painless, nerves damaged beyond repair.

                                     106.

             VOSTOK
      You crossed the Baltic, slipped past 
      the minefield onto Russian soil... 
      my soil ... set fire to the embassy. 
      Interrogated a Cheka officer, then 
      used him to infiltrate this fortress 
      and rescue your fellow agent...
        (beat)
      All for this.

Vostok holds up the EYES ONLY file.

             VOSTOK
      Sanction orders to assassinate 
      Russian leaders. Took quite the 
      effort to decode. Though unfinished 
      there’s enough evidence here for my 
      superiors to declare war on England, 
      which they will, having no choice but 
      to do so...once I invade London.

Duncan scowls, eyes like daggers wanting to strike.

             VOSTOK
      This will end Russia’s civil war. 
      The Red and White armies that have 
      torn my homeland in half because of 
      the damn Bolsheviks will unite 
      behind me against a common enemy.

             DUNCAN
      You want to end a war...by starting 
      another.

Vostok smiles, a sly grin - his plan finally understood.

             VOSTOK
      Wars never end, as history shows.  
      They continue, from one enemy to 
      the next. Peace is impossible.    
      These pages prove it. As do you.
        (explains)
      Your actions will motivate my men. 
      They will see what you’ve done to 
      your embassy as an act of terrorism 
      and they will want revenge. 
        (beat)
      Ironic how your capture will ignite 
      the very war you came to prevent.

             DUNCAN
      Quite right, but for one thing...

Vostok leans closer, curious as:

                                     107.

             DUNCAN
      I know pain - and this isn’t it.

DUNCAN HEADBUTTS VOSTOK

snaps his hands up over the hook, falls, lands on his feet, 
hands still tied behind his back as he CHARGES VOSTOK, bowls 
him over as -- THWAAACK -- GROZNY HITS DUNCAN, hard.

Swinging the brass knuckles wildly, payback; Duncan rolls, 
swings his arms under his legs, brings them forward to swing 
like an anvil hammer; Grozny swings right back; not so much a 
fight as it is a lumbering slugfest between mad brutes.

Duncan rattles into the table with his gadgets; Grozny pins 
him to it, raising his fist to strike at Duncan’s skull -- 
THUUUUD -- hits the table next to his ear instead, punch 
pulled wide, brass knuckles landing in the HAND MAGNET.

Grozny reacts, stunned; so are we.

             DUNCAN
        (what Westmore said)
      Made of iron, not brass.

Duncan hammers down on Grozny as -- VOSTOK SLIPS AWAY -- 
carrying the EYES ONLY file as KRONSTADT GUARDS CHARGE IN

About to be overrun, Duncan gnaws at his ropes, chews through 
them to free his hands; the instant the rope falls, Duncan 
grabs the first guard and, instead of fighting past him...

DUNCAN DISARMS HIM, takes the rifle, swings it like a club 
smashing the guard’s skull, knocking him out; Duncan flips 
the rifle around, FIRES -- BLAM -- drops the nearest guard; 

The other guards flinch, fumbling for their own rifles as 
DUNCAN COCKS THE BOLT ACTION ON HIS, FIRES AGAIN -- BLAM -- 
he cocks the carbine again and -- BLAM -- again -- BLAM.

Their numbers suddenly cut in half, the last five guards 
finally manage to RETURN FIRE -- BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM -- 
the noise deafening as DUNCAN DUCKS FOR COVER.

He FLIPS the table, slides behind it; shots impacting the 
thick wooden top, unable to penetrate.

Like a soldier in the trenches, Duncan aims over the table 
and FIRES -- BLAM -- takes out a guard. Four left. He ducks 
again as they RETURN FIRE -- BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM.

Duncan slides to the other end of the table, surprising the 
next guard who expected him to pop up somewhere else -- BLAM.

                                     108.

Duncan ducks again as -- BLAM BLAM BLAM -- three to go.

Duncan slides to the other side, pops up to fire when -- 
THWAAAACK -- Grozny blind sides him, knocks the rifle away. 
Duncan reacts, clinching Grozny like a boxer so he can’t land 
another blow. Pull him to the ground, hitting it hard as...

The three guards approach, rifles trained.

Duncan lets go of Grozny, reaches out, grabs something metal, 
we can’t quite see what exactly as...HE STABS THE FIRST GUARD 
IN THE CHEST -- TAKES HIS RIFLE, SWINGS IT INTO THE CHIN OF 
THE NEXT GUARD -- BLAM -- SHOOTS THE THIRD.

Beat. Duncan, lungs heaving, last man standing.

Well, almost last. The first guard is still there, in shock, 
looks down at his chest -- SNAPPER PICK -- buried there, the 
flat end stuck deep as he slumps dead, killed by coat hanger.

Duncan spins his rifle at Grozny, FIRES -- BLAM -- too late, 
as Grozny slips out, the shot missing behind him. 

ALARMS SOUND

The entire base alerted; Duncan hears it -- reacts as if they 
were Bobbie whistles -- grabs a shirt, and his Webley before 
skipping out of the room.

EXT. KRONSTADT HARBOR - BATTLE STATIONS -- DAWN

A hornets nest kicked; RED ARMY TROOPS react to the ALARM, 
take positions all over the base -- WATCH TOWERS, DOCKS -- 
crews of RUSSIAN SAILORS board PATROL SKIFFS, buzzing around 
a brigade of NAVAL WARSHIPS circling the fortress.

A flurry of activity, all for one man...

                                  CUT TO:

DUNCAN

Racing down the corridor, hunting for Grozny who slips toward 
the GUARD STATION -- reaches a WEAPONS CACHE -- grabs the 
first gun he sees, FIRES back at Duncan -- BLAAAM.

The two EXCHANGE FIRE, moving each other down the hall like a 
game of chess -- only Duncan is a better player -- and shot.

GROZNY 

Flushed out; scrambles up the STAIRWELL toward...

                                     109.

INT. VOSTOK’S COMMAND QUARTERS, KRONSTADT -- DAWN

Grozny steps toward the desk; expects to find Vostok...

...finds only a bottle of VODKA instead; grabs it, bites off 
the cork, takes a swig...

Duncan appears behind him in the doorway; Grozny senses him, 
doesn’t turn to face Duncan as --

             GROZNY
      You say you are a soldier... 
        (sets the bottle down)
      Soldiers fight with honor, loyalty. 
      They do not shoot men in the back. 

Grozny raises his hands into the air, slow...

             GROZNY
      If you are a soldier, a true 
      soldier...then I surrender. 

Duncan steps closer, point blank range.

Ejects a single bullet from his carbine, then tosses the 
rifle to the floor; it CLAAANKS; Grozny hears it hit, gazes 
at the gun in his hand...SPINS.

FAST

Duncan draws the Webley from his waist, loads the bullet, 
then FIRES -- BLAM -- beats Grozny to the draw.

The point blank shot punches Grozny square in the chest, 
barreling him backwards over the desk; knocks the VODKA 
bottle onto the floor. 

Duncan reacts, impressed by the small gun when --

BLAM

A shot from behind spins Duncan to the ground.

VOSTOK, GUN SMOKING

             VOSTOK
      Fool... 

Duncan rolls over, shoulder bleeding from the socket...

...looks for a weapon, sees only the VODKA BOTTLE rolling on 
the floor nearby...

Vostok approaches, waves the EYES ONLY file.

                                     110.

             VOSTOK
      Once I reach London, I will burn it 
      to the ground and rebuild a new 
      empire over its ashes, my empire... 
        (zealous)
      The first Tsar of Great Britain. 

Duncan winces, bleeding, bad.

             DUNCAN
      You’re right about thing...

DUNCAN GRABS THE VODKA BOTTLE, THROWS IT

It SHATTERS, booze soaking Vostok -- and the EYES ONLY FILE

             DUNCAN
      You will burn.

And with that... 

Duncan SCRAAAAAAPES the barrel of his Webley along the floor, 
strikes it like a match -- SPARKS FLY -- catching the puddle 
at Vostok’s feet and -- WHOOOOOOOOOOOOSH 

A FIREBALL BURSTS OVER VOSTOK, BURNS HIM ALIVE

The sudden alcohol-fueled inferno torches the entire office -- 
AND THE FILE -- pages burning as flames arc to the ceiling...

DUNCAN LEAPS OUT THE WINDOW

Glass shatters, a FIREBALL chasing after him as he FALLS...

EXT. LAUNCH PAD, KRONSTADT FORTRESS -- DAWN

ONTO THE SHORT RUNWAY; Duncan peels himself off the asphalt, 
lungs heaving -- still alive,  glancing back up at the window 
he fell from, suddenly remembers what Cumming said to him:

             DUNCAN
        (cheeky)
      Look before you leap, my ass...

BLAM  BLAM  BLAM

Shots pepper the asphalt around Duncan as the runway is 
surrounded by --

RED ARMY TROOPS

Armed, blocking Duncan’s only escape off the base.

                                     111.

DUNCAN, PINNED DOWN

Takes cover behind a hunk of metal; Webley out of ammo, 
stuffs it in his waist as he looks around for a way out... 

There isn’t one: he’s trapped. 

As a squad of soldiers encroach on his position, Duncan 
notices a set of TIRES under the hunk of metal he’s hiding 
behind. Duncan reacts, looks up at the propeller of a...

SEAPLANE, ON THE CATAPULT LAUNCHER

Attached to the mechanical slingshot we saw earlier...

...Duncan’s only way out.

Quick, he swings the propeller then climbs into the cockpit, 
hits the ignition, contact -- THE ENGINE REVS -- but the 
plane isn’t moving. 

The soldiers cautiously approach, screaming for Duncan to 
step out; he doesn’t, pulling all the levers on the controls 
hoping one of them...

DUNCAN TRIGGERS THE CATAPULT

The SLINGSHOT SNAPS, prompting the mechanical hydraulics to 
LAUNCH THE SEAPLANE DOWN THE RUNWAY...soldiers hit the deck 
as it shoots down the runway, HIGH SPEEDS.

Duncan, thrown back in his seat as...

THE SEAPLANE FLIES OFF THE RUNWAY

Looks like it might take off...then plummets over the cliff, 
dropping like an anvil toward the jagged rocks below. 

DUNCAN

Reacts, grabs the control stick, yanks the yoke to level out; 
a split-second before impact -- IT PULLS UP -- curling over 
the rocks, TIRES CLIPPED, torn away as it sails inches above 
the jagged outcropping before gliding over the water...

A moment of exhilaration -- HE MADE IT -- then the seaplane 
starts to sink toward the sea, unable to maintain speed, 
belly of the fuselage skipping over the pond, SPLASHING as...

THE SEAPLANE CRASHES INTO THE ICY WATERS OF THE BALTIC

A wicked wreck, WINGS RIPPED APART, fuselage skipping over 
the waves like a rock before it SINKS; as it does...

                                     112.

DUNCAN

rattled in the crash, senses returning the moment the ice-
cold water hits his face; freezing...

He climbs out of the plane as it slips below the surface; 
swims for a piece of the wing nearby, bobbing in the water.

Grabs the wing; won’t hold his weight, sinks; Duncan can’t 
hold on anyway, muscles already slowing from the cold, 
shivering, involuntary shakes, lips turning blue...

DUNCAN SLIPS UNDERWATER

Muscles frigid, kicking feebly for the surface, can’t get 
there -- he’s drowning -- body going still, a calm quiet 
moment as he shuts his eyes and...

IS YANKED UP

Pulled above the surface, Duncan GASPS as he’s dragged up 
onto the CMB by --

             NIGHTINGALE
      ALEC.

NIGHTINGALE

pulls Duncan close, rubbing his arms to keep him warm; 
Hawthorne in the boat behind her, at the wheel.

Duncan COUGHS, shivering as --

             NIGHTINGALE
      SAY SOMETHING.

Beat.

             DUNCAN
        (teeth clattering)
      Never...learned...your real name.

             NIGHTINGALE
      Sinclair. Karrina Sinclair.

             DUNCAN
      Karrina... 
        (beat)
      Let’s go home, Karrina.

They share a smile.

A tender moment all too brief as --

                                     113.

BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM

Heavy machine gun fire RAKES the boat; pieces of the plywood 
hull burst to pieces as if spit out a wood chipper.

             HAWTHORNE
      They’re coming after us.

Duncan spots a RUSSIAN SKIFF BOAT speeding towards them, 
firing a MOUNTED MACHINE GUN: BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM 

More shrapnel, splinters everywhere.

A large chunk pierces Hawthorne in the shoulder, stabs 
through him like a stake; he HOWLS, writhing.

Duncan moves to him like a soldier.

             DUNCAN
      Don’t move...

DUNCAN RIPS OUT THE STAKE

Hawthorne screams in pain, nearly passes out.

             DUNCAN
        (to Nightingale)
      Keep pressure on it.

             NIGHTINGALE
      What are you going to do?

DUNCAN STANDS, TAKES THE WHEEL

             DUNCAN
      Said this boat was fast right?

DUNCAN REVS THE ENGINE, THROTTLES

The engine ROARS, the lightweight boat nearly shooting up 
into the air as it takes off.

THE RUSSIAN SKIFF PURSUES

Firing -- BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM

Duncan veers.

Shots plunk the water as he speeds between two massive 
WARSHIPS in the harbor outside Kronstadt. 

             DUNCAN
      HANG ON.

                                     114.

A GAUNTLET RUN

RUSSIAN SAILORS in the warships above FIRE down at the CMB...

...too thin to hit, too fast to catch.

DUNCAN SPEEDS PAST THE WARSHIPS

Escapes the blockade, making a break for the open sea.

Duncan smirks: they made it.

             NIGHTINGALE
      WHERE THE HELL’RE YOU GOING?

He turns to her with a look: whaddya mean?

             NIGHTINGALE
      YOU’RE TAKING US RIGHT INTO THE 
      MINEFIELD.

Duncan reacts, whips his attention back to the wide open sea, 
realizing now why it’s so incredibly wide open.

             DUNCAN
      Shit.

THE CMB SHOOTS PAST A MINE

The prickly spiked-horn detonators rocking in the wake as the 
Russian skiff speeds past it, dogged pursuit.

             DUNCAN
      HANG ON.

DUNCAN SWERVES

Weaves around a pair of FLOATING MINES at breakneck speeds; 
missing the shells by inches.

Close call.

THE RUSSIAN SKIFF ISN’T NEARLY AS AGILE

Instead of swerving -- IT FIRES AT THE MINES -- exploding 
them before impact: BOOOM BOOOM BOOOM ... 

KA-BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM

Duncan glances back, sees the FIREBALL -- THEN THE SKIFF -- 
punching through the fire & black smoke.

DUNCAN WHIPS THE WHEEL

                                     115.

             NIGHTINGALE
      WHAT’RE YOU DOING?

THE CMB CIRCLES AROUND A MINE, CURVES BACK AROUND

             DUNCAN
      MAKING SURE THEY DON’T FOLLOW US.

Russian skiff is gaining on the CMB when --

DUNCAN THROTTLES FULL SPEED PAST THE MINE 

The wake of his first turn pushes the mine away -- BUT -- the 
wake of his second PUSHES IT BACK as...

THE RUSSIAN SKIFF 

In the wake of the CMB -- GUNNER HAS A CLEAR SHOT -- about to 
fire when -- THE MINE FLOATS BACK INTO THE SKIFF’S PATH -- 
pushed there by Duncan’s circling maneuver -- gunner sees it, 
too late -- BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM

THE SKIFF COLLIDES WITH THE MINE, EXPLODES

Duncan never looks back as the FIREBALL erupts BEHIND HIM, 
the CMB speeding away, escaping into the open sea...

                              DISSOLVE TO:

BUCKINGHAM PALACE

Outside gates opened for a ceremony inside...

             KING GEORGE V
	(V.O.)
      The spy is the greatest of 
      soldiers...

INT. BALLROOM, BUCKINGHAM PALACE -- DAY

A traditional Investiture in progress: a gentleman kneels, 
looks like Duncan -- KNIGHTED by KING GEORGE V -- bows his 
head for the ribbon to be placed around his neck as...

             KING GEORGE V
      If he is the most detested by the 
      enemy, it is only because he is the 
      most feared. Arise.

He stands, faces the APPLAUDING CROWD ... it’s not Duncan -- 
it’s HAWTHORNE -- clean cut, wearing the GRAND CROSS.

             CHURCHILL
	(O.C.)
      Your man came through...

IN THE CROWD

Churchill, handsomely dressed, alongside a rested Cumming who 
looks a bit more chipper than usual, dare say pleased.

                                     116.

             CHURCHILL
      His endeavors provided considerable 
      intelligence on the Russians. Seems 
      you’ve put things in motion here. 
      Couldn’t retire now even if you 
      submitted the request yourself. 

He nods to the PRIME MINISTER, seen across the hall with the 
other esteemed cabinet members of the war room.

             CHURCHILL
      You were right, you know - world’s 
      not the same as it was. Our enemies 
      have changed. Communists. Fascists. 
      Madmen rising up through the cracks 
      of a shattered Europe... 

             CUMMING
      You bringing me back aboard...   
      On His Majesty’s Service?

             CHURCHILL
      You and your man. His skills may be 
      of some benefit after all.

Churchill steps away; Cumming sticks out his cane, stops him.

             CUMMING
      I have terms.

             CHURCHILL
      Yes, thought you might.

             CUMMING
      I’ll need a few hands to help out. 
      And a bigger section budget.

             CHURCHILL
      Curious, this section of yours, 
      what will you call it? 

Cumming pauses; knows EXACTLY what to call it:

             CUMMING
      Six.

CUMMING LIFTS HIS CANE 

able to walk without it, spring in his step, a subtle change.

                                     117.

             MAY
	(V.O.)
      Hello Mansfield...

EXT. GARDENS, BUCKINGHAM PALACE -- DAY

An elegant reception on the spacious grounds of the WEST LAWN 
out back. Tea is served as --

             MAY
      You look spruce.

Cumming turns to her, feeding crumbs to a flock of flamingos 
near the WATERLOO VASE along the lake.

             CUMMING
        (smiles)
      I’m glad you came.

             MAY
        (smiles back)
      So am I.

They stand together, still apart...

...but not quite a thousand miles this time.

             CUMMING
      Come home.

She wants to, sincerely, but can’t. Isn’t ready to.

             MAY
      No.

She steps away...

...about to leave she stops, looks back --

             MAY
      But keep asking.

Cumming nods, dare say he smiles; it’s a small victory but 
clearly the most important one of all to him. 

As he keeps feeding flamingos --

             DUNCAN
	(V.O.)
      Brought you a new souvenir,   
      from Russia...

                                  CUT TO:

                                     118.

EXT. EAST END, UNDER THE BRIDGE -- DAY

Duncan tosses the RUSSIAN NESTING DOLL to Westmore.

             DUNCAN
      Well, Finland actually. Russia 
      wasn’t all that much fun, honestly.

Westmore stares at it, curious, starts to take it apart, 
tinkering, removing the heads one-by-one as -- 

             DUNCAN
      Have another assignment coming.  
      May need to borrow a few more 
      souvenirs. Modified, of course.

             WESTMORE
      You never returned the last ones.

Duncan smirks, glancing at the dour muddy surroundings -- 
seeing it in daylight makes it especially harsh.

             DUNCAN
      Could find you a proper work space,  
      if ya like. Something with...walls.

Westmore puts the dolls back together.

             WESTMORE
      Want me to re-enlist, come work for 
      King’n Country again, like you?

             DUNCAN
      For King’n Country.

Westmore looks away, rejecting the idea; Duncan reacts, 
clearly disappointed but seems to understand.

Then --

             WESTMORE
      Hear-hear to the Kaiser, that 
      sonuva bitch... 

Duncan perks up as Westmore cracks a smile under his mask:

             WESTMORE
      May his balls drop off with the 
      seven-year itch. May his arse be 
      pounded with a lump of old leather. 
      Till his arsehole can whistle...

             DUNCAN
      Britain, oy Britain forever.

                                     119.

INT. SECTION 6 OFFICES -- DAY

A LIFT CAGE OPENS

Out steps CUMMING, confident in a way we haven’t seen before, 
crossing what was once an empty floor in an empty building... 

Now buzzing with a dozen or so INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS and 
ENGINEER-SCIENTISTS unpacking in their offices; among them is 
NIGHTINGALE, delivering an envelope. Nods to Cumming. 

They’re about to speak when --

             LOCKHART
	(O.C.)
      We have a problem in the 
      Mediterranean...

Lockhart interrupts.

Hands Cumming a new EYES ONLY file, slightly different than 
the ones we’ve seen previously.

Cover officially stamped: *** MI-6 ***

             CUMMING
        (reads; reacts)
      Who the hell is Benito Mussolini?

INT. CUMMING’S OFFICE, TOP FLOOR -- DAY

The door swings open.

As Cumming & Lockhart enter they are startled by --

             DUNCAN
	(O.C.)
      Finally gave you a chair I see...

Duncan, at the window next to a new office chair. 

Stands tall, sporting a new suit, functional not fitted. 
Could almost pass for a gentleman. Almost.

             LOCKHART
        (fondly)
      Alec...

             DUNCAN
      Elle.

There’s a clear attraction between them, albeit unrequited... 

...for now.

                                     120.

             CUMMING
      This is my bloody office, you know. 
      Can’t just sneak in here unannounced 
      any damn-well time you please...

He cuts between them, crossing, sees the WEBLEY PISTOL on his 
desk -- takes it -- hands it back to Duncan. 

             CUMMING
      It’s yours now. Keep it.

             DUNCAN
      Thought it might hold some 
      sentimental value for you.

             CUMMING
      It did.

He isn’t about to explain it was once his son’s - and Duncan 
isn’t about to ask. Some things are better left unsaid.

As the two stare out the window again, side-by-side:

             CUMMING
      There’s more work needs to be done. 
      Much more...

Beat.

             DUNCAN
      Soldiers win wars, right?

             CUMMING
      And spies prevent them.

Cumming hands Duncan the MI-6 file.

             CUMMING
      Your next assignment. From here on 
      you’ll refer to me by my codename: C. 
      Find yours inside.
        (beat)
      Welcome to Section 6.

Beat.

As Duncan looks up --

             DUNCAN
      Codename?

BLACK

                                     121.

           001  will return...

