                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
             SHOVEL BUDDIES. 
         By: Jason Mark Hellerman 
                   

MANAGEMENT 360 
Ali Itri, Dean Schnider 

FADE IN:

EXT. FOREST - MORNING

SUPER: MARCH 21st, 2004.

The wheels of a ten-speed bicycle barrel down a tiny dirt 
trail, snapping branches and kicking leaves as they go. 

JIMMY GIBBONS (16) dressed in an out of place three piece 
suit, pushes his body and the Wal-Mart bike to its limits.  
He’s breathing hard but not slowing down.  Steam rises off 
his head and flows from his nostrils. Mud splatters against 
his oversized jacket.  Mom is going to be pissed but he’s not 
worried about that now.   

             JIMMY
      Keep up.  

Behind him, his brother TOM GIBBONS (12) Called LUMP; not 
from spite but observation; “He’s always just . . . there.” 
Lump is the spitting image of Jimmy; Same attire, same 
expression, smaller bike.  

             LUMP
      Slow down.  

EXT. HILL - MORNING

The Philadelphia skyline accents the otherwise dreary view.  
In the foreground, the shell of Veteran’s Stadium is 
prominent.  Soft rain falls.  

Jimmy cycles into view.  He’s off and to the summit before 
his bicycle THUDS to the ground.  Lump is close behind; his 
dress shoes slide on the frost. Their shirts are damp from 
exertion. They shiver.  

Lump leans to Jimmy for warmth but he pushes him away.  

BOOM. BOOOM. BOOOOM. 

The stadium implodes.  Dust and debris scatter the 
atmosphere.  CHEERS from the city below.  The boys steep in 
the destruction.        

             LUMP
      We made it.  

             JIMMY
      Told you.  

                                      2.

A VOICE forces them to divert their attention.  

             DAN
	(O.S.)
      Better to go with a bang than a 
      whimper.  

DAN STRONG (15), thick glasses and spider-like limbs.  The 
epitome of “bad influence.”  He lets a limp cigarette dangle 
from his lips.  He’s also clad in a black suit.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      They already poured the concrete 
      for the new one.  

             JIMMY
      My old man said it’s having trouble 
      drying because of the cold.  

             DAN
      We dressed for the same party?  

Dan strides to Jimmy and messes with his suit coat.  

Jimmy shifts in his loafers.  Dan puffs his cigarette. He 
blows smoke at Jimmy.  Jimmy swats his hand away but Dan has 
the upper hand.  He gives a menacing grin.     

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Better late than never.  

Without pause, Dan walks over the crest of the hill out of 
sight.  Jimmy turns his attention back to the city where 
cranes have already started to clean up the rubble.  

             LUMP
      You guys are talking again?

             JIMMY
      Only when we have to. 

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 

A closed black casket.  Front and center. It’s a simple box 
bland and unassuming.  Gaudy roses and lilies flank the 
coffin.  WEEPERS WAIL in the background.  

Jimmy runs his hand over the lid.  Lump cowers behind Jimmy.  
Their suits are mud spattered and hair slick with sweat but 
they are reverent.    

MOURNERS stock the room. Even though they don black you can 
see the blue tinge to their collars.  Some are UNIFORMED 
POLICE OFFICERS.   

                                      3.

Jimmy takes his hand from the lid and SIGHS.  He turns in 
time to see -- 

             DAN
      I’m popping the lid.    

Dan moves to the side of the coffin and pulls upward. The lid 
lifts a quarter inch before it stops on Jimmy’s outstretched 
hand.     

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      When’s the last time you saw Sammy?  

Jimmy pushes the lid it closes with a BANG. A few mourners 
look over but most keep conversing.  Dan feigns offence but 
Jimmy knows if his hand wasn’t there they would all have a 
good look at his dead friend by now.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      It’s probably empty. They’re 
      cremating him tomorrow.  

             LUMP
      What’s cremation? 

             DAN
      They burn the body.  Then they put 
      the ashes in a can.

             JIMMY
        (to Dan)
      You’re going to scare him. 

             LUMP
      I’m not scared.  

             DAN
      Then they dump him somewhere and he 
      blows away.

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      It’s not like that --

             DAN
      Then what’s it like? 

Jimmy’s not ready with a retort.  He moves his hand back to 
the coffin lid.  His eyes move to a WREATH in the corner.  It 
is full of Green and White flowers.  The emblem of the 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES in the center.

                                      4.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Make a Wish was supposed to get a 
      few players to visit. 

             JIMMY
      They were coming tomorrow.  

             DAN
      You’re not the only one a day late.  

Jimmy winces at this one.  Dan reaches for the lid again. 

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Sure you don’t want to say “bye” 
      face to face?  

Jimmy stares at a large framed picture of a smiling SAMMY 
HARLOW (16).  He’s blond, dimple faced, full of life.  

             JIMMY
      If I had known -- 

             DAN
      Sexy, can I?  

Dan’s pointer finger directs their attention across the room.

KATE HARLOW, 16.  Not a beauty queen but busty enough to get 
the boys thinking.  She’s showing a lot of leg for a funeral. 
Even some of the Cops check her out.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      I’d like to cheer her up, and down 
      for that matter. Know what I mean?  

             JIMMY
      No.  

             LUMP
      I do.  


Dan makes a pelvic thrust motion in Kate’s direction.  

             DAN
      Don’t worry Lump.  I have it from a 
      reliable source that your brother 
      knows more than he lets on.  

             JIMMY
      Who’d you hear that from? 

                                      5.

             DAN
      Sucked having Leukemia but finding 
      out your best friend fucked your 
      sister, now that stings.  

Jimmy lunges at Dan.   

Dan hits a vase that hits the floor and shatters. Everyone 
turns to look at them.  Dan waves at the attendees.  Jimmy 
bends to scoop the mess into the nearest trash can.  

             JIMMY
      Motherfucker. 

             DAN
      Sister-fucker.  

Jimmy picks up the shards and makes eye contact with Kate.  
She throws a wistful smile his way and approaches the guys. 

             KATE
      Smooth.  

             JIMMY
      I didn’t mean to --

             KATE
      No big deal.  

             DAN
      How you doing, baby? 

             KATE
      Choke on a cock.   

Kate uses the table cloth that was once under the vase to dry 
the water on the floor.  She bends to meet Jimmy on the 
ground.  

             JIMMY
      I like your dress. 

Kate pulls it down to cover more leg.  

             KATE
      I couldn’t find one that said “sad 
      but not broken” at Boscov’s.   

             JIMMY
      You okay? 

             KATE
      You?  

Their eyes meet and hold.  

             JIMMY
      Your parents?

                                      6.

             KATE
      Susan’s quiet.  Ted’s always out of 
      touch with emotion.     

             LUMP
      You call your parents by their 
      first names? 

             KATE
      They call me by mine.  
        (to Jimmy)
      Nice of you to finally show.  

             JIMMY
      By the time I got here your Dad 
      said it was too late.   

             KATE
      Probably shouldn’t have waited a 
      week to check in.

             JIMMY
      Sammy didn’t answer my calls. 

             KATE
      I wasn’t talking about him.  

Jimmy gulps.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      Didn’t see your Parents?  

             LUMP
      Vacation.  

Kate raises an eyebrow.  Jimmy attempts to silence Lump.  

             JIMMY
      They go to Palm Springs every 
      winter.  They said it “rejuvenates 
      their marriage.”  

             KATE
      Oh, so they’re fucking.  

Lumps eyes get huge.  

             JIMMY
      I’m watching Lump for a few days.  

                                      7.

             KATE
      While your parents fuck. 

             JIMMY
      I guess -- 

Kate looks back at the coffin and nods to TED HARLOW, late 
40’s.  He’s in need of a shave and has dark circles under his 
eyes.  He’s surrounded by cops. Two rookies, TALL and his 
partner, STUBBY, try to get near Ted.  He pushes past them 
and makes himself a coffee on a nearby catering table.     

             KATE
      The entire police department has 
      been here today.  

             JIMMY
      That’s what happens when your Dad’s 
      the chief.  
        (beat)
      Kate, I --

             KATE
      It’s cool.  I didn’t expect you to 
      call.  

Ted nods toward the guys but motions for his daughter to 
return to his side.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      The old man needs me.

             JIMMY
      Talk to you -- 

She is out of earshot.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      -- Later.  

             DAN
      So desperate.   

Dan moves toward the refreshment table on the opposite wall. 
Jimmy and Lump follow. 

             JIMMY
      I’ve got to talk to you about 
      something.  

             DAN
      Shoot.  

                                      8.

             JIMMY
      In private.  

Dan grabs a plate and slops casserole on one side. He 
gestures with the food spoon, splattering noodles on the 
floor. 

             DAN
      Whatever you’ve got to say to me 
      you can say in front of my people.  

Jimmy grabs a napkin and cleans up his mess. 

Dan spoons Jello.  Lump grabs a plate and begins to fill it. 
Jimmy takes the plate from Lump and puts it back on the 
table.  He moves to the end of the buffet line and stops in 
front of Dan.  Jimmy is a human road block.  

             JIMMY
      Did you get --

He checks over each shoulder.  No one is listening.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      -- A shovel list.  From Sammy? 

Dan taps his breast pocket.  

             DAN
      He covered his ass when you decided 
      to spend his last days on Earth 
      putting it in his sister.  

             JIMMY
      Don’t you think we ought to take 
      care of it? 

             DAN
      You want to do this now?  

Dan chomps on hors d'oeuvres.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m eating.  
        (beat)
      Plus we’re surrounded by pigs.  

             LUMP
      What’s a shovel list? 

Jimmy glares at his brother.  Dan takes a knee.  He’s mid-
chomp on some lasagna.  Specs are flying.    

                                      9.

             DAN
      Think about all the shit in your 
      bedroom you wouldn’t want your 
      parents to see if you up and 
      croaked.   

             LUMP
      Like dirty dishes? 

             DAN
      Like two-girls one cup. 

MOURNERS look with disdain as spittle flies from Dan’s jowls.  

             LUMP
      I don’t know what that is.  

             DAN
      It’s two girls shitting into a cup 
      and eating it.  When were you born? 

             LUMP
      1992.

             DAN
      Google it.  Change your life.  

Jimmy taps his foot.  

             JIMMY
      I’m going.      

Jimmy gives the room one more once-over and makes a dash for 
the hallway.   Dan sets his plate on the table.  He and Lump 
scurry after Jimmy.      

             DAN
        (mouth full)
      Don’t you ever talk to your 
      brother?  

Jimmy works his way across the room toward a set of stairs 
leading up.  He pauses for Lump and Dan to catch up.     

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      Cover for us.

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - SECOND FLOOR

Jimmy and Dan stop in front of a door with a Philadelphia 
Eagles Sign:  “Property Of Sammy Harlow.”

                                      10.

Jimmy is paralyzed.    

             DAN
      Open it, pussy.  

             JIMMY
      Got your list? 

Dan nods. Jimmy lifts a numbered piece of paper from his 
pocket.  Dan digs and produces a chicken scratch list.  

Jimmy grabs it from his hand and puts it next to his own.  
Dan’s has way more stuff on it.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      What’s all this? 

             DAN
      Sammy was a busy boy.  

Jimmy hides the hurt look on his face.  He reaches for the 
doorknob.  

             JIMMY
      I don’t want anyone to notice we’re 
      gone.  

             DAN
      They’re mourning a dead kid down 
      there.  No one misses us.  

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - SAMMY’S BEDROOM

The room is literally covered in Philadelphia Eagles 
paraphernalia; posters, jerseys, newspaper clippings.

             JIMMY
      Get under the mattress and sock 
      drawer.  I’ll take the closet.  

             DAN
      I know what I’m doing.  

The boys go to work.  

Dan lifts the mattress to reveal SEVERAL PLAYBOYS.  He rolls 
one and slides it in his jacket pocket.  Before moving, Dan 
flips through the other magazine.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Hello, Miss April.  

                                      11.

             JIMMY
      Stay on task.  

             DAN
        (off the mag)
      I mean, Guten Tag.  
        (points)
      German.  

Jimmy works the closet.  He digs behind some clothes and 
pulls out a a few Porno DVDs, a small bag of weed, and a 
lighter.  

Jimmy waves the weed at Dan. 

             JIMMY
      Did you get him this? 

             DAN
      He was going to die anyway.    

             JIMMY
      His Dad’s a cop. 

             DAN
      His son had weed in his closet and 
      he didn’t find it?  Shitty cop.  

Jimmy does not laugh.  He pockets the baggy and lighter.  The 
DVD won’t fit so he tucks it into the back of his pants.  

Dan stuffs knickknacks anywhere they’ll go; pants, sleeves, 
underwear.     

             JIMMY
      Only what’s on your list.

             DAN
      Sammy’s not gonna miss this shit. 

             KATE
	(O.S.)
      Grave robbers? 

The guys drop what they’re doing and turn.  In the door frame 
stands Kate. She holds Lump’s hand.  Jimmy raises an eyebrow 
to Lump and he immediately drops her hand.   

             JIMMY
      We wanted to get in before your 
      parents found anything 
      incriminating.   

             KATE
      Got your shit together, huh? 

                                      12.

             DAN
      Somebody has to.  

Lump enters the room but Kate lingers.  

             LUMP
      Did you find two girls one cup? 

Dan laughs.  They watch Kate pick up a PICTURE of her family 
with a healthy Sammy.   

Jimmy hands her a tissue out of an Eagles-themed Kleenex box.  

             JIMMY
      It’s going to be okay.  

             KATE
      How do you know? 

             JIMMY
      People keep saying it.  

Kate reluctantly smiles.  

Dan goes back to opening drawers.  

Jimmy moves to the wall.  He runs his hand over an ornate 
jersey display case. The label says “#20 Brian Dawkins.” Kate 
watches.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Sammy’s favorite. 

             KATE
      That one’s spoken for, champ.    

Jimmy pulls on the case.  It’s locked.  

Dan SLAMS a drawer, snapping Jimmy out of his trance.  

             DAN
      I thought there’d be more drugs.  

             TED
	(O.S.)
      More what? 

Ted Harlow fills the door frame.  He puts his hand on Kate’s 
shoulder.  His arched back and broad shoulders scream “man of 
the law.”  

Dan stops dead in his tracks.  Both his hands are filled with 
girly magazines and a half empty bottle of whiskey.  

Jimmy’s hand immediately goes to the weed in his pocket.  

                                      13.

Dan moves his arm behind his back. Too late.  Ted moves 
forward.  He’s done this before.    

Ted nabs the bottle from behind Dan’s back and holds it up, 
studying the label.  

             DAN
      Toasting Sammy?

Jimmy rushes forward.  

             JIMMY
      It’s mine.  We made this blood oath 
      before --

Dan and Kate shoot him a look that says “Blood oath?” 

             TED
        (to Kate)
      Your Mom’s looking for you.  

             JIMMY
      If there’s anything you guys need --

             TED
      There’s not.  

The room falls silent.  Ted’s eyes dart around the room.  

             JIMMY
      We should be going.  

Dan exits.  Ted motions for Kate to follow.  She grabs Lump 
and takes the hint.  Jimmy moves behind him but Ted grabs his 
arm.  

             TED
      You get everything? 

Jimmy checks his list and nods.  

Ted leans on the dresser and slides it aside, revealing a 
pile of sensuous magazines.  Jimmy bends and snatches them 
up.  Ted moves the dresser back.   

             JIMMY
      Mr. Harlow --

             TED
      I better get back.  

He exits and leaves Jimmy standing alone in Sammy’s room.  

                                      14.

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

Lump and Dan lean on the buffet table.  Jimmy crosses the 
room to them.  

Ted and Katie have returned to the mourners. They join SUSAN 
HARLOW, 40s, by the casket.  Susan’s face is lined and 
pained.  She is in the perpetual state of having finished 
crying recently.   

             DAN
      Fucking Lump.  

             LUMP
        (to Jimmy)
      You told me to take her to you --

Jimmy silences Lump with his eyes.  

             DAN
      Did you have your little brother 
      wingman you toward your dead best 
      friend’s sister?  

             JIMMY
      Lump and I are getting out of here.  

             DAN
      Wanna hit the Hole later?

             JIMMY
      Like old times? 

             DAN
      I got a ton of shit out of the 
      drawers before Ted came in and 
      ruined it.  Figured you may want 
      some. 

             JIMMY
      Thanks. 

             DAN
      You’re still anal leakage to me. 

Jimmy and Lump traipse toward the exit.  Jimmy searches the 
room and locks eyes with Kate.  She shoots him a soft smile. 

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - DAY 

Jimmy and Lump walk toward their bikes.  

                                      15.

             LUMP
      Now that Sammy’s dead is Dan your 
      new best friend? 

They turn to see Dan leaving the house. Dan lights a 
cigarette as he goes.  

             JIMMY
      No. 

EXT. HOLE - LATE AFTERNOON 

A small clearing surrounded by trees and brush.  In the 
middle is a gulch ten feet by twenty feet.  The proverbial 
“hole”.   

Jimmy rests against a large tree.  He runs his hand over a 
carving. “Sammy Was Here.” He takes out a pocket knife and 
crosses out “Here.”  Scrawls “Alive.”   

Lump watches him.

Dan rides up. He is wearing a backpack.  

             DAN
      You brought the Lump? 

             JIMMY
      I’m not supposed to leave him 
      alone.  

             DAN
      He’s hitting the big leagues early.  

Dan takes a cigarette from his pocket and hands one to Jimmy.  
He offers one to Lump. Jimmy steers Lump away from the 
cigarette and Dan.  

The pinnacle of “do as I say not as I do,” Jimmy lights his 
cigarette and puffs away.  

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      Don’t tell Mom.

Dan dumps the contents of his backpack: Playboys, a small 
marijuana pipe, naked playing cards, and a plethora of key 
chains and cheap Eagles memorabilia.   

             DAN
      You can have the Playboys, they’re 
      too plebeian for me.  

             DAN
	(CONT'D)
        (beat)
      The other stuff we can split.  

Jimmy pockets a keychain and the deck of cards.  Lump holds a 
Playboy.  He flips through the pages, eyes wide.  

                                      16.

             LUMP
      The pictures are stuck together. 

             DAN
      Your brother hasn’t taught you how 
      to use one of those? 

             JIMMY
      Give it to me.  

Jimmy snatches the mag from Lump’s reluctant hands.  There is 
a bulge in the spread.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      They’re glued . . . 

Dan is by Jimmy’s side now.  Lump crowds in.  Jimmy tears 
into the fold.  An envelope falls into his hands.  

It’s labeled “Hello, Living.”

             DAN
      Holy shit, from beyond the grave.  

Jimmy looks to Dan.  He slides his finger up the seal. They 
press around him as he reads.  

             JIMMY
        (from the note)
      Mom, if you somehow found this I am 
      sorry.  Jimmy, I’m banking you.  

             DAN
        (Defensive)
      He knew I hated Playboys.  No 
      penetration.   

             JIMMY
        (back to the paper)
      If you’ve got this it means I’m 
      dead.  Weird.  I miss you.  Well I 
      think I do.  Not sure where I am, 
      or will be, or what I can feel. 
      Fuck it, who knows? Thanks for 
      clearing out my room. When you have 
      Leukemia you can get away with 
      whatever you want but it doesn’t 
      mean you should leave a trail.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT'D)
      If you get this in time I want to 
      be buried in my Dawkins jersey. 
      Fuck the Cowboys.  Hope no one ever 
      has to read this. 

                                      17.

Jimmy lowers the will.  Dan tosses a log into the hole. THUD.  

             DAN
      That was depressing.  

             LUMP
      He got almost everything.  

             JIMMY
      His jersey was on the wall. 

             DAN
      What are you gonna do about it? 

Jimmy is on his bike before the other two can protest.  

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - EVENING

Jimmy KNOCKS on the door.  Will in hand. No patience, he 
KNOCKS again. Dan and Lump cross the front yard.  Jimmy 
prepares to knock again when the door opens.  Kate stands 
before them.    

             KATE
        (off the knocker)
      It fucking works.   

             JIMMY
      I need to talk to your parents. 

             KATE
      It’s been a long day.  Can this 
      wait?  

             JIMMY
      No.  

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - EVENING 

Susan and Ted sit on a couch.  They have uneaten plates of 
food in front of them.  There is a photo album on their 
coffee table with a smiling image of Sammy emblazoned on the 
cover.  Sammy pictures scattered over a coffee table.  

Jimmy and the gang BURST in the room followed by Kate.  

             DAN
      We’re back.  

Jimmy feigns a smile and gives a half wave.  Lump crowds in 
behind him. 

                                      18.

             JIMMY
      I, well, we -- 

             DAN
      We found a will. 

He points at Jimmy who produces the document.  

Jimmy shakes the paper harder as if he didn’t do it hard 
enough the first time.  Kate comes from behind and takes it 
from his hand and reads.

             KATE
      It says he wanted to be buried in 
      his jersey.  

             SUSAN
      He left you a note? 

             JIMMY
      We knew you were cremating him but 
      we wanted to make sure Sammy -- 

             SUSAN
      I didn’t get a note.      

             DAN
      It was in a Playboy. 

             SUSAN
      Where’d he get a Playboy? 

             TED
        (interjecting)
      I know you didn’t get to see him 
      before he died but Sammy always 
      said he was lucky to have you as a 
      friend.  

             SUSAN
      No one got to say a long enough 
      goodbye.  

             TED
      McDonough already took the body.  

             DAN
      What about the jersey? 

                                      19.

Jimmy pushes Dan behind him.  

             JIMMY
      Can you cremate him wearing it? 

Ted reaches for the wall phone and dials.  The room catches 
their collective breath.  

             DAN
      This is an awkward wait.  

             SUSAN
      I’m not sure what happened between 
      you boys but --

Jimmy’s eyes go red.  The tension is cut by Ted hanging up 
the phone.  Susan looks to him. Eyes filled with tears.  

             TED
      No answer.  

             DAN
      Let’s get the car.  

             TED
      Open your ears.  He’s gone.  

Susan wades forward and tries.  

             SUSAN
      We really do appreciate everything 
      you did.  We appreciate it. 
      Appreciate. It.  We appreciate it. 
      We didn’t get a note.            

Dan points emphatically at the note.  

             DAN
      It’s right there!

Ted swoops in and holds his wife.  Jimmy backs away but 
there’s no stopping Dan.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Are we doing the jersey thing or 
      what?

             JIMMY
      What Dan means is -- 

             DAN
      If you’re going to toast him at 
      least do it they way he wanted.  

                                      20.

             TED
      Get out. 

Ted frowns.  Susan chokes a tear.  Jimmy senses the tension 
and grabs Dan.  He and Lump push Dan back down the hall.  
Kate follows.   

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - HALL

Kate, Lump, and Dan stare at Jimmy.  

             JIMMY
      Let me handle this.  

INT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM 

Jimmy returns to the living room.  

             JIMMY
      We can get the jersey.  I’ll get 
      someone to drive us over if you’re 
      not up to it.  

Ted frowns and stares Jimmy down. Susan tries a smile from 
the couch.  

             SUSAN
      We’re very tired.  

             JIMMY
      Right but -- 

             TED
      Jimmy.  Go.  

Jimmy backs out of the room.  Ted puts his arm around Susan.  
She buries her face into his chest.  

             JIMMY
      I think that --

             TED
      Listen and listen good - my son is 
      halfway across town - probably 
      already being cremated.  I get that 
      this is a big deal for you but it’s 
      a FUCKING big deal for us.  

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - EVENING 

Kate gazes down on the action from a second story window.  

                                      21.

             DAN
      That’s it?  

             JIMMY
      I’m not giving up; I’m waiting 
      until dark.  

They hop on their bikes and ride off.  

EXT. GIBBON’S HOUSE - NIGHT  

Three bikes lay in the glow of the modest home’s porch light.  

INT. GIBBON’S HOUSE - NIGHT 

Jimmy, Lump, and Dan stroll through the foyer.  

             DAN
      Why are we at your place? 

             JIMMY
      The funeral home is thirty miles 
      away.  We can’t bike it.  

             DAN
      So we’re? 

             JIMMY
      My old man keeps the car keys on a 
      dish by his nightstand.  

             LUMP
      You only have your learner’s 
      permit.  

INT. GIBBON’S HOUSE - HALLWAY

Jimmy and Dan stand in front of a large door.  Jimmy reaches 
for the knob.  It’s locked.  

             JIMMY
      Shit. 

             DAN
      Keys? 

             JIMMY
      My parents took them.  

             DAN
      Your parents lock their room?

                                      22.

             JIMMY
      They like privacy. 

             DAN
      So trusting. 

WHAM.  Jimmy hurls himself at the door.  It rattles.  

             JIMMY
      You helping or what? 

             LUMP
      Mom and Dad are going to kill us. 

Jimmy stoops to Lump’s level.  

             JIMMY
      We’ll grab one at Home Depot in the 
      morning.  They’ll never know. 

Jimmy and Dan back up.  Jimmy puts his arm around Dan.  They 
exchange an awkward glance.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      We have to do it together.  

             DAN
      Don’t get all metaphorical.  

They wind up.  

INT. GIBBON’S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM

BAM.  

The door splinters and falls to the floor.  Dan and Jimmy 
cross the room.  Jimmy snags the keys.  

             DAN
      Can’t we get a jersey while we’re 
      here?  Or one from my place?  

             JIMMY
      You got Dawkins? 

             DAN
      McNabb. 

             JIMMY
      I won’t let you put him in McNabb.    

             DAN
      Fuck you, McNabb is the shit.  

                                      23.

             JIMMY
      Sammy wanted Dawkins.

             DAN
      Fuck Sammy.  We’re already going 
      out of our way to --

Jimmy grab’s Dan’s shirt.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Do it, pussy.    

             LUMP
	(O.S.)
      Hey!

Lump stands akimbo.  

             LUMP
	(CONT’D)
      Are we doing this or what? 

Jimmy drops Dan’s shirt.  

             DAN
      Look whose testes dropped.  

EXT. GIBBON’S DRIVEWAY - NIGHT 

Jimmy slides the key into the lock of an ancient two door 
car.  He turns the key as if expecting it not to work.  

CLICK.  

Dan holds open the passenger door.  Lump moves to get in but 
is stopped when Jimmy grabs his shirt tail.  Not so fast.  

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      You’re staying.  

             LUMP
      I want to go.  

             JIMMY
      It’s too dangerous.  

             DAN
      If you leave him he’s gonna blow 
      our cover. Again.     

             JIMMY
      What if mom calls and we don’t 
      answer?    

                                      24.

             LUMP
      She never calls.  

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      You’ll get in the way.  

             LUMP
      I promise I won’t. 

             JIMMY
      You’re not coming.  

             LUMP
      Fuck you.  

The brothers stare.  

             DAN
      Let him fucking come. 

             JIMMY
      Get in the back.  

Lump gives a triumphant smile.  Jimmy scoots around to the 
driver’s side door.  Dan pushes Lump into the backseat. 

             DAN
      Why do I have the feeling this is 
      going to be epic?  

I/E. CAR - NIGHT 

Dan is tapping a tune on the dashboard.  Jimmy fiddles with 
the shifter knob.  He turns the key and starts the car.  He 
tries to back out but the car stalls.    

             DAN
      Get a move on.

             JIMMY
      I’m shitty at stick.  

             DAN
      How the hell do you have your 
      learner’s permit?  

             LUMP
      You’ve seen Dad do it a thousand 
      times.  

             JIMMY
      Gimme a fucking second.  

                                      25.

             DAN
      Sammy is rolling in his coffin 
      right now. 

Jimmy grabs the stick.  Nothing.  Jimmy presses the clutch 
and the car pops into neutral.  They coast into the street.  
He turns the key and the engine SPUTTERS.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
        (singing)
      We’re going to a funeral home, oh 
      yeah, bringing a jersey, uh huh --

Dan sings LOUDER.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      We’re doing it because our friend’s 
      dead, la la la.      

The car lurches forward. Dan bangs his head on the dash.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      ASSHOLE. 

             JIMMY
      I’m new at this. 

I/E. CAR - NIGHT 

They car pulls up to Sammy’s house COUGHING.  Gears GRIND as 
they stop.  

Jimmy grits his teeth.  

             DAN
      Wake the fucking neighborhood while 
      you’re at it.  

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - NIGHT  

The guys skulk across the lawn.  They press themselves 
against the outer shrubbery.  Jimmy points at a second story 
window.  

             JIMMY
      That’s Sammy’s.  

Dan points to one a few feet down from it.  

             DAN
      That one? 

                                      26.

             JIMMY
      Kate’s.  

             DAN
      Climb through it often, Romeo?  

Jimmy clutches at the siding of the house.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      How do we do it? 

             JIMMY
      She dropped me her sheets.  

             DAN
      Then her panties.  

             LUMP
      Pyramid? 

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - NIGHT 

Dan is on all fours, Jimmy has Lump on his shoulders.  Jimmy 
steps onto Dan’s back.  No grace or balance. Lump tries to 
brace himself on the side of the house.  He reaches and grabs 
the window sill.  

The weight is too much.  Jimmy loses what little balance he 
had and topples.  THUD.  Dan gets a face full of Jimmy.  Lump 
hangs from the sill.  

             DAN
      Pull yourself up.  

             JIMMY
      C’mon.  

             DAN
      Do it for me.  

             JIMMY
      Do it for Sammy.  

Lump strains.  His tiny arms lift his body but can’t hold it 
any longer and falls into a shrub.    

             DAN
      Fail.  

They regroup.  Their breath is illuminated by moonlight.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Plan B.  We stand on Lump.  

                                      27.

             JIMMY
      I have a better idea.  

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - NIGHT 

Dan and Jimmy push the car across Sammy’s lawn under the 
window.  Lump steers.  

They climb on top of the Coupe.    

Dan tries the window.  It slides a few inches and sticks.  He 
shoves with all his might but gets nowhere.  Jimmy gives him 
a hand but even a combined effort yields nothing.    

             DAN
      It’s fucking stuck.  

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - NIGHT 

Jimmy cranks the window up with the tire jack. He’s 
straining.  It’s almost big enough for a human to slide 
through.   

POP.  The window glass shatters all over the guys.  

             JIMMY
      Shit.  

             DAN
      We’ll fit now.  

             JIMMY
      Wait with the car.  

INT. SAMMY’S ROOM - NIGHT 

Jimmy fumbles in the dark.  He turns on a bedside lamp. The 
yellow glow casts three shadows on the wall.  Jimmy turns to 
see Dan and Lump. 

             DAN
      I’m not waiting outside.  

             LUMP
      I don’t like being alone.  

             JIMMY
      I didn’t put the parking brake on.  

             DAN
      Is that bad? 

They run back to the window and see the car rolling down the 
slope of Sammy’s yard toward the street.  

                                      28.

             JIMMY
      Fuck.    

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - NIGHT 

The guys fall from the window with THUDS and chase down the 
slow rolling car.  It DINKS into a small tree at the end of 
the block.  Stopping its low speed chase.  The guys pant, out 
of breath.  

They pull the car back from the tree.  There is a dent in the 
hood.  

             JIMMY
      Fuck.  

             LUMP
      Can we fix that at Home Depot? 

             JIMMY
      Maybe they won’t notice? 

             DAN
      We’ve got bigger bodies to fry. 

EXT. SAMMY’S HOUSE - NIGHT 

The guys roll the car back up Sammy’s lawn and under the 
window.  

I/E. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Jimmy YANKS the E-Brake. 

             JIMMY
      Let’s roll.  

INT. SAMMY’S ROOM - NIGHT 

They rummage through boxes.  Nothing.  Dan knocks over a 
stack.  He’s causing a ruckus.  

             JIMMY
      Keep it down.  

                                      29.

             DAN
      We crashed a car into a tree and no 
      one woke up, knocking over a box 
      isn’t doing shit.  

             JIMMY
      Be careful.  

             DAN
      We wouldn’t even be here if you 
      just let me use the McNabb jersey.  

CREAK.  Sammy’s door opens wide.  They are deer in 
headlights.  No one moves.  They don’t even breathe.  

Kate stands before them.  She’s in plaid pajamas.  She is 
hesitant but enters the room, closing the door behind her. 
Glass crunches beneath her slipper’d feet.    

             KATE
      Did you break the fucking window?

             DAN
      It was like that when we found it.  

             JIMMY
      We’re looking for the Dawkins 
      jersey.  

             KATE
      Someone already took it.  

             DAN
      Of course.  

             JIMMY
      Do you know who?

Dan flops on Sammy’s bed.   

             KATE
      GET OFF. 

Dan pops up.  

             DAN
      Touchy touchy.  
        (beat)
      Did Sammy have any other jerseys?

             KATE
      Tons.  

                                      30.

             DAN
      Second favorite? 

             KATE
      McNabb.  

Dan throws his arms in the air.

             JIMMY
      No one’s getting cremated in their 
      second favorite jersey.  

             KATE
      You broke in here for my brother’s 
      jersey? 

             DAN
      Gotta move before things get too 
      stiff.  

             JIMMY
      We can buy one.  

             DAN
      What’s open this time of night?  

             KATE
      You’re putting him in the jersey?

Jimmy shifts in his shoes. 

             JIMMY
      It’ll be really quick.  We’ll slip 
      it on him before anyone notices.  

             DAN
      This bitch doesn’t have anything 
      for us.  We need to bail ASAP.    

             JIMMY 
        (to Dan)
      Don’t call her a bitch, asshole.  

             DAN
      Don’t call me an asshole, twat.  

             KATE
        (Hushed)
      You’ll wake my parents.    

             DAN
      If we haven’t woken them already 
      I’d say we’re safe.  

                                      31.

             JIMMY
      Let’s hit the sporting goods store 
      on High Street.

The guys turn to leave.  Kate lets go a SIGH of indignation.  
She undoes the buttons to her top.  

Their eyes go wide.  Kate is wearing the Dawkins jersey under 
her top.

             KATE
      Figured if I didn’t take it some 
      asshole would.  Guess I was right.  

             JIMMY
      Good thinking.  

The words are barely out before Dan makes a move for her 
sleeve.  

             DAN
      Give it.

             KATE
      Fuck off.

Jimmy takes one look from Dan to Kate and sees things heading 
south. He takes Kate’s arm and pulls her into a corner.  Lump 
and Dan lean on a far wall.  

             JIMMY
      The case was locked.

             KATE
      He taped the key to the side of my 
      stuffed animal. It took me a few 
      days to figure out what it fit. 

             JIMMY
      The will was in a Playboy.  

             KATE
      The will I’m not in.  

             JIMMY
      It’s not about who’s in it.  

             LUMP
      Dan’s not in the will. 

             DAN
      He knew I’d be here.  

                                      32.

             KATE
        (to Dan)
      Why are you here?

             DAN
      Cause Sammy wasn’t sure if he and 
      Jimmy would start talking again 
      after he found out you two had 
      hooked up.  

Dead silence.  Lump’s jaw drops.  Kate blushes.  Jimmy won’t 
let him win this one.  Dan won’t stop trying.  

             KATE
      He knew?  

             DAN
      Your bedroom was right next door.  

             JIMMY
      He saw me climb in the window.  

             KATE
      He never said anything to me about 
      it.  

             DAN
      How do you tell your sister you 
      know your buddy is slipping her the 
      salami? 

             JIMMY
      ENOUGH. 
        (beat)
      Sammy would have been there for me.  
      I have to be there for him now.   

             DAN
      You could have been there for him a 
      week ago and not with his sister.  

             JIMMY
      Fuck you.  

             DAN
      Just saying.  

             JIMMY
      We need that jersey. 

             KATE
      You want me to give up the last 
      piece of my dead brother?

                                      33.

             JIMMY
      I don’t want you to give up 
      anything.  Sammy does.

             KATE
      He didn’t leave me anything else.

             JIMMY
      He left us a mission.  One he wants 
      us to do together.  That’s why I’m 
      here, that’s why Dan’s here.  

Jimmy turns his back.  He begins to walk away.  

             KATE
      Where are you going? 

Jimmy is at the window.  Kate follows.  Dan and Lump stand 
triumphant.  Jimmy turns and holds out his hand.  

             JIMMY
      You’re not coming?    

             KATE
      I don’t know if I can --  

             JIMMY
      Then we gotta have the jersey.  

             DAN
      Take it off, baby.  

Jimmy hits Dan with an elbow.  

             KATE
      Turn around.  

The guys spin and face the outside.  They’ll play gentleman 
for a price.  

Kate takes the jersey off.  Dan nudges Lump.  They look at 
her reflection in the mirror on the wall.  Lump smiles and 
Dan giggles.  They see her in her bra.  

Jimmy hip-checks Dan into Lump.  They turn.  Kate is back in 
her top.  She hands the jersey to Jimmy.  

             DAN
      I was okay with you in your bra.

             KATE
      Can I still come?  

Jimmy grins ear to ear.  

                                      34.

INT. SAMMY’S ROOM - NIGHT 

A SHADOW takes up the entire window.  From the viewpoint it 
spies the car pulling away from the house.  

             SUSAN 
	(O.S.)
      What’s going on? 

The shadow steps back revealing Ted’s grim face in the 
moonlight.  

             TED
      Do you know where I left my keys? 

             SUSAN
      You’re going out? 

             TED
      I need some air.  

I/E. CAR - NIGHT

Kate is up front.  Dan and Lump in the back.  Jimmy coasts 
down the residential road.  

They pass the tree they demolished.  

             KATE
      What happened to our tree?

Jimmy presses the accelerator and they disappear down the 
block.  

             JIMMY
      Let’s not talk about it.  

EXT. MCDONOUGH FUNERAL HOME - NIGHT

A broad brick building sits alone surrounded by trees.  
Lights on inside.  The car coasts to a halt on the street.  
The gang gets out.

Jimmy leads the way across the grass toward the side of the 
building.  

             JIMMY
      Quick in and out.  

             DAN
      That’s my specialty.  

                                      35.

             KATE
      What’s the plan? 

             DAN
      We’ll break a window.  

             KATE
      And set off an alarm? 

             DAN
      Who made you commander and chief? 

             KATE
      I’m not taking orders from you, 
      Captain Douchebag.  

             JIMMY
      The lights are on.  Someone’s 
      inside.    

Jimmy strains to peer through a raised window.  

Kate touches Jimmy’s shoulders.  He is startled. 

             KATE
      Relax champ.
        (beat)
      Gimme a boost.  I’ll peek inside.  

Jimmy props Kate up in the air.  His hand on her butt.  Dan 
and Lump look on with jealousy. 

Kate peers through the window.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t see anyone.

             DAN
      This is a waste of time.

Jimmy lowers Kate.  He moves farther down the building toward 
a basement window.  The gang follows.  Jimmy bends in the 
dirt.  Kate and Lump lower themselves to his level.  

They peer in a tiny basement window.  It’s dim but they can 
make out a room highlighted by stainless steel.  

             JIMMY
      No one’s inside.  I think we can -- 

Before Jimmy can finish Dan swings his leg between them and 
into the window.  THUD. Jimmy and Kate careen backward to 
avoid impact.  

                                      36.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus Christ!

Dan hops around on one foot.  Jimmy helps Kate back up to a 
kneeling position.  The fall knocked her hair out of 
position.    

             DAN
      Shit, that hurt.   

             JIMMY
        (sotto)
      Give us some help on this one, 
      Sammy.  

Kate fixes her hair.  A piece hits Jimmy in the face and he 
turns to watch her.  She has a hair pin in her teeth as she 
makes a pony tail.  

Jimmy reaches out and snatches the pin from her lips.   

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Can I borrow this? 

Jimmy snaps the pin in half.  He lets the pointy ends stick 
out form his fist like Wolverine from X-Men.  Jimmy winds up.

SMASH.  The glass spiders.  He doesn’t take the time to look 
back for approval but if he did, the look on Kate’s face 
would’ve made him very happy.  

Jimmy kicks the window the rest of the way in.  Glass tinkles 
as it hits the floor inside.  

             LUMP
      No alarm.  

             JIMMY
      Spot me.  

Dan grasps Jimmy’s outstretched arms and lowers him into the 
abyss.  

INT. MCDONOUGH FUNERAL HOME - PREP ROOM - NIGHT 

All gurneys and tools.  On the back wall is a giant walk in 
freezer.  A place as dead as it’s inhabitants.  

Dan falls into the room last. Jimmy strides with purpose to 
the freezer.   They follow.  He pulls open the door. 

             JIMMY
      In and out.  

                                      37.

Three plywood boxes on rolling gurney’s. They look like 
unpainted coffins. Jimmy is pulling the first before anyone 
can react.  

Jimmy slides the first’s lid back.  

ELDERLY MAN.  He’s all white hair and wrinkles.  Completely 
in the nude and stiff as a board.  Dan pokes him with a 
finger. 

             DAN
      He’s dead. 

The lid is replaced. 

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      I wasn’t done looking.  

Jimmy doesn’t have time for this. He is yanking the lid off 
another box out.  

ELDERLY WOMAN.  Same as before, nude and cold.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Not the rack I wanted to see 
      tonight.  

Kate shakes her head and moves away from Dan.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Being honest.  

Jimmy puts the lid back on and grasps the last box.  Moment 
of truth.  

Kate grabs his arm.  She points to the base of the box.  
There’s a name on the bottom, “Harlow.”

Jimmy pulls the box from the fridge.  They crowd around.  He 
doesn’t have a sense for the dramatic but still pauses as his 
fingers grace the lid.  He knows Sammy is inside.

             JIMMY
        (to Kate)
      Ready? 

             DAN
      WAIT.  

Dan clamps his hands on the lid.  For someone eager to open 
the coffin at the funeral he’s not on board with the reveal 
now.  

                                      38.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      I came here to slip an Eagles 
      jersey on my dead friend not to see 
      his penis.

             KATE
      Grow up.  

Dan takes his hands off.

Jimmy gently slides the lid back, revealing Sammy’s feet.      

             DAN
      He’s naked.  He’s fucking naked.
      They’re cremating our friend in the 
      nude.  Harsh.  

Jimmy undoes his belt.  Dan and Kate fight without noticing 
what Jimmy is doing.  Jimmy unbuttons his pants.  He begins 
to shimmy out of them.    

             KATE
        (to Dan)
      If you’re so upset by it then give 
      him your pants.   

             DAN
      I’m six inches taller than Sammy.  
      He’ll look like a clown in heaven. 
      Take Lump’s.  He’s dead kid size.   

             JIMMY
      He’ll wear mine.   

Jimmy holds his pants up in the air.  He’s wearing briefs.  

             DAN
      You need some boxers.  Let the boys 
      loose.  

             KATE
      You’ll be cold. 

             JIMMY
      He needs them.   

Kate takes the pants. Jimmy slides the lid completely off.  
They gaze at what was once their friend.  

SAMMY HARLOW, 16.  Pale, more skeleton than skin.  His 
expression is artificial.  Hands crossed on his chest; a 
naked stick figure.  It’s the shell that used to hold the boy 
they knew so well.  Now it’s empty.        

Everyone takes a moment to breathe. Everyone but Jimmy.  He 
takes the pants from Kate and struggles to work them onto the 
body.     

                                      39.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
        (amidst grunts)
      We shouldn’t see him like this.     

             KATE
      No one has. 

Kate brushes Sammy’s hair from his forehead. Jimmy has the 
pants on and belted.   

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      Some bullshit about wanting 
      everyone to remember him alive.  

             DAN
      It doesn’t even look like him.  

Lump offers the jersey.  Jimmy bends over his friend.  Dan 
helps lift Sammy’s back.  They try to move his arms from 
their position on his chest but they won’t budge.    

They struggle.    

             JIMMY
      Try slipping it over his head 
      first.

             DAN
      It’d be easier with him standing.  

Sammy is an easy lift.  The guys have him out in seconds.  
Lump holds him up while they struggle.  Even Kate is yanking.  
Nothing.  

A loud CREAK.  FOOTSTEPS.  

The Gang freezes.  

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      WHO’S THERE?

Sammy is propped against Jimmy.  Jimmy pushes Sammy’s cheek 
off his own.  Shudders.     

             DAN
      What the fuck? 

             JIMMY
      Hide.  

                                      40.

They scramble.  

Kate squeezes behind a curtain.  Lump pushes in with her.  
Dan climbs into an empty coffin on the far wall.  

Jimmy has Sammy in his arms.  He is alone.  He leans Sammy on 
the table.  Jimmy rushes to put the lid back on Sammy’s box.    

The footsteps are coming closer.  

Jimmy grabs Sammy’s body and drags it inside the freezer. He 
closes the door behind him. Just in time.  

Enter MORTICIAN (50’s).   He walks around the room flipping 
switches.  A panel on the far wall hums to life.     

Mortician walks to the row of boxes.  Scratches his head.  He 
pulls the first gurney toward a furnace on the far wall.  

INT. FREEZER 

Jimmy holds Sammy against him.  They are eye to eye. Silence.  

             JIMMY
      We got your note.  

He gives a faint smile.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Still not talking to me?  

Jimmy adjusts Sammy’s head so it faces him. Jimmy stares 
directly at Sammy.  There’s no eye contact.  There’s no eyes.  
Jimmy’s maneuver reveals small stitching under Sammy’s eyes.  
They are sewn shut.   

Jimmy peers through the freezer window. He shivers as he 
watches the Mortician work.  

INT. MCDONOUGH FUNERAL HOME - PREP ROOM

The Mortician grabs the box belonging to Sammy. He is working 
fast, without care.  The Mortician lines up the three boxes 
and opens three oven doors.  He pushes each into it’s own 
furnace and closes the doors.  

WHIRRRRRRR.  

The furnaces startup.  Fire can be seen through the tiny 
window.  

                                      41.

INT. FREEZER

Jimmy looks on in horror as the boxes burn. 

INT. MCDONOUGH FUNERAL HOME - PREP ROOM - LATER

The Mortician runs his hand over the table with the broken 
glass.  

             MORTICIAN
      What the hell?  

He stares at the broken window.  

             MORTICIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Goddamnit! 

The Mortician exits.  They wait until his footsteps 
disappear.  Kate and Lump come out of hiding.  The momentary 
silence is broken by the likely source.  

             DAN
	(O.S.)
      I could get used to this.  

The lid of a coffin opens.  Dan props himself on his elbows 
inside the cushy tomb.  

The freezer door swings open.  Jimmy and Sammy come out.

             JIMMY
      We’ve got to get him out of here, 
      now! 

             DAN
      Who? 

Jimmy yanks Sammy’s arms and thrusts the jersey on.  He 
readjusts his grip on the corpse. 

             LUMP
      Maybe we can put him in another 
      coffin? 

             KATE
      He’s not getting his ashes switched 
      with some random schmuck.  

Jimmy tucks Sammy under his arm and walks to the window.  
They all stare. Jimmy has a new grip on Sammy and the 
situation.  He gets up on one to the tables.  

                                      42.

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      Gimme a hand? 

Lump lifts Sammy’s legs.  Dan and Kate finally realize what’s 
going on.   

             DAN
      What the fuck are you doing?  

             JIMMY
      He didn’t want to be cremated.  Now 
      we can do what he wanted.  The 
      jersey, the burial. 

             KATE
      Are you fucking serious?

Jimmy looks down on his followers.  

             JIMMY
      Sammy’s dead.  We can’t change that 
      but we can do what he wanted . . . 

             DAN
      I’m down.  

             KATE
      You’re entertaining this? 

             JIMMY
      We gotta get him outta here.  

Dan is on the table.  He grabs Sammy’s feet a lifts the body 
toward the window.  

             KATE
      Everyone just wait one fucking 
      minute.

They stop.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      No one else thinks this is crazy? 

Lump helps Jimmy and Dan.  They work the body into the air 
and poke his head out the window.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      We can’t do this . . . 

             JIMMY
      We have to.  

Kate watches as they move the body.  Jimmy jumps down next to 
her.  

                                      43.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Sammy was our best friend.  

             DAN
      Our shovel buddy.  

             JIMMY
      We promised him that no matter what 
      happened we’d cover his ass.  We 
      gotta do what we gotta do.  

Jimmy doesn’t wait for her reaction.  He’s not waiting for 
anything anymore. Dan and Lump have Sammy through the window.  
Jimmy extends his hand to Kate.  She thinks a second before 
grasping it. 

EXT. MCDONOUGH FUNERAL HOME - NIGHT 

Jimmy and Kate carry Sammy down the driveway.  Lump and Dan 
run ahead to the car.  SIRENS echoes in the distance.  

             JIMMY
      Hurry.  

Dan pops the trunk. 

Jimmy and Kate arrive with the body.  Lump has the passenger 
door open.  

Kate and Jimmy lower Sammy into the trunk.  His legs extend 
over the trunk.  They try to turn his body but to no avail.    

             DAN
      Fold him?

Jimmy shifts Sammy’s body.  THWAP.  He bonks Sammy’s head 
against the trunk.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Smooth.  

             KATE
      Get him in the fucking car.  

The sirens are closer.  

They try to twist the body but the pants get stuck on the 
trunk and rip.    

                                      44.

             JIMMY
      Damnit.  

             KATE
      Do the seats go down? 

             JIMMY
      We’re going to have to put him in 
      the back.  

             DAN
      Look I know he and I were close in 
      life but -- 

I/E. CAR - NIGHT 

Jimmy in the front, Kate next to him. In the back Sammy sits 
in between Lump and Dan.  Lump presses against the window, as 
far away from Sammy as possible.  Dan does the same.  

Tires SQUEAL.  They head down the road.  Behind them a patrol 
car pulls into the drive.  It is followed closely by a second 
vehicle.  

EXT. MCDONOUGH FUNERAL HOME - NIGHT 

A cop car rolls up the drive.  Standing outside is the 
Mortician next to another uniformed OFFICER (20’s).  The car 
parks and Ted steps out.  He’s in civilian clothes.  

Ted nods to the other officer who stops his interview and 
approaches.  

             TED
      Officer.  

             OFFICER 
      A broken window.  Nothing’s --

Before he can finish the Mortician rushes over.  

             MORTICIAN
      Chief Harlow! 
        (beat)
      I told you the preparations 
      wouldn’t be ready until morning.  

Ted focuses on the ground.  

             TED
      Couldn’t sleep.  

                                      45.

             OFFICER
      Sir, I forgot.  My condolences.  

             TED
        (to Mortician)
      Any chance I could say one last 
      goodbye?  

             MORTICIAN
      I’m sorry, he’s already been loaded 
      into the chamber.  

Ted climbs back into his car.  

             OFFICER
      About the broken window --

Ted reluctantly turns to the Officer.  

             TED
      Nothing stolen?  Nothing askew?  

             OFFICER
      Nope.  

             TED
        (smiling)
      Probably kids.  

EXT. HARDWARE STORE - NIGHT  

The car carrying our gang pulls into a space and parks.  They 
climb out.   

Jimmy goes up to the front window.  It’s a display with 
mannequins holding shovels and posing with tools.  

             KATE
      What are we --

             JIMMY
      Your brother wanted to be buried.  
      We’ll need shovels.  

             DAN
      Way in? 

             JIMMY
      We’re on a roll with the windows.  

Their eyes search the lot.  Dan spies a cinderblock.  

                                      46.

EXT. HARDWARE STORE - LATER

Jimmy and Dan each hold a side of the block and HURL.  

The glass trembles.  No damage. 

             DAN
      What now?  

Jimmy doesn’t wait.  He lifts the block again. Throws.  
Nothing.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      We’re going to need a bigger block.  

Jimmy tosses the car keys to Dan.  

             JIMMY
      You wanna to drive?  

EXT. HARDWARE STORE - LATER

Dan backs the car toward the window. Kate and Lump watch.   

Jimmy beckons like an air traffic controller.  

             JIMMY
      A little gas. 

VROOM.  The car rockets back.  Jimmy dodges.  SMASH.  The 
window shatters.   

WOOOOOP WOOOOOOOOP WOOOOOOOOOOOP.

             KATE
      ALARM!

             DAN
      Holy shit.  

Jimmy grabs the two display shovels from the rubble.  He 
snags a pickaxe for good measure.  

There is a huge dent in the rear bumper of the car.  Lump 
gestures to it but there is no time.  Kate shoves him in the 
car.  Dan follows.  Jimmy is behind the wheel before anyone 
takes a breath.  

I/E. CAR - MOVING - NIGHT  

             LUMP
      Dad is going to kill you.  

                                      47.

             JIMMY
      You’ll get two funerals in one 
      week. 

The ragged automobile flies down the highway with the rear 
bumper hanging.  The shovels and pickaxe droop out as well.  
Other DRIVERS on the road throw them odd glances as they 
pass.  

Dan positions Sammy’s face on the window.  Some motorists see 
the face and speed past.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Knock it off.  

             DAN
      I’m trying to make his last hours 
      fun ones.  

Jimmy takes an exit.    

             JIMMY
      We’re almost there.  

I/E. TED’S CRUISER 

Ted sits in silence as he drives down the highway.  His 
police radio crackles.  

             RADIO
	(V.O.)
      Break-in at the Parkway Hardware.
        (beat)
      Witnesses say a group of kids 
      responsible.  

Ted reaches for the radio.  

             TED
        (into radio)
      Say again.  Over.  

Ted flips on his lights and speeds up.  

EXT. HARDWARE STORE - NIGHT 

Ted stands amidst the broken glass with the same Officer from 
earlier.  A MAN rifles through the wreckage.  

             TED
      One more time.  

                                      48.

             MAN
      Two shovels, a pickaxe -- 
        (beat)
      The entire display! 

             TED
      This place got a camera? 

             MAN
      I can barely afford the alarm. 

             OFFICER
      Looks like it did it’s job.   

             MAN
      I’m lucky insurance’s got the 
      window.  

             TED
      Who saw the kids?

The Officer gestures to a middle-aged WOMAN, hair in curlers, 
sitting on the concrete walk a few yards down.  Ted walks 
down to her and kneels to her level.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      Ma’am.  

             WOMAN
        (off Ted’s relaxed dress)
      You a cop?

             TED
      What did you see? 

             WOMAN
      I done told the other officer 
      already.  

             TED
      Mind telling me? 

             WOMAN
      Kids.  Five of them.  

             TED
      You mean four? 

             WOMAN
      Four boys, one girl.  That still 
      makes five, no? 

Ted stands.  

                                      49.

             TED
        (sotto)
      Jesus Christ.  

EXT. HILL - NIGHT 

The hill from the opening.  The gang stands in a circle.  
Sammy lies on his back in the middle of them.  

             KATE
      He looks like he’s sleeping. It’s 
      peaceful.  

             DAN
      It’s too bad we can’t keep him 
      around.  Stuff him.  Trade him 
      every weekend.

They take the city in for a moment.  

             JIMMY
      It’s the perfect view.
        (beat)
      Right across from the new stadium.

They turn and wield their shovels.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Should we say something?  

             DAN
      Sammy was alive.  Now he’s dead.  
      We took his body.  We’re going to 
      bury it on the side of a hill.

             KATE
      How about “life’s not fair?”

             JIMMY
      Forget it.  

             DAN
      Six feet down? 

They press the tools to the dirt.  They push with all their 
might.  The blades barely scratch the surface.  

Jimmy drops his shovel and grabs the pick axe. He uses all 
his strength and swings down.  

CRACK.  The head of the axe breaks off.  

                                      50.

             JIMMY
      Fuck.  

Back to the shovel.  Jimmy uses his weight.  The ground is 
frozen solid.  He climbs on one side and Dan on the other.  
They jump in the air.  Nothing.  The shovel glances off the 
frozen soil. Everyone’s heart sinks.    

             KATE
      We didn’t think this through.  

Jimmy puts his hand on her shoulder. 

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      If you say “everything is going to 
      be okay” I’m going to kick you in 
      the balls.  

             JIMMY
      We got him in the jersey.  

             DAN
      That was supposed to be the hard 
      part.  

             JIMMY
      We have to bury him.  

             DAN
      The ground’s FROZEN.  

             KATE
      You couldn’t leave well enough 
      alone.   

Jimmy grabs Sammy’s body and points toward the city.   

             JIMMY
      Here ya go Sammy, Philadelphia.  
      Pick a place.  

Jimmy stares wildly at the body.  The others watch him in the 
moonlight. They shiver from both cold and fear.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Where do you want to be for the 
      rest of your . . . whatever?  
        (beat)
      You remembered where all your porn, 
      booze, and weed was but forgot to 
      leave a motherfucking burial plot.  
        (beat)
      Well?  Where? 

                                      51.

Silence.  Jimmy let’s Sammy’s body slump against him. 

Kate comes to Jimmy’s side. She puts her arm out and hugs 
Jimmy.  The steam from their breath combines.    

             KATE
      Everything’s gonna be okay.

Jimmy cannot help but smile at that one. Dan and Lump join 
them.  

             JIMMY
      Why didn’t he just tell your 
      parents what he wanted?  

             KATE
      Because Sammy knew you were the 
      only one who’d do anything he 
      asked. 

             DAN
      He asked him to keep his hands off 
      you and that didn’t work out real 
      well.  

             KATE
      Fuck off.  

             JIMMY
      He’s right.  
        (beat)
      I’ve done a pretty good job at 
      fucking up so far.    

They look back at the city.  

             KATE
      The skyline is beautiful at night.  

             DAN
      It looks different without the Vet.  

             JIMMY
      Cleaner. 

             KATE
      Sammy was always too sick to go to 
      football games. 

             DAN
      The Vet was the shit.  Seventy 
      thousand people cursing at the top 
      of their lungs.  Spilling beers, 
      punching people.    

                                      52.

             LUMP
      One time, I got thrown up on.  

Jimmy looks deep into Sammy’s closed eyes.  He fixes the 
askew jersey.   

             DAN
      They’re digging a new stadium down 
      there.  

             JIMMY
      Plenty of loose dirt.

Jimmy huffs the body onto his shoulder. Smiles cross the 
faces of the crew.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      He’ll be there.  Cursing and 
      cheering with the rest of them. 

             DAN
      What the fuck are we waiting for? 

They rush down the hillside.  

I/E. TED’S CRUISER - NIGHT 

Ted turns the speaker on his radio up.  

             TED
        (into radio)
      Any reports on our band of misfits? 

             RADIO
	(V.O.)
      Negative.  

             TED
      Keep me updated.  

             RADIO
	(V.O.)
      You on patrol, Harlow? 

             TED
      Something like that.  

I/E. CAR - NIGHT 

There is nothing inconspicuous about this operation.  The car 
is a giant warning flag to all onlookers; shovels stick out 
of the trunk, the undercarriage sags and jerks every so often 
from the shifting. 

Jimmy steers down a main drag.  He’s doing the speed limit 
and nothing above. That’s not enough for some passengers.   

                                      53.

             DAN
      I wish you’d use the gas pedal.  

             JIMMY
      Only ten miles away.

             DAN
      We should have recruited my 
      Grandmother to drive.  

Jimmy presses the gas pedal.  He’s not happy about it.  The 
streets whiz past. 

             LUMP
      Maybe he doesn’t know if he can go 
      that fast.  

             JIMMY
      I can go as fast as I want.  

             DAN
      So you WANT to go twelve miles an 
      hour?  

Jimmy blushes.  Kate shifts in her seat.  He presses the 
pedal harder.  

He passes a Speed Limit sign.  It reads 45.  He’s doing 60.  
No one tells him how fast to drive.  No one but --     

             KATE
      Maybe you should slow down.

             DAN
      We need to get there while it’s 
      still dark.  No one’s out at this 
      time of night anyway.  

Jimmy lets off the pedal.  

Dan rolls a back window down and sticks his head out.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      YAHOOO!

             JIMMY
      Get your fucking head back in here.  

Dan pulls his head in but he’s not done.  He grabs Sammy’s 
body and shifts it to his lap.  He adjusts the window and 
goes to push Sammy’s head out.  

                                      54.

             DAN
      Here ya go Sammy, get some fresh 
      air.  

Jimmy leans from the front seat and grabs Dan.  

             JIMMY
      No.  

Jimmy’s hand goes to the window lever.  He closes the window 
and places the child lock on.  Dan unbuckles his seat belt.  
He’s done with letting Jimmy be in control.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      What the hell are you doing? 

             DAN
      If you’re going to be a pussy about 
      it I’m going to drive.  

Dan is out of the back seat and trying to take the wheel from 
Jimmy.  The car swerves as Dan attempts to get in Jimmy’s 
lap.  

             KATE
      What the fuck? 

Lump grabs Dan’s torso and pulls back.  Dan steps on Jimmy’s 
right leg, pushing the gas down.  The car lurches forward.  

He hasn’t been shifting consistent so the engine revs off the 
charts.  Dan applies all the pressure he can on Jimmy’s leg. 
Jimmy can only handle the wheel.  They’re doing 85 in third 
gear.      

Jimmy shifts and they lurch forward.  

             DAN
      I’ve got a need, A NEED FOR SPEED!

             JIMMY
      Fucking stop!   

WHOOP WHOOP.  

A police siren turns their heads.  The red and blue lights 
swirl behind them. Dan retreats into the backseat.  Jimmy 
doesn’t have time to scold him.  Bigger problems just pulled 
behind.  

Jimmy turns the car toward the side of the road.  He holds 
his head in his hands.  

                                      55.

             KATE
      Fuck. 

             DAN
      Let me handle this.  

Sweat pours off Jimmy’s forehead.  He adjusts his mirror.  He 
isn’t looking for the Cop.  He’s looking for Sammy. 

A RAP on the window brings him back to reality.  Jimmy rolls 
the window down.  COP, 40’s, moustached, has long night 
written on his face.   

             JIMMY
      Officer. 

             COP
      Do you know why I’m pulling you 
      over, son? 

             DAN
      He was going eighty miles an hour.  

             COP
      You got a little swervy back there. 

             DAN
      He’s a terrible driver.  

The Cop shines his flashlight in the car.  Jimmy and Kate 
shoot glares at Dan.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m being honest.  

The Cop shines it toward the trunk.  He contemplates the 
shovels.  He grabs his chest radio and checks in.  

             COP
        (into radio)
      Traffic stop.  Four boys and a 
      girl. 

The radio crackles.  A familiar voice. 

             TED
	(V.O.)
      Eagles jersey?  

             COP
      10-4, Ted.     

             TED
	(V.O.)
      Hold them. 

The Cop approaches the driver’s side window again.  

                                      56.

             COP
      You have a good reason why you’re 
      out at two in the morning with a 
      car full of minors and a trunk full 
      of shovels?   

             DAN
      We’re burying a dead body at the 
      new Eagles stadium.  

The Cop has had enough.  He points a determined finger toward 
Dan’s face.    

             COP
        (to Dan)
      I’m not asking you.  

             JIMMY
      We’re taking our friend home.  

The Cop directs his light on Sammy’s face.  

             COP
      The sleeper? 

They all freeze.  

             COP
	(CONT’D)
      Wake him up.  

             JIMMY
        (gulps)
      Huh? 

             COP
      I said, wake him up.  

Jimmy turns to the back seat.  He shakes Sammy’s knees.  
Nothing.  He looks to Dan.  Dan’s face is blank.  Jimmy nods 
his head toward Sammy.  Dan shakes Sammy’s knees.  Nothing.  
He gives a few gentle pats on Sammy’s cheeks. Nothing.  Jimmy 
and Kate’s pleading faces are willing Sammy to wake. Lump 
cowers.  

             JIMMY
      He’s not waking up.  

             DAN
      He’s never going to wake up.  

The Cop stands.  He takes a deep breath.  Tonight, really?  
He gathers himself and bends back down.   

Kate’s time to shine.  She takes off her tiny cardigan and 
begins to undo top buttons.  Jimmy’s shoulders sink.  

                                      57.

             JIMMY
        (whispers)
      I got this. 

             DAN
      Let her do what she’s good at.  

             JIMMY
      Fuck you.  

Kate’s top four buttons are gone exposing skin and the hint 
of lace.  Her bust protrudes.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
        (to Kate)
      Don’t do this. 

             KATE
      Got a better idea? 

The Cop lowers himself back down to the drivers side window.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry officer.  He’s just 
      really tired.  

The Cop notices Kate.  He brushes his thinning hair back.  
Kate leans over Jimmy to speak with the officer.

             COP
      Nice PJ’s. Tired?

             KATE
      So tired.  

Kate gives her best school girl smile.

             COP
      I’ve got two daughters your age.  
      They try it all the time dear.  
      Button up.  

Kate leans back, defeated.  

             COP
	(CONT’D)
        (to Jimmy)
      License and registration, son.

             DAN
      For swerving?  That’s bullshit.   

                                      58.

The Cop has had enough.  

             COP
      You just earned you and your 
      friends a sobriety test.  
        (beat)
      Everybody out of the car.  

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

The gang stands in a row next to the car.  Jimmy props Sammy 
up.  

The officer has his Breathalyzer out.  He’s going one by one 
down the line starting with Lump.  

             COP
      Blow into the tube, son.  

             DAN
      He’s twelve.  

             COP
      Worry about getting the guy next to 
      you to wake up.  

Dan looks to Jimmy.  Jimmy moves Sammy forward in line next 
to Kate.  

Cop moves from Lump to Dan. Jimmy’s grip tightens on Sammy.  

             DAN
      When’s the last time you had that 
      thing calibrated? 

             COP
      Blow or I’m taking you back to the 
      station.  

Dan obliges.  

             JIMMY
      Officer, we’re not drunk.  We’re 
      lost.  

He’s done with Dan.  Kate shifts her top so it hangs off her 
shoulder.  

             KATE
      Isn’t there anything I can do to 
      make this go away? 

                                      59.

The Cop has had enough.  He bypasses Jimmy and shines the 
light into Kate’s face.  

             COP
      Young lady, you got a daddy 
      somewhere and I sure as hell don’t 
      want to have to call him tonight.  

The Cop moves the light to Sammy’s face.  He reaches out and 
pats Sammy’s cheek.  He shines the light closer.  He lifts 
his finger and touches Sammy’s eyelids.  They won’t raise.  
He leans in and notices the stitching.       

             COP
	(CONT’D)
      Holy Mary mother of God . . . 

WHACK.   

The Cop falls to his knees.  Behind him Dan stands wielding a 
shovel.  The Cop rubs his head.  

             COP
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus Christ.  What the hell kid?  

             TED
	(V.O.)
        (from the radio)
      I’m a mile away, hold them.  

The Cop stands back up and grabs the shovel from the 
quivering Dan.  

             TED
	(V.O.)
      Hello? 
        (beat)
      Hello?

             COP
      My fucking head. What the fuck are 
      you doing with your --  

WHACK.  

Second time’s the charm.  The Cop lies on the side of the 
road out cold.  Jimmy has the other shovel.  

             KATE
      You assaulted a police officer!

             JIMMY
      We couldn’t let him get Sammy.  

Dan kneels by the cop.  He takes off his handcuffs and locks 
the cop’s hands behind his back.   Dan removes the cop’s belt 
as well.  He tosses it in the front seat of the car.  

                                      60.

             KATE
      What are we going to do with the 
      body? 

             DAN
      Which one? 

             JIMMY
      Got his keys? 

Jimmy leans Sammy on the car.  Dan tosses him the Cop’s keys 
from the belt and  Jimmy heads toward the squad car.  He 
leans in the door and pops the trooper’s trunk.  

I/E. CAR - MOVING - NIGHT 

Jimmy floors the gas pedal. 

Ted’s Cruiser pulls onto the block.  He throws on his police 
lights.  

Jimmy ignores, weaving down the street.  

             LUMP
      We are so dead.  

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      You wanted to come, man the fuck 
      up.  

             KATE
      Take it easy on him. 

They pull away from the squad car, tires squealing.  

I/E. TED’S CRUISER

Ted jams his accelerator.  His radio crackles.  

             TED 
        (into Radio)
      This is Chief Ted Harlow I need a 
      rescue car on Broad for an assault 
      on an Officer.  

             RADIO
	(V.O.)
      Copy that. Anyone seriously 
      injured? 

                                      61.

             TED
        (sotto)
      Not yet.  

I/E. CAR - NIGHT 

Jimmy sweats.  Katie holds on for dear life.  Lump, Dan and 
Sammy bounce in the backseat.  

             KATE
      We’re fucked.   

             DAN
      I feel like O.J. 

             LUMP
      Where are we? 

             DAN
      Go left! 

EXT. NORTH PHILADELPHIA - NIGHT

The gang’s car hauls ass up the boulevard.  Ted in hot 
pursuit.  

They make a sharp turn, SCREECHING tires.  Ted is forced to 
backtrack.  

I/E. CAR - CONTINUOUS

             DAN
      Go right!

             KATE
      Are you sure you know where you’re 
      taking us?

The further they go the less attractive the neighborhood 
becomes.  

             DAN
      Fucking floor it! 

Jimmy obliges.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Left again.  

They turn down a back alley.  Jimmy shuts his lights off.  
Ted’s cruiser flies past them, unnoticed.  

                                      62.

I/E. TED’S CRUISER

Ted’s eyes scan the road, nothing.  

             TED
      Fuck!

I/E. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Jimmy turns onto a main road and flips his lights back on. 
It’s the ghetto. The homes are abandoned, the liquor stores 
are still open, and trash can fires no longer seem out of 
place.   

The car is racing toward a red light a few hundred yards down 
the road.  Only Lump is looking at the road.  

             JIMMY
      Does anyone know where we are? 

             DAN
      We’re safe.  

             KATE
        (off the neighborhood)
      Define safe.

             LUMP
      Guys.  

             JIMMY
      You really fucked us, Dan.  

             DAN
      You fucked us dragging Sammy out of 
      his coffin.  

             JIMMY
      Leave Sammy out of this.  

             KATE
      Don’t say my brother’s name.  

             LUMP
      Guys!

             DAN
      You’re jealous because he left us a 
      mission and he left you the key to 
      something he didn’t even want you 
      to have.  

                                      63.

             JIMMY
      Shut the fuck up, Dan.  

             DAN
      You’re the one who took us on this 
      retarded quest to put the jersey on 
      someone you call your best friend 
      but never talked to about what his 
      last wishes because you were too 
      busy FUCKING his sister.    

             JIMMY
      I’m trying to do what Sammy wants! 

             DAN
      All Sammy wanted was to be ALIVE.

Dan pushes Sammy’s body at Jimmy.  Jimmy takes his hands off 
the wheel and pushes back.  

             KATE
      Please stop it! 

             LUMP
      GUYS!!!

             JIMMY
      WHAT?

             LUMP
      Red light.  

Jimmy refocuses on the road.  He moves his hands toward the 
wheel but it’s too late. He slams the brakes and the car 
swerves.  They slide sideways.  Four wheels become two.   

The car FLIPS.  

Legs and arms flail.  All living passengers are buckled but 
Sammy goes flying out the windshield.    

They roll three times and land back on the wheels.  

I/E. TED’S CRUISER - NIGHT 

Ted pulls up next to the locked cruiser from before.  Two 
other COPS (TALL and STUBBY) stand beside it.  The COP who 
was in the trunk sits on the sidewalk and holds his head.  
Ted steps from his car.  

                                      64.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT 

All three Cops look at Ted.  

             TED
      Gentleman.  

They straighten their backs. 

             TED
	(CONT’D)
        (to Cop)
      How’s your head? 

             STUBBY
      They hit him with a shovel!

Tall nudges Stubby who clams up.  

             COP
      They hit me with a shovel.  

             TED
      Big guys? 

All three look back and forth from one to the other. 

             COP
      Kids.  

             TED
      Kids.  

             COP
      Kids.  
        (an excuse)
      There were a lot of them. 

Ted takes his flashlight out and shines it in trunk cop’s 
eyes.  

             TED
      You have a concussion.  
        (beat)
      Think hard.  Three boys?

             COP
      Four boys.  One was unconscious.  

             TED
      Description? 

                                      65.

             COP
      One was in his underpants.  One was 
      like ten, maybe?  The other one was 
      an asshole.  

             TED
      The girl? 

             COP
      Needed her father.  

Ted grips the cops shirt.  

             TED
      The unconscious one? 

             COP
      Must have been wasted.  Barefoot.

             TED
      Wearing? 

             COP
      An Eagles jersey.  Dawkins.  

             STUBBY
      I love Dawkins.  

             TALL
        (Crosses his arms in an X)
      Weapon X.  

Ted pushes the Cop away.  

             TED
      Motherfucker.  

Tall and Stubby grab their keys. 

             TALL
      You want us to go after them, boss?

             TED
      This one’s mine.  

             STUBBY
      You’re not in uniform --

Ted stares him down.  Stubby is saved by the crackling of a 
car radio.  

                                      66.

             RADIO
	(V.O.)
      Car 14, Car 14, We’ve got reports 
      of an accident near South Broad and 
      Passyunk.  Copy? 

I/E. CAR - NIGHT 

Silence befalls the deserted street.  The COUGHING and 
SPUTTERING from the car is not from the engine but the 
inhabitants.  

Jimmy wriggles free from the seat belt and pushes back his 
airbags.  He glances around the car.  Everyone is groggy.  He 
helps unstrap Kate who is in a daze.  

Dan helps Lump.  

Jimmy kicks at his door until it pops open.  

EXT. SOUTH BROAD AND PASSYUNK AVENUE - NIGHT  

It’s pitch black outside.  The only sources of light are the 
pollution from the city streets.  There are no natural 
sources at this intersection.  

             JIMMY
      Where’s Sammy? 

The rest of the group exits the car.  Lump cries.  

             KATE
        (off Lump)
      I think he broke his arm.  

Jimmy paces.  He’s not listening.  His eyes dart over the 
pavement looking for the body.     

             JIMMY
      I saw him go through the 
      windshield.  

Lump brushes Kate’s hand off her shoulder.  He approaches 
Jimmy and tugs at him with his one good arm.  Jimmy’s gone 
white.  Lump lifts his damaged wing.  It hangs from his body.  
The wound is already swollen and purple: definitely a break.  

             LUMP
      Please.  

             JIMMY
      Please what? 

                                      67.

             LUMP
      My arm -- 

             JIMMY
      Don’t use it unless you have to.  

             KATE
      Jimmy -- 

             JIMMY
      He’s fine!  He wanted to come.  He 
      wanted to join the big leagues, 
      here it is.     
        (beat)
      Now where the fuck is Sammy?  

Jimmy whirls to see Dan fifty yards away, hoisting a lifeless 
mass from the pavement.  He sprints toward Dan.  Kate moves 
to Lump’s side and ushers him with her.  Lump buries his head 
in her side.  

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Dan has Sammy up on his shoulders.  Jimmy does not hesitate.  
He reaches out and tugs on Sammy’s pants.

             JIMMY
      I got him.  

             DAN
      What does it look like I’m doing? 

             JIMMY
      Let me carry him.  

             DAN
      Fuck off.  

Dan begins to walk up the block.  

             KATE
        (to Jimmy)
      His arm.  It’s serious.  

             JIMMY
      There’s a hospital past the 
      stadium.  

             LUMP
      Jimmy --  

             KATE
      We need to go now.  

                                      68.

             JIMMY
      Well we aren’t.  

             LUMP
      Jimmy, please.  

             JIMMY
      He’s fine.  

             KATE
      You’re not listening to me.  

Jimmy keeps walking forward, holding Sammy’s dangling leg.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      Stop.  

The guys keep going.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      Fucking stop.  
        (peak of exasperation)
      GODDAMNIT. 

They turn.  Kate takes a deep breath.

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m out.  I’m fucking out.  

             JIMMY
      We’re almost there. 

Jimmy points at the horizon.  STADIUM OUTLINES are visible in 
the faint light.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s like two miles away.

             KATE
      I‘m taking Lump to the hospital.  

             DAN
      We don’t have time for this.  

             JIMMY
      Kate, we can do this.  

             KATE
      You can.  I know you can.  He needs 
      a doctor.  

             JIMMY
        (to Lump)
      You’re fine.  Right?  

Lump won’t look at him. 

                                      69.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Lump, you’re fine.  

             KATE
      He’s not.  

             JIMMY
      Let me worry about my brother.

             LUMP
      Fuck you.  

             JIMMY
      What did you say? 

             LUMP
      Fuck you.  FUCK YOU!
        (beat)
      You’re not my brother. 

             JIMMY
      What the fuck are you talking 
      about? 

             LUMP
        (off Sammy)
      He’s your brother.     

             JIMMY
      He needs me.  

             LUMP
      He’s dead.  

             JIMMY
      What do you want me to do? 

             LUMP
      You’re never around.  You were 
      always with him.  I hate Sammy.  

             JIMMY
      Fuck you.    

Kate steps in the middle of the fray.  

             KATE
      No one gives a shit how hard it is 
      for you.  You think I liked having 
      a bunch of assholes break into my 
      house?
        (beat)
             KATE
	(CONT'D)
      You think I like being blackmailed 
      into giving you my jersey?  You 
      think I like spending the night 
      with MY DEAD BROTHER? 

                                      70.

Kate cries.  Jimmy tries to hold her but she isn’t having any 
of it. 

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t touch me.  

             JIMMY
      I’m trying my best to -- 

             KATE
      News flash.  Sammy’s dead.  My 
      brother is dead.    
        (beat)
      Your brother is alive. So FUCK YOU.  

             JIMMY
      Fuck me? All I wanted was to be 
      sixteen and to have a girlfriend 
      and YOUR BROTHER had to go get 
      Leukemia and fucking die.     
        (beat)
      I went to him and I told him I 
      liked you.  I told him I fucked you 
      and he said no.  He said I wasn’t 
      “allowed” and then his dumb ass 
      died without ever talking to me 
      again.  

             KATE
      He would have come around.  

             JIMMY
      You didn’t even wait! 
        (beat)
      Next thing I knew you were back to 
      whoring it up around school. I know 
      I’m not one of the popular kids but 
      I hear things.  

             KATE
        (crying)
      What’d you hear?  There were some 
      before you and there was always 
      going to be some after. 
        (beat)
      YOU DIDN’T EVEN CALL ME AFTER. YOU 
      FUCKED ME AND LEFT ME, EVEN WHEN MY 
      BROTHER DIED.

                                      71.

             JIMMY
      So you blew half the school? 

             KATE
      You’re such an asshole.   

             JIMMY
      Your brother made me this way.  
        (beat)
      Sammy always wanted everybody to 
      know what he wasn’t going to get to 
      do so he made everyone else feel 
      bad for not having a fucking 
      disease.  It’s why he left a 
      fucking will even AFTER your 
      parents told him the way it had to 
      go down.   

             KATE
      Why do you have to follow it?  If 
      it’s a fucking burden then why?  

             JIMMY
      Because he left it to ME.  Because 
      he didn’t trust me with his sister 
      but he did with this.   

             KATE
      Then you better get a move on.  
      He’s slipping away.  

Jimmy turns to search for the body.  Dan and Sammy are gone.  
He sprints away from them.  Kate puts her arm around Lump.  

             KATE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Lump)
      Let’s go.  

They walk the opposite direction.  

EXT. STREET - NIGHT 

Jimmy sprints around the bend to the main drag.  Dan is 
nowhere in sight.  

He tears up the street.  Nobody.  

Jimmy doubles back.  He looks back and forth.  

             JIMMY
      DAN!

He moves the other direction.  No one.  

                                      72.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      DAN!!!

Jimmy heads back the way they came.  He’s sprinting hard.  He 
turns a corner toward the main drag and spots a figure up 
ahead.  

It’s Dan.  

EXT. MAIN ROAD - NIGHT 

Dan struggles to carry Sammy.  He peeks over his shoulder and 
sees a fast approaching Jimmy.  

Dan picks up the pace but it’s to no avail.  Jimmy tackles 
Dan.  Sammy flops down.  

             JIMMY
      The stadium is the other way.  

             DAN
      Fuck the stadium.  

             JIMMY
      We’re almost there.  

             DAN
      I’m taking him back to the funeral 
      home.  

             JIMMY
      We only have a few more hours 
      before the sun comes up.  

Jimmy grabs at Sammy’s corpse.  Dan bats his hand away.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Are we really going to do this? 

             DAN
      You’ve been bossing me around for 
      the last twelve hours.  

             JIMMY
      You can go.  Leave Sammy.  

             DAN
      I’m taking him where he belongs.  

             JIMMY
      He wanted to be buried.  

                                      73.

             DAN
      Sammy’s dead motherfucker.  What he 
      wants doesn’t matter.  It doesn’t 
      fucking matter.  Don’t you get it?  

Dan lifts Sammy and shoves him into Jimmy’s arms.  Jimmy 
should be happy about this but he holds Sammy like a 
discarded object.

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Where’s Kate?  Where’s Lump?  

Jimmy doesn’t answer.  He turns with Sammy to walk away.  Dan 
won’t let him go that easy.  He walks behind Jimmy as he 
bears Sammy like his cross.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Where are they?  They left too huh?  
      Fuck man, you spend half the time 
      worrying about alive motherfuckers 
      that you do dead motherfuckers 
      you’d have a lot more friends.  
      You’d probably get a lot more pussy 
      too.  

Jimmy is trying to escape Dan but he is unrelenting.  Wet 
tears stream down Jimmy’s face.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      Remember when we used to be 
      friends?  You, me, and Sammy.  I 
      barely can anymore.  Choke on that, 
      Dick.     

Dan stops walking.  He let’s Jimmy get a few paces ahead.  

             DAN
	(CONT’D)
      You take care of the dead kid.  
      I’ll go find the alive ones.  I’ll 
      take your brother to the hospital, 
      put my arm around your girl, and 
      let that cop out of his trunk. 
        (beat)
      Just like I took care of Sammy when 
      he was alive.  

SIRENS in the distance.  

EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING

The gray morning light is peaking over the buildings.  Jimmy 
cradles his friend in his arms.  His steps are belabored.  

                                      74.

The hint of concrete from the stadiums can be seen outlined 
by the early sun.  

Cars casually pass the struggling boy.  Jimmy cradles Sammy’s 
face against his shoulder. 

             JIMMY
        (to Sammy)
      We gotta stay out of sight.  

They turn down a side alley.  It’s worse for the wear; vacant 
lots and crumbling walls.  

Jimmy readjusts his grip on the corpse.  His legs are purple 
with cold.  He hoists Sammy into a fireman’s carry.  His 
breaths are belabored but he sojourns on.  

EXT. GHETTO - EARLY MORNING

It looks like a war zone.  Jimmy knows these parts of cities 
exist but this is his first time seeing them.  His eyes 
wander over the broken windows, boarded doors, and arrays of 
HOMELESS sleeping on grates.  

Jimmy takes a moment and stops on a steaming grate.  He lets 
the air wisp around his naked legs.  He rubs them for warmth.  

Sammy’s head dangles in front of Jimmy’s face.  Jimmy adjusts 
Sammy against a crumbling wall while he warms his legs.  He 
licks his hand and fixes Sammy’s hair.  

Jimmy readjusts the jersey and straightens the pants.  He 
dusts the body with careful strokes. Jimmy uses what little T-
shirt he has to wipe the dirt from Sammy’s blue face.  

The tandem make it to the end of the block but stop in their 
tracks.  Jimmy is very still.  

FIVE THUGS approach.  They raise an eyebrow at the nearly 
nude white boy amongst them.  The one with NECK TATTS steps 
forward followed by his henchman, BLACK EYE.  

             NECK TATTS 
      You lost?  

             JIMMY
      No.  

             NECK TATTS
      What’s wrong with your friend?  

The Thugs circle Jimmy.  They are not menacing, just curious.  
Black Eye touches the back of Sammy’s head.  

                                      75.

Jimmy whips around.  

             JIMMY
      Don’t fucking touch him.  

             BLACK EYE
      Relax.  

             JIMMY
      Let me go.  

             NECK TATTS
      You need help?

             JIMMY
      Fuck off.  

             BLACK EYE
      Definitely lost. 

What was once curiosity turns to righteous indignation.  

             NECK TATTS
      What’s a little boy in his tighty 
      whities doing downtown?  

             JIMMY
      None of your fucking business.  

             NECK TATTS
      You gonna let this bitch talk to 
      you like that? 

Black Eye cracks his knuckles.  

             JIMMY
      Back off.  

Jimmy presses forward.  They close in on him.  Jimmy spins, 
arms clutching Sammy to his chest.   

             NECK TATTS
      Look at this bitch with his drunk 
      ass friend.  
        (beat)
      Better go back from where you came.  
      Ain’t the time. Ain’t the place.  

Jimmy pushes into Neck Tatts.  He presses his face directly 
into Neck Tatts’s personal bubble.  They are nose to nose.  

             JIMMY
      Get out of my way or I’ll kill you 
      too.  

                                      76.

Jimmy drops Sammy.  He flops to the ground.  Black Eye bends 
over and flips Sammy to his back.  He feels for a pulse.  
Nothing.  He checks for breathing.  Nothing.  

Jimmy folds his arms and nods.  

             BLACK EYE
      That motherfucker is dead!

A murmur of fear spreads over the gang.  Jimmy bends and 
picks up Sammy.  He goes to push past but Neck Tatts isn’t 
buying it.  

             NECK TATTS
      I’m not moving boss.  

             JIMMY
      What is this, gangland?  

             NECK TATTS
      Watch your mouth.  

Jimmy steps back.  He hadn’t thought of that.  He begins to 
retreat step by step but bumps into the Thugs behind him.  

The thugs move forward and grab Jimmy.  They wrestle but a 
punch to the gut silences Jimmy.  He doubles over.  Black Eye 
hoists Sammy.  Neck Tatts grabs Jimmy.  He drags him to his 
feet.  

Jimmy spits in his face.   

             JIMMY
      Give me my fucking body.  

WHACK.  

Neck Tatts headbutts Jimmy.  He collapses to his knees,  

             NECK TATTS 
      You like that?  

Jimmy tries to stand under his own volition.  Blood pours 
from his nose, staining his shirt and briefs.  

             JIMMY
      It’s been a real long night.  Give 
      me my friend before I have to kick 
      your ass.    

STOMP. 

One of the Thugs smashes Jimmy’s foot with his boot.  Jimmy 
hobbles but lunges at Neck Tatts.  

                                      77.

He catches the larger man off balance and they tumble.  Jimmy 
lands a wild punch but Neck Tatts has him pinned in seconds.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Fuck you man.  Fuck you.  

Blood and spit fly from Jimmy’s mouth.  Steam rises from his 
sweaty body.  

             BLACK EYE
      Knock this bitch out.  I’m calling 
      the cops and telling them we got a 
      psycho and a corpse.

Neck Tatts winds up for a finishing blow.  

WHOOP WHOOP.  

A squad car speeds down the alley.  

Jimmy’s head sinks.  

Neck Tatts stands.  He lifts Jimmy in the air with him and 
bends his arm behind his back.  

The car’s high beams are on blinding the men.  It approaches 
fast.  Faster than it should be.  It’s zooming and not 
slowing down.  

             BLACK EYE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh shit! 

They dive out of the way of the vehicle.  Neck Tatts releases 
Jimmy and they dive away.  Jimmy lands next to Black Eye and 
grabs Sammy.  

Jimmy tries to run but is limping bad from the beating.  

The Thugs are up and in hot pursuit.  At the end of the alley 
the cruiser does a three point turn and barrels back their 
direction. 

The Thugs break apart, scattering into various vacant lots 
and out of the way of the car.  It bears down on Jimmy.    

A familiar voice from the car’s megaphone.  

             TED
	(O.S.)
      Get in. 

Jimmy turns and hides his eyes from the car’s beams.  He 
drags Sammy toward the passenger door.  

                                      78.

I/E. TED’S CRUISER - EARLY MORNING

Ted stares at Jimmy and Sammy.  The car speeds along the 
road.  

             TED
      You’re a special kind of dumbass.  

             JIMMY
      I fucked up.  

             TED
      Big time. 

Ted reaches over and looks at Sammy.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      That’s my son.  

             JIMMY
      I’m so --

             TED
        (ignoring)
      Sammy’s been in and out of 
      intensive care.  Always pale, 
      fragile, I forgot what he looked 
      like.  But there he is.    

Ted smiles down at Sammy.  Tears well up in his eyes.  He 
pulls the car down another roadway.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      Muddy, in his Eagles jersey.  Hair 
      a mess. Been outside.   
        (beat)
      That’s my son. 

Jimmy shifts in his seat.  Ted reaches into his pocket and 
pulls out a sheet of paper.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      You weren’t the only one with a 
      note.  

He hands it to Jimmy.  

             JIMMY
        (reading the note)
      Mom and Dad.  I know we talked 
      about death --

Ted frowns. Jimmy lowers the paper.    

                                      79.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      That’s all it says? 

             TED
      Sammy’s days were always numbered.  
      Even he knew it.  Kid pulled an 
      Andy Reid and ran outta time in the 
      fourth quarter.    
        (beat)
      Shit happens.  No matter how hard 
      you plan.  

             JIMMY
      How’s Mrs. Harlow?  

             TED
      About how you’d expect for a mother 
      without her son.    

             JIMMY
      She said you guys didn’t get a 
      note.

             TED
      Found it after I cleared the rest 
      of the stuff you idiots missed from 
      Sammy’s room.  

             JIMMY
      You didn’t show her? 

             TED
      She was in the room when he died.  
      I was at work.  Guess I’m selfish.   

             JIMMY
      You were there when I got there.

             TED
      I didn’t get a goodbye.  

             JIMMY
      I’m sorry.  

             TED
      How’s my daughter?

That one catches Jimmy by surprise.  

             JIMMY
      She’s really strong.  

             TED
      Goddamn, you’re an idiot.  

                                      80.

Ted makes a left.  Jimmy’s wrecked car is up ahead.  Kate and 
Lump sit in front of it.  The two cops, Stubby and Tall, 
flank them.  A red AMBULANCE idles next to them.  A PARAMEDIC 
wraps Lump’s arm.  

Ted pulls to a stop at the end of the block.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      Jimmy, There’s no human alive 
      that’s as strong as you’re asking 
      my daughter to be.
        (beat)
      She needed you.  I thought you’d be 
      the guy around through all this.  
      Christ, do you know how loud you 
      were climbing through her window? 

Jimmy laughs.  Ted moves in close.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      90% of being young is making 
      mistakes.  The other 10% is 
      learning how to deal with them.  

             JIMMY
      Are you going to take us to jail?  

Ted shakes his head, “no.”

             TED
      Not sure how I’d explain it.  The 
      undertaker thinks he’s in the bin, 
      his mother wouldn’t ever forgive 
      you, I’d probably lose my job.  

             JIMMY
      I wanted Sammy to be happy.  

             TED
      I wish you were there this week.  

             JIMMY
      I wanted to be.  

             TED
      But you couldn’t keep your hands 
      off my daughter.  

Jimmy squirms.  

             JIMMY
      I thought Sammy would be around 
      forever.  

                                      81.

             TED
      We all did.  
        (beat)
      Between the magazines and booze it 
      looks like you tried your best to 
      keep him normal.  I respect that.  
      Not that many people would have the 
      stones to carry a body around with 
      them.  But I have to ask, what the 
      hell are you planning on doing with 
      it? 

             JIMMY
      We’re headed down to the Stadiums.  
      Put him under the fifty-yard line.  

             TED
      You thought you’d finish alone? 

             JIMMY
      I’m not sure I thought any of this 
      through.  

             TED
      You need a new car.  Probably the 
      team back.  

             JIMMY
      Excuse me?  

             TED
      It’ll be easier that way.  Not much 
      time left.  

Ted revs his engine.  

             JIMMY
      Why are you doing this for me? 

             TED
      I’m not.  I like you Jimmy but I’m 
      doing it for him.  It’s what he 
      wanted.  It’s my goodbye.    

Ted guns the car.  It screeches to a halt in front of Tall 
and Stubby.  He blinds them with his patrol light.  He pops 
out of the car.  

EXT. STREET - EARLY MORNING 

Ted rushes over to them.  

                                      82.

             TED
      Hey!   

With their attentions on Ted, Jimmy sneaks around the side of 
the squad car with Sammy.  

             TED
	(CONT’D)
      Come here.  

The Cops and Medic obey.  

Kate and Lump immediately see him.  Their eyes bulge.  He 
approaches on tip toes.  

             JIMMY
        (whispers)
      Let’s move.  

             KATE
      Are you crazy?  My Dad’s right 
      there!

             JIMMY
      Your Dad’s the one who brought me 
      here.  

Ted makes eye contact with Kate and nods.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Kate I’m so sorry --

             KATE
      Save it, let’s roll.  

             LUMP
      Leave me.  

             JIMMY
      No child left behind.  

Jimmy grabs Lump’s good arm.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
        (off Lump’s glare)
      I’ll make an elaborate speech 
      saying how sorry later but the sun 
      is rising and we gotta go! 

Tall and Stubby turn around.  The Ambulance speeds away, 
Jimmy at the wheel.  

All of the men run toward squad cars and leap into their 
seats. They fumble with keys and start engines.   

                                      83.

             TALL
      Should we follow?  

It’s too late the cruiser pulls forward and dings into Tall 
and Stubby’s car, popping a tire.  Ted leans from his window. 

             TED
      Shit, who told you to park there? 

I/E. AMBULANCE - MORNING

Jimmy, Kate, and Lump race down the highway.  Sammy is on the 
stretcher in the back.  

             KATE
      We’re almost there.  

             JIMMY
      Keep your eyes peeled.  

             LUMP
      For what? 

             KATE
      That.  

Ahead, we see Dan strolling down the road, the Stadium a 
shadow in the near distance.  The ambulance rolls up next to 
him.  Jimmy rolls down his window.  

             JIMMY
      Want a ride? 

             DAN
      Fuck you.  

             JIMMY
      I can’t do this alone.  

Kate swings open the back door.  

             DAN
      Always wanted to be in an 
      ambulance.  

I/E. AMBULANCE - LATER 

Dan and Lump bounce in the back with Sammy.  Kate tends to 
Jimmy’s face, he flips the sirens and flies down the street.  

The ambulance screeches back to the main drag.  Jimmy, blood 
gone from his face shakes himself back to reality.  

He looks over at Sammy.  Sammy’s head jiggles as the car 
lurches forward.  

The ambulance hits the main drag.  They head down the block.  

                                      84.

             DAN
      You came back for me? 

             JIMMY
      We came back for Sammy.  

The ambulance slows.  The front seat is caught off guard.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry I fucked up so much.  
        (beat)
      If you want to bail, this is the 
      time.  

             DAN
      We’ve followed your dumb ass this 
      far.  

             KATE
      How much worse can it get?  

             JIMMY
      You should all hate me.  

             KATE
      We kind of do.  

             DAN
      You’re a fucking tool.  

             LUMP
      A bad brother.  

             KATE
      It boils down to Sammy.

             DAN
      The kid was needy.  I guess he was 
      just trying to get control.  
      Telling us what to do, making us 
      bring him things. 
        (beat)
      I mean the motherfucker basically 
      wrote a list of shit we had to do 
      for him after he was dead.  

             KATE
      But he’s dead.  

                                      85.

             LUMP
      You’re alive.    

             KATE
      And even if you’ve almost gotten us 
      all killed tonight --  

             DAN
      We like you.  

             KATE
      Some more than others.  

             LUMP
      You’d do anything for a dead kid.  

             KATE
      We have to believe the same goes 
      for the people you care about that 
      are alive.  

Jimmy is dumbfounded.  

             DAN
      So that settles it.  
        (beat)
      We’re following the plan.  

             JIMMY
      I don’t know what to say.   

             DAN
      For once, shut the fuck up.  

I/E. AMBULANCE - MORNING

The ambulance circles a twelve foot chain-link fence 
surrounding the construction area.  

The sun peaks over the horizon.  

             DAN
      It’s all locked up.  

             LUMP
      We could climb over. 

             JIMMY
        (to Dan)
      You thinking what I’m thinking? 

Jimmy spins the wheel and heads to the end of the road.  Once 
he’s about a hundred yards away he jams on the gas pedal.  

                                      86.

The ambulance races forward.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Brace yourselves.  

They are gaining speed.  Their surroundings whip past.  

WHAM!!!

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - MORNING

The ambulance SMASHES through the fence at top speed.

I/E. AMBULANCE - MORNING

The ambulance races past mounds of pipes, cinderblock towers, 
and mounds of dirt.  

The ambulance drives over a pile of rebar that rips at their 
undercarriage.  Flotsam, jetsam, and fluid bleed from 
underneath the car.  

The engine smokes and they pull over next to the foundation 
of the stadium.  

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - MORNING

The kids pour from the ambulance.

             JIMMY
      Two accidents in one day. 

             DAN
      I feel like a fucking action movie 
      star.  

Jimmy helps Kate exit the front.  He attempts to lift Lump 
out but Lump resists.   

             LUMP
      I can do it myself.  

They trade smiles.  

             JIMMY
      Way to man up.  

Jimmy pulls Sammy from the car and lifts him onto his 
shoulder.  

                                      87.

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s get to work.  

They survey their surroundings. Their side of the stadium is 
just piles of equipment.  No open land.  Directly across from 
them is palatial smooth dirt.   

Jimmy starts to move toward the open land. There is no way 
around the stadium.  Four story dirt mounds flank either 
side.  

             KATE
      Do we pick any spot or? 

             JIMMY
      I was thinking the fifty-yard line.  

             DAN
      Clutch. 

Lump hurries to the side of one and tried to climb.  The 
loose dirt falls under his feet.  Dan catches up.

             KATE
      We’ll have to walk around the 
      foundation.  

Jimmy walks up to the white concrete mass.  It’s a giant 
rectangle of lifeless white covered side to side in this 
rebar fortification.  

             JIMMY
      It’ll be faster if we go across.  

Dan places his foot on the concrete.  It sinks.  

             DAN
      It’s still wet.  

             JIMMY
      Perfect.  

The gang makes their way across the minefield that is the 
rebar reinforcing.  

They take baby steps.  Lump teeters behind the rest.  With 
one arm it’s hard for him to maintain balance.  Jimmy is 
bowlegged, trying to steady Sammy.  Kate and Dan, not far 
behind, use each other for balance.  

They’re almost there before the inevitable.  

SPLASH! 

                                      88.

They turn to see Lump flailing in the thick wet mass.  He’s 
gasping and grabbing.  Dan and Kate try their best to get 
there but Lump sinks out of sight.  

Without hesitating Jimmy drops Sammy and races over.  His 
agility takes him past Dan and Kate to the now calm concrete 
where Lump disappeared.  

Jimmy plunges his arm into the wet mess and comes up with 
nothing.  He looks up at Kate and Dan.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      GRAB MY LEGS! 

Jimmy dives headfirst into the slop.  His torso wriggles and 
he gesticulates side to side.  He goes taunt.  He kicks a 
leg.  Dan and Kate pull with all their might but their 
balance makes retracting Jimmy a slow process.  As he 
surfaces he pulls Lump with him.  Both GASPING for air.  

Dan lays them across the rebar to catch their breath.  Jimmy 
pulls Lump close for a bear hug.  

             LUMP
      Quit being such a pussy.  

             DAN
      Where’s Sammy?

Jimmy points toward the other side.  Sammy’s legs are half 
sunk in the muck.  

The gang makes their way to Sammy.  They are in the exact 
middle of the rectangular shell.  Dan and Jimmy lay Sammy 
flat across the rebar.  

             KATE
      This is it.  

             DAN
      What a night.  

Jimmy and Dan slide Sammy under the bars and into the wet 
mass.  They peer down at him; his face solemn.  Dan looks at 
Jimmy.  

             JIMMY
      On three.

        	DAN
	One, two, three.  

		JIMMY
	One, two, three.  

They release their hands at the same time.  The body floats.  

                                      89.

             DAN
      Shit.  

Jimmy and Dan try to push on the body but it bobs up and 
down.  Cement splatters on Sammy’s face.  

             JIMMY
      It’s the air inside the body.  

             DAN
      We have to weight it down.  

Jimmy and Dan make their way to the pile of cinderblocks on 
the other side.  Each grab two.    

They pull Sammy’s feet through the holes.  They do the same 
with his arms.  With all four limbs weighted Jimmy and Dan 
struggle to hold Sammy afloat.  

             JIMMY
      We gotta let go.  

             DAN
      Are you ready? 

             JIMMY
      I’m not sure.  

Jimmy looks around at the haggard crew.  Were they ready for 
this?  For any of it? 

Kate steps forward.  She kneels on the rebar.  Kate gently 
wipes the cement from her brother’s face with the corner of 
her pajamas.  

             LUMP
        (to Jimmy)
      You have to do it.  

The others nod.  

             JIMMY
      Do what? 

             KATE
      Say something.  

Dan purses his lips and nods too.  

             DAN
      Not right without a few words.  

Jimmy brushes his hair from his eyes.  They’re welling up.  
To be fair, everyone has tears in their eyes at this moment.  

                                      90.

             JIMMY
       Sammy . . . Sammy --

Dan steps forward. 

             DAN
      He liked his drinks like he liked 
      his dick.  Stiff.  And he was the 
      last person I know who liked 
      magazine porn.  

Kate rises.  

             KATE
      He was a great brother and 
      simultaneously a bit of a selfish 
      prick.  

             LUMP
      He loved the Philadelphia Eagles 
      and hated the fucking cowboys.  

Jimmy is touched by their bravery but he knows it’s his turn.  

             JIMMY
      Sammy was my brother.  
        (correcting himself)
      Our brother.  Those Sunday games 
      were about the only goddamn times 
      Sammy got to be happy.  

The bobbing Sammy turns toward Jimmy.  They make almost-eye 
contact.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
        (begins to sob)
      Why’d you have to go an die?  

Kate hugs Jimmy.  Dan does the same, Lump joins.  Without 
knowing it they’ve let go.  The body begins to bubble out of 
sight.  They hug.  It’s a fucking good, long, wet crying, 
hug.  Chests heave, hearts sigh.  As they relax their 
attention diverts to the body, now air bubbles.    

Three bubbles, two bubbles, one bubble.  He’s gone.  

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
        (sotto)
      Goodbye.  

A collective wiping of eyes.  Dan haucks a big lougie.  Lump 
uses Jimmy’s shirt to wipe his nose.  This makes Jimmy, Kate, 
and Dan laugh.  

                                      91.

Jimmy sits back on the rebar.  Kate and Lump sink to his 
side.  Dan scoots back to join them.  They watch the bubbles 
rise from the cement; they go from big to small, then stop.  

Jimmy puts his arm around Kate and Lump.  Dan pulls a pack of 
cigarettes from his pocket.  He hands one to each of them.  
Lump looks at Jimmy who nods approval.  They light and 
inhale.  

A collective deep breath.    

Lump gags.  They chuckle.  Each takes a moment to revel in 
the night before,  was the funeral just yesterday morning?   

All lean on their elbows, cigarettes waning.  The sun has 
risen. Jimmy looks back and forth at his friends.    

             JIMMY
	(CONT’D)
      How do you guys want to get home?  

                                FADE OUT.

