                SKYFALL

                 by

              Jeff Y. Amano

Carina Schulze
Chatrone Management
3427 Overland Ave.
Los Angeles CA 90034
(310) 837-3333

Scott Agostoni
William Morris Agency
One William Morris Place
Beverly Hills CA 90212
(310) 859-4171

7591347

FADE IN:

EXT. RUSSIA - CHECHEN REPUBLIC - GROZNY - AFTERNOON

LIGHTNING illuminates undulating brain-like clouds.

SUPER: “Chechen Republic”

SUPER: “Somewhere outside Grozny”

INT. GROZNY - REBEL HIDEOUT

A crack in the ceiling reveals the dark, tortured sky.  
LIGHTNING flashes like the glint in a velociraptor’s eye.

It frightens young MOVLADI, but a tombstone voice jolts 
Movladi from his trance.

             ISA 
      Movladi!

ISA is a large, smile-less man.

One of the fatigue-dressed, bearded rebels congregated around 
a cable spool-table with a map of Russia for a tablecloth. 
AKHMED, their leader, wears a fedora over his bandana.  

He scribbles a NOTE of great importance.

             ISA
      Come here, boy.

Movladi reacts to sudden EXPLOSIONS OF THUNDER and LIGHTNING.  

RAIN leaks through the battered roof.

The others push Movladi around and tussle his hair playfully.  
But Movladi pushes back.  He wants to be treated like a man.

EXT. REBEL HIDEOUT

The rain drizzles to a stop.

Antsy storm clouds reflected in a muddy pool.  Water warts 
rise from the puddle, pulling like taffy until the freed 
drops are drawn into the air by an unseen force.  It’s 
DRIZZLING UPSIDEDOWN.

INT. REBEL HIDEOUT

Akhmed stuffs the ROLLED NOTE into the bread.  His intense 
eyes gaze at Movladi.

Movladi’s bravado fades.  He is a child again.

But Akhmed grins wide.  Everyone laughs.  They mess Movaldi’s 
hair.  This time, Movladi doesn’t mind and smiles.  They 
speak in Chechen with SUBTITLES.

             AKHMED
      Moscow plans an invasion.  Today, 
      tomorrow -- soon.  Now take this to 
      Havaa.  She will know what to do.

Movladi nods.  Takes the bread.  Follows ISA to the door.

Akhmed grips the shoulder of the soldier next to him.  In the 
background, Movladi and Isa open the door...

             AKHMED
      Use three crates for...

... but Movladi and Isa are VIOLENTLY SUCKED out of view.

... which Akhmed glimpses in his periphery.

The startled Akhmed jumps up.  The others catch on.  They 
race to the doorway.

EXT. REBEL HIDEOUT

Hapless puppets, MOVLADI AND ISA STREAK into the CLOUDS.

INT. REBEL HIDEOUT

Akhmed and the others retreat, but senile walls CREAK and 
BUCKLE. RAIN GUSHES into the refuge.

Akhmed watches the SHREDDED ROOF SUCKED into a cosmic vacuum.

The EYEWALL OF A HURRICANE moves into view like a football 
stadium made of high, thick white clouds.  Ice crystals 
cascade like waterfall curtains.

EXT. ALASKA - A.I.R.

The canvas of blue showcases the snow-drenched Wrangell 
mountain range as it rolls out the white carpet for...

SUPER: “Gakona, Alaska.”

SUPER: “University of Alaska’s A.I.R. (Auroral Ionospheric 
Research) Facility.”

The compound is highlighted by 30 acres of 180 dipole 
antennae...

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

... viewed from a large second story WINDOW...

... hovering above a row of monitors.

Reflected in the glass is uniformed Russian soldier, COMRADE 
RAFIK -- expressionless, pale, tall, gaunt like “Lurch.”

His Glock is held to the temple of Meteorologist Jerry 
Kruzich (aka KRUZ).

A long flowing curl of smoke mists the reflection.

The source of the smoke is a thick cigar, lodged in the maw 
of a stout, mid-fifties Russian, OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY.

On the LARGE WALL SCREEN MONITOR is a satellite view of the 
land-based hurricane in Chechnya.

All of the Russians speak with Russian accents.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
        (to Kruz)
      And you said it could not be done.

Oleg types on a BLACK COMPUTER embedded in a STEEL CASE  and 
cabled to a computer.  Lights blink from the black box.

Kruz catches only glimpses of the black box behind Oleg.  

             KRUZ
      Well, congradu-fuckin-lations.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Thank you, Meteorologist Kruzich.  
      We could not have done it without 
      your “hospitality.”

             KRUZ
      You want to impress me with -- how 
      many Chechen casualties?  A hundred 
      thousand?  Two hundred...?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      You have your terrorists.  We have 
      ours.

             KRUZ
      You wiped out a whole city for a 
      handful of rebels, you sick 
      motherfucker.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Americans may be satisfied with 
      stepping on the toes of their foes.  
      We say, “crush the head, rot the 
      body.”

A bank of office phones line the tabletop on the back wall, 
tied to a spiderweb of cables.  Each phone is marked 
numerically in Russian.

COMRADE SERGEI -- noted by the WHITE STREAK in his black 
hair, attaches the last phone.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Finished?

             COMRADE “WHITE STREAK” SERGEI
      Every hard line feeds into this 
      bank.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Excellent.

COMRADE ANDREI with a TATTOOED BALD HEAD, enters the room.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      The last of the detainees are being 
      secured.

EXT. A.I.R. - STORAGE BUILDING

COMRADE KHOSEY, a power-lifting bulldog with an EYE-PATCH and 
his AK-47, persuades a truck driver to exit his eighteen-
wheeler.

The truck driver is corralled with machinists, maintenance 
personnel, and cafeteria workers and marched into the 
building.

EXT. A.I.R. - HANGAR

A Russian soldier points his Glock to the back of a pilot’s 
head, forcing him out of a hangar housing a helicopter.  A 
silent mist flares from the barrel.  The pilot falls dead.

INT. A.I.R. - STORAGE BUILDING - UNDERGROUND FLOOR

ELEVATOR OPENS.  The workers file out under gunpoint.

INT. UNDERGROUND FLOOR- STORAGE ROOM

HEAVY METAL DOORS SQUEAL open.  A huddled mass of scared 
students.  The new hostages are thrown in.

But the truck driver panics and grips the door frame.

Comrade “Eye-patch” Andrei crushes the driver’s fingers with 
the butt of his rifle, then slams it into the driver’s nose.

The driver falls back, nose bleeding profusely.

             WOMAN HOSTAGE
      You broke his hand!

Andrei is unmoved.  THE DOOR SLAMS SHUT.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Oleg continues typing at the computer terminal.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      What we do now is a necessary step 
      to correct our current free-fall 
      into worldwide chaos.

             KRUZ
      Oh, so you’re heroes now.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Shut your mouth.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Your country has no stomach for 
      war.  Russia too.  United Nations?  
      NATO?  All worthless... while 
      terrorists threaten the stability 
      of the great world powers.

             KRUZ
      And when you’re done, who will be 
      the last world power standing?  Let 
      me guess,... fucking Russia?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      We don’t have to be the only dogs 
      in the yard, we just want to get 
      rid of the fleas.

             KRUZ
      So, today Chechnya.  What’s on the 
      menu for tomorrow?  Roast Georgia?  
      Barbecued Poland?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Actually... we Russians are very 
      fond of soup.

EXT. ALASKA - GLENNALLEN - WILEY’S CABIN

A Manolo Blahnik high heel steps into a pool of ice water...

... as LARA MINTER, noticeably uptight and overdressed in a 
Theory-Carola business suit for an Alaskan outpost, exits her 
luxury sedan while speaking on her cell phone.

             LARA
      ... every time I need you to take 
      care of the tiniest thing, you find 
      some way to screw it up.

An older version of Lara leaves the passenger side.  Lara’s 
mother, IRENE, gingerly makes her way through the icy ground.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Told you he’d be late.

INT. ALASKA - SOUTHBOUND AK-1 - WILEY’S RIG/CAB ONLY

WILEY -- rugged outdoors-man good looks, drives down AK-1 
with his favorite baseball cap, a thermal shirt, well-worn 
jeans, and waffle stompers.

In back, their three-year old daughter BEL rides in her car 
seat.  The bumpy ride forces her to concentrate on each 
Cheeto extraction from its package.

             WILEY
      Don’t get a feather up your pretty 
      little butt, Chief.

Bel’s bag of Cheetos bounces out of her hands.

EXT. WILEY’S CABIN

Lara paces around the rustic porch.

             LARA
      I’m going to be late.  Again.

Grandma Irene strains to see through the dirt and grime on 
the window.

             LARA
      You’re such a flake.  You think 
      it’s charming, but it gets old.  
      Believe me.

INT. SOUTHBOUND AK-1 - WILEY’S RIG/CAB ONLY

Window view of a jackknifed eighteen-wheeler in the median.  
Emergency crews are on the scene.

             WILEY
      Hey now, you don’t drive through...

EXT. SOUTHBOUND AK-1

The row of trees lining the highway have been mowed down by 
the BOOMERANG-BENT SEMI.

             WILEY 
      ... 350 miles of frozen lake with 
      nitro in your hip pocket...

INT. WILEY’S RIG/CAB ONLY

Wiley steers around the commotion.

             WILEY
      ... by goofing off, you know.

EXT. WILEY’S CABIN

Lara's mom almost sits on the porch rocker, but...

... it’s dusty.  When she tries to dust it off, a disgusting 
greasy layer stains her fingers.  She grimaces.

             LARA
        (still pacing)
      I’m here.  What’s your twenty?

INT. WILEY’S RIG/CAB ONLY

Bel strains to view the spilled Cheetos on the floor.

             WILEY 
      Hah!  You sound like a trucker’s 
      wife!

EXT. WILEY’S CABIN

Lara tries the door.  It’s unlocked.

             LARA
      I’ll get over it.

EXT. A.I.R. - ENTRY GATE

COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL taps the ash from his cigarette.  
The ash falls in front of a dead security guard incongruously 
crammed under the small booth desk.

INT. WILEY’S CABIN

Grandma Irene and Lara’s reflections walk past rows of hung 
and seated framed photos of Lara along with family photos.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Maybe he didn’t get the divorce 
      papers.

Lara uses Wiley’s HOME PHONE.  DISPLAY reads: “KRUZICH DIRECT 
LINE... dialing”

INT. CONTROL TOWER

OFFICE PHONE #4 RINGS.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
        (checks clipboard)
      That’s Kruzich’s direct line.

Kruz watches helplessly.

Oleg reads the display as he eyes Kruz’s reaction.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      “MINTER HOME.”

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
        (checks list)
      That would be Chief Physicist Lara 
      Minter.  She is late for work.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
        (to Kruz)
      You don’t run a very tight ship.

Kruz’s PHONE DISPLAY goes blank.

INT. WILEY’S CABIN

Lara hangs up.  Exhales frustration.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Did you try his cell?

             LARA
      In a jammer-zone?

             GRANDMA IRENE
      That is such a pain in the ass.  
      You’d think with all your antennas, 
      you could figure out something.

             LARA
      Mom, that’s exactly why it’s a 
      jammer zone.  We can’t have any 
      interference.

Grandma Irene makes a face like she still doesn’t get it.

Lara spies a familiar PHOTO ALBUM from the stack on the 
coffee table.  PICTURES of an infant-version of Bel at 
Disneyland.  Lara smiles as she pages through the memories.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Look at her.

             LARA
      I told him she was too young.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Nobody said he was bright.  He does 
      love his daughter though -- I’ll 
      give him that.

             LARA
      She says she remembers, but I think 
      it’s just to make Wiley happy.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Well, she’ll definitely remember 
      this trip.

LOCOMOTIVE SQUEAL followed by a WHALE’S BLOWHOLE EXHALE.  
It’s Wiley’s rig.

             LARA
      Finally.

INT. WILEY’S RIG/CAB ONLY

Twirls his wedding ring around his finger.  Reaches over to 
unbuckle Bel from her car seat.

             WILEY
      Daddy’s in big trouble, Sunshine.

             BEL
        (giggles)
      Daddy’s in twable.

             WILEY
      Thanks for the sympathy.

Wiley picks up her bag of Cheetos.  And breathes in a little 
confidence before stepping out.

INT. WILEY’S CABIN

Wiley enters with Bel on his hip.

             WILEY
      Howdy-doody.

             BEL
      Mommy!

But Grandma makes it over there first.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      My big girl!

             WILEY
      Hi, Irene.

She kisses Bel, but Bel spreads her arms out for Lara.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Guess she wants to hug her mother 
      first.

Lara gathers Bel in her arms.

             WILEY
      Ah, you know kids.  You probably 
      were the same way.

             GRANDMA IRENE
        (to Wiley, silently)
      Doubtful.  Mother was a bitch.

Wiley -- feigns a smile.

             LARA
      Ready for your big girl trip?

             BEL
      Disneyland!  I’m going on a leetle 
      airpwane and a beeg airpwane.

Wiley stuffs the photo albums under couch cushions when he 
thinks no one is looking.

             LARA
      You are going to have so much fun 
      with Grandma.
        (to Wiley)
      She’s all packed?

 
             WILEY
     Almost.

             LARA
      Wiley...


             WILEY
      All-most.


Lara looks at her watch.

             LARA
      You’re doing it again.

             WILEY
      What?

Grandma Irene takes Bel from Lara.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Come on, Belinda.  Let’s finish 
      packing.

They take Bel’s little rolling carry-on into the bedroom.

             LARA
      Blowing me off.

             WILEY
      Am not.

             LARA
      When you make light of everything I 
      say -- that’s blowing me off.  You 
      know, every once in a while, adults 
      have serious conversations.

             WILEY
      I’m game.  What do you want to talk 
      about?

Lara exhales in frustration and exits to the porch.

             WILEY
      What?

EXT. A.I.R.

THE CLOUDS crowd the sun, transforming day into night.  
Angry, RUMBLING CLOUDS wash black and purple...

INT. CONTROL TOWER

... in an intensified bizarre speed through the picture 
window.   THE BUILDING SHAKES AND RUMBLES.

             KRUZ
      What the --?

Oleg steps closer to the window.  RAIN BULLETS from a sky Uzi 
on the window startle him.

EXT. ENTRY GATE - THUNDERSTORM

Comrade “Bearded” Mikhail runs into the booth.

EXT. A.I.R. - EASTERN FENCE LINE

LIGHTNING FLASHES.  A Russian soldier guarding the eastern 
gate sees a meteor-like phenomenon plunge into the creek just 
outside the fence line leading to the forest through the 
DOWNPOUR.  He leaves his post to check it out.

EXT. A.I.R. - ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

The antennae array field is pummeled by HIGH WINDS AND RAIN.

THE BASE OF AN ANTENNA makes a METALLIC CRY as it wrenches 
free.  Dragged by the WIND.  SLAMS into other antennae.

A softball-sized BALL LIGHTNING ZIGZAGS from its black mother 
ship cloud...

INT. CONTROL TOWER

... and heads straight towards them.

             KRUZ
        (astonished)
      That’s...

The ball lightning deforms as it hits the window pane, then 
passes through like a ghost.  

             KRUZ
      ... ball lightning.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      “Ball”... lightning?

It HOVERS, then ZIGZAGS around the room like a giant firefly.

ZIPS towards Oleg who ducks just in time.

Kruz scoots his rolling chair to safety.

IT PLOWS into the wall, leaving a BLACKENED, SMOKING HOLE.

The large WINDOW SHATTERS into a million fragments.  THE 
THUNDERSTORM invades the control tower.

             KRUZ
      Shit.

Oleg gazes at the storm that defiantly soaks him, his suit, 
his cigar.

EXT. WILEY’S CABIN

Wiley joins Lara on the porch.  She’s watching the 
thunderstorm in the distance.

             LARA
      Her flight’s at two, are you sure --

             WILEY
      Melvin’s prepping the plane as we 
      speak.

Lara grows more preoccupied with the peculiar storm.

             WILEY
      Sorry ‘bout the, uh... mess.  Bel 
      wanted to look at --

             LARA
      I didn’t notice anything.

             WILEY
        (nodding)
      Oh.

Lara is still engrossed by the thunderstorm.

Wiley glances over.

             WILEY
      Ah, you know Alaska.  We’ll see all  
      four seasons inside an hour.

             LARA
        (shakes head)
      Something’s not right.

Wiley stops her from going back into the cabin.

             WILEY
      Hey, I thought... maybe we could go 
      somewhere -- nice, you know...

             LARA
      Wiley, what are you doing?

             WILEY
      I just thought... Bel with your mom 
      -- sort of gives us some time, you 
      know?  Talk...  Have one of those 
      “serious conversations.”

             LARA
      We have talked.  Our lawyers have 
      talked.

             WILEY
      Geezus, Lara, I know I’m gone for a 
      couple-three months on the ice 
      road, but I make a year’s salary in 
      that time.

             LARA
      Some salary... I’m, I’m sorry.  
      Face it, it’s not the time we’re 
      apart that’s the problem.  It’s 
      when we’re together.  We’re just 
      too... different.

             WILEY
      Cuz you’re smart and I’m dumb?

Lara shakes her head and walks to her car.

             WILEY
      I worked three jobs so you could 
      get your P.h.D.

Lara opens the trunk of her car and exhales.

             WILEY
      You think you’re going to meet 
      another Joe as smart as you?  Not 
      going to happen.  As smart as me?  
      Okay, maybe... probably...

Lara shuts her eyes like it’s a delete button.  Then yanks 
out her mom’s suitcases.

             WILEY
      What about Bel?

             LARA
      We’ve been separated for six 
      months, I really don’t think 
      divorce will be that much different 
      from her point of view.
        (sighs)
      It’s over, Wiley.  It’s hopeless.

             WILEY
      Nothing’s hopeless.

Grandma Irene comes out with a packed and ready Bel, dressed 
in a Cinderella ballroom dress.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Is this a bad time?

             LARA
      I’m late.  I need to get going.

             BEL
      Look, Daddy, I’m a princess.

             WILEY
      Times two.

Lara kisses Bel on the cheek.

             LARA
      You be good now.

             BEL
      I will.

             LARA
      Listen to Grandma.

             BEL
      I will.

Lara kisses Bel.  Kisses her mom.

             LARA
        (to Irene)
      Call me.

Lara drives off as they wave.

             WILEY
      And that’s that.

EXT. A.I.R. - ENTRY GATE

Lara’s sedan pulls up to the front gate.  The thunderstorm 
has calmed into a light sprinkle.

She is surprised to find a tough looking, fatigue-dressed 
stranger (heavily bearded COMRADE MIKHAIL).

             LARA
      Where’s Reggie?
INT. CONTROL TOWER

Lara is roughly escorted into the room.  Kruz is under 
gunpoint.  The large picture window looks like a hockey’s 
player’s smile with more spaces than glass teeth.

             LARA
      ... I know the way to my own -- 
      Kruz?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
        (all smiles)
      Chief Physicist Lara Minter.  The 
      usual plethora of diplomas and 
      awards, but most notably, the 
      designer of A.I.R.’s impressive 
      antennae array.

             LARA
      What... is this?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
        (laughs, shakes hand)
      I am Oleg Zhirinovsky, former 
      G.R.U. Director of the Russian 
      Federation.

             LARA
      “Former”?

             KRUZ
      They’re Neo-Soviets, Lara.  Sickle 
      and hammer shitheads looking for an 
      iron curtain encore.

Comrade Rafik SLAPS Kruz in the back of the head.

             KRUZ
      Do that again -- I’ll stick that 
      hand so far up your ass, you’ll 
      need a manicure from your dentist.

Comrade Rafik raises his hand, but Oleg shakes his head.

             KRUZ
      They turned our array into a 
      friggin’ weather weapon.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
        (to Lara)
      I’m sure you have many ques --

             LARA
      My heater can’t generate enough 
      energy at a low enough frequency --

             KRUZ
      Done deal.  This morning.  
      Hurricane to Chechnya.  Bastards 
      gutted a whole --

             LARA
      How -- Whaa...?  No, you -- that’s 
      not possible.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      I assure you, it is.

Lara sniffs the air.  Walks towards the source.

Comrade Rafik moves to stop her, but Oleg waves him off.

             LARA
        (to Kruz)
      Smell that?

Lara examines the blackened hole in the wall.

             KRUZ
      I know.  Sulfur...

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      What does that mean?

             KRUZ
      It means, you’re fucked.

EXT. ALASKA - SKY

Goofy yet lovable long time friend of Wiley, MELVIN, flies 
them on his single engine plane towards Anchorage.

INT. CESSNA

The plane descends rapidly like an elevator, then bounds up.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Oh Lord...

             WILEY
      Don’t you worry, Irene.  Melvin 
      here is the best damn pilot in 
      Gulkana.

             MELVIN
      Dat’s ‘cuz ah’m the only bird wit 
      wings in Gulkana.

They laugh, but Irene is not amused.

             MELVIN
      Jus’ sit back, relax, and Melvin 
      will get you to Anchorage safe an’ 
      sound.

Wiley checks on Bel.

She’s asleep.  Her rubber limbs bounce with the motion of the 
plane.  Her cheeks yellowed and pixie-dust sprinkled from 
Cheetos, drool flanking her rose-bud lips.

Wiley rubs the Cheetos powder remains, but they refuse to 
budge.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      You’ll wake her.

             WILEY
        (shakes head)
      It’s okay.

He wets his finger with more success.  Licks his finger for 
another try, but unintentionally tastes what he touched.

             WILEY
      Hmm.  Drool and Cheetos.

Grandma Irene frowns.

EXT. ALASKA - SKY

The Cessna rolls and zooms off.

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

Lara and Kruz are led through the antennae field with “Bald 
Tattoo” Andrei close behind.  Hostages are busy resurrecting 
the fallen and broken antennae under gunpoint.

             LARA
        (to Kruz, silently)
      ... some kind of backlash or 
      fallout -- I don’t know, I’d need 
      to see their pulse algorithms --

             KRUZ
        (nods, whispers)
      We need to get to the server room.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      No talking.  Just walking.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Oleg and Comrade “Lurch” Rafik observe Lara and Kruz from the 
rectangular opening that once was a window.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      ... when I fire a gun, I don’t 
      expect to be shot by the casing.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Do you think they can fix it?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Ultimately, it does not matter.

EXT. CONTROL TOWER

A couple of maintenance hostages lift a window pane in front 
of “Lurch” Rafik and Oleg, like a car window sliding closed.

EXT. EASTERN FENCE LINE - CREEK BED

It’s a fulgurite forest -- glassy stalagmites sticking out of 
the sandy creek bed.

             LARA
      Incredible.

             KRUZ
      Fulgurites.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI 
      So... you know what this is.

             KRUZ
      Sure, but nothing about this is 
      right.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      What is... fulguh... mites.

Lara finds a trail of fulgurite, stemming from the half-
frozen creek.

             KRUZ
      Fulgurites.  “Petrified lightning.”  
      Lightning fuses the sand and grit, 
      creating a captured lightning vein.  
      But these are...

She pries off a DAGGER-SIZED SHARD

SPLATTERING BLOOD on her face.

             LARA
      Shit!

The fulgurite chain leads to...

             KRUZ
      Wha...?

... a RUSSIAN SOLDIER’S BODY, grotesquely twisted and fused 
to a tree by a massive fulgurite.

             LARA
      Oh God.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      He was Valery Konstantin.  Good 
      soldier.

BLOOD drains through the hollow core of the fulgurite vein 
and into the creek through the broken end.

INT. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

Grandma Irene and Bel are holding up a long security line 
while Wiley tries to get Lara on his cell phone.

             WILEY
      Aw, hell!
        (BEEPS PHONE OFF)

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Wiley Minter.  In front of your own 
      daughter.

             WILEY
      Sunshine, Mommy’s not going to be 
      able to say goodbye.  She would if 
      she could.

Wiley kisses Bel hard, his lips engulfed in her chubby cheek.

             WILEY
      That one’s from me and...

Kisses her the same way on the other cheek.  Bel giggles.

             WILEY
      ... this one’s from mom, okay?

But the people in line are not overcome with warmth.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      We better go.

             WILEY
      I love you, Sunshine.  Times two.

Wiley gives her a big hug.  Kisses Irene on the cheek.

             WILEY
      Thanks, Irene.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      We’re going to have a grand time.  
      As for you... good luck.

Wiley waves goodbye when TWO SUITS bookend him.  On his left, 
S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN -- a cross between an M.I.B. and a lounge 
lizard.  To his right, S.S.O. Russian Special investigator 
DMITRI GUROV -- athletic like a middleweight Mixed Martial 
Artist.

             WILEY
      Howdy-doody, boys.  I know we held 
      up the line, but...

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      You need to come with us, Mister 
      Minter.

             WILEY
      How do you know my name?

             BEL 
      Daddy!  Daddy!

Wiley looks around, flustered.

Bel and Irene are waving just past the security check.

Wiley forces a smile and a wave.

Grandma Irene’s smile fades when she sees the Suits.

Sloan firmly grips Wiley’s upper arm to lead him away.

             WILEY
      Hold on!  Who are you guys?

             DMITRI GUROV
        (Russian accent)
      Let him say goodbye to his 
      daughter.

             WILEY
      Thank you.
        (to Bel & Irene)
      Bye, Sunshine!  Everything’s all 
      right, Irene.

Bel waves, oblivious.  But Irene isn’t so sure.

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - BATHROOM

Agents Sloan and Gurov wait.  Wiley exits the rest room.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      That was quick.

             WILEY
      Occupational habit.  Peeing on the 
      side of the ice roads in forty-
      below takes about a minute and half 
      to turn your pecker into an icicle.

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - SECURITY ROOM

Surveillance photos of Lara speaking with Oleg and Kruz.  
About the same picture quality as Sasquatch photos.

Wiley peruses them carefully.

A large, impeccably-dressed man, S.S.O. Operations Director 
FITZGERALD sits at the head of the table.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      Director Fitzgerald asked you a 
      question.

             WILEY
      You’re like C.I.A., right?

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      S.S.O.


             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      Special Services Office.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Same thing.

             WILEY
      And Lara’s in deep shit, huh?

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      The deepest kind, I’m afraid.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      We just want to know if she’s the 
      shitter or the shit-on.

             WILEY
      Well, I can tell you boys right 
      now, Lara is a straight arrow.  In 
      fact, that’s one of our --

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      The pictures, Mister Minter.

             WILEY
      Sorry.  Let’s see, well, this 
      here’s Kruz.  But this guy... don’t 
      know him.  And this Russian dude...

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      They’re both Russian.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Lara studied in Moscow --

             WILEY
      Yeah, but... it was a summer 
      program.  That’s all.  She’s not 
      some spy or double-agent.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      How would you know?

             WILEY
      What do you mean, “how...”  Hey, 
      this guy’s been up my ass since --

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Agent Sloan is just doing his job.

             DMITRI GUROV
      I don’t think your wife is involved 
      either -- at least, not by choice.

Worry creeps over Wiley’s face.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Her life is in serious danger, my 
      friend.  Did she mention a place 
      called “Sura”?  In Vasilsursk?

Wiley shakes his head.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Has she ever mentioned 
      “environmental modification”?

Wiley stares blankly.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      You know, “weather control”?

             WILEY
        (thinks)
      Lara said that one day we’ll be 
      able to do crazy shit like divert 
      hurricanes and...

             DMITRI GUROV
      Yes, that’s it, exactly.

             WILEY
      But she said that’s a long way off.

The agents share an eye-conference.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Wiley, this man -- Oleg,  tried to 
      rebuild an old Russian heater in 
      Sura.  Your wife’s facility is at 
      least ten times more powerful.

             WILEY
      And you think this Oleg guy 
      hijacked it to control the weather.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Yes.

Wiley stands up, anxious, nervous, frustrated.

             WILEY
      Well, what are we doing sitting 
      around here?  We need to get Lara 
      the hell outta there before he 
      tries something.


             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      We think he already did.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      The motherfucker sent a hurricane 
      to Chechnya this morning.

             WILEY
      Ho-lee shit.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      You can see why we’re concerned.  
      What would stop him from targeting 
      a major American city or the White 
      House?

             WILEY
        (sits down)
      Oh fuck.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      Exactomundo.

             WILEY
      No, I mean, ohhh fuck.  I think I 
      may have screwed up.

The agents are puzzled.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Wiley?

             WILEY
      Back there in the bathroom, I uh... 
      I didn’t know what this was all 
      about.  I wanted someone to know 
      where I --

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Mister Minter, what precisely are 
      you saying?

             WILEY
      I couldn’t get through to Lara so I 
      left her a message.

Even wise-ass Sloan is alarmed.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

“Lurch” Rafik presses buttons on OFFICE PHONE #2 for Oleg.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      This is Doctor Minter’s line.

Wiley’s message plays through the speaker.

             OPERATOR
      Alaskan Communications Operator.  
      Call for Lara Minter.  Go ahead, 
      sir.

             WILEY
      Lara, -- Wiley.  Don’t get mad.  
      Bel and Irene are fine.  But I 
      think I caused a misunderstanding 
      with airport security.  Now I gotta 
      talk to some suits from S.S.O....

Rafik and Oleg are familiar with the abbreviation.

             WILEY
      ... or something like that.  
      Anyway, I might be here for awhile.  
      Call you soon, Chief.

A BEEP signals the end of the message.

Rafik flips through the papers on his clipboard.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      ... her husband.  Ex-husband.  
      Wiley Minter.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      And he’s meeting with the C.I.A.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Not good.

Oleg turns to his BLACK BOX COMPUTER and types.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      We must slow down the flow of 
      information until we finish.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
        (sees screen display)
      Anchorage?

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - SECURITY ROOM

Wiley sits in the room by himself.  He doesn’t know...

... he’s being watched through a one-way window by 
Fitzgerald, Sloan, and Gurov.

             DMITRI GUROV
      ... cannot wait.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      We must wait and we will wait until 
      we have the proper personnel for an 
      organized assault.

             DMITRI GUROV
      A large contingent will force Oleg 
      into using the weather weapon to 
      defend the compound.  Then... check 
      mate.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      We wait.

Gurov and Fitzgerald’s eyes have a Mexican standoff.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD 
      I know you’ve got more reasons than 
      most to want Oleg, but this is 
      bigger than one man’s vendetta.  Do 
      you understand?  Are we cool, 
      Investigator Gurov?

             DMITRI GUROV
      Absolutely Siberian.  Sir.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Kruz and Lara are at their stations along with Oleg.  “Lurch” 
Rafik and “Eye-Patch” Khosey guard them.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      If it makes you feel better, you’re 
      just loading the bullets.  I aim 
      the gun and I pull the trigger.

             KRUZ
        (to Lara)
      If they kill us, they can’t run the 
      operation.

“Eye-Patch” Khosey whips his butterfly-knife under Lara’s 
eye.

             COMRADE “EYE-PATCH” KHOSEY
      Who said anything about “kill”?  I 
      just cut off the parts you don’t 
      need to run the system.  One piece 
      at a time.

Kruz tries to stand up, but Rafik shoves him back down.

             COMRADE “EYE-PATCH” KHOSEY
        (whispers in Lara’s ear)
      In 1945, the Red Army raped over 15 
      million German women.  Sad, yes?

Lara looks at Khosey in horror.  Re-focuses on her keyboard.

“Lurch” Rafik laughs.  Oleg puffs on his cigar.

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - SECURITY ROOM

S.S.O. Ops Director Fitzgerald walks in.

             WILEY
      Where’s Agent Sloan and that... 
      Russian guy...?

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Investigator Dmitri Gurov.

             WILEY
      Yeah, the nice one.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      They’re coordinating the mission 
      team for the A.I.R. assault.

             WILEY
      And Lara.  To get Lara, right?

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Their mission priority is to shut 
      down the weather weapon.  But 
      saving the hostages is one of their 
      objectives.

             WILEY
        (worried)
      “One of their” -- what the fuck 
      does that mean?

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      I understand your concern, Wiley.

             WILEY
      No, you understand “mission 
      priorities.”

Wiley is about to explode when the door opens.

             WILEY
      Melvin?

             MELVIN
      I’ve got the whole airport lookin’ 
      fer ya.  What’s going on?

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Oleg exhales a steady stream of cigar smoke.

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

ANTENNAE move into place with a mechanical WHIR.  A BLUE GLOW 
dances on the antennae array, creates an inverted cone, then 
BLOWS a powerful single BEAM into the sky.

EXT. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE

Children at play on the snowy playground.

SUPER: “Anchorage, Alaska”

Busy city streets for both vehicles and pedestrians.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

The blue beam shoots past a quilted layer of clouds.

A BLUE-WHITE DYE RADIATES a growing patch on the ionospheric 
ocean, high above the clouds.

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - AIRFIELD

Gurov is about to board a HUEY whose ROTATING BLADES THUD 
persistently.  The pilot freezes.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN 
      I can’t let you do this, Dmitri.

Gurov steps off the Huey and turns around.  Sloan is joined 
by two other agents with their guns drawn.


Gurov yanks his SPETSNAZ-ISSUED SHORT-SHOVEL from a holster 
strapped to his back.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
        (eyes shovel)
      Anybody ever tell you not to bring 
      a shovel to a gun fight?

A SHOT is FIRED in the midst of a CLANG-CLANG in rapid 
succession with one swipe of Gurov’s SPADE.

THE BARRELS OF THEIR GUNS fall cleanly to the ground, 
stunning the agents.

Sloan reaches into his coat for his gun, but Gurov PUSH-KICKS 
one of the agents into him first.

The other agent wraps his arms around Gurov from behind.  
Gurov steps back, squats down, and DIGS his spade into the 
AGENT’S FOOT.  Spins around and SLAMS THE SHOVEL to the side 
of the agent’s FACE.

Spins again and strikes his shovel on the other agent’s KNEE.  
He crumples to the ground, leaving Sloan exposed as...

... Gurov slices Sloan’s chest.

Sloan’s eyes wide, but he doesn’t feel hurt.  Looks down.

Only his coat is ripped.  No blood.

             DMITRI GUROV
      I’m going.

Sloan feels something in his chest.

PIECES OF THE GUN that was inside his coat holster fall to 
the ground.

Gurov turns to the pilot.  Gurov’s coat is open, revealing...

... a BLEEDING SIDE.

But the pilot sees the intensity in Gurov’s eyes.

             PILOT
      Where to, Sir?

I/E. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE

SERIES OF SHOTS

A mom prepares dinner for her large family in the kitchen.

A man in a cubicled office waves off his fellow workers.  He 
has too much work to leave for the day.

Kids laugh and tease a boy and girl for liking each other as 
the school bus drives through a serene neighborhood.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

The BLUE BEAM hurtles back to earth.

EXT. EARTH - CRUST

IT RAMS twenty miles deep into the earth’s crust.  The 
escaped AIR HISSES to a crescendo as large sections of EARTH 
SHIFT AND SHEAR until it CRACKS AND SPLITS the ocean floor.

I/E. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE

SERIES OF SHOTS

A little girl laughs as she beats a boy to the top of the 
jungle gym.  The TREMORS knock her off, but she catches one 
of the bars.  The boy climbs to help.

TREMORS ROCK VEHICLES waiting at a SWAYING RED TRAFFIC LIGHT.

The man working late freezes at his station when he feels the 
QUAKE.  THE POWER GOES OUT and he’s left alone in the dark.

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - SECURITY ROOM

Agent Sloan bursts into the room.

             S.S.O. AGENT SLOAN
      Gurov -- he took the Huey.

             S.S.O. OP DIR. FITZGERALD
      Oh my God.

They run out of the room.

             WILEY
      What does that mean?  Fitzgerald?

Wiley tries to follow, but the door is locked from the 
outside.

             WILEY
        (pounding door)
      Fitzgerald!  Sloan!  Hey!

TREMORS JOSTLE Melvin’s hot coffee into his lap.  Melvin 
yelps.

Wiley looks around for answers.  Another QUAKE.

             WILEY
      Hell no.

INT. AIRPLANE

The flight attendant hands Bel a cup of orange juice.  But as 
she’s about to serve Grandma Irene a can of soda, she freezes 
from something she sees in the window: a MONSTROUS WAVE about 
to break upon the Anchorage city-scape.

EXT. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE

The 200 foot WAVE SMASHES into Anchorage’s shoreline.

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

Sloan and Fitzgerald run through a SHAKING and COLLAPSING 
hallway.  Ceiling panels fall.  WINDOWS BURST.  SPARKS fly.

They wrestle their way to the main terminal area.  It’s 
empty.  ROARING THUNDER.

They turn to see...

... the OCEAN BURSTS through the windowed walls, FLOODING the 
terminal.  An oceanic locomotive surging towards them.

INT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - SECURITY ROOM

Wiley and Melvin are SMASHING THE TABLE into the DOORKNOB, 
but it’s not easy with TREMORS throttling the room.

One clean shot POPS the DOORKNOB off.  The door opens, but a 
FLOOD CRASHES into them.

Wiley dives underwater to dig out Melvin from under the 
table.  They suck in as much air as they can, just inches 
below the ceiling.

They swim, pulling on door frames and corners.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Lara argues with Oleg when Kruz notices Oleg’s screen.

             LARA
      ... how can we help you with your 
      backlash problem if you won’t --

             KRUZ
      Where did you say Wiley and Bel 
      were?

Lara shoves Oleg to get a better look at his screen.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Comrade Rafik.

             LARA
      No!  No!  You bastards!  No, God, 
      nooooo!

“Lurch” Rafik forcefully takes Lara out of the room, but they 
can hear her screaming down the hallway.  “Eye-Patch” Khosey 
pushes a gun barrel into Kruz’s cheek.

On Oleg’s SCREEN:  A satellite visual of the accompanying 
text: “TSUNAMI TARGET SUCCESSFUL: ALASKA - ANCHORAGE.” 

I/E. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE

THE TSUNAMI POURS through the city streets and between the 
buildings like a giant sieve.

Children are BLASTED OFF the playground.

The man in the dark office stands at the tenth story window 
to see a WAVE that dwarfs his whole building.  The papers in 
his hand drop to the floor.

Five-inch thick lightning-like CRACKS channel through the 
city sidewalks and streets.  GAS AND WATER LINES BUST OPEN.  
Concrete and asphalt mountain ranges SURGE as the sidewalks 
and streets SHIFT AND UPROOT ten feet in the air.  Cars and 
people slide and COLLIDE into each other.  

The once serene neighborhood’s GROUND LIQUEFIES becoming 
quicksand for the school bus trapped in it.  Homes are 
swallowed by the ground as the LIQUEFACTION’S RADIUS SWELLS.

The mom at an empty dinner table watches her whole world at 
an angle, riding a JITTERING DESCENT into the sludge.

EXT. ALASKA - SKY

Military Huey flies eastbound.

INT. HUEY

Gurov has his Glock pointed at the pilot.  His Spetsnaz 
shovel is strapped to his back and an AN-94 automatic rifle 
sits on his lap.

             PILOT
      ... but we’ve got to go back, Sir.  
      Something’s happening in Anchorage.
        (eyes bleeding wound)
      Besides, you’ve been shot.

CLICK of Gurov’s GLOCK silences the pilot.

             DMITRI GUROV
      I have plenty of blood pumping 
      through my trigger finger.

The pilot focuses on flying.

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

A GIANT WAVE overturns a FREIGHT SHIP.  It sails on its side 
towards the terminal.

INT. CESSNA

Wiley and Melvin made it to the Cessna, but the airstrip is 
already a stream of water.

             WILEY
      Go, go, go, go, go!

             MELVIN
      I’m a tryin’!

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - AIRFIELD

The Cessna’s WHEELS SPLASH through the water.

The terminal WINDOWS BURST.  OCEAN WATER POURS through each  
window and over the rooftop, feeding into the airfield.

INT. CESSNA

Wiley sees...

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - AIRFIELD

... the overturned freight ship, pushed into the corner of 
the terminal by the rising ocean.  THE CORNER CRUMBLES from 
the weight, THE SHIP squealing like a dying whale as its 
steel guts twist and tear.

INT. CESSNA

Wiley grips tight.

             WILEY
      Gonna be close!

Melvin looks like he’s trying to give birth.

They have LIFT OFF!  They holler and hoot in celebration.

             WILEY
      You did it!  You are the -- the...

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - AIRFIELD

The overturned freight ship surfs towards them.

INT. CESSNA

Melvin sees it.  Pulls back on the STICK.  They climb.

             WILEY
      Higher, higher!

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - AIRFIELD

The ship just NICKS THE CESSNA’S TAIL enough to jolt it out 
of its trajectory.

INT. CESSNA

Their cockpit world turns topsy-turvy.

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - AIRFIELD

They CRASH into the TIDE.

EXT. ALASKA - ANCHORAGE

CITY BUILDINGS TWIST, SHIFT, AND CRUMPLE.  BRIDGES FOLD and 
WASH AWAY.  Huge sections of the CITY COLLAPSE 20 feet deep 
and flood with ocean water.

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - FREIGHT SHIP

Wiley pulls Melvin to the railing of the sideways ship.

             WILEY
      You okay?

Melvin coughs up sea water.

             MELVIN
      My plane...

Wiley surveys the flooded plain that was once an airfield.  
He spots the ship’s SAFETY BOAT hanging off the edge of the 
ship.  Melvin sees it too, but it’s several stories high.  
The only way there is by climbing the RAILING like a ladder.

             MELVIN
      Ah no.  I say we wait here.

             WILEY
      All right, man.  You wait here, but 
      I gotta go.  I’m sure someone will 
      be by in a couple days... Or weeks.

             MELVIN
      Bastard.

INT. A.I.R. - STORAGE ROOM

Hostages are crowded in the dark, makeshift cell.  Kruz tries 
to comfort Lara.  She picks up a small wooden crate and 
FLINGS IT at the door.

             KRUZ
      ... you don’t know for sure.  Maybe 
      Bel and Irene made it out in time.

             LARA
      And Wiley?


             MAN HOSTAGE
        (getting hysterical)
      We’re dead.  We’re all dead.

             KRUZ
      Calm the fuck down.  Freaking out 
      isn’t going to do us any good.

             MAN HOSTAGE
      We’re locked in underground 
      storage.  They have guns and we 
      have... crates.  What do you expect 
      us to do?

             KRUZ
      Stand on your head and shoot sparks 
      out your ass for all I care.  Just 
      shut the fuck up.

The man cowers in the dark.

             KRUZ
        (to Lara)
      What about the backlash?  Think it 
      was an anomaly?

             LARA
      Just because it didn’t hit here, 
      doesn’t mean it didn’t hit 
      somewhere.  They keep boiling the 
      ionosphere with that kind of energy 
      and we’re in for unprecedented 
      geomagnetic storms, atmospheric 
      turbulence,... we’ll lose over-the-
      horizon communication, power grids 
      will shut down -- not to mention 
      the radiation.

METAL DOOR CREAKS open.  Oleg and “Lurch” Rafik.

             KRUZ
      Raspukin’ himself.  You sonuva 
      bitch.  I didn’t know Anchorage was 
      such a hotbed of anti-Russian 
      activity.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      When I say we are determined to 
      complete our mission -- that’s 
      exactly what I mean.

             MAN HOSTAGE 
      What are you going to do with us?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Cooperate and you live.  Doctor 
      Minter, your daughter’s flight 
      disembarked on schedule.  She is 
      safe.

             KRUZ
      What about her husband?

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
        (smiles)
      Ex-husband.

Lara looks down in shame.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      We had no intention to harm 
      innocents, but certain actions are 
      necessary to fulfill prime 
      objectives.  You Americans know 
      this all too well.

Lara buries her head in Kruz’s shoulder.

             KRUZ
      We’re missing some people.  Our 
      pilot, Mackie and --

             LARA
      Reggie, our security guard...

Rafik whispers into Oleg’s ear.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Unfortunately, they are not 
      missing.

Gasps and wails perforate the room.

             KRUZ
      So much for “cooperation.”

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      The pilot and security guard posed 
      a possible threat by the nature of 
      their duties --

             LARA
      Reggie was sixty-two years old.

             KRUZ
      This is a student research lab.  
      Not Fort Knox.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
        (points to open door)
      Now, Doctor Minter, -- if you would 
      accompany us...

             KRUZ
      You gotta be friggin’ kidding me.

Rafik drives a hostage to her knees and PULLS BACK THE HAMMER 
on his GLOCK.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Doctor Minter and I have a 
      rendezvous with the Black Sea.

EXT. ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - FREIGHT SHIP

Wiley and Melvin are in the motor boat.  Wiley lowers the 
pulley ropes.  Melvin looks down at the water, several 
stories below.  But the PULLEY CATCHES when they still have a 
long way to go.  Wiley jerks and swings it wide, but no go.  
He pulls out his pocket knife.

             MELVIN
      No, no, Wiley.  Lemme give it a go.

But Wiley cuts the last rope and they slide down a roller 
coaster towards murky depths.  Melvin screams.

SPLASH!  Wiley can’t believe they made it.  But where’s...

             WILEY
      Melvin?  Melvin!

Melvin surfaces in the freezing water.

             MELVIN
      I dun like ya all dat much.

The ENGINE RIPS to a ROAR as they speed off toward the Port 
of Anchorage in Knik Arm bay.

Wiley faces forward, searching for landmarks.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Satellite images of Anchorage disaster.

Oleg’s passes the photos back to “Lurch” Rafik.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Nothing is coming out of there.  
      Emergency crews, military personnel 
      -- all focused on saving the city.

Oleg is not so confident.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      You don’t agree.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Blanket the western pass --

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
        (reads map)
      Glenn Highway?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      We will give them a Siberian winter 
      wonderland.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Because of this one man?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Him.  The C.I.A.  And Gurov.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Dmitri?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      I know he’s still alive.  And if 
      the C.I.A. is sniffing up our 
      backside, you can be certain that 
      our old comrade is not far behind.

EXT. WRANGELL ST. ELIAS NATIONAL PARK

Gurov starts the ENGINE of his SNOWMOBILE as the HUEY leaves.

EXT. WRANGELL ST. ELIAS NATIONAL PARK - OVERLOOK

Through his binoculars, Gurov sees a heavily bearded Russian 
soldier at the front gate.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Mikhail.

Views the eastern fence line next to the creek bed.  Moves to 
the storage building.  The “Bald Tattoo” soldier smokes a 
cigarette with Mister Eye-Patch.

             DMITRI GUROV
        (smirks)
      Andrei and Khosey.

Aims the binoculars to the western fence line.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Sergei and Alexandr.

View of lights coming out of the control tower.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Oleg.  No doubt your puppy dog, 
      Rafik is by your side.  That leaves 
      Valery, Ivan, and Leonid.

Checks Glock and AN-94 rifle.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Time for a family reunion.

EXT. ANCHORAGE - FORT RICHARDSON TRUCK STOP  - LATE AFTERNOON

Wiley hands the driver back his cell phone.  Behind them sits 
a legion of eighteen-wheelers.

             WILEY
        (to driver)
      Thanks!  ‘Preciate the ride.

             MELVIN
      No luck, eh?

             WILEY
      They don’t land for another couple 
      hours.

Wiley and Melvin sneak around, checking out the trucks.

             MELVIN
      You truckers sure are trustin’ 
      folk.  Keys in da ignition, injun 
      runnin’.

             WILEY
      We don’t have the luxury of hangars 
      like you fly boys.  We turn off our 
      engines in this cold -- we may not 
      get it started again ‘til Spring.

Melvin finds a luxury one.

             MELVIN
        (smiling wide)
      Now dis is what I call stylin’.

             WILEY
      We need one with a trailer or flat 
      bed.  Drive on frozen roads without 
      one and you’re swimming with the 
      penguins.
        (spots one)
      Oh yeah, here we go.

It’s a beast of a truck, but old.  Melvin frowns.

             MELVIN
      Mine’s prettier.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Lara’s reflection on her computer monitor is joined by Oleg’s reflection.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Very good, Doctor Minter.  I can 
      finish from here.

Lara gets up from her station.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Take her back.

“Lurch” Rafik jerks his rifle barrel towards the door.

             LARA
      So now you’re sending an “act of 
      God” to another hapless, 
      unsuspecting country?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Soon.
        (returns to computer)
      But first, I must take care of a 
      minor inconvenience.

Lara peers over his shoulder.

On SCREEN: a satellite view of an eighteen-wheeler on a snowy 
Glenn Highway.

             LARA
      Wiley?  He’s alive?

Oleg is visibly upset, but says nothing.

             LARA
      There’s nothing “minor” about that 
      man’s inconvenience.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Move.

             LARA
      He just won’t let go.  He doesn’t 
      know how.

Rafik snatches her arm and takes her out of the room.

Oleg SMASHES his KEYBOARD several times against the edge of 
the table.  Takes a deep breath and adjusts his collar.

EXT. ALASKA - GAKONA - COPPER RIVER

Gurov finds the narrowest neck of the river to cross.

EXT. ALASKA - GLENN HIGHWAY - NIGHT

ICE bullets CRUNCH AND SPLASH off the large rig’s tires.

INT. GLENN HIGHWAY - BORROWED RIG

Large snowflakes salt the windshield furiously.  The 
WINDSHIELD WIPERS swish back and forth rapidly.

             WILEY
      ... hard to say in this snow.  We 
      can’t go much over thirty or thirty-
      five.  We’ll get into trickier 
      territory and have to slow to 
      fifteen -- twenty tops.

             MELVIN
      Wiley... what if, when we get over 
      dere... ya know...

             WILEY
      She’s all right.  Lara's tough as 
      they come.  Times Two.

             MELVIN
      Yah, yah, I know. I’m jus’ sayin’ --

             WILEY
      A lot of people look at us and 
      think -- a trucker and a P.h.D.?  
      But we have a lot more in common 
      than little Bel.

             MELVIN
      Ya bott are stubborner than knocked 
      up salmon jumpin’ upstream?

             WILEY
      We can look the devil in the eye 
      until he blinks first.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

The big rig BLASTS through curtains of SNOWFALL.

INT. CALIFORNIA - TAXI - EARLY EVENING

Grandma Irene SHUTS OFF her CELL PHONE, shaking her head.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Can’t reach either one of them.

Bel yawns.  Been a long day.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      We’ll try in the morning.

EXT. A.I.R. - EASTERN FENCE LINE - NIGHT

Gurov’s shoes break the fragile ice layer of the creek bed.  

Studies the wire fence and reaches for his shovel.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Lara examines THE FULGURITE SHARD she kept from the creek 
bed.  The blood is a dried red crust around its edges.

             KRUZ
      Souvenir?

Light pours on Lara’s face with the METAL SQUEAL of the door.  
Half-blinded, she tries to focus while the others rise.

Silhouette of an ominous "BALD TATTOO" ANDREI  standing at 
the door with his AK-47 readied at his hip.

             MAN HOSTAGE
      Oh God -- they’ve come to kill us!

Lara swallows hard, but is defiant.

             LARA
        (to Andrei)
      You tell them they’re starting 
      World War Three with Mother Nature 
      and believe me, she has home field 
      advantage.

They are drummed with SARAN-WRAPPED SANDWICHES as Andrei 
deals them out Vegas-style.

Lara gazes at her sandwich pumping up and down on her heaving 
chest.

The light from the door thins to a splinter on Lara’s face 
until the DOOR SLAMS SHUT.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

The truck is hardly visible through the BLIZZARD.  The 
HEADLIGHTS blocked intermittently by white powder.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Wiley and Melvin strain to see the edge of the hood.

             WILEY
      White out.  

             MELVIN
      Hod ya know what’s road and what’s 
      snowbank?

             WILEY
      We’re still alive -- so it’s still 
      road.

             MELVIN
      Thanks, I feel better now.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Wiley’s truck on satellite image grabs.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      That’s him.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Are you sure?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      No one else is on the road.  
      Everyone with two rubles for a 
      brain has pulled over, waiting for 
      the blizzard to pass.  But not this 
      one.  He has a mission of his own.

Another sat image of Wiley’s truck.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Why bother with him?  Let him come.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      The C.I.A. will think their agents 
      died tragically in a natural 
      phenomenon.  The military bases in 
      Anchorage are fishing ponds by now.  
      But there is another military 
      outpost in Fairbanks, just north of 
      here.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      So he is headed for Fairbanks.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Or maybe he’s in league with Gurov.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Dmitri -- I could have killed him 
      so many times.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      I’m sure he thinks the same thing 
      of you...

Rafik glares.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      ... and me.  Whatever Mister Wiley 
      has planned, it won’t matter once 
      he’s dead.

EXT. ALASKA - SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE

CRACKS SHIFT and SLIDE the sheets of ice on the mountainside 
as the rig travels towards it.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Melvin sings while Wiley concentrates on the road.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

On a curve in the road, the rig SLIDES through a small bank 
and SCRAPES THE RAILING.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Melvin RUBS HIS WINDOW quickly and sees the steep slope below 
that slides into a frozen river.

             WILEY 
      We’re oh-kay.

             MELVIN
      I’m on da wrong side of da truck.

EXT. SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE

The thick sheet of ICE CRASHES into a lower layer of ice.  
The pattern builds until it ERUPTS into an accordion of 
jagged juggling blocks THUNDERING towards them.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

The rig is BATTERED with CHUNKS OF ICE.

INT. BORROWED RIG

They hear and feel the CLANK AND THUD OF ICE CHUNKS.  They 
hold on tight as the RIG JERKS with each blow.

ICE BOULDERS ROLL in front of them.  Most ROLL right off the 
road, but a few are PULVERIZED as ...

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

... the rig MOWS right through a SHOWER OF ICE BLOCKS.

EXT. SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE

But there is a bigger CASCADE OF SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE headed 
downhill, leaving a white disemboweled crater.

INT. BORROWED RIG

They watch a MOUNTAIN OF ICE TUMBLE down into their path.  
Wiley spins his wheel, SHIFTS GEARS and PUMPS HIS BRAKE.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

Flashes of truck parts jitter and shake into view amidst a 
flurry of white.

The truck SCREECHES AND SKIDS through the IRON RAILING.  

INT. BORROWED RIG

They tumble within the cab, BOUNCED AND BATTERED like dead 
meat in a “Shake ‘n Bake.”

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

The driver side corner of the rig is thrust into the snow 
barricade, the passenger side has burst through the railing.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Melvin looks out his window.

             MELVIN
      I’m definitely sittin’ on da wrong 
      side.

He sees the edge that slopes steeply into the iced-over 
Matanuska River.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Sat-image of Wiley and Melvin’s rig stuck behind the barrier.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Svoloch’!

Oleg leans back, pondering what to do next.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

Wiley is up the mountainside while Melvin shovels ice from 
the barricade.  The avalanche blocks the highway for the 
length of two eighteen-wheelers.

             WILEY
        (to himself)
      We’re going to need more shovels.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Oleg stares at the array.  The others await his orders.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Oleg?

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      All right.  We’ll proceed with the 
      Gydnia target.  Get Doctor Minter.

I/E. A.I.R. - NIGHT

SERIES OF SHOTS

Silhouette of the antennae array army pointed skyward.

Lara’s fingers dashing on a keyboard

Lights blink on and off, large disks whir in the server room

The twilight sky dances with an aurora borealis

The pale blue glow of the monitor washes out Oleg’s face.

Columns of numbers stream rapidly on a monitor

Dimly lit Oleg's profile smoking a cigar

The plume of smoke swirls and billows

EXT. POLAND - GYDNIA - EARLY MORNING

THE CLOUDS block out the sun, transforming day into night.  
Angry, RUMBLING CLOUDS wash black and purple.

INT. BORROWED RIG - NIGHT

Wiley SHIFTS and the TRUCK GROANS.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

The truck reverses.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Wiley watches his back through his side mirror.

             MELVIN
      Yer not goin’ ta ram it?

             WILEY
      Wouldn’t make a dent.  Believe me, 
      many have tried and died.

Wiley steers his wheel towards the iron railing.

             MELVIN
      Wait.  Yer not --

             WILEY
      They have my wife.

             MELVIN
      I feel fer ya, buddy, but -- dis is 
      hopeless.

             WILEY
      Nothing’s hopeless.

EXT. GLENN HIGHWAY

The eighteen-wheel BEHEMOTH PLOWS through the iron railing 
and drops down the snowy embankment.  Melvin screams.

I/E. POLAND - GYDNIA - EARLY MORNING

RAIN DUMPS by bucket loads on the port.  The sound of a 
hundred FREIGHT TRAINS AND SCREECHING HARPIES.  Soldiers, 
workers, and civilians scramble for cover.

Super: “Gydnia, Poland”

SATELLITE POV of the hurricane forming over Gydnia.

SERIES OF SHOTS

GUNBOATS at sea try desperately to reach the port as they’re 
tossed to and fro.  One of the GUNBOATS loses control and 
hurtles into the air.  

RAIN reverses itself. 

SEA WATER is SCOOPED into the air.  There’s hardly a 
difference between the ocean above and the ocean below.  
The gunboat DRIVER sees the SHOWER PELTING him until he 
realizes that his boat is upside-down.  He CRASHES into the 
SEA.

SOLDIERS cannot close the hangar doors in time.  

A WAVE OF WATER 

BLASTS through, sending the soldiers along with planes, 
forklifts, and trucks awash.

MEN are CRUSHED between the CRATES AND VEHICLES.

THE HANGAR ROOF SPLITS AND TEARS OFF.

THE SHIPS are tossed about like toys in a bathtub.  

The AIRCRAFT on a ship BREAK loose from their CABLES.  The 
fuel-ladden aircraft BANG off each other and the hangar WALLS 
like billiard balls.  

The SPARKS ignite the fuel.  EXPLOSIONS on deck.  

FIRES are SUCKED into the ventilation shafts,...

... burning crewmen on the lower decks.

BOMBS AND DEPTH CHARGES

break loose and careen over the decks.  EXPLOSIONS in the 
water.  Some BLOW the PORT into SPLINTERS.

DEAD BODIES AT SEA

are tossed around like laundry in a washing machine.

INT. OUTER SPACE - INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION

In space, crew members of the International Space Station 
(I.S.S.) are jostled about.  ALARMS BLARE AND BLINK RED.

SUPER: “International Space Station”

INT. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION - COMMAND ROOM

Mission Commander DAVID SHEPHERD bursts into the Command 
Room.

THE ALERT MONITOR reads: “RADIATION SHIELD EFFECTIVENESS: 
72%” and continues a decreasing countdown.

Commander Shepherd can’t believe what he’s seeing.

EXT. WESTERN EUROPE - OUTER SPACE POV  - NIGHT

Western Europe is disrupted by staggered POWER OUTAGES in 
England followed by France, Italy, Spain, Austria, and 
Germany.

INT. BORROWED RIG - NIGHT

Melvin is still screaming.  Snow dunes bounce in and out of 
view on the rig’s wide windshield.

             MELVIN
      We’re not gowan to make it!  I 
      can’t swim!

             WILEY
      Don’t worry, the hill will probably 
      tear us apart before we reach the 
      river.

EXT. ALASKA - MATANUSKA RIVER EMBANKMENT

THE RIG BULLDOZES its way through snow and rock and trees.  
GRINDS to a halt at the river’s edge.

INT. BORROWED RIG

The ominous frozen river lies before them.

             MELVIN
      Think I’m air sick.

Wiley SHIFTS IN GEAR.

             WILEY
      Squeeze your cheeks, don’t let your 
      insides leak.

             MELVIN
      Mommy.

EXT. ALASKA - MATANUSKA RIVER

The truck rolls slowly onto the frozen river.  SNAP-SNAP-SNAP 
of cracking ICE.

INT. A.I.R. - OLEG’S QUARTERS - CLOSET

Oleg’s wide back obscures the view from the closet door 
crack.  He pours himself a shot of vodka.

The now familiar Spetsnaz shovel rotates in Gurov's hands.

A streak of yellow highlights Gurov's eye from the slightly 
opened closet door.

GUROV'S HAND

carefully pushes the door wider when Comrade Rafik enters. 

Gurov pulls back.

INT. OLEG’S QUARTERS

Rafik hands Oleg a satellite photo.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      This Wiley is going around the 
      avalanche.

The photo is a sat-image of Wiley’s rig on the frozen river.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      He is like a cockroach you trample 
      under foot, only to scurry away.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      The river has not been prepared as 
      an ice road.  He will scurry at the 
      bottom of the river.

Oleg crushes the photograph.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Leave it alone.  We’re running out 
      of weather bullets.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      We do this one the old way.

INT. OLEG’S QUARTERS - CLOSET

Gurov is as still as the sheet rock he leans against.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Send Sergei and Alexandr.

Gurov silently curses in Russian.

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

The truck slips and slides across the river of ice.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Alert and calm, Wiley drives at 10-15 mph.  Melvin is getting 
a sphincter cramp.  The hard, crisp SNAPPING sound of...

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

... THE FROZEN RIVER CRACKS under the heavy truck’s tires.

EXT. VARIED LOCATIONS

Auroras light up the skies, day or night, seen...

by cowboys in Midland, Texas,

by tourists in Greece,

from high rises in New York City,

off the bow of a ship sailing across the Atlantic,

interrupting a luau in Hawaii,

generating awe among villagers in Africa.

EXT. WRANGELL ST. ELIAS NATIONAL PARK - NIGHT

An Aurora Borealis dances against the glittering sky.

EXT. A.I.R. - EASTERN FENCE LINE

Gurov exits the compound through his wire fence door.

EXT. ALASKA - A.I.R. - ENTRY GATE

Outside the booth, “Bearded” Mikhail watches the light of the 
control tower’s window.

INT. BORROWED RIG

The unnerving CRACKLING continues.

             MELVIN
      We’re goin’ under, I kin hear it.

             WILEY
      It always sounds like that.

             MELVIN
      What’s it sound like when it’s 
      really crackin’?  Like, goin’-under 
      crackin’.

BLAM!

             WILEY
      Different.  Like --

             MELVIN
      Like dat?

BLAM!  This time through the roof and into the dashboard.

             WILEY
      Not really.

EXT. BORROWED RIG

Wiley sticks his head out of the window to see...

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

... the helicopter with Alexandr taking aim.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Wiley pulls his head back in the cab just as...

EXT. BORROWED RIG

... a BULLET SHATTERS his side MIRROR.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Melvin’s eyes are about to explode on the dashboard.

             MELVIN
      Step on it!

             WILEY
      I can’t!  We’ll go through the ice!

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

THE HELICOPTER ZOOMS away to return for another pass.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Wiley tries to find the chopper through his windows.

             WILEY
      These must be the guys that have 
      Lara.

             MELVIN
        (sarcastic)
      Ya think?

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

BULLET HOLES send LIGHTNING-LIKE CRACKS through the ice.

INT. BORROWED RIG

THE SOUND OF SNAPPING ICE is rapid now.  BULLETS puncturing 
the truck and ice.

             WILEY
      Melvin...

             MELVIN
      Yah?

             WILEY
      We’re going under.

             MELVIN
        (laughs, then...)
      What?

             WILEY
      We have to jump.

BLAM!  Hits the engine.  The truck dies.

             MELVIN
      Somebody slap me and wake me up.

WHAM!  Wiley slaps Melvin.

             MELVIN
      What the hell, eh!

             WILEY
      Wake up.  We’re about to be put to 
      sleep.

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

The sitting duck of a truck smokes black plumes.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Wiley grasps his door handle.

             WILEY
      Get ready to make a run for it.

             MELVIN
      Are ya owt ov yer mine?  Dey’ll 
      pick us off like fat quail sun-
      bathin’ inna firin’ range.

             WILEY
      When a truck of this size sits on a 
      frozen river, it’s just a matter of 
      time before it sinks.  And when it 
      goes, we’ll have about two minutes 
      before we freeze to death.

             MELVIN
      Yer jus’ a bundle of glad tydins.

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

The rear-most TIRES PLUNGE through the ice sheet.  The RIG 
TWISTS to one side as it sinks.

INT. BORROWED RIG

Their whole world rotates. 

             WILEY
      Jump!  Jump!

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

They leap out of the truck.  But Melvin lands on thin ice and 
CRASHES right through it.

EXT. UNDERWATER

Melvin sinks into freezing cold water, eyes bulging.

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

Wiley slides away from the truck as he dodges more GUNFIRE.

EXT. UNDERWATER

Melvin can’t find the opening he fell through.

INT. HELICOPTER

“White Streak” Sergei curls...

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

... the HELICOPTER around for another go.  Comrade Alexandr 
FIRES at the slippery Wiley.

THE RIVER SWALLOWS the rig’s backside.  The cab rears up.

EXT. UNDERWATER

Melvin swims towards the sinking truck.

INT. HELICOPTER

Alexandr has Wiley in his sights.  BLAM!  Alexandr jerks in 
his seat, shocked.  Sergei strains to see what happened.

EXT. ALASKA - MATANUSKA RIVER

Wiley watches Alexandr fall from the chopper.  Looks around.

On the snowbank, Gurov is sitting on a snowmobile with his 
rifle.  He waves.

Wiley smiles and waves back.

             WILEY
     Gurov.

             MELVIN 
      Wiley!

Wiley turns around to see Melvin on top of the sinking 
trailer, waving meekly.

             WILEY
      What are you doing on the truck?

Wiley runs towards Melvin.

             WILEY
      Jump!  Jump!

But Melvin hesitates.

             WILEY
      Jump, God-dammit!

Melvin is scared shitless after his last jump.  He closes his 
eyes, holds his nose, and...

             WILEY 
      Jump!

But by the time he jumps, the trailer has sunk so low that 
he’s knee-deep in the river.  He BELLY-FLOPS.

Wiley rolls his eyes.  Dives into the water.  Drags Melvin to 
the edges of the ice to find a helping HAND... in GUROV.

RAPID THUDDING of helicopter blades.

INT. HELICOPTER

Sergei is hell bent on mowing them down as he...

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

... swoops.  They dive out of the way.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Run!

Sergei flies lower and lower.

Gurov shoves them down.  Leaps, slides on his back, FIRING 
HIS automatic into the belly of the CHOPPER as it FLIES by.

INT. HELICOPTER

Sergei is ripped to shreds from an upside down RAIN OF 
BULLETS, spurting rivulets of BLOOD into the ceiling.

EXT. MATANUSKA RIVER

THE HELICOPTER CRASHES into the frozen river.

Gurov stands up to check it out as Wiley and Melvin hoot and 
holler victoriously.  Wiley hugs Gurov.

             MELVIN
      I dun know who ya are an’ I’ve 
      never kissed a man bee-fer, but --

             DMITRI GUROV
      I am Dmitri Gurov.  Wiley and I 
      are... old friends.

Their handshakes are interrupted by the RAPID SNAP AND 
CRACKLE OF ICE.  The chopper crash created huge cracks.

             MELVIN
      Uffdah!  Dun say it.

Wiley grabs Melvin by the collar and spins him around.

             WILEY
      Run!

They run like hell towards the shoreline.  They dive onto the 
snowy river bank.

The layer of ice CRACKS.  A WAVE SURGES upward in a mountain 
of water, then IMPLODES BACK into the river sending RIPPLES 
OF ICE in an increasing radius.  They are SHOWERED WITH ICE.


Melvin blows out air.  The only places on his face without 
snow are his bulging eyes and open mouth.

EXT. ALASKA - SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE

They ZIP along the mountainside on Gurov’s snowmobile.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER

Comrade “Lurch” Rafik tries in vain to contact Sergei and 
Alexandr.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
        (in Russian)
      Sergei?  Come in.  Sergei!

Looks at Oleg and shakes his head.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Check the satellite.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      I did.  They’re gone.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Explain.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      No truck, no helicopter.  Nothing.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Kruz bangs on the steel door.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      Stand back from the door.

DOOR GROANS open.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      What is it this time?

             KRUZ
      I need to use the men’s room.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
        (suspicious)
      Wait.

DOOR SHUTS.

             WOMAN HOSTAGE
        (whispering)
      I don’t know.  I don’t like this.

             KRUZ
      We have to try something.

             MAN HOSTAGE
      You’re going to get us all killed.

             KRUZ
      Shut up.  The both of ya.

DOOR OPENS.  Andrei hands Kruz a cutoff milk container.

             COMRADE “BALD TATTOO” ANDREI
      Use this.

Then SLAMS THE DOOR closed.

             MAN HOSTAGE 
        (in darkness)
      Now what?

EXT. ALASKA - GULKANA AIRSTRIP - LATE NIGHT

Gurov's snowmobile parked outside the airstrip building.

SUPER: “Gulkana Airstrip”

SUPER: “Four miles south of A.I.R.”

INT. GULKANA AIRSTRIP

Melvin’s bruised feet in a tub of hot water.

Melvin is wrapped in blankets, sipping very hot coffee.  
Gurov is shirtless with a large bandage on his side.

             MELVIN
        (to Gurov)
      ... Just a bit of frostbite.  Never 
      liked dat toe anyway.

Wiley hangs up the receiver on a pay phone.

             WILEY
      They’re good.  Bel’s asleep.

             MELVIN
      Did ya tell her ‘bout Lara?

             WILEY
      I lied.

             DMITRI GUROV
      You did the right thing.

Gurov’s bandage is already red with blood.

             WILEY
      That doesn’t look good.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Just a scratch.

             MELVIN
      You’re going to take on the bad 
      guys all by your lonesome?

             DMITRI GUROV
      This is a clandestine situation.  
      And I’ve waited a long time... 
      especially for the one called 
      “Rafik.”

             WILEY
      That sounds personal.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Oleg discovered my true allegiance.  
      My wife and son... Rafik was the 
      trigger.

             WILEY
      These Spetsnaz characters -- you 
      were one of them, weren’t you?

Gurov twirls his shovel.

             DMITRI GUROV
      The devil’s spade is more important 
      to the Spetsnaz than his 
      Kalashnikov.  I am still Spetsnaz -- 
      just not Soviet.

             WILEY
      I’m going with you.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Best you stay.

             WILEY
      That’s my wife out there.  My 
      daughter’s mother.


             DMITRI GUROV
        (to Melvin)
      Is your friend always this 
      stubborn?

             MELVIN
      Gurov-buddy, ya huv no idear.

INT. A.I.R. - CONTROL TOWER - MORNING

Lara sleeps in her chair with a mouse pad for a pillow.  
“Bald Tattoo” Andrei keeps guard by the door.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

“Bearded” Mikhail checks the control tower as he smokes.

INT. OLEG’S QUARTERS

Oleg confers with “Lurch” Rafik.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      ... Forget about Georgia and 
      Latvia.  We must assume our mission 
      has been compromised.  If we have 
      one last transmission, let us 
      dismantle the greatest hindrance to 
      world order and the Russian people.

Rafik says nothing, curious to know Oleg’s new target.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      The United Nations.

Rafik smiles in agreement.

INT. CONTROL TOWER HALLWAY

Gurov makes Wiley stand up tall against the door to check his 
height.  Wiley is puzzled, but Gurov puts his finger to his 
own lips.  Makes Wiley crouch a little lower.

DRAWS A DASH with a black marker on the door at the top of 
Wiley’s head and the bottom of his jaw.  Wiley steps aside.

THE MARKER SQUEAKS as Gurov draws an oval between the lines.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

“Bald Tattoo” Andrei hears the SQUEAKS.

INT. CONTROL TOWER HALLWAY

Gurov DRAWS CROSSHAIRS on the oval followed by a horizontal 
line about an inch above the cross.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Andrei places his ear against the door.

INT. CONTROL TOWER HALLWAY

Gurov RAMS HIS SPADE through the horizontal line on the door.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

The noise wakes Lara.  She cups her mouth when she sees

DEAD ANDREI

nailed to the door.  Blood streaming to the floor.

She walks up to him with ghastly curiosity.

             WILEY 
      Lara!  It’s me!

She opens the door.

             LARA
      Wiley?

             WILEY
      Howdy-doody, Chief.

             LARA
      I knew you were too pig-headed to 
      get dead.

             WILEY
      Believe me, I was one oink away 
      from bacon.

             LARA
      Oleg said Bel and mom were okay, 
      but I don’t --


             WILEY
      They’re okay.  I spoke with Irene 
      at Melvin’s place.

             MARA
        (sees Gurov)
      Oh.

             WILEY
      Dmitri Gurov.  He’s okay.  He’s 
      with the C.I.A.

Gurov holds his hand up to wave, but winces.

             LARA
        (sees blood)
      You’re hurt.

             WILEY
      Hey now, you’re not gonna die on 
      us, are you?

             DMITRI GUROV
      Yes.

             WILEY
      Yes?  Yes, what?

             DMITRI GUROV
      Yes, I’m going to die on you.
        (winks)
      But not yet.

             LARA
      We have to get Kruz and the others.

             DMITRI GUROV
      How many?

             LARA
      I don’t know, thirty -- thirty-
      five, maybe.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Leave them.

             LARA
      What?

             WILEY
      Gurov, we can’t just --

             DMITRI GUROV
      They’re safe where they are.  We 
      cannot sneak out 35 people.  
      Besides, they would freeze to death 
      before they reached civilization.

             WILEY
      What about your people?

             DMITRI GUROV
      Fitzgerald is probably dead.  And 
      without him -- I don’t exist.

Gurov is getting paler with sweat.  Lara feels his forehead.

             LARA
      You’re burning up.

             WILEY
      He said it was just a scratch!

             DMITRI GUROV
      Listen.  You destroy the weather 
      weapon.  I’ll take care of Oleg. 

             WILEY
      You can’t take all of them.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Oleg has a nine-man team.  I killed 
      two on the river and Andrei makes 
      three.

Lara holds up the fulgurite shard, crusted with blood.

             LARA
      Four.  One died from a fulgurite 
      accident.  Valerie something.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Valery Konstantin.  Five left.  And 
      we have surprise on our side.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

Mikhail is confused by what he sees in the control tower 
window.  Reaches into the booth for his binoculars.

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
        (surprise and fear)
      Dmitri?

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - SERVER ROOM

Oleg gives “Lurch” Rafik instructions on the black box 
computer cabled to the mainframe.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      ... Remember, only as a last resort 
      if the American cavalry shows up.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      You think I want Mother Nature 
      pissed off at the front door?  What 
      about the U.N.?

On Oleg’s SCREEN: “TARGET FOR 760 UNITED NATIONS PLAZA, NEW 
YORK.  TRANSMISSION COMPLETE IN 30 MINUTES.”

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY 
      Thirty minutes.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Lara types feverishly on the computer.  Oleg’s black box 
steel computer case is missing.

Gurov JAMS the CARTRIDGE into his AN-94 assault rifle.

             DMITRI GUROV
      You snap on like so.  This switch 
      here -- three positions.  Safety-
      lock, automatic fire, and single 
      fire.

             WILEY
      Gurov --

             DMITRI GUROV
      Watch.  This is your reloading 
      handle.  Pull back and you’re ready 
      to go.  Look, shoot, don’t stop 
      until one of you is dead.

             LARA
      So... you’re an assassin?

             WILEY
      Lara!

             LARA
        (softer)
      “License to kill” and all that?


             WILEY
      He’s here to get that Oleg dude.

             LARA
      I have no problem with that.

             DMITRI GUROV
      In Russia, they called me, 
      “cemetery man.”

             WILEY
      That’s cuz he likes shovels.

             LARA
      Does it bother you?  Taking a life?

             DMITRI GUROV
      I learned long ago that when one 
      person falls, it sends a ripple.  A 
      wife, a mother.  Son, daughter,...

             LARA
      And if the sky falls, what will be 
      the ripple then?

EXT. OUTER SPACE - IONOSPHERE

WHITE HOT BEAMS PIERCE the upside-down ocean.

A stray satellite is caught by one of the solar shafts.  It 
jerks down then up, like a swimmer tugged by an unseen shark.  
Lights go out.  Plummets and bursts into flame.

INT. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION

From the SICK BAY WINDOW, tiny specks of light streak to 
earth as a multitude of satellites plunge to their deaths.

Below the window, a dying astronaut lies on a sick bay bed.

             MEDICAL OFFICER
      ... problem is, we’ve all been 
      exposed to radiation levels well 
      past our limits.

The astronaut’s FACE is obscured with open sores and 
blisters.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

One of the computer monitors catches Wiley’s attention.

On SCREEN is a four quadrant view of security cameras.

             LARA
        (frustrated)
      Without his black box, it’s a 
      Rubik’s Cube to figure out where he 
      patched in...

On Lara’s SCREEN: “TARGETING 760 UNITED NATIONS PLAZA, NEW 
YORK.  TRANSMISSION COMPLETE IN 27 MINUTES.”

             LARA
      God.

             WILEY 
      Hey guys...

Lara’s fingers are flying across the keyboard.

             LARA
      Not now, Wiley.

             WILEY
      No, really, you need to see this.

Gurov goes over to Wiley’s monitor.

             LARA
      Dammit!  I can’t override it!

On Wiley’s SCREEN:  Leonid, Ivan, and Rafik.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Tvoyu mat’!

             LARA
      What?  What?

Wiley rolls the cursor over a quadrant: “CONTROL BUILDING, 
FIRST FLOOR, HALL E, CAMERA 6.”

             WILEY
      It’s Oleg’s men.  They’re coming.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Lara, can you stop the 
      transmission?

             LARA
      Can you pull a bullet back in its 
      barrel once it’s been fired?
        (types)
      If we can stop it from completing 
      its cycle, it may terminate in the 
      ionosphere before re-entry.  But 
      that’s a lot of built-up energy. 

             DMITRI GUROV
      You have to try.  Wiley, let’s buy 
      Lara some time.

Wiley is nervous, but nods “yes.”

             LARA
        (to Wiley)
      Wait.

Lara moves awkwardly toward Wiley.  Places her hand on his 
face.

             LARA
        (smiles weakly)
      Don’t flake out on me.

Wiley grins and takes off with Gurov.

Leaning against Lara’s computer station is Gurov’s AN-94.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

The hostages are losing hope.

             MAN HOSTAGE
      Why doesn’t somebody help us?

             KRUZ
      When we get out of here, I’m going 
      to personally crawl up every 
      orifice in D.C.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - STAIRWELL

Gurov looks ready for the morgue.  He coughs violently.

             WILEY
      You’re not going to die on me, 
      right?

             DMITRI GUROV
      Yes.
        (smiles)
      But not yet.

             WILEY
      Do you have to do that?

             DMITRI GUROV
        (coughs)
      Where is the A.N.-94?

             WILEY
      Shit!... I’m sorry, I must of...

Gurov slaps his GLOCK on Wiley’s chest.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Lovers make sloppy soldiers.

Wiley smiles sheepishly.

             DMITRI GUROV
    Ready?

             WILEY
      No.

Gurov opens the door into the hallway.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - HALLWAY

“Lurch” Rafik, Ivan, and Leonid walk down the hallway.

CLICK-CLACK of shoes on tile floor behind them.

They turn around.  Gurov stands like “High Noon.”

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      So Mikhail was right.  It is you.

But Gurov immediately sidesteps into a CLASSROOM.

Puzzling the three comrades.

BAM! BAM! BAM!  A bullet pierces Ivan from behind.

They turn around.

Wiley is on the floor, FIRING AWAY.

Leonid is HIT in the ARM.  Ivan eats THREE MORE BULLETS.

Rafik uses the injured Leonid as a shield.  Leonid BOUNCES in 
an epileptic seizure from the BULLETS.

Rafik tosses twitching Leonid when he reaches the classroom.

Wiley gets up.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - CLASSROOM

Looks empty.  Rows of seats with partial desktops.  Lab 
tables with bar stools.  White-boards on wheels.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      Dmitri -- this is so unlike you.  
      Why do you hide?

Rafik spots the trail of blood on the floor.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - HALLWAY

Wiley has the GLOCK poised.  Kicks Ivan.  No movement.

INT. CLASSROOM

The blood trail leads to a supply cabinet unit.

Rafik smirks and slowly, silently, aims his AK-47.

Dull CLICK.  The TRIGGER won’t budge.

Rafik looks at his rifle.  TWO BULLET HOLES smolder in it.

WHEELS ROLLING.

Rafik turns.

Gurov sails towards him on the supply ledge of a rolling 
white-board.  He leaps.

They tumble to the floor.

INT. CLASSROOM HALLWAY

Foamy blood oozes out of Leonid’s mouth and ear.

Wiley hears the RUCKUS coming from the room.

INT. CLASSROOM

Gurov ends up on the bottom, but kicks Rafik in the chest.

Rafik stumbles backward as Wiley opens the door.

Rafik SHOULDERS THE DOOR, jamming Wiley between the door and 
the door frame.  Wiley grunts, drops the gun.

Rafik backs off, causing Wiley to fall forward.  Rafik ELBOWS 
Wiley in the back of the head.  Wiley DROPS UNCONSCIOUS.

A weak Gurov pulls out his shovel from his back holster.

Rafik does the same.

             COMRADE “LURCH” RAFIK
      I was always better than you.

Like samurai swordsmen, they charge each other.  STRIKE, 
PARRY, BLOCK, STAB -- all a blur of CLANGING METAL until 
Gurov BANGS THE SHOVEL’S FACE on Rafik’s forehead.  Hooks his 

SHOVEL HANDLE

around the forward KNUCKLES of Rafik’s spade hand and gives 
it violent TWIST.

Rafik growls in pain.  His spade CLANGS to the floor.

Gurov raises his shovel for the finishing blow, but he sees 
SEVERAL RAFIK’S in front of him.  Coughs violently.

Rafik whips out his GLOCK and FIRES SEVERAL TIMES.

Gurov flies backward.  Lays with his spade on his still 
chest.

Rafik towers over him, aims his Glock with a smirk...

... that fades.  His BULLETS are EMBEDDED in Gurov’s SHOVEL.

Gurov CHOPS Rafik BETWEEN THE LEGS with his shovel.

Rafik yelps, eyes about to burst from his head.  A RED 
WATERFALL gushing from where once hung his manhood.

             DMITRI GUROV
      Dasvidania, comrade.

Rafik collapses to the ground, convulsing.

Gurov drops backward.  His spade rolls from LIFELESS HAND.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Lara SLAPS THE COMPUTER off the desk in frustration.

             COMRADE “EYE-PATCH” KHOSEY 
      I like a fiery women.

Lara turns to see Khosey.  She eyes Gurov’s AN-94 in her 
periphery.

INT. CLASSROOM

Wiley wakes up.  Shakes the cobwebs out.

             WILEY
      Gurov.  No...

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Khosey drops his AK-47.  Removes his coat.

             COMRADE “EYE-PATCH” KHOSEY
      Stalin believed in rewarding his 
      troops with the spoils of war.

Unbuckles his belt.

Lara grabs the AN-94, startling Khosey for a second.  Then 
the bastard smiles.

Lara backpedals as she takes it OFF SAFETY.  Khosey presses 
forward.  Tosses his belt and holster aside.

She FIRES.  

Khosey’s eyes wide.

She’s FIRING blindly into the ceiling, the force of the gun 
jerks her like a jackhammer.  She falls to the ground.

INT. CLASSROOM

Wiley shakes Gurov.

             WILEY
      Gurov!  Not yet!  Not... aw, hell, 
      man.

Wiley cradles him in his arms.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Khosey laughs and SLAPS THE RIFLE out of her hands.

Comes closer.

Lara inches backward until she runs into a dead-end.

He UNZIPS HIS PANTS and forces her to spread her legs.

Lara shows no fear, she is defiant.

But it only makes Khosey smile more.

Their eyes lock as Khosey UNBUTTONS HER SHIRT.

The FULGURITE SHARD from the creek bed snakes its way out of 
her coat pocket with her hand.

Impatient, Khosey RIPS HER SHIRT apart.

Lara PLUNGES the fulgurite SHARD into KHOSEY’S NECK.  

Khosey reels back, blood squirting profusely from his aorta 
through the FULGURITE’S HOLLOW CORE, spraying the room in 
grisly SPURTS.  

Lara shields herself from the blood shower.

Khosey falls dead.

             LARA
      Cause of death: Premature 
      ejaculation.

Wiley runs into the room.

             WILEY
      Lara!  La...?  Ho-lee...

EXT. OUTER SPACE - SOLAR WINDS

SOLAR WINDS PULSE violently, ramming coronal mass ejections 
into the holes of Earth’s ionosphere.  BEAMS OF LIGHT BLAST 
through the gaps like a sieve.

EXT. VIRGINIA - CARROLLTON 

Picturesque Virginia countryside with a large barn-like 
structure.  Pigeon fanciers gaze at an empty sky.

SUPER: “Carrollton, Virginia”

On the roof eaves’ edge of the barn is a large banner that 
reads, “THE 23rd ANNUAL HAMPTON ROADS PIGEON RACE”.

Below the sign are barren rows of arched holes for the homing 
pigeons to enter their “finish line.”

Race Director ELLIOT DENBY and Co-Director GENE MILLET sit 
next to a table crowded with golden trophies of various sizes 
shadowed by a large trophy cup.

             GENE
      ... getting worse.  Remember 
      Georgia Joe?

             ELLIOT
      Cedar Crossing Georgia Joe?

             GENE
      Now what other Georgia Joe do we 
      know of?

             ELLIOT
      There’s Georgia Joe from Manassas.

             GENE
      You’re right.  But I’m not talking 
      about Manassas Georgia Joe, I’m 
      talking about Cedar Crossing 
      Georgia Joe.

             ELLIOT
      He had the worst race smash in 
      pigeon history.  

             GENE
      Hardly a nest’s worth of birds 
      clocked in.  Week later, that 
      earthquake opened up San Francisco 
      like Jiffy Pop.

             ELLIOT
      Read that article the other day 
      about how homing pigeons can sense 
      the earth’s magnetic field?

             GENE
      You think that has something to do 
      with this?

They both ponder it as they sip their tea in tandem.

             ELLIOT & GENE
      Naaaah!

A few hopefuls still search the skies for their birds.  Most 
pack up to leave.

             ELLIOT
      Well, Gene, are you gonna call it 
      or am I?

             GENE
      You’re the Race Director.

             ELLIOT
      You’re the Co-Director.

             GENE
      Well, all right then.  I’ll co-
      announce it with you.

             ELLIOT
      Fine.

             GENE
      But you go first, because you’re 
      the Race Director.

INT. FLORIDA - OCALA - SUBURBAN HOME KITCHEN - DAY

Eight-year old girl, CINDY, in her party dress and hat sneaks 
a fingertip of frosting from her birthday cake.

SUPER: “Ocala, Florida.”

SUPER: “Seven hundred miles from Carrollton, Virginia.”

Her mom hands a glass pitcher of lemonade to Cindy.

             MOM
      Put this on the big table.

Cindy gets a wobbly hold of it with both hands.

             MOM
      Be careful now, Cindy.

             CINDY
      I will.

Cindy backs out of the screen door leading to the backyard.

Her mom raises an eyebrow at the nicked cake when...

... a CRASH from outside.  She runs.

EXT. FLORIDA - OCALA - SUBURBAN HOME BACKYARD

CINDY stands transfixed.  The broken lemonade pitcher on the 
ground at her feet.

HUNDREDS OF RACING PIGEONS

fill the backyard.  

On every table, chair, patch of ground, fence slat and post,  
swing set, bird bath, and inflated wading pool -- everywhere.

INT. SERVER ROOM

Oleg checks the countdown clock on the monitor: “TRANSMISSION 
COMPLETE IN 18 MINUTES.”

Checks his watch.

Pours a glass of vodka.  Snips a Cuban and lights it.

INT. CLASSROOM

“Bearded” Mikhail wrings his hands through his hair, clearly 
freaking out.

Rafik, curled like a ball in a blood-flood.

No sign of Gurov.

INT. CLASSROOM HALLWAY

Two dead bodies litter the hallway.  Mikhail steps over 
Leonid and runs down the hall.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Wiley paces.

             WILEY
      ... well, if he downloaded 
      everything to his computer, maybe 
      he’s using a remote.  He could be 
      anywhere.

             LARA
      This is a jammer-zone.  He can’t 
      operate a remote within a five-mile 
      radius.

             WILEY
      Where then?

             LARA
      The server room.  He must be hooked 
      directly to the mainframe.

Wiley grabs Lara to run.

             WILEY
      Well, let’s get down there.

             LARA
      Think he’ll be nice and hand it 
      over?

Wiley picks up Gurov’s AN-94.  Checks the cartridge.

             LARA
      I think I used all the bullets.

Wiley tosses it.

             LARA
      Sorry.

Wiley grabs Khosey’s AK-47.  Checks it.

             WILEY
      This’ll do.

INT. STORAGE ROOM HALLWAY

BANGING from inside the storage room DOOR.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

Kruz BANGS on the STEEL DOOR.

             KRUZ
      Hey!  Anybody there?  We’ve got 
      some sick people in here.  We need 
      food, water,... hello?

INT. CONTROL TOWER

Mikhail can’t believe what he sees.

Andrei has a mail-slot for a head.  Khosey’s got a neck-
faucet.

Mikhail leaves in a hurry.

EXT. OUTER SPACE - SUN

The molten STAR, BURSTS with rage.

EXT. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION

ANTENNAE on the outer hull MOVE AND LOCK into place.

INT. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION

SERIES OF SHOTS

ALARM FLASHING

Hallway with dead bodies.

An astronaut’s face is covered with huge open blisters and 
cracked sores.

Dead medical officer slumped over his desk.

Mission Commander David Shepherd is dead in his chair, but 
the I.S.S. computer lives.  LIGHTS FLASHING and BEEPING, text 
typing across the SCREEN:  “AUGMENTING GROUND-BASED 
TRANSMISSION 100% COMPLETE.”

EXT. ENTRY GATE

Mikhail frantically stuffs his backpack.  But he freezes when 
he hears oncoming HELICOPTERS AND VEHICLES.

About two football fields away are the Marines.  Helicopters 
and armed personnel on trucks.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - STAIRWELL

Wiley and Lara see Oleg’s cigar smoke wafting out of the 
server room door.

             WILEY
      Maybe if we wait long enough, the 
      bastard will die of cancer.

Lara smiles.

             WILEY
      Sure wish Gurov was here.

Lara puts her arms around Wiley.

             LARA
      You faced every possible unnatural 
      disaster.  For me.

Wiley smiles.

             LARA
      You’re the toughest man I know.

Suddenly, “Bearded” Mikhail runs out of the far corner and 
into the server room.

Wiley’s brow furrows.

INT. SERVER ROOM

Mikhail is breathing hard while Oleg watches the Marines’ 
formation on one of the video monitors.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      ... all taken care of.  You have 
      your things?

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
      Y-y-yes.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      We will lose ourselves in thirteen 
      million acres of Wrangell forest.  
      But first, let’s enjoy the show.

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
      Let’s go now!  In five minutes, 
      we’ll have Devil Dogs at our 
      throats.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      In two minutes, they will be puppy 
      chow.  

Oleg presses a combination of keys simultaneously -- like 
playing “Twister” with his fingers.

ON SCREEN: “TARGETING FRONT GATE PERIMETER.”

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - STAIRWELL

Wiley and Lara watch Mikhail and Oleg leave the server room.

             WILEY
      I’ll be damned.

They look at each other and shrug.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING - HALLWAY

Wiley and Lara sneak down the hallway.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

Oleg lights up a new cigar as Mikhail watches nervously.

Before them is an impressive Marine contingent.

Mikhail raises his AK-47, but Oleg pushes it down.

Mikhail looks at Oleg with wide eyes.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Relax, Mikhail.  This will be like 
      fireworks on Victory Day.

The Marines’ demands are made over a helicopter loud speaker.

             MARINE MEGAPHONE
      We demand your unconditional 
      surrender.  You are charged with 
      violating the U.N. treaty against 
      hostile use of environmental 
      modification.

Oleg smiles.

INT. SERVER ROOM HALLWAY

They creep towards the server.  Eyes alert.

             LARA
      This is too easy.

             WILEY
        (grins)
      Yeah.

At the entrance of the server room is a chain of EXPLOSIVES.

             LARA
      No, really.  This is too easy.

Wiley stops smiling when he sees it too.

The TIMER reads: “00:02:38” and counting down.

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

A BLUE GLOW SIZZLES on the antennae spikes.

INT. SERVER ROOM

Wiley and Lara see the Marines at the front gate on the video 
monitor.

             WILEY
      Yes!  Fitzgerald came through after 
      all!

But Lara’s smile disappears.  She grabs the monitor violently 
to get a closer look.

             WILEY
      What?

EXT. ENTRY GATE

A garish, swelling mass of bruised clouds form in the 
previously clear sky.

One by one the Marines notice the surreal ocean above them.

THUNDERCLOUDS spread over the Marines, but...

... the skies remain CLEAR on the compound side of the fence.

Oleg is almost giddy, while Mikhail is awestruck.

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
      That’s... that’s --

INT. SERVER ROOM

Wiley and Lara are equally paralyzed by the sight.

             WILEY
      ... impossible.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

THE CLOUDS BLUSTER and FLASH with LIGHTNING.  They ripple 
into a weird, regular pattern -- like the bottom of an egg 
carton.  Then RAIN GUSHES from the skies in waves.  The 
helicopters fight to maintain their position.

Mikhail cheers like a bloodthirsty Viking of old.

The Marines are confused.

The clouds spiral above.  The WIND on the ground spins dirt 
and rocks and brush in the opposite direction, two parts of a 
TORNADIC HOUR GLASS about to meet in the middle.

THE TORNADO EXPANDS its girth.  Its tail SLIDES madly on the 
rain-soaked ground, trying to gain footing.

INT. SERVER ROOM

Lara types in a blur.

             LARA
      How much time?

Wiley looks out the door.

             WILEY
      One minute, twelve seconds, Chief.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

THE KING KONG TORNADO seemingly beats its chest with 
LIGHTNING FISTS.  The Marines’ helicopters and trucks are 
swept into the WHIRLWIND.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

WILD SURGES OF ATMOSPHERIC WAVES in the ionospheric ocean.  
MORE SOLAR RAYS BOIL and penetrate the atmosphere.

EXT. ARCTIC - POLAR CAPS

GLACIERS CRACK, CRUMBLE AND FALL into the ocean.

EXT. WYOMING - RANCH

Dead cattle, horses, and chickens strewn over the landscape.

SUPER: “Casper, Wyoming”

A driverless tractor rolls slowly into a large tree.

EXT. HOLLAND - AMSTERDAM

The night life center is dead.  Tables and chairs overturned 
in a restaurant’s outdoor seating.

SUPER: “Leidse Square, Amsterdam”

A multitude of ambulance SIREN ECHOES through the streets.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

The surviving Marines try to run from the TORNADIC MONSTER as 
it grinds ice and soil from the ground.

INT. SERVER ROOM

Lara works on Oleg’s black portable terminal linked to rows 
of data banks.

             LARA
      Oh no.

             WILEY
      That’s like hearing your brain 
      surgeon say, “Oops.”

Lara speed types and stops.  Doesn’t like what she sees.

             LARA
      He really is a bastard.

Wiley looks for himself.  On SCREEN: “OVERRIDE DENIED.  
UNITED NATIONS PLAZA TRANSMISSION COMPLETE IN 9 MINUTES.”

             WILEY
      Shut it down!  Turn it off!

             LARA
      I’m trying!  It’s locked!

Wiley looks out the door.

             WILEY
      Pull the plug or something.

INT. SERVER ROOM HALLWAY

TIMER: “00:00:28”

EXT. ENTRY GATE

Oleg gazes at his creation like a proud papa.  

But Mikhail pulls back, wary of Oleg's ability to keep the 
monster at bay.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Impressive.  What a shame.

INT. SERVER ROOM

Wiley grabs Lara.

             WILEY
      We gotta go!

             LARA
      Wait!

             WILEY
      There is no wait!

EXT. ENTRY GATE

PLANTS AND ROCKS 

fire upward.  

The WHIRLING DERVISH catches up to the Marines.  They are 
SUCKED into the sky.

Mikhail is on the verge of a freak-out.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Get our gear.  Meet me at the creek 
      in five minutes.

But Mikhail is paralyzed.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Mikhail!


Mikhail wakes.  Nods and runs for the storage building.

INT. SERVER ROOM HALLWAY

Wiley and Lara sprint.

INT. CONTROL BUILDING

More blood than man, Gurov crawls down a hallway.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

THE TORNADO WHIRLS in place, its leftovers of wreckage and 
dead bodies at its feet.

Oleg has seen enough and walks away.

INT. SERVER ROOM HALLWAY

TIMER: “00:00:12”

EXT. COURTYARD

Wiley and Lara run out of the control building, panting.

Mikhail halts, staring at them in disbelief.

             WILEY
      Aw, Geez...

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
      Minter?  What are you...
        (looks at Wiley)
      Who are you?

             LARA
        (grabs Wiley’s hand)
      My husband.

Wiley looks at Lara in wonder.

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
      The trucker?  How...?

Mikhail aims his AK-47.

Lara gasps.

Wiley steps in front of her.

             WILEY
        (eyes glued on Mikhail)
      Hey, Chief... I love you.  You know 
      that.

INT. SERVER ROOM HALLWAY

TIMER ticks down to: “00:00:00”

KA-BOOM!

EXT. COURTYARD

Smoke and ash MUSHROOM out of the entry door behind them, 
KNOCKING them to the ground.

Mikhail’s rifle SKITTERS across the ice.

Wiley JUMPS ON Mikhail.

They wrestle in the ice and freezing puddles.

Lara grabs the AK-47.  But no clear shot.

Wiley wins the top position, but Mikhail reaches for his 
SIDEARM.

             LARA
      Wiley!

Wiley grabs Mikhail’s WRIST with one hand and squeezes 
Mikhail’s throat with his other.

             WILEY
      You get a pretty good grip chaining 
      loads on the ice road.

Wiley smashes Mikhail’s GUN HAND on the ground several times, 
but Mikhail won’t let go.  Mikhail strains to raise the gun 
towards Wiley.

Wiley sees the PUDDLE next to them and SLAMS Mikhail’s GUN 
HAND into the icy pool.  

BOTH HANDS

are submerged in the frigid water with the gun.

Mikhail grits his teeth.

             WILEY
      Sometimes we have to check air 
      hoses and tighten bolts with our 
      bare hands in minus forty degrees.

MIKHAIL’S HAND is turning blue.

             WILEY
      Pretty cold, eh?

Mikhail yells in pain.  

He lets go of the gun.  A thousand hot needles searing his 
hand.

Wiley raises his fist in the air.

             WILEY
      Thanks for numbing my hand, 
      asshole.

SCRUNCH!  Wiley knocks out Mikhail with a haymaker.

Wiley stands up wobbly, but Lara steadies him.

             WILEY
        (still pissed at Mikhail)
      That’s right.  I’m one bad ass 
      mother-trucker.

They stumble towards the debris.  Lara rubs and exhales warm 
breath on Wiley’s freezing hand.

             WILEY
      And that’s that.

EXT. EASTERN FENCE LINE

Oleg checks his watch.  Shakes his head in disappointment.

INT. SERVER ROOM HALLWAY

The hallway leading to the server room is caved in with 
chunks of concrete.

             LARA
      We’ll never stop the transmission 
      now.

INT. SERVER ROOM

The dark room is only lit by the blinking lights of the 
server towers and the SCREEN: “TRANSMISSION COMPLETE IN 4 
MINUTES.”

EXT. NEW YORK - UNITED NATIONS BUILDING

AN AMBASSADOR 

gets out of his limo, but his driver holding the door open, 
is mesmerized by something above.

Everyone around him looks skyward.

SUPER: “New York City”

SUPER: “United Nations Building”

The ambassador sees the greenish black CLOUDS CHURN into a 
turbulent swirl.

EXT. COURTYARD

Lara buries her head in Wiley’s chest.  He looks around 
aimlessly.  He spies the row of 

EIGHTEEN-WHEELERS

docked at the storage building.

             WILEY
      You trust me?

EXT. STORAGE BUILDING

Lara struggles to keep up with Wiley.

             LARA
      How are you going to destroy 180 
      antennae in three or four minutes?

             WILEY
      I just need the biggest trailer you 
      got...  Here we go.

It’s big, but ancient.

             LARA
      Maybe we should get something a 
      little newer.

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #1

Wiley tries the starter.

             WILEY
      Naw -- the newer ones have anti-
      lock brakes.

             LARA
      That’s a bad thing?

The engine won’t turn over.

             WILEY
      Come on!

Still won’t start.

             WILEY
      Damn.  Froze over.

EXT. STORAGE BUILDING

Wiley and Lara try starting other trucks.  Lara REVS AN 
ENGINE.

             LARA
      Got one!

Wiley helps her out of the cab.

             LARA
      I want to go with you.

             WILEY
      Too dangerous, Chief.

Lara strides over to the other side.

             LARA
      Oh no, you don’t.  You’re not 
      leaving me behind again.

INT. SERVER ROOM

On SCREEN: “TRANSMISSION COMPLETE IN 2 MINUTES.”

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

Wiley drives towards the antennae array field.

             LARA
      ... “jackknife” it?  Like... on 
      purpose?

             WILEY
      With some luck, we’ll give it a 
      decent haircut.

EXT. COURTYARD

The eighteen-wheeler sails through the courtyard and around 
the corner of the building.  

ICE SPLASHES off the tires.

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

THE ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

comes into view of their windshield.  THE BLUE GLOW of the 
antennae continues to form the base for the inverted cone 
shooting a CLEAR BLUE BEAM into the heavens.

             WILEY
      You strapped in tight?

Lara double-checks her seat belt.

INT. SERVER ROOM

On SCREEN: “TRANSMISSION COMPLETE IN 1 MINUTE.”

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

The truck idles at the “starting line.”

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

Wiley puts his game face on and places his hand on the gear 
shift.  But Lara covers HIS HAND WITH HERS.

             LARA
      Wiley... wait.

             WILEY
      It’ll work, Chief.  Just trust --

             LARA
      This took ten years to build.  You 
      saw its power.  We could divert 
      hurricanes from reaching 
      coastlines.  Delay earthquakes in 
      time for people to...

             WILEY
      Lara... we gotta stuff the genie 
      back in the bottle.

Lara searches her soul in Wiley’s eyes and lets go of his 
hand.  He SHIFTS it in GEAR.

But Lara's door opens and she’s yanked out of the cab...

EXT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

... by Oleg who plants his gun nozzle in Lara's face.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      You are not seriously going to 
      destroy your life’s work?  I’m not 
      letting you ruin mine.

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

Oleg checks the cab, but Wiley’s not there.

EXT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

He drags Lara around with him as he searches.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Wiley?  We have not met, but I am 
      the man that could change your life 
      forever with one finger.

Nothing.  No sound, but Lara's rapid breathing.

             OLEG ZHIRINOVSKY
      Think of your daughter.  You can 
      have your little family -- all 
      together again.

Lara sees

WILEY’S SHADOW

on the ground.  He’s on top of the trailer.  She HEAD-BUTTS 
Oleg with the back of her head.  Right on the

NOSE.

Oleg lets her go and falls back as

WILEY

leaps from the trailer.

CRASHING Oleg to the ground.

Wiley SMASHES Oleg in the face several times.

Out cold.

Wiley tosses Oleg's gun over the fence and into the CREEK.

             WILEY
      I’m getting pretty good at this.

They hurry into the cab.

EXT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

THE TRUCK TIRES

roll forward, past Oleg laying on the ice.

INT. SERVER ROOM

On SCREEN: “6 SECONDS.”

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

The TRUCK picks up SPEED as it enters the array field.

             LARA
      This is so crazy.

             WILEY
      “Many have tried and died.”

             LARA
      You’re gonna try anyway, aren’t 
      you?

             WILEY
      Oink, oink.

WILEY’S FOOT 

FLOORS THE GAS PEDAL.

The first set of ANTENNAE BUCKLE and disappear from view.

WILEY’S FOOT

stomps on the BRAKE.

He spins his 

STEERING WHEEL 

abruptly, then straightens it out just as hastily.

FOOT

still heavy on the SCREECHING BRAKE.

Wiley and Lara jitter violently.

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

The eighteen-wheeler JACKKNIFES forming a boomerang that 
SKIDS across the field, MOWING DOWN rows and rows of 
antennae.

ANTENNAE SHRAPNEL

SPIKE the eighteen wheeler like a pioneer wagon inundated by 
Apache arrows.

THE BLUE INVERTED CONE

disintegrates into floating blue particles.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

The TORNADO

is like a caged lion sensing a chance to escape.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

The blue patch on the ionosphere shrinks to nothing.

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

Time slows gracefully.

WILEY AND LARA
kiss as the truck continues its slide.  They are aglow from 
the glittering blue particles that dance like fireflies.

INT. SERVER ROOM

On SCREEN: “TRANSMISSION INCOMPLETE” as the word “INCOMPLETE” 
blinks on and off.

EXT. NEW YORK - UNITED NATIONS BUILDING

THE MYSTERIOUS THUNDER CLOUDS

seem to IMPLODE, swallowing themselves until they disappear, 
revealing a clear sky.

The people around the building murmur and point, not knowing 
what to make of it.

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

THE EIGHTEEN-WHEELER CATCHES on the growing pile of fallen 
antennae and flips over.

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

Wiley and Lara do their best to hang on as their world 
somersaults.

EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

THEIR TRUCK

FLIPS in the air and...

... CRASHES to the ground.  

SLIDES, SPARKS flying.  

SLAMS into the fence,...

... UPROOTING POLES and PUSHING THE WIRE FENCE to the 
breaking point, but at least...

... it stops the truck in a 

TANGLE OF FENCE WIRE AND BLACKENED SNOW.

INT. SUPPLY TRUCK #2

They hang from their seat belts like a diagonal meat locker.

Wiley releases his seat belt and CRASHES to the cab’s 
ceiling.

             LARA
      Wiley...

             WILEY
      Howdy-doody, Chief.

             LARA
        (weak, in jest)
      “Every time I need you to take care 
      of the tiniest thing...”

Wiley smirks, remembering those words from just a day ago.

             LARA
      Are you going to get me down or 
      take a nap?

Lara hangs upsidedown in her buttonless blouse.

             WILEY
      I don’t know.  You look pretty sexy 
      up there.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

The previously stifled skyscraper TASMANIAN DEVIL is LOUDER, 
BLACKER, MORE VIOLENT.
EXT. ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

Wiley is Lara's crutch, helping her limp away from the truck 
carcass and through the cemetery of dead antennae.

             WILEY
      Not enough antennas to boost a T.V. 
      channel.

But then they see the encroaching TORNADO.

             LARA
      The array created the tornado, but 
      it also...

             LARA & WILEY
      ... held it back.

             WILEY
      Oh shit.

             LARA
      Times two.


TREMORS ROCK them as they stumble out of the antennae field.

EXT. ENTRY GATE

TREMORS ROCK the entry gate booth and fence.

The TORNADO invades the compound, SWALLOWING the fence line 
and entry gate booth.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

TREMORS wobble the makeshift cell.

             KRUZ
      What the hell is going on up there?

EXT. ALASKA - A.I.R. - ANTENNAE ARRAY FIELD

The WIND AND RAIN BUFFET their hair and clothes.  Wiley 
steers Lara towards the eastern fence line for their escape 
into the forest.

             LARA
      No!  The trees are like lightning 
      rods.

             WILEY
      We need a basement.

             LARA
      The underground storage room.

Wiley nods.

EXT. A.I.R. - HANGAR

THE METAL STRUCTURE SQUEALS AND SWAYS at its joints.

INT. CONTROL TOWER

SERIES OF SHOTS

Everything SHAKES out of control.

Lights go out in the hallways, panel by panel

Out in the control tower

Out in the server room

The SHAKING screen reads: “TRANSMISSION INCOMPLETE” and 
shrinks to a dot until it disappears.

EXT. CONTROL BUILDING

WIND AND RAIN WHIP about wildly.  Wiley and Lara struggle to 
run as they pass a still unconscious Oleg.

Cranium-cracking THUNDER SMACKS like territorial mountain 
goats in an echo chamber. 

The RAIN -- like toothpicks in their eyes.

LIGHTNING TEARS the horizon in pieces.

EXT. COURTYARD

They run towards the storage building.  THE TORNADO SPINS its 
way towards the control building, closing on them.

EXT. CONTROL BUILDING

THE CONTROL TOWER EXPLODES into a billion fragments that 
grind to nothing as they swirl within the maelstrom’s vortex.  

THE TORNADO ROARS in victory amidst the rubble.  

EXT. COURTYARD

GREAT CRACKS THROUGH ICE AND DIRT 

spread through the courtyard. 

The GROUND SHIFTS and DISPLACES huge jigsaw puzzle pieces of 
earth.

LIGHTNING 

STRIKES the ground around them. It’s like running through an 
air mine field as they leap and climb over 

SEVERELY UNEVEN TERRAIN.

A STRAY LIGHTNING BOLT

trails off and ZAPS A GENERATOR.

BOOM!

EXT. CONTROL BUILDING

Oleg wakes to an unwanted shower.  His world enveloped in a 
martini shaker.

He drags himself up, surfing on a jackhammer as he heads 
eastward toward the forest.

EXT. COURTYARD

A black and blue and red Mikhail spots Oleg.

             COMRADE “BEARDED” MIKHAIL
      Oleg!

But Oleg can’t hear him.  

Mikhail runs drunkenly towards Oleg.

EXT. HANGAR

A LARGE FISSURE 

SPRAYS through the hangar’s foundation.

Mikhail tries to get past the CRUMBLING HANGAR.

The ground’s jagged mouth OPENS WIDE.

Mikhail and the hangar are SWALLOWED by the earth’s voracious 
maw.

EXT. STORAGE BUILDING

LIGHTNING CLAWS gorge their way to the metal roof.

THE ROOF

FOLDS AND CRUMPLES.

THE ROW OF SEMI’S

SMASH into each other like giant, metallic dominoes.

INT. STORAGE ROOM

DUST AND DEBRIS SHOWER the hostages.  Kruz has everyone 
stacking crates and equipment into pillars to brace the 
ceiling.

EXT. STORAGE BUILDING

The storage building looks like it’s been stepped on by 
Godzilla.

             WILEY
      Kruz!  God...

Lara grabs Wiley’s hand.

             LARA
      Nothing’s hopeless.

Lara scans the area.

             LARA
      We have to head towards open field.
        (looks around)
      That way!

They run south where there is wide, flat land.

EXT. EASTERN FENCE LINE

Oleg sees the Wrangell St. Elias National Park to the east 
and the cut fence section left by Gurov.

He staggers towards it.

EXT. A.I.R. - SOUTH END

The rain has subsided and the storm is strangely quiet.  
Wiley and Lara breathe heavily.  

Lara sniffs the air.  The pungent smell of...

             LARA
      Sulfur...

             WILEY
      That’s bad, right?

Horrific HISSING rises to a crescendo, like locusts by Bose®.  
Behind them, 

THE STRANGE TORNADO

is luminescent on the inside from the ELECTRICAL STORM RAGING 
within its bowels.

Multiple LIGHTNING BOLTS STREAKS -- at each end of the 
arthritic fingers is...

             LARA
      ... ball lightning.

COLORFUL LIGHTNING BALLS

ZIGZAG erratically and horizontally.  

Some just DISSIPATE, 

some hover before moving again, and 

others EXPLODE like bombs leaving a thick, black trail of 
inky smoke.

A MYRIAD OF BALL LIGHTNING

orchestrate their Fourth of July celebration in a symphony of 
EXPLOSIONS.

EXT. EASTERN FENCE LINE - CREEK BED

Oleg crawls through the cut section of the fence, but... 

... loses his footing and...

... slides down to the sandy area of the creek bed.

Like an alien planet -- the creek bed is filled with massive 
ten to thirty foot fulgurites that ascend like stalagmites.

MORE LIGHTNING

SMASHES into the sand, creating another fulgurite in front of 
a FREAKED OUT OLEG.

FULGURITES

are SHATTERED by lightning bolts, 

FRESH FULGURITES rise in the crowded space.

Oleg tries to scramble out of the creek bed, but...

... A FLASH of LIGHTNING SMACKS him.  He shakes violently as 
if someone stuck the world’s largest electric toothbrush up 
his ass.

AN ELECTRIC FINGER

YANKS a syrupy string of sand and rock and flesh, leaving a 
GROTESQUE OSSIFIED TRAIL as it instantly TEARS OLEG APART, 
petrifying his misshapen remains.

EXT. SOUTH END

TREES AND BRUSH along the sides of the open field BURST into 
flame.  

BALL LIGHTNING CRATERS the ground like a war zone.

Wiley and Lara

dodge EXPLODING BALLS of lightning in the air around them and 
the ground at their feet.  

A LARGE ONE

DETONATES just behind them, sending THEM FLYING.

EXT. COURTYARD

The TORNADO COCOON -- pregnant with radiant life.  

A HUGE GLOWING BALL

inside the tornado, fighting to escape.

EXT. SOUTH END

Wiley helps Lara to her feet when he notices the strange 
TORNADO HYBRID.

             WILEY
      Aw, now what the hell is that?

             LARA
      Mother Nature giving birth to 
      Oleg’s offspring.

Suddenly, their faces reflect an iridescent blue light.  As 
if witnessing the coming of E.T.

EXT. COURTYARD

A GIANT BALL LIGHTNING

PULSES inside the still expanding tornado.

Like Clark Kent’s clothes, the tornadic threads rip away from 
the Superman Sphere.

SPIDERY ELECTRIC LEGS

feel their way in staccato-like fashion as the ball lightning 
hovers above the earth.

PULSATING at an accelerated rate and MUSHROOMS!

The EXPLOSION

fans out in an increasing radius that ELECTRIFIES everything 
it touches -- 

ANTENNAE,

BUILDING STRUCTURES, 

TREES, BRUSH, BERMS, AND 

EVEN FULGURITES.

EXT. SOUTH END

THE EDGE OF THE BOOM WAVE races towards them.

             LARA
      No!  Don’t move! --  Stay right 
      there.

Wiley freezes.

             LARA
      We’re not going to outrun this 
      thing, so just do as I say.

Lara demonstrates the correct position as she explains it.

             LARA
      Crouch down and wrap your arms 
      tight.

The onrush of the ELECTRIC FORCE closing on them.

Wiley turns around.

             LARA
      Don’t look!  Make yourself as small 
      as possible and rise up on the 
      balls of your feet.

Balancing on the balls of their shoes, their HEELS lift off 
the ground.

             WILEY
      You’re not going to make me kiss my 
      own ass, are ya?

             LARA
      Stick your head down and keep your 
      eyes and mouth shut, no matter what 
      happens!

THE ELECTRIC CURRENT

WASHES over and around them, their hair and clothes fly 
forward in the violent surge.

Everything turns

WHITE.

A CESSNA’S PROPELLER disturbs the tranquility of the 
aftermath.

EXT. ALASKA - SKY

Melvin’s Cessna flies in a angled curve.

EXT. A.I.R.

Below, a huge smoking crater scoops the center of the 
compound.

Emergency vehicles and crew litter the area.

INT. CESSNA

Melvin searches from the skies.

             MELVIN
        (smiles)
      Dere yah go.

EXT. COURTYARD

WILEY AND LARA -- singed, but alive.  Wiley waves at the 
Cessna as Lara kisses him on the cheek.

INT. CESSNA

Melvin laughs in relief.

EXT. COURTYARD

Wiley gazes into his wife’s eyes.

             WILEY
      What do we tell Bell?

             LARA
      We’ve only been separated for a few 
      months.  She’ll never know the 
      difference.

EXT. ALASKA - A.I.R. - STORAGE BUILDING

Emergency workers are helping the hostages out of the rubble.

KRUZ
is being worked on by a paramedic.  He catches sight of Wiley 
and Lara.  Smiles and salutes.

EXT. COURTYARD

Lara leans her head against Wiley’s chest.

             LARA
      Wonder what happened to your 
      friend.  Gurov.

Wiley shakes his head sadly, but --

Over by the crumpled, smoking pile that was the control 
building, Wiley spots

GUROV'S SHOVEL

planted in the ground like a grave marker.

Wiley walks over and pulls it out.  

Written on the spade with black cinder are the words: “NOT 
YET”

Wiley ponders Gurov’s words and half-smiles.

EXT. CESSNA

THE ENGINE GURGLES as the PROPELLER of the parked plane THUDS 
rapidly.

INT. CESSNA

Melvin is speaking on a cell phone as his plane idles.  Turns 
around and hands the phone to the backseat.

             MELVIN
      A leetle Mouse-keteer...

Mara takes the phone.

             MARA
        (smiling)
      Bel?... Bel!  How’s our --

Wiley grins.

             MARA
      It’s... snowing?  In Los Angeles?

Mara gives Wiley a worried look.  Wiley’s brow furrows, he 
leans close to the phone.

EXT. CALIFORNIA - DISNEYLAND

Grandma Irene takes the phone from Bel whose attention 
transitions to a bag of Cheetos.  A snowy mountainside sits 
behind them.  Screams in the background.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      Mara?...  Yes, dear...  No, no...

INT. CESSNA

Mara chuckles.

             MARA
      Ohhh!
        (to Wiley)
      It’s okay...

Mara kisses Wiley.

Melvin shakes his head as they take off.

EXT. CALIFORNIA - DISNEYLAND

Grandma Irene and Bel walk hand in hand.  On the other side 
of the railing, a bobsled full of screaming kids PLUNGE into 
the Matterhorn’s ALPINE POND at the bottom of the ride.

             GRANDMA IRENE
      So what about that husband of 
      yours?...

Above them...

Clear, blue skies above.

             GRANDMA IRENE 
      ... I bet he’s late again.

FADE OUT.

