         SNOW WHITE AND THE HUNTSMAN

               Written by

             Evan Daugherty

       Inspired by the Brothers Grimm's
           "Little Snow White"

 Roth Films


             THE HUNTSMAN      Once upon a time... there was a 
      wicked queen... who had a beautiful 
      stepdaughter... with hair as black 
      as ebony... skin white as snow... 
      and lips as red as blood...

FADE IN:

CREDITS ROLL over a wordless MONTAGE:

INT. ROYAL PALACE - BANQUET HALL - DAY

Unique APPLES -- each one HALF-RED and HALF-WHITE -- rest in 
a black ebony bowl on a long, regal dining table.

A YOUNG SNOW WHITE [5], dressed in royal attire and a small 
tiara, checks to make sure that no one is watching, then 
precociously sneaks into the dining room. 

But unbeknownst to Snow White, a little BOY enters the dining 
hall from the opposite door and starts sneaking towards the 
apples.  This is YOUNG PRINCE CHARMANT [5].

Snow White and Prince Charmant each grab the same apple.  
They have a small, playful tug-of-war, before eventually 
agreeing to share... each taking a bite out of the apple.

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - LATER THAT DAY

Prince Charmant digs a hole in the courtyard ground and drops 
the APPLE CORE into it.  Snow White covers it with dirt.

THE SEEDS GROW:

Into a SAPLING.  Snow White and Prince Charmant, now 10, 
playfully spar throughout the courtyard with wooden swords.  

Prince Charmant stumbles.  Snow White falls on top of him.  
They share a cute but awkward smile...

THE TREE GROWS:

It now has a full crop of unique HALF-RED, HALF-WHITE APPLES.  
Snow White and Prince Charmant, now 11, try to catch 
snowflakes with their tongues.

Snow White catches a snowflake.  She pulls out a MAGNIFYING 
GLASS and gestures for Prince Charmant to look through the 
glass with her.  Together, they peer through the glass, 
taking in the beauty and complexity of each snowflake.

THE TREE GROWS:

Snow White and Prince Charmant, now 12, sit beneath their 
fully grown apple tree, looking up at the bright night sky, 
marvelling at the occasional shooting star.

The Prince plucks a red and white apple, hands it to Snow 
White.  Snow White returns the favor with an innocent kiss.

BUT THEN-- Theres a COMMOTION from the other side of the 
courtyard.  The Kings armored KNIGHTS, including DUKE 
CHARMANT [35], Prince Charmants father, rush through the 
courtyard.  Something is wrong.

THE NEXT DAY:

A FUNERAL fills the courtyard.  The DEAD QUEEN, Snow Whites 
mother, lies in a coffin.  Snow White stands beside her stoic 
father, THE KING [40s], trying to fight back tears.

Prince Charmant and Duke Charmant stand next to Snow White 
and the King.  Prince Charmant places a hand on Snow Whites 
shoulder, trying to comfort her.

WEEKS LATER:

The funeral BECOMES A WEDDING.  Snow White walks down the 
aisle, scattering red roses down on the long white carpet.  
Prince Charmant walks beside her as the ringbearer.  They 
dont seem very enthusiastic about their jobs...

Thats because the King is marrying a young, almost 
incomprehensibly beautiful trophy bride named RAVENNA.  

As soon as Ravenna kisses her new husband, she flashes a cold 
look at Duke Charmant and his knights.  There are going to be 
some big changes around here.

DAYS LATER:

RAIN FALLS in the courtyard as Ravennas new ROYAL GUARDS 
forcefully escort Duke Charmant and the other knights out of 
the palace.  Duke Charmant brings Prince Charmant with him.  
Snow White watches it all from beneath their apple tree.

But then, Prince Charmant breaks away from his father, runs 
back to Snow White and embraces her.  He leans in close and 
WHISPERS SOMETHING in her ear.  Something we wont hear.

And then, he gives Snow White one of the red and white 
apples.  After a moment, Duke Charmant pulls his son away.

The drawbridge slowly closes... blocking Snow White and 
Prince Charmant from each others sight.

DISSOLVE TO:


INT. SNOW WHITES ROOM - DAWN - [FIVE YEARS LATER]

A beautiful YOUNG WOMAN sleeps peacefully on her bed.  This 
is SNOW WHITE, now 18.  

Although shes still asleep, we can see that her STAGGERING 
BEAUTY has come to match Ravennas.  And it somehow goes 
beyond the physical.  This is the kind of beauty immortalized 
by great artists in sculpture and painting... and the kind of 
beauty that has driven good men to war.

She is AWAKENED by two large WET TONGUES licking her face.  
They belong to two massive IRISH WOLFHOUNDS.  The huge dogs 
frolic on the bed, trying to get Snow Whites attention.

Snow White wipes the sleep from her eyes.  She is met by a 
whole cacophony of other sounds -- BARKS, MEOWS, CHIRPS.  

Her entire room is filled with PETS: dogs, cats, rabbits... 
and beautiful SONGBIRDS kept in cages hanging in the windows.

             SNOW WHITE
      Yes, yes, Im up...

LATER, Snow White struggles to wash her enormous wolfhounds, 
almost as big as her, in a large tub.  Every once in a while, 
the dogs shake out their coats, sending soapy water flying.

LATER, She dutifully cleans her pets cages and feeds them.  
She clearly has an affinity for these animals.  And they are 
obviously drawn to her.  Its all very pleasant and charming--

Until we start to get a sense that they are her only friends.

Next, Snow White visits her birdcages in the window.  She 
opens up a cage housing a beautiful RED AND WHITE FINCH and 
slips in some new seed.  

Both Snow White and the finch look to the majestic horizon, 
where the sun is just rising over distant snow-capped peaks.

             SNOW WHITE
        (to the finch)
      How far do you think wed get?

But then, Snow White hears the sound of CLANKING CHAINS.  She 
peeks out her window and sees the palace DRAWBRIDGE lowering.  
Waiting across the drawbridge is a-- HORSE-DRAWN CAGE WAGON

The cage is filled with BEAUTIFUL WOMEN.  Frightened women.  
We wont know for sure, but well suspect that theyre being 
delivered to the Queen for some sort of nefarious purpose.

The finch CHIRPS loudly.

             SNOW WHITE
        (responding to the finch)
      Yes, I suppose it could be worse.

And then, Snow White spots a DOT OF WHITE out in the meadows 
outside the palace.  She looks closer and sees that its--

A WHITE WOLF.  Without a tail.

But the wolf quickly disappears back into the tall grass.

INT. ROYAL PALACE - RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - LATER

WE'LL SEE A SILHOUETTE through the glass of an extravagant 
showering chamber.  The water dies down and RAVENNA, the 
Queen, steps out amidst clouds of steam.  As gorgeous as Snow 
White, but where Snow White's beauty is natural and 
effortless, Ravenna's beauty seems maintained and preserved. 

Her three overdressed and over-coiffed male BEAUTY EXPERTS -- 
THE TAILOR, THE HAIRDRESSER and THE COSMETOLOGIST -- quickly 
dry her body, comb her hair and slip on her silk robe.  

Behind Ravennas back and without her knowledge, they jostle 
with one another over access to the Queen.  Slapping each 
others hand, elbowing each other, flashing dirty looks.

With a harsh look from Ravenna, the three Beauty Experts 
finish up their work and scramble back out of the room...

And then, Ravenna glides towards a LARGE MIRROR with a 
beautifully carved frame and examines herself in it.

From a distance, Ravenna's body seems flawless... but up 
close, we might spot wrinkles, stretch marks and other subtle 
signs of aging.  After a moment: 

             RAVENNA
      Mirror, mirror, on the wall,     
      Who is fairest of them all?

Silence... until... the mirror RIPPLES LIKE WATER... a LIQUID 
HAND EMERGES from the mirror.  The hand is followed quickly 
by the remaining parts of a flowing MIRRORED BODY.

MIRROR MAN fully emerges from his prison, his body like a 
billowing cloak made entirely of reflective mirror.  It moves 
like silk, but it has the look and feel of a real mirror.

             MIRROR MAN
      From barren heath to windswept 
      strand...
      Thou art fairest in the land.

Ravenna smiles upon hearing Mirror Mans expected response.  

             MIRROR MAN 
      But...

Ravenna turns back to Mirror Man, concerned.

             MIRROR MAN 
      White of skin, red of lip, black of 
      hair...
      Another soon will be more fair.

From the look on Ravennas face, this is highly unusual.  She 
takes a moment, letting it sink in...

             RAVENNA
      That day weve been talking about 
      for so long...
        (a moment)
      I think its finally arrived.

EXT. THROUGHOUT THE PALACE - VARIOUS

The Kings aging, graying OLD GUARDS are overwhelmed and 
disarmed by Ravennas own younger ROYAL GUARDS.

Ravenna is finally cleaning house.

INT. KINGS BEDCHAMBER

The gray-haired KING [now 60] sleeps soundly in his elegant 
canopy bed, covered by thick furs.

But the Queens ROYAL GUARDS creep inside, swords raised....

INT. SNOW WHITES ROOM

As Snow White feeds her animals... THE DOORS FLIES OPEN--   
An AGING GUARD, loyal to the King, hobbles in, breathless.

             AGING GUARD
      Snow White!  Your father is dead... 
      and theyre coming for you!

With tears streaming from her eyes, the delirious Snow White 
frantically packs a satchel with food and supplies.

             SNOW WHITE
      I dont understand!  Whats happen--

LATER:

             AGING GUARD
      Theres no time to explain!  Make 
      for the woods!  Go!  Now!

Just before Snow White leaves, she runs back into the room 
and releases all of her animals from their cages.

INT. PALACE SCULLERY - MOMENTS LATER

Snow White races into the dark, dank kitchen and laundry 
area.  The room is filled with AGED SCULLERY MAIDS, 
frightening OLD CRONES with sagging faces and dead eyes.  

Everywhere Snow White turns, she runs into them.  Finally, 
Snow White slips out a door and ESCAPES INTO THE WILD...

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Several Royal Guards run up to Ravennas throne, winded.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      The King is dead, Your Beauty.

             RAVENNA
      And the girl?

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      Gone.  We cant pick up her trail.

             RAVENNA
      Then find me someone who can!

EXT. THICK WOODS - DAWN

A girl runs through the trees.  But its not Snow White.  
Its a beautiful young REDHEAD [15].  Shes running from--   

CUT TO:

A MONSTROUS BROWN WOLF!

EXT. CABIN CLEARING - NEARBY

Surrounded by empty jugs, a DRUNK MAN [40] sleeps against a 
stump, like one of those shabby lions trapped behind a cage 
in a rundown zoo.  A half-finished CABIN stands behind him.  
Nearby, a battered WOODEN CROSS sticks out of the ground.

             REDHEAD 
      AAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!


The Drunk Man shoots to his feet--  But immediately falls 
back to the ground, either extremely hung over or, as his 
name would suggest, still drunk.

But then, he hears a WOLFS HOWL.  And something about THAT 
HOWL brings out the fierce young lion in the man.

He grabs a VARIETY OF AXES AND HATCHETS, from small tomahawks 
to larger throwing axes, at least twenty in all, and slips 
them into a thick belt and several shoulder holsters.

To cap it off, the Drunk Man pulls a huge LOGGING AXE out of 
the stump and straps it across his back like a barbarians 
broadsword or a samurais katana.  He charges off into--

EXT. THICK WOODS

Barrelling through the trees, bounding over boulders, ducking 
under branches.  The Drunk Man knows these woods well.

This must be THE HUNTSMAN.  His name is ERIC... and a WHITE 
WOLFS TAIL hangs from his belt.

EXT. FOREST GLEN

The Redhead runs from the ravenous wolf.  She looks back, 
sees the wolf gaining.  But when she looks forward again--

She slams right into Eric and falls to the ground.

             ERIC
      Clear away.

Little Red nods and ducks behind a large tree.

The wolf stops in its tracks when it sees Eric.  Eric and the 
brown wolf both stand their ground.

Eric stares deep into the wolfs narrow eyes, and for a SPLIT-
SECOND, the brown wolf becomes--

--A WHITE WOLF!

But its all in Erics mind.  Eric shakes his head, and the 
HALLUCINATION DISAPPEARS.

Eric pulls his logging axe, hurls it.  The wolf dodges.  He 
draws two smaller hatchets from his belt.  The wolf lunges.  
Eric sidesteps, swipes at the wolf.

RRRIIIIPPPPPPP!!!  Wolf claws tear into Erics shoulder, but 
he doesnt seem to mind.  Eric turns, sizes the wolf up.

The wolf leaps.  Eric ducks, slices its belly.  The wounded 
beast lands and prepares for a final deadly attack--

But Eric tosses two hatchets at once--

LATER:

The Redhead stands over the DEAD WOLFS CARCASS.  Eric kneels 
behind her, washing his hands in a stream.

But when the Redhead looks back to the wolf... its not a 
wolf anymore... its a MAN.

             ERIC
        (explaining)
      In the woods, those who seem to be 
      wolves may be men...

As the Redhead studies this bizarre sight, Eric slowly creeps 
up behind her.

             ERIC
      And those who seem to be friends...

Eric THROWS A HOOD over the girls head.

EXT. FOREST PATH - NIGHT

A rickety CAGE WAGON waits in the path.  The Redhead and a 
group of other BEAUTIFUL FEMALE PRISONERS fill the cage.  
This is the same type of cage wagon that Snow White saw 
arriving at Ravennas palace.

A BROKER with rotting teeth drops a piece of GOLD into Erics 
hand.  Eric flashes a LOOK to the Broker.  He wants more...  

The Broker rolls his eyes, then painlessly plucks a GOLD 
TOOTH out of his mouth and drops it into Erics waiting palm.

The Broker whips his horses, pulls the wagon away.  Eric 
watches as the women are trucked off into the night.  After a 
moment, he has to look away.

EXT. CABIN CLEARING - LATER THAT NIGHT

Eric drowns his sorrows with a stupidly large JAR OF GROG.

             SARA
      You cant spend your whole life 
      hunting...

Eric turns around--

EXT. CABIN CLEARING - DAY - [THE PAST]

--and sees SARA [35].  Smiling.  Shes worn.  But beautiful.  
The kind of woman a man like Eric should grow old with.

The clearing looks much the same, but a light dusting of SNOW 
covers the ground.  Eric, clean-shaven and more than a few 
years younger, slips two hatchets into his belt.

             ERIC
        (responding to Sara)
      Whats that?

             SARA
      I said, you cannot spend your whole 
      life hunting.  Unless Im the prey.

Eric grabs Saras hips, brings her in close.

             ERIC
      But youd like to eat something 
      tonight...?

             SARA
      I suppose that would be nice.

Eric leans in, shares a PASSIONATE KISS with Sara.

             ERIC
      Ill be back before nightfall.

But as Eric turns and runs out of the clearing--

WELL SEE the cold, focused eyes of a WHITE WOLF camouflaged 
against the snow.  Its eyes are FIXED ON SARA.

And with a HOWL--

EXT. CABIN CLEARING - NIGHT - [BACK TO THE PRESENT]

--were BACK WITH ERIC.  Alone.  Sitting on his stump.

Eric hears a HOWL, sees a GHOSTLY FLASH of a WHITE WOLF.  He 
turns, sees another FLASH of the white wolf.  And then, A 
WHOLE CHORUS OF GROWLS AND HOWLS!!!  Everywhere Eric turns, 
he sees the white wolf.

He grabs his logging axe, tosses it into the darkness.  
FWACK!!!!  The axe buries itself deep in a tree.

Eric takes a deep breath, calms himself.  The clearing is 
empty and silent again.  It was all in his head.  He falls 
back onto his stump and takes a swig from his jug.

EXT. CABIN CLEARING - NEXT MORNING

Eric sleeps against his favorite stump, surrounded by empty 
jugs... as a horse quietly ambles into the clearing.

             ERIC
      Perfume...?

Eric opens his eyes, sees the ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN.

             ERIC
      A Royal Guard.  That explains it.
        (a moment)
      The palace is that way.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      Queen Ravenna demands your 
      presence, Huntsman.

             ERIC
      And I demand your horses stand on 
      its hind legs and dance a jig, but 
      something tells me its not going 
      to happen.

The Guard Captain tosses a small SACK OF GOLD at Erics feet.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      More where that came from.

EXT. ROYAL VILLAGE - LATER THAT DAY

Eric and the Royal Guard Captain ride into a SMALL VILLAGE, 
which lies just outside the palace walls.  Eric, sobered up, 
is outfitted with all the tools of his trade.  He examines 
his surroundings.  The town is too quiet.  Too lifeless.

But then, a GLINT OF LIGHT flashes on Erics face.  The Guard 
Captain spots a MIRROR peeking out of an OLD WOMANS satchel.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      You there!

             OLD WOMAN
      Please, no!  It was my mothers!

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      The Queen has forbidden it!

The Guard pulls the mirror away, knocking the Old Woman down.

             ERIC
      All that for a mirror?

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - LATER THAT DAY

A long hall leading to Ravennas throne room.  The Guard 
Captain FINDS A SPOT for the stolen mirror on the wall amidst 
thousands of other mirrors of every shape and size.  

That must be the purpose of the HALL OF MIRRORS -- to house 
all of the Ravennas mirrors, stolen from her subjects.

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM

The Beauty Experts carefully work on Ravennas appearance, 
manicuring fingernails and brushing hair.  They jockey for a 
prime spot to do their beauty work.  As usual, Ravenna 
doesnt see... or chooses to ignore their shenanigans.

             RAVENNA
      You look good, Eric.

Eric stands at the foot of Ravennas throne.

             ERIC
      And you look the same.

Ravenna forces a smile.

             ERIC
      How old is this daughter of yours?

             RAVENNA
      She is not my daughter!
        (calming down)
      She was the Kings daughter... from 
      his second marriage... or was it 
      his third?  There were so many, I 
      can never remember.

             ERIC
      And you want me to take care of 
      the girl... like you took care of 
      her father.

             RAVENNA
      The King snatched me out of my 
      mothers arms when I was just a 
      girl.  I replaced an old wrinkled 
      woman... and in time, I also would 
      have been replaced.
        (stepping off her throne)
      Because men... they use women... 
      they ruin us... and when theyre 
      finished... they toss whats left 
      to the dogs like table scraps.

Ravenna comes nose to nose with Eric.

             RAVENNA 
      But when a woman stays young and 
      beautiful forever, the whole world 
      is hers for the taking.

             ERIC
      What was it you used to say...?

             RAVENNA
      Beauty is power.

Eric and Ravenna share an electric glance... and while they 
may never have been in love... they were definitely in lust.

             ERIC
        (after a moment)
      Im a hunter... not a killer.

             RAVENNA
      Oh... I dont want you to kill the 
      girl...

INT. RAVENNAS DUNGEON - MOMENTS LATER

The prisoners wallow in anguish.  But this is no ordinary 
dungeon.  The captives are all YOUNG, BEAUTIFUL WOMEN. 

Among them is the Redhead, the young girl that Eric turned 
over to the Queen for a few pieces of gold. 

A BULBOUS GUARD waddles right past the Redhead... and pulls a 
beautiful BLONDE WOMAN [17] from the adjacent cell.

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Ravenna and Eric watch as... a STONE SARCOPHAGUS rises slowly 
out of the floor.

And then--

Royal Guards drag the Blonde Woman into the throne room, 
kicking and screaming.  They toss her into the stone 
sarcophagus and slam the door.  Her screams are silenced.

SPECK, Ravennas jittery, bespectacled court alchemist climbs 
a small step ladder and pours assorted MAGICAL INGREDIENTS 
into a funnel on the sarcophagus.

Speck turns a STONE DIAL on the side of the sarcophagus.  It 
starts to shake.  Smoke shoots out the side.

Eric watches all of this, trying to mask his disgust.

             ERIC
      So... the women I bring you...?

             RAVENNA
      Oh yes, they all get their turn.

The sarcophagus goes silent.  And then, a spigot on the 
sarcophagus drops a phosphorescent BLUE LIQUID into a VIAL.

Ravenna drinks the liquid.  Shes already beautiful.  But as 
soon as she swallows the liquid, her skin becomes even 
SMOOTHER, her eyes even BRIGHTER, her lips even FULLER.

And then, the sarcophagus door pops open, and a WITHERED OLD 
WOMAN steps out.  The device has aged her by at least sixty 
years.  Her eyes look empty.  Her mind seems blank.  

The Royal Guards escort the AGED BLONDE WOMAN back into the 
Hall of Mirrors, where several other AGED SCULLERY MAIDS 
await.  They hand the Aged Blonde a maids apron and bonnet. 

Thats when well realize: Every AGED SCULLERY MAID in 
Ravennas palace used to be one of the beautiful female 
prisoners from the dungeon.

             RAVENNA 
      What do you say, Huntsman?  Will 
      you take the job?

Ravenna brings her perfect hand to Erics cheek.

             RAVENNA 
      Perhaps we can make some kind of 
      special arrangement.

             ERIC
      There isnt enough gold in the 
      world.

Ravenna nicks Erics cheek with her fingernail.

             RAVENNA
      What about information...?

Eric is curious to hear more.

             RAVENNA 
      I have eyes and ears throughout my 
      kingdom.  I can find men, women... 
      white wolves...

Ravenna is making Eric an offer he cant refuse.


EXT. WILDFLOWER PATCH - LATER THAT DAY

Snow White has found an idyllic spot in the wilderness.  She 
sits amidst a patch of wildflowers -- Snapdragons, Hollyhock, 
Red Zinnias, dotted with white Queen Annes Lace.  A pleasant 
brook babbles by.  Bits of pollen catch the sunlight.

Snow White sits on thick velvet grass.  She looks to a LOCKET 
hanging around her neck, bearing her fathers ROYAL SEAL.  
She regards it for a moment, eyes misting a bit.

And then, she looks into the woods and sees a beautiful RED 
DEER with large antlers.  Snow White and the deer hold each 
others gaze for a moment.

But then, Eric crests a hill behind Snow White--

He creeps up towards her.  Closer and closer.

The red deer is startled, scurries off.

And then, Snow White spins around and sees Eric towering over 
her.  Too shocked to scream, she backs up against a boulder.

Eric reaches behind his back and pulls out--

A long PAIR OF SHACKLES.  He snaps one shackle to his own 
wrist... and one shackle around Snow Whites.

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - THAT NIGHT

Ravenna sits upon her throne.

             RAVENNA
      That was quick.

Eric stands at the foot of Ravennas throne.  His arm is 
CHAINED to Snow Whites arm.  Snow White is terrified.

             ERIC
      I am a professional.

Ravenna reads between the lines.  She grabs a sack of gold 
and tosses it at Erics feet.

             ERIC 
      And the rest?

             RAVENNA
      Youll find the white wolf in the 
      Southern Wastes, at the far border 
      of my kingdom.


Hearing about the white wolf, Snow White silently reacts.
             ERIC
      I have already searched the 
      Southern Wastes... and beyond.

             RAVENNA
      Well, youll just have to look 
      again, wont you?
        (to her guards)
      Take care of her.

Ravenna nods to her guards.  They close in on Snow White.

             SNOW WHITE
        (to Eric)
      Wait!  Youre looking for a white 
      wolf?!  A white wolf with no tail?

Erics eyes widen.  Thats exactly what hes looking for.

             SNOW WHITE 
      Ive seen it!  It slips in and out 
      of the palace.  Day and night.
        (desperately)
      The white wolf serves the Queen!

             ERIC
        (turning to Ravenna)
      You... sent the white wolf...?

Ravenna realizes shes been caught, decides to come clean.

             RAVENNA
        (flippant)
      She was the fairest in the land.  
      What was I supposed to do?

Eric looks to the nearby STONE SARCOPHAGUS.

             ERIC
      Why didnt you just put her in that 
      thing?  You could have spared her 
      life! 

             RAVENNA
      Hadnt created it yet.  Besides, 
      you expect me to believe you would 
      have still loved your wife... even 
      if she was a wrinkled old hag...

             ERIC
      I would have loved her no matter 
      what!

All bets are off now.  In a flurry of motion, Eric draws a 
hatchet, flings it and hits Ravenna IN THE CHEST.

But then, something incredible happens--

Ravenna pulls the hatchet out of her own chest--

AND THE MASSIVE WOUND QUICKLY HEALS.

Eric and Snow White share a look.  Ravennas MAGICAL 
INVINCIBILITY is as surprising to them as it is to us.

             SNOW WHITE
      Shes a witch...

             ERIC
      What a surprise.

The Queens Royal Guards close in on Eric and Snow White.  
Eric pulls a hatchet and tries to fight them off.

And then, he looks to Ravennas beauty-sucking SARCOPHAGUS.  
As he drags Snow White out of the room, he uses the chain 
connecting them to KNOCK OVER THE SARCOPHAGUS. 

It tumbles to the ground.  And SHATTERS.  

             RAVENNA
      NO!!!!!!!
        (to her guards)
      Kill them!  Kill them both!  Rip 
      out their hearts!

Eric and Snow White, still chained together, escape into the--

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS

Eric looks to the other end of the hall, spots another ROYAL 
GUARD UNIT waiting there.  

             SNOW WHITE
      You really think Im worth a few 
      pieces of gold?!

             ERIC
      To be honest, youre probably worth 
      less!  GET DOWN!!!

He throws up his hatchet, SHATTERING THE MIRRORED CEILING.

Eric and Snow White drop to their bellies, slide along the 
mirrored floor as MIRROR SHARDS rain down.  They slip right 
through the feet of the Royal Guards, tripping them up.


INT. ROYAL STABLES - MOMENTS LATER
Eric leaps onto his steed, pulls Snow White on with him.

             SNOW WHITE
      I suppose you enjoy leading damsels 
      into distress and then rescuing 
      them at the last possible moment!

             ERIC
      If I never saw another damsel in 
      distress, it would be too soon!

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Eric and Snow White round a corner, chased by a small army of 
ROYAL CAVALRY, led by the same Royal Guard Captain who first 
summoned Eric.  Eric charges towards the LOWERED DRAWBRIDGE.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      Raise the drawbridge!

The AGED GATEKEEPER pulls a lever.  The drawbridge RISES.

             SNOW WHITE
        (re: the horse)
      Cant he go any faster?!

             ERIC
      Shut up!  Shut up!
        (to his horse)
      Faster, boy!  FASTER!!!

Erics horse SAILS OFF the edge of the drawbridge -- and 
lands safely outside the palace walls.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      Lower the drawbridge!

             AGED GATEKEEPER
      Raise the drawbridge, Lower the 
      drawbridge.  Never a please or a 
      thank you.

EXT. ENDLESS STEPPE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Eric spurs his horse.  Snow White peeks over her shoulder, 
sees several dozen ROYAL CAVALRYMEN still on their tail.  
Eric and Snow White must have been at this for hours.  They 
wont be able to outrun the Royal Cavalry for much longer.

But then, their horse clears a small hill--  


And the edge of THE DARK FOREST comes into view.  It looks like a black, impenetrable wall.  Truly terrifying.

             SNOW WHITE
      The Dark Forest...?

             ERIC
        (re: the Royal Cavalry)
      Youd rather try your luck against 
      them?

There are dozens of heavily armed Royal Cavalrymen behind 
them.  Eric may be good... but hes not that good.

Eric spurs his horse, rides right to the edge of the Dark 
Forest.  But the horse stops on a dime, almost knocking Eric 
and Snow White off its back.

             ERIC
        (to his horse)
      Smart boy.
        (to Snow White)
      We walk from here.

Eric and Snow White leap off the horse and disappear into the 
murk of the Dark Forest--

--just as the Royal Guard Captain and his Cavalry approach.  
Their horses also stop right at the edge of the Dark Forest.  

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
        (drawing his sword)
      AFTER THEM!!!

But then--  

All of the Cavalrymen RIDE AWAY FROM THE DARK FOREST.  The 
Guard Captain sighs, sheathes his sword and retreats.

CUT TO:

INT. PRINCE CHARMANTS BALLROOM - DAY

A dour BUTLERs deadpan face fills the frame.

             BUTLER
        (announcing)
      Lady Calliope of Freedonia.

PRINCE CHARMANT, 19, now quite handsome, and his aristocratic 
MOTHER are being walked down a line of POTENTIAL BRIDES.  All 
of whom are trying way too hard to impress the young Prince.  
The dour Butler introduces the women, one by one.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
        (unenthusiastic)
      Pleasure to meet you.

             BUTLER
      Princess Phrynia of Graustark.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Pleasure to meet you.

             BUTLER
      The Baroness of Fenwick.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
        (slurring his words)
      Measure to pleat you.

Prince Charmants Mother CLEARS HER THROAT LOUDLY, signalling 
for her son to snap out of it and get with the program.

             BUTLER
      Lady Rosalind of Vulgaria.

Prince Charmant stops in front of ROSALIND.  Shes actually 
pretty hot.  But then, she smiles, revealing HORRIBLE TEETH.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Ah... pleasure... to meet you...

             ROSALIND OF VULGARIA
      Charmed, Im sure.

But then, a VALET shuffles up to Prince Charmant and whispers 
in his ear.  Something immediately changes in the young 
Princes posture and expression.

He turns tail and runs out of the ballroom, leaving his 
Mother and a whole room full of eager young women hanging.

INT. DUKE CHARMANTS WAR ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

DUKE CHARMANT, 40s, once the Kings favorite knight, now a 
stately, well-dressed noble with a graying beard, pours over 
maps with a dozen BURLY KNIGHTS.

Prince Charmant charges through the doors, on a mission.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Father!

Duke Charmant and his knights look up.


             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      Snow White... shes in trouble.  I 
      need men and horses.

Duke Charmant and his knights exchange a look before--

BURSTING INTO HEARTY LAUGHTER.  It even looks like Duke 
Charmant, the Princes own father, is stifling a laugh.  

Prince Charmant just stands there, a bit embarrassed.

             DUKE CHARMANT
      Your intentions are knightly...
        (a pause)
      But to go against the Queen -- it 
      would be suicide.

WE HOLD on Prince Charmants devastated reaction...

INT. DUKE CHARMANTS STABLES - MOMENTS LATER

Prince Charmant BUSTS OPEN a locked door, clearly against his 
fathers orders.  He grabs armor, dagger and sword.

He walks down the line of horses, trying to find the 
swiftest.  He stops at a beautiful WHITE STALLION.

And gallops out of the stables.

CUT TO:

EXT. DARK FOREST - NIGHT

It puts all other forests to shame.  The trees are thick and 
gnarled, like giant old men, covered in thick hairy moss.  

Eric and Snow White, still chained to one another, move along 
the forest floor.  Slowly and silently.

As they creep, STRANGE SOUNDS filter out of the forest.  One 
moment, they sound like the CALLS OF STRANGE ANIMALS.  The 
next, like EVIL CACKLES.  Or maybe its just the wind...?

Snow White peers deep into the forest.  Every now and again, 
she spots small POINTS OF GREEN AND YELLOW LIGHT, glinting 
for a moment, then disappearing again.  Eyes...?  Or just 
moonlight catching dewy branches...?

And then, Snow White looks up and sees WINGED CREATURES 
passing in front of the harvest moon.  Large birds?  Maybe 
bats?  But it looks like they have heads, arms and legs...

Growing more and more uneasy, Snow White looks left, right, 
up, down, front, back.  Time almost slows down.  She starts 
to panic.  Losing her grip on reality.

             ERIC
      Take a deep breath...

Snow White snaps out of her stupor, calms herself.

             ERIC
      In the Dark Forest, you must always 
      keep your eyes fixed on where 
      youre going... never where youve 
      been.

Snow White nods, continues walking on.

             SNOW WHITE
      Why are you doing this?

             ERIC
      Doing what?

             SNOW WHITE
      Helping me.

             ERIC
      Its the Way of the Woods.

Despite his ongoing conversation with Snow White, Eric never 
takes his eyes off the trees.  Hes always looking, always 
listening for any possible threat.

             SNOW WHITE
      The Way of the Woods?

             ERIC
      Blood for blood.  Flesh for flesh.  
      Life for life.  Death for death.
        (expounding)
      It means I got you into this, now I 
      have to get you out.  But thats 
      all I owe you.  Nothing more.  
      Nothing less.

             SNOW WHITE
      So, where are we going?

             ERIC
      You tell me.  Name a destination, 
      and I will help you reach it.  But 
      after that, were through.


             SNOW WHITE
      The estate of Duke Charmant.  And 
      his son... the Prince.

             ERIC
      And then, youre on your own.  
      Agreed?

Eric extends his hand.  And Snow White shakes it.

EXT. DEEPER IN THE DARK FOREST - LATER THAT NIGHT

As Eric and Snow White descend further, the narrow path 
almost seems to close in on them.  The trees seem to move.  
Bending down.  Closer and closer to Snow White.

Crooked branches swaying in the trees look like skeletal 
hands, preparing to pluck Snow White off the ground.

Snow White SHIVERS VIOLENTLY as she walks.

After a moment, Eric sighs, grudgingly removes a fur mantle 
from his neck and places it over Snow Whites shoulders.

             SNOW WHITE
      Th-- thank you.

             ERIC
      I dont want to waste my energy 
      digging a grave when you freeze to 
      death.

             SNOW WHITE
        (concerned)
      H-- have we been this way before?

             ERIC
      Its very possible.

             SNOW WHITE
      What?!

             ERIC
      It plays tricks on you, this place.  
      The trees like to move when youre 
      not looking.  Once the Forest has 
      you, it doesnt want to let you go.

Just then, a BLACK HAND grabs Snow Whites shoulder and spins 
her around.  She SCREAMS.

Snow White takes a deep breath and sees that its just a 
BRANCH that she caught herself on. 


EXT. EVEN DEEPER IN THE DARK FOREST - LATER THAT NIGHT

Snow White stays VERY CLOSE to Eric.  She peers into thick 
trees.  Every once in a while, the moonlight causes STRANGE 
SHADOWS, which look frighteningly FACE-LIKE.

             SNOW WHITE
        (whispering)
      Do you want to play a game?

Eric sighs audibly, is this girl for real?

             SNOW WHITE
      Please, I cant keep holding my 
      breath waiting for a troll to jump 
      out and swallow me whole...

             ERIC
        (with a snicker)
      A troll?

             SNOW WHITE
      Yes, a troll.  Big, scary thing.  
      Lives under bridges.  Likes to eat 
      little girls like me.  

             ERIC
      No such thing.  And if there were, 
      they certainly wouldnt live under 
      bridges.

 
             SNOW WHITE
     Limericks!

             ERIC
      What?

             SNOW WHITE
      The game.  Lets play limericks.

             ERIC
      Lets not.

             SNOW WHITE
      I could whistle.

Snow White puckers her lips--

             ERIC
      Fine.  Lets play.

             SNOW WHITE
      Good.  You go first.


             ERIC
      Please, after you.

             SNOW WHITE
      Come on.  Say anything.  Ill 
      figure the rhyme.

             ERIC
      Just one...

Despite their situation, Snow Whites face lights up a bit.

             ERIC
        (after a moment)
      Ive heard of a princess and 
      prince...

             SNOW WHITE
      Who lived at the top of Mount 
      Quince...

             ERIC
      The prince lost his breath and 
      tumbled to death...

             SNOW WHITE
      Shes tumbled with twenty men 
      since.

Snow White snickers at her cleverness.

             ERIC
      So, thats how young ladies speak 
      these days?

             SNOW WHITE
      You sound like my father.

An awkward moment.  Eric averts his gaze.

             SNOW WHITE
      My turn...
        (a moment)
      There once was a wicked old 
      queen... 

Eric looks to Snow White, decides to loosen up a bit.

             ERIC
      Who had an abundance of spleen...

             SNOW WHITE
      Her skin seemed so fair, but peel 
      back a layer...

             ERIC
      And youd find it was scaly and 
      green.

Snow White chuckles.  And for the first time, Eric cracks the 
slightest of smiles.

But then--

They come upon a STONE FOOTBRIDGE spanning a DARK RAVINE.

             SNOW WHITE
      What is that?

             ERIC
      It looks like... a bridge.

Eric stops.  He doesnt want to cross this bridge, looks 
around for other options.  But there arent any.

             ERIC
      Not a sound...

Snow White nods.  Together, they start to tiptoe across the 
footbridge, treading very lightly.  But as they tiptoe, they 
hear SOUNDS from under the bridge.  Could be the wind...?

But then-- A HUGE WHIP swings out from the darkness beneath 
the bridge, coiling around Snow Whites waist.

The whip pulls Snow White down off the bridge, and because 
Eric is chained to Snow White, it pulls him down as well.

EXT. DARK RAVINE

SMACK!!!  Eric and Snow White land in the muck of a CREEK 
BED.  Only a thin stream of water trickles by.

And then, Snow White sees that the ground is covered with 
BROKEN BONES.  She looks to Eric, eyes filled with fear.

             CREATURE 
      BLOOORRRRRGGGGGGGGHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!

They turn back and see--

--a massive, grotesque CREATURE curled up under the bridge,

A TROLL!  

It lumbers out from its hiding place.  And when it stands, 
its nearly TWENTY FEET TALL.  With skin so coarse that it 
almost functions as armor.


             SNOW WHITE
      No such thing as trolls?!

The troll tugs his whip, reeling Eric and Snow White in like 
fish on a line.  Eric draws his axe and tries to slice 
through the trolls whip -- but the whip is too strong.

He tosses an axe at the trolls forehead.  It lodges into the 
skull, but doesnt seem to do any permanent damage.

             SNOW WHITE
      How is it not dead?!

             ERIC
      Trolls have very thick skulls...

The troll plucks the ax out of its skull... and pops it into 
its mouth, trying to chew and swallow it.

             ERIC 
      And very small brains.

But the troll keeps reeling Eric and Snow White in.

Eric has an idea.  He starts frantically throwing smaller 
hatchets at the troll.  They stick into various parts of its 
body: knees, thigh, chest.  But none seem to slow him down.

             SNOW WHITE
      What do we do?!

 
             ERIC
     Run!

But they run in opposite directions -- Eric towards the troll 
and Snow White away from it.  The chain linking them tightens 
and they fall to the ground.

             ERIC
      I said run!

             SNOW WHITE
      You didnt say which way!

             ERIC
      Just follow me!

Eric and Snow White run right towards the troll.  Eric leaps 
and grabs onto one of the hatchets stuck in the trolls knee.  
Hes using it as a hand hold.  Together, Eric and Snow White 
climb the hatchets, all the way to the trolls shoulders.  

             ERIC
      Jump!


Eric and Snow White leap down behind the trolls back.  Their 
chain tightens around the trolls neck.  STRANGLING HIM!

The earth quakes as the dead troll drops to the ground.

Eric brings Snow White to the trolls head.  Snow White eyes 
the drool streaming out of the trolls mouth with disgust.

             SNOW WHITE
        (repulsed)
      What are you doing?

             ERIC
      Troll teeth.  Sharper than steel.

Eric clamps the trolls jaw shut, BREAKING THEIR SHACKLES.  

And then, Eric and Snow White hear another DISTANT GROWL.

             ERIC
      If you thought the troll was bad, 
      you should see his mother.

Eric starts to sprint.  Snow White struggles to keep up.

             SNOW WHITE
      Slow down...

             ERIC
      You run like a girl!

             SNOW WHITE
      I am a girl!

Snow White stops, catches her breath.  Eric keeps running.

             SNOW WHITE
      Wait!  Please!

Eric stops, turns back to Snow White.

             SNOW WHITE
      We wont make it out of the Dark 
      Forest alive, will we?

             ERIC
      We might.

             SNOW WHITE
      But even if we do... the Queen 
      wont stop hunting us.

Eric nods slightly.  Shes right.

             SNOW WHITE
      So, its you and I.  Together.

             ERIC
      I said I would lead you out of the 
      Dark Forest.  But Im not your 
      friend, and Im not your father.

             SNOW WHITE
      Then teach me.

Erics eyes widen.

             SNOW WHITE 
      Teach me how to live on my own in 
      the woods.  Teach me how to defend 
      myself.  Teach me to be like you.
        (a moment)
      Thats what you owe me.

Snow White and Eric lock eyes.

             ERIC
      Ill sleep on it.

CUT TO:

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Ravenna again stands in front of her Magic Mirror, staring at 
her reflection.  But then, the mirror starts to CLOUD, 
conjuring up a MISTY IMAGE OF THE PAST.  And we travel into--

EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DUSK - [MIRROR VISION]

A small collection of rickety wagons are circled in the 
forest.  It looks something like a GYPSY CARAVAN.

INT. RAVENNAS WAGON - [MIRROR VISION]

A YOUNG RAVENNA, not more than 17 or 18, is pulled from bed 
by her MOTHER [50s], a wrinkled woman with long hair and 
exotic garb.  Some sort of gypsy or witch.

             YOUNG RAVENNA
      Mother...?

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
      Hurry, Ravenna.  Weve not much 
      time.


OUTSIDE, a sound of POUNDING OF HOOVES starts to crescendo.
Ravennas Mother whips up a magical MILKY WHITE POTION using 
a variety of STRANGE INGREDIENTS.  


             RAVENNAS MOTHER
        (rushed, frantic)
      The King is coming to take you 
      away.  He will make you his bride, 
      allow you to live in the palace, 
      give you pretty things.  He will 
      promise you the world, Ravenna.  
      But when you start to look like 
      me... he will cast you aside.

             YOUNG RAVENNA
      The King?  I-- I dont understand.

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
      And the catalyst...

She grabs Ravennas hand.

             RAVENNAS MOTHER 
      Blood of the fairest.

She PRICKS RAVENNAS FINGER.  A single DROP OF RED BLOOD 
splashes into the MILKY WHITE potion.

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
      Drink.

Ravennas Mother forces her daughter to guzzle down the foul 
tasting potion.

And then, Ravennas Mother grabs a curved dagger and gently 
CUTS A SCRATCH into her daughters arm.

Ravenna recoils at first, but it soon becomes clear that she 
feels no pain.  Seconds later, the blood is drawn back into 
her body.  And Ravennas wound miraculously closes up.

THATS WHEN WELL REVEAL that SOMEONE is watching this scene 
play out.  An EYE peeks through a hole in the wooden siding 
of the wagon... but we wont know exactly who is watching.

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
        (to Ravenna)
      Now, your beauty -- and your life -- 
      can never be taken from you.
        (a long moment)
      Except by one...

Thats intriguing.  But we wont hear anything else for now.

EXT. FOREST CLEARING - [MIRROR VISION]

The KING [40s] rides into the circle of wagons along with a 
large retinue of knights, including Duke Charmant.

             KING
      I have come for the fairest woman 
      in the land!  The one who is to be 
      my bride!  Bring her to me!

The King looks to one of his SQUIRES, who holds the familiar 
MAGIC MIRROR in his hand.  The Magic Mirror shows a cloudy 
image of RAVENNA.  This was the mirrors original function: 
for the King to find the most beautiful women in the land.

             KING 
      Bring out Ravenna!

After a moment, a wagon door opens.  Young Ravenna and her 
Mother step out.  And here, well see just young Ravenna is.  
How frightened.  Shes just a girl.

The King extends a hand, but Ravenna runs back to her mother. 

             YOUNG RAVENNA
      Please... mother...

But Ravennas Mother TURNS HER BACK on her daughter.  Shes 
trying to make a clean break.

The King nods to Duke Charmant and his knights.  They 
dismount and pull Young Ravenna away from her mother, 
screaming and crying.

             YOUNG RAVENNA 
      Mother, why...?

Ravenna falls down into the mud, trying to grab at her 
mothers feet.  Tears well up in her eyes.

             YOUNG RAVENNA 
      Please!  Turn around!  Look at me!

Ravennas Mother doesnt turn around.  But she does stop for 
a moment and speak one last time as her eyes start to mist:

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
      Beauty is power...

Duke Charmant and his knights manage to restrain and calm the 
distraught Ravenna, before pulling her onto a horse.

As Young Ravenna is carried off, she watches her mother 
disappear into the fog...

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - [BACK TO THE PRESENT]

The misty mirror vision fades.  Ravennas reflection returns.  
Only now, theres a hint of a tear forming in Ravennas 
eye... but she quickly dries it.

After a moment:

             RAVENNA
      Mirror, Mirror, on the wall,      
      Who is fairest of them all?

Mirror Man steps out of the mirror and takes shape.

             MIRROR MAN
      My Queen thou are of beauty rare,  
      But young Snow White is now more 
      fair.

All the softness and vulnerability leaves Ravennas face.  
Something must be done about this.

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - LATER

Ravenna charges through the doors and into the still-damaged 
hallway, surveying a large group of UNSAVORY BOUNTY HUNTERS: 
short, tall, fat, lean, human and not-so-human.

The most bloodthirsty is FINN [30], a gaunt albino with a 
bushy moustache.  If the stare of Finns cold eyes doesnt 
kill you, hell think of plenty of other ways to get the job 
done.  Hes joined by a pair of oddly-matched cronies:

Twin brothers, BILGE-RAT and BRUNO BOMFER.  Strange thing is, 
Bilge-Rat and Bruno look absolutely nothing alike.  Bruno is 
a tall, strapping man-god, ripped from the cover of a romance 
novel.  Bilge-Rat, on the other hand, is short and fat, with 
heavy nose and ear hair.  A toothpick is stuck in his mouth.

Ravenna steps up to Finn.  She looks down at his arm and sees 
that he has a STUMP where his hand should be.

             RAVENNA
      Whos handy work...?

             FINN
      Who do you think?

And then, SPRANG!!!  A long BARBED SPIKE pops out of Finns 
arm stump.  He cracks a smile.

Ravennas eyes widen with pleasure.  Then, she turns her gaze 
on Bilge-Rat and Bruno.


             BILGE-RAT
      Bomfer Brothers, at your service, 
      Your Beauty.

             RAVENNA
      Brothers?

             BRUNO
      Twins actually.  

             BILGE-RAT
      Identical.

             RAVENNA
      How could I have missed it?
        (leaning into Finn)
      Good help is so hard to come by.

Finn raises his thick eyebrows in agreement.  And Ravenna 
steps away, up to the front of the hall.

             RAVENNA 
        (to the bounty hunters)
      Snow White and the Huntsman have 
      made their way into the Dark 
      Forest.  My guards are not men 
      enough to venture after them.  
      Thats where you lot come in.

As she speaks, WELL SPOT a CLOAKED FIGURE standing amongst 
the brigands and lowlifes.  A careful look reveals him to be--

--PRINCE CHARMANT, Snow Whites childhood sweetheart.

             RAVENNA 
      I want their hearts!

EXT. SNOWY WOODS - DAY - [DREAM]

Eric runs through the trees, bounding over boulders, ducking 
under branches.  Axe in hand.  Hes chasing after a WHITE 
WOLF with a BLOODSTAINED MOUTH. 

But Snow White isnt with him, and the ground is covered with 
fresh snow.  This must be a dream. 

Eric stops, takes aim, hurls his axe... as the white wolf 
leaps over a fallen tree. 

THWACK!!!  But the axe only LOPS OFF the wolfs tail.  

The wounded beast disappears into the woods. 

EXT. DARK FOREST - CAMPSITE - DAWN

Eric WAKES FROM HIS DREAM with a start.  He catches his 
breath, runs his fingers along the white wolfs tail.  

He looks around the clearing... sees Snow White sleeping 
quietly... and then, he sees the dying fire. 

EXT. CAMPSITE - LATER THAT MORNING

The sound of HACKING wakes Snow White up.  She looks to Eric.

             ERIC
      You want to be like me?  Heres 
      your first lesson...

EXT. CAMPSITE - LATER

Snow White swings the axe -- but misses the log completely. 
Eric chuckles quietly. 

             SNOW WHITE
      I dont expect to get it right the 
      first time round.

             ERIC
      How about the second?

Snow White brings the axe down -- but misses again.

             ERIC
      Fires dying.

She swings -- and misses.

             ERIC
      Dont worry.  Its not as if we 
      need it to eat and keep warm.

Swings -- misses.

             ERIC
        (grabbing the axe)
      Mans work, anyway.

             SNOW WHITE
      Let GO!!!

Snow White pushes Eric away, swings the axe and SPLITS THE 
LOG IN TWO.  Eric looks to Snow White, almost impressed. 

LATER:


Eric and Snow White sit quietly around the fire, munching on 
scraggly pieces of dried meat.  

With pensive eyes, Snow White looks down at her fathers GOLD 
LOCKET in her hand.  

             ERIC
        (after a moment)
      Your father... he was a good man.

Snow White manages a smile, realizes that Eric is just trying 
to be nice.

             SNOW WHITE
      No he wasnt.
        (a pause)
      He was a good king.  But he was not 
      a good man.

             ERIC
      But he was your father...

Snow White nods slightly.

             ERIC
        (changing the subject)
      Not quite so frightening in the 
      daylight, is it?

Snow White looks around.  Now that the sun is up, the Dark 
Forest seems transformed.  More mystical than macabre.

             SNOW WHITE
      Almost a different place.

             ERIC
      The creatures of darkness have 
      yielded to the creatures of light.

             SNOW WHITE
        (with a chuckle)
      Creatures?

             ERIC
      Sprites, nymphs... fairies...

             SNOW WHITE
      I dont see any fairies.

             ERIC
      Theres no seeing fairies.  Unless 
      they want to be seen.  You can only 
      feel them.


Snow White leans in a bit.  This is interesting stuff...

             ERIC 
      Butterflies in the stomach.  The 
      flush of warmth at your first kiss.  
      A shiver running down the spine.  
      All fairies.

Snow White holds Erics gaze, almost mesmerized by his 
words... until she smiles and lets out a chuckle.

             SNOW WHITE
      Youre just having a laugh.

Eric also manages a smile.

BUT THEN, A DEEP, GUTTURAL GROWL from off in the woods.

Eric knows that sound instantly.  In a flash, hes pulled the 
logging axe from the stump.

A powerful BLACK WOLF ambles out of the trees and into the 
clearing.  Bigger than any weve yet seen.  He looks hungry.

Eric grips his axe tight.  Prepares to toss it.

             SNOW WHITE
        (whispering, to Eric)
      Wait...

The Black Wolf creeps closer and closer to Snow White.  She 
remains perfectly still, steadies her breathing.

The wolf steps right up to Snow White.  Its jaws just inches 
from her face.  And then, Snow White reaches a hand out and 
places it gently on the wolfs chest.  

Eric watches this whole scene in amazement.

Snow White gently feeds the wolf her piece of meat.  The wolf 
quickly scarfs it down, then runs back off into the woods.

Eric breathes a huge sigh of relief, flashes Snow White a 
look, are you insane?

             SNOW WHITE
      It was just hungry.

Snow White looks to the white wolfs tail on Erics belt.

             SNOW WHITE
      Not all wolves deserve to die.

AND WELL HOLD on Erics reaction.


EXT. DARK FOREST - TROLLS FOOTBRIDGE - DAY

Bilge-Rat walks along the bridge, munching on some sort of 
exotic Dark Forest fruit.  Bruno walks beside him.

             BILGE-RAT
        (reacting to an odor)
      Whew... what died...?

Bilge-Rat comes to the edge of the bridge and sees Finn 
standing over the ROTTING TROLL CARCASS.

             BILGE-RAT 
      Aye.  Thatll do it.

DOWN BELOW, Finn examines the scene.  He sniffs the ground.

             FINN
      The Huntsman and the girl.  They 
      make a good team.
        (after a moment)
      Bruno!

Bilge-Rat pops up behind Finn, impersonating Bruno.

             BILGE-RAT
      Bruno.  At your service...

             FINN
      Youre not Bruno.

             BILGE-RAT
      Were twins!  How could you tell?

Finn sighs -- they look absolutely nothing alike.

And then, Bruno pops up behind Finn.

             BRUNO
      Used to fool our mum with that one 
      all the time.

             BILGE-RAT
      Youre good boss, very good.

Bilge-Rat moves to take a bite of his exotic fruit... but 
Finn skewers the fruit before Bilge-Rat can take a bite.

             FINN
        (looking at the fruit)
      Were gettin close.

KERSPRANG!!!  Finns spike SPLITS INTO THREE PRONGS, 
obliterating the fruit.


EXT. SPARRING GLEN - SUNRISE

Eric sleeps against a fallen tree as SOMEONE sneaks up behind 
him, DAGGER IN HAND.

Its Snow White.  She stops, raises the dagger -- but Eric 
spins around, grabs Snow White, tosses her to the ground. 

             ERIC
      Well have to start with the 
      basics...

EXT. SPARRING GLEN - LATER

Snow White trains, attacking the air with her dagger.

             ERIC
      Chest, thigh, neck, again! 
      Chest, thigh, neck, again! 

But Snow White drops the dagger, grabs her shoulder IN PAIN.

             ERIC 
      This wont hurt.

Eric grabs her arm and FORCES IT BACK INTO THE SOCKET.  It 
does hurt.  Snow White HOWLS in pain.

             ERIC 
      Life is hard.  Try it again.

A MONTAGE BEGINS:

IN THE LOGGING GLEN

Snow White uses Erics logging axe to chop away at a THICK 
TREE.  She can barely lift the axe.  

             ERIC
      Youve been taught that man and 
      beast are entirely different 
      creatures.  But in truth, they are 
      one and the same...

IN THE LONGBOW GLADE

Eric teaches Snow White how to fire a makeshift LONGBOW. 

             ERIC 
      Take a few steps backwards... and 
      we become just as wild as the 
      creatures that fill this forest. 

HOT ON THEIR TRAIL

As Eric trains Snow White, Finn and his cronies track their 
every move, getting closer and closer. 

IN THE LOGGING GLEN

Snow White sweats profusely as she hacks away at the tree.   
We can almost see her MUSCLES starting to grow. 

AT THE RABBIT HUTCH

Snow White chases a small WHITE BUNNY through the trees.

             ERIC
      My stomachs rumbling!

ELSEWHERE IN THE DARK FOREST

Prince Charmant, riding alone, also tracks Eric and Snow 
White through the woods.  But hes a long way behind them...

IN THE LOGGING GLEN

Snow White continues to chop at the tree, growing tired.

             ERIC
      In the woods, there are only two 
      kinds of animals.  Predator and 
      prey.  The hunter and the hunted.  
      Which one are you?!

Snow White starts to ATTACK the tree, chopping EVEN HARDER.

The tree STARTS TO TIP OVER.  Snow White starts PUSHING THE 
TREE.  And the towering tree SMASHES to the forest floor.

IN THE DEER CLEARING - NIGHT

As Snow White sleeps, Eric tracks a buck deer through the 
trees.  He lines up a shot... and tosses his axe. 

AT THE RABBIT HUTCH

Snow White finally catches the white bunny.  But then, she 
looks to Eric, uneasy about killing the cuddly creature.


             ERIC      You slew a troll... and your afraid 
      of dispatching a silly old rabbit?

             SNOW WHITE
      But hes so adorable.

             ERIC
      Well see how adorable he looks on 
      an empty stomach...

LATER:

Snow White hungrily tears into the cooked rabbit, savoring 
the much-needed protein. 

And then, Eric drops a newly-made BUCKSKIN OUTFIT into Snow 
Whites lap. 

IN THE SPARRING AREA

Snow White, now wearing more forest-appropriate Robin Hood- 
style attire, spars energetically with Eric. 

And amazingly, Snow White forces Eric to the ground.  

Eric looks up to Snow White, smiles.  Snow White extends her 
hand, helps Eric to his feet. 

And then, Eric gives Snow White a pat on the back. 

HOT ON THEIR TRAIL

Finn comes to a seemingly-extinguished campfire.  He places 
his hands over the ashes.  Still warm. 

He smiles.  Theyre not far off now. 

MONTAGE ENDS:

EXT. DARK FOREST MARSH - DAY

The forest is thinner here, but a THICK FOG has settled in, 
limiting visibility to only a few yards.  Eric and Snow White 
trudge through the SWAMP, murky water up to their waists.

             ERIC
      Stay at it!  Were nearly out of 
      the forest.

But then, Eric looks through the fog and sees--


A ROWBOAT floating several yards away, obscured by fog.  Three BURKA PEOPLE ride in the boat.  They wear BURKA-LIKE 
ROBES, which completely cover their faces and bodies. 

Eric and Snow White exchange a look, who are these people?

EXT. NARROW RIVER - LATER THAT DAY

The Burka People row their boat... 

... as Eric and Snow White ride. 

The trees clear, and the boat floats OUT OF THE DARK FOREST.

BURKA LEADER pulls the boat ashore at a RIVER VILLAGE, filled 
with cottages elevated on stilts to protect from flooding. 

EXT. RIVER VILLAGE - MAIN ROAD

Burka Leader guides Eric and Snow White through the muddy 
streets, where several other BURKA PEOPLE stroll back and 
forth.  A few PEASANT MEN are interspersed in the crowd. 

INT. ANNAS COTTAGE - LATER

Burka Leader ushers Eric and Snow White inside.

             BURKA LEADER
      Please sit.

Eric and Snow White sit at a small table.  Burka Leader turns 
away, removes her robes.  This is ANNA [50].  She carefully 
pulls a teapot from the fire. 

             ANNA
      Something to warm you up?

Anna turns forward.  She is strikingly beautiful-- 

--but a LONG, DEEP SCAR runs down the side of her cheek. 

Snow White averts her eyes, looks to Eric. 

             ANNA
      A beautiful girl...
        (pouring tea)
      ... and a huntsman.

She pours herself a cup, sits at the table.

             ANNA
      Men have come looking for you.

Anna turns to Snow White, smiles.  She gently runs her 
fingers down Snow Whites face. 

             ANNA
        (tenderly)
      You are very beautiful.

Snow White tries to smile.

             ERIC
      These men, they were sent by the 
      Queen?

             ANNA
        (nodding)
      Our village is hidden.  You will be 
      safe... for a time.

Anna catches Snow White staring at her scar.

             ANNA
      It shouldnt frighten you.

             SNOW WHITE
      Did the Queen...?

             ANNA
      She would have locked us in her 
      dungeon... or worse.

             SNOW WHITE
      You... did that... to yourself?

             ANNA
      We made a choice.  It was the only 
      way to live in peace.

A YOUNG GIRL calls out from a back room.

             LILY 
      Mum, whos there?

             ANNA
      Friends, my love.  Come say hello.

LILY [12] steps into the light.  Like her mother, shes 
extraordinarily beautiful-- 

--with TWO SCARRED CHEEKS. 


EXT. GRASSY HILL - SUNSET

Eric sits near the rivers edge.  He runs his fingers along a 
battered map, tracing a route.

             SNOW WHITE 
      The foothills...?

Snow White stands behind Eric, pointing to a range of ROCKY 
HILLS in the distance.  Eric nods.

             ERIC
      The Dukes realm lies on the other 
      side.

             SNOW WHITE
      Or... we could just follow the 
      river, see where it takes us...

Snow White plops herself down next to Eric.  She seems TIPSY.

             ERIC
      If we did that, we would never get 
      where we wanted to go.

             SNOW WHITE
        (slurring her words)
      But how could we possibly know 
      where we wanted to go until we had 
      gotten there.  Gotten to where we 
      wanted to go, I mean.

Eric spots his FLASK in Snow Whites hand.

             ERIC
      Youre too young for this stuff.

Eric snatches his flask... and takes a LONG SWIG for himself.

Snow White looks back, sees Anna sweeping her cottage steps.  
Lily sits nearby, playing with a ragdoll.

             SNOW WHITE
      How could she do that to herself... 
      to her own daughter?

             ERIC
      We do strange things when all hope 
      seems lost.

Snow White looks to the WHITE WOLFS TAIL on Erics belt.


             SNOW WHITE
      The white wolf.  Why didnt you 
      kill it?

             ERIC
      It was too fast.  This was all I 
      could take.

             SNOW WHITE
      And youre still hunting it...?

             ERIC
      Its the Way of the Woods.

             SNOW WHITE
      But youre not an animal.

             ERIC
      Its justice--

             SNOW WHITE
      Its revenge.  
        (a moment)
      You cant spend your whole life 
      hunting.

Eric looks to Snow White.  They share a quiet moment.  Then, 
they both look back to the setting sun.

INT. ANNAS COTTAGE - THAT NIGHT

Snow White sleeps on a tiny cot.  Eric sits beside the bed, a 
mug of ale in his hand, a bottle at his feet. 

             ERIC
        (raw, tired)
      Once upon a time... there was a 
      wicked Queen... who had a beautiful 
      stepdaughter... with lips as red as 
      blood and skin as white as snow... 

With glazed eyes, he whispers a STORY to the sleeping Snow 
White, knowing full well that she cant hear him.

             ERIC 
      This Queen, she desired above all 
      else to be the fairest woman in the 
      land... so she sent her finest 
      huntsman to kill the girl.  But the 
      huntsman, he was a good man... he 
      saw how young and innocent the girl 
      was... and he couldnt bring 
      himself to kill her...

Eric glances back, sees Anna standing behind him.

             ANNA 
      That is a good story... I wonder 
      how it ends.

EXT. RIVER VILLAGE - THE NEXT MORNING

In the predawn twilight, a BURKA WOMAN scatters seeds for a 
brood of chickens in front of her cottage. 

Out of nowhere, a HAND snatches the burka away, revealing the 
womans scarred face.  She SCREAMS. 

Finn, Bruno and Bilge-Rat have arrived. 

INT. ANNAS COTTAGE

Eric sleeps with his head on the table and a spilled mug of 
grog by his hand.  A line of drool spills out of his mouth.

             LILY
      Huntsman!  Strangers in the 
      village.

Eric struggles to open his eyes.  He stumbles to a window and 
spots Finn and his cronies terrorizing the river village.  

He takes particular note of the SPIKE on Finns arm.  Snow 
White pops out of bed, awakened by the noise.

             ERIC
      We need to go.

Snow White reaches for her dagger.

             ERIC
      No.  Not here.

             ANNA
      Hes coming!

Eric looks out the window, sees Finn ambling up to the door.

             ERIC
        (to Anna)
      Try and get rid of him.

Snow White leads Lily into a back room.  

Finn KNOCKS.  Eric hides behind the door as Anna opens it.


             FINN
      Very sorry for the trouble, missus. 
      Lookin for an old acquaintance. 
      Erics his name, Eric the Huntsman. 

Behind the door, Eric DRAWS A HATCHET from his belt. 

INT. ANNAS COTTAGE - BACK ROOM

Snow White picks a ragdoll up off the floor.  The doll has a 
SCAR stitched across her face.

             SNOW WHITE 
        (distracting Lily)
      Is this yours?  Shes beautiful... 
      like you. 

But Lily breaks away.  Snow White cant catch her.

INT. ANNAS COTTAGE

Lily runs up to the door, grabs her mothers hand.

             FINN
      Hello there, young one.  Had any 
      visitors?

Finn squats, comes eyes to eye with Lily.  He rubs her hair.



             LILY
      No...

             FINN
      You wouldnt lie to me, would ya?

Lily shakes her head, no.

             FINN
      Thats a good little girl.
        (to Anna)
      How bout ya let me inside, missus? 
      I wont bite. 

Finn tries to force his way in.  Anna HOLDS THE DOOR SHUT.

             ANNA
      Please!  Leave us be!

Behind the door, Eric GRIPS HIS HATCHET tightly.

             BILGE-RAT 
      Oy, Finn!  Have a look at this!

Finn turns, sees Bilge-Rat across the street.  He gives Anna 
and Lily a final once-over before stepping away.  

Anna shuts the door, catches her breath.

Eric peeks back out the window but-- 

SMASH!!!  Finns SPIKE breaks through the glass. 

SPRANG!!!  The three prongs snap out of the spike.

             FINN
      I knew you was in there, Huntsman!

Eric and Anna push a table against the door.

             ANNA
        (to Eric)
      Out the back.  Ill stay. 
        (to Lily)
      Help them, my love. 

             ERIC
        (to Anna)
      Thank you.

Eric moves to leave, but Anna grabs his arm.

             ANNA
      How will your story end?

EXT. BACK OF COTTAGE

Lily leads Eric and Snow White out through a small back door. 
Snow White gives Lily a hug. 

             LILY 
      Here... take these. 

And then, Lily hands Snow White TWO BURKAS.

INT. ANNAS COTTAGE

Finn throws the door open, storms into the cottage.  Anna 
leaps in front of him, but Finn easily knocks her aside.

EXT. BACK OF COTTAGE

Finn pops out, spots two BURKA-CLAD FIGURES in the distance, 
disappearing over a small hill.  Finn quickly sees through 
the ruse -- its obviously Eric and Snow White in disguise.

EXT. DOCK - MOMENTS LATER

Eric throws off his burka, starts to untie a boat from the 
dock.  The FULLY ROBED Snow White waits on the shore. 

A BOATMAN pops his head out. 

             BOATMAN
      Whatcha think yer doin, mate?

             ERIC
      Taking your boat.

             BOATMAN
      Says who?

Eric brandishes a GNARLY HATCHET, threatening the boatman.

             BOATMAN
      All yours, mate.

             ERIC
      Hurry, Snow White.  Get on!
        (no response)
      Snow White...?

Eric turns back and sees Snow White, STILL HOODED, caught in 
Brunos headlock.  Bilge-Rat and Finn stand beside Bruno.  

             FINN
      Its over, Huntsman.

             ERIC
      Let her go, Finn!

             FINN
      Only if you ask nicely.

Bruno tightens his grip around Snow Whites neck.

             FINN
      The Queen aint after you, 
      Huntsman.  Its the girl she wants.  
      You come along peaceful-like maybe 
      we cut ya in on the deal.

             ERIC
      Last deal I made with you cost me 
      an arm and a leg.  
        (beat)
      Only cost you a hand.

             FINN
      Very funny, Huntsman.


Despite his words, Finn isnt particularly amused... but realizes that he may have to bargain with Eric.


             FINN
      An even share.

             ERIC
      Double it.

             FINN
      Three against one.  You aint in no 
      position to bargain.

And then-- Eric STOMPS his foot down on a LOOSE PLANK on the 
dock.  The other end of the plank kicks up, sending Bilge-Rat 
flying into the rushing water.

             BRUNO
      Oy!  Thats my brother!

             ERIC
      Really?  I dont see the 
      resemblance.

             BRUNO
      Why does everyone keep sayin 
      that?!

             ERIC
        (to Finn)
      Two against one.  Minus your 
      hand... and well call it even.

             FINN
      Aye...  We got us a deal.  For a 
      minute there, I thought ya mightve 
      grown a soul.

             ERIC
      Not yet.

And then, Finn smiles, rips off Snow Whites hood--

--but its NOT Snow White.  Its Lily.  She BITES Brunos 
arm, breaks free and runs off into the village.

EXT. KEELBOAT - FLOATING

Cruising down the river, the ACTUAL Snow White pulls the hood 
off her head, looks to the shore.

The boats rotund SKIPPER turns to Snow White.


             SKIPPER
      What sorta trouble you in, miss?

             SNOW WHITE
      Shut up and steer!

EXT. DOCK

Finn looks to the river, sees Snow White floating away.

             FINN
      Mighty clever, Huntsman.

And then, Eric flings a hatchet -- Finn ducks.  Eric leaps 
onto a nearby horse and rides off along the river bank.

EXT. KEELBOAT - FLOATING

The flimsy boat floats into a STRETCH OF RAPIDS.  Snow White 
grabs onto the rigging.

EXT. DOCK

Finn and Bruno knock a few INNOCENT TOWNSPEOPLE off their 
horses.  They mount up, chase after Eric and Snow White.

EXT. KEELBOAT - FLOATING

The Skipper looks ahead, spots a FORK IN THE RIVER.  He hits 
the rudder HARD RIGHT.

             SNOW WHITE
      What are you doing?

             SKIPPER
        (pointing left)
      We do NOT want to go that way!

             SNOW WHITE
      Why?!

             SKIPPER
      Trust me!

Snow White looks to the shore.  She sees Bruno riding up 
behind Eric.

And then, Bruno PULLS A CROSSBOW from his back.

Bruno fires his crossbow at Eric -- misses.

Snow White fires her longbow at Bruno -- but narrowly misses.

Bruno loads another crossbow bolt.

Snow White nocks her final arrow and fires--

--and amazingly, the arrow SLICES RIGHT THROUGH the cinch of 
Brunos saddle.  The saddle slowly loosens... sending Bruno 
falling off the back of the horse.

Victorious, Snow White looks back to the Skipper.  

But despite his best efforts, the boat FLOATS TO THE LEFT.

             SKIPPER
      Um... good luck, miss...

And then, the Skipper LEAPS OFF HIS OWN BOAT, swims to shore.

             SNOW WHITE
      Wait!  I dont know how to--

But Snow White doesnt have much time to worry-- 

--because Finn leaps onto the boat from an overhanging tree. 

             FINN
      Lets see if the little girl can 
      play with the big boys.

Finn brandishes his spiked hand, swipes at Snow White.  She 
leaps out of the way, draws her dagger and attacks.  Chest, 
thigh, neck.  Just like Eric taught her.  She forces Finn 
back, but then, he knocks her dagger away. 

             FINN
      Did the Huntsman teach you that?  I 
      wonder whats in it for him...

Finn puts Snow White in a CHOKE-HOLD.

             FINN 
      You dont think hes helping you 
      outta the kindness of his heart...?  
      He dont care about you, no matter 
      what he says.  Hes like me... he 
      dont care about nothin.

For a moment, it looks like Snow White might believe him.

             SNOW WHITE
      Thats not true!

Snow White ELBOWS FINN -- Finn falls to his knees.

             FINN
        (standing up)
      Now, that wasnt very ladylike.

Snow White backs up against the rudder.  Finn inches closer.

And SPRANG!!!  The prongs snap out of his spike.

EXT. RIVER BANK

Still on horseback, Eric sees Finn towering over Snow White 
on the keelboat. 

Eric spots a patch of thick vines hanging over the river.  

He leaps out of the saddle, grabs a vine and swings out over 
the river-- 

EXT. KEELBOAT - FLOATING

Eric SLAMS INTO FINN.  They crash to the deck, brawling.

Meanwhile, Snow White looks ahead and sees--

AN EPIC WATERFALL.  Niagara Falls on steroids.

             SNOW WHITE
      Huntsman!  Up ahead!

Eric and Finn look ahead, see the waterfall. 

Snow White spots a LARGE BOULDER at the edge of the falls. 
She hits the rudder, steering the boat towards the boulder. 

The keelboat SLAMS into the boulder. 

Snow White leaps off the boat onto the boulder, but the 
boulder is SLICK.  She slides right OVER THE EDGE.

But grabs onto a WET ROOT.  It wont hold for long.  She 
dangles over the waterfall, hundreds of feet in the air. 

Eric and Finn leap onto the boulder just as the keelboat 
tumbles over the edge of the waterfall.  

They continue their scuffle.  Rougher and messier.  Their 
feet slip and slide on the wet boulder as they fight. 

Finally, Eric gets the upper hand, forces Finn to his back. 

Eric draws his hatchet, raises it above Finns head. 

             FINN
        (desperate)
      Wait!  The Queen-- I know she 
      killed your wife-- you want 
      revenge?  I can help you!

             ERIC
      How?!

Snow White is busy hanging over the edge of the waterfall.  
She hears none of this conversation.

             FINN
      The girl, Eric!

             ERIC
      What do you care about the girl?!

Eric raises his hatchet again.

             FINN
      No!  The girl-- shes a weapon-- 
      the only weapon-- with the power-- 
      the power to destroy the Queen.

WE MOVE IN on Finns COLORLESS EYES...

FLASH TO:

INT. RAVENNAS WAGON - DAY - [FLASHBACK]

They are the same COLORLESS EYES that were peeking into the 
wagon during Ravennas flashback.  A YOUNGER FINN [17], peeks 
into the wagon, witnessing Ravennas magical transformation 
at the hands of her mother.

We pick up the conversation where we left off:

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
      Now, your beauty -- and your life -- 
      can never be taken from you.
        (a long moment)
      Except by one.

Ravennas Mothers leans in close, whispering to her daughter.

             RAVENNAS MOTHER
      By fairest blood, it is done... 
      And only by fairest blood can it be 
      undone.

BACK TO:

EXT. WATERFALL BOULDER - [BACK TO THE PRESENT]

Eric still has Finn pinned on his back.

             FINN
      Only the fairest woman in the land 
      can kill the Queen.
        (beat)
      And guess who that is...

This revelation hits Eric like a freight train.

             ERIC
      Snow White...

But then, Snow Whites hand slips off the wet root--

And Eric is there to grab her.

             ERIC
      Ive got you.

Erics body slides across the boulder, over the edge.  But 
Finn CATCHES ERICS SLEEVE with his spike.

             FINN
      You took my hand, Eric... now, I 
      get to return the favor...

Finn grabs one of Erics hatchets off the boulder.  He raises 
the hatchet, READY TO CHOP OFF ERICS HAND-- 

             ERIC
        (to Snow White)
      Hold your breath!

Eric rips his sleeve loose.  He and Snow White plunge towards 
the churning water far below.

             FINN
      Thats the Way of the Woods.

EXT. CHURNING WATER - MOMENTS LATER

Eric smashes into the swirling, white foam at the bottom of 
the falls.  He tries to swim to the surface, but hes stuck 
in the spinning torrent where the waterfall meets the river.

SMACK!!!  Snow White bullets into the river, close to Eric. 
Her head hits a rock, starts to bleed. 

And then... Eric starts to fade... his eyes close... giving 
up... as RED BLOOD clouds the WHITE WATER...

EXT. WINTER WOODS - SUNSET - [THE PAST]

Or is the RED BLOOD clouding WHITE SNOW? 

Erics wounded wife, Sara, lays out on the snow.

             ERIC
      SARA!!!

Eric returns from the hunt.  He drops a pair of dead rabbits 
and runs to Sara, holding her head in his arms. 

             SARA
      Eric... its cold...

Eric throws off his cloak, drapes it over Saras body.

             ERIC
      Im here, Sara.  Im here.

But Saras breathing stops.  Her eyes roll back. 

As Erics eyes fill with tears, he looks off into the woods 
and sees--

THE WHITE WOLF, staring back at him.

INT. CHURNING WATER - [BACK TO THE PRESENT]

And were back in that primordial underwater dreamworld.  
Eric floats, seemingly lifeless, in the white water. 

             FINN
      Only the fairest woman in the land 
      can kill the Queen.

And then, Erics eyes pop open.

EXT. ICE CANYON RIVER - MOMENTS LATER

The river now flows through high-walled ICE CANYONS.

With a SPLASH, Eric smashes up through the surface of the 
river, carrying Snow White in his arms.

He drags her onto the ICY SHORE.

             ERIC
        (hysterically)
      Snow White -- no -- not like this --
        (checking her breathing)
      Please, breathe!  Breathe!!!

Eric makes a fist and pounds her chest several times.  He 
gives a final pound -- finally, Snow White coughs up water.

             SNOW WHITE
        (with a smile)
      Forgot to hold my breath.

Eric breathes a huge sigh of relief... as Snow White looks 
around at their ARCTIC SURROUNDINGS.

             SNOW WHITE
      I dont suppose this is the path to 
      the Dukes Estate...

             ERIC
      Weve been forced to take a slight 
      detour.

I/E. RAVENNAS COACH - NIGHT - TRAVELLING

Ravenna rides on a plush seat in an elegant, spacious coach.  
But even she is not immune to the bumps in the road.

Her Beauty Experts surround her, doing their best to primp 
and polish the Queen, despite the bumpy ride.

A huge BUMP IN THE ROAD!  The Cosmetologists hand strays, 
causing a small streak of lipstick to venture away from 
Ravennas lips and onto her cheek.

The other two Beauty Experts share a smile, delighting in The 
Cosmetologists misfortune. 

Ravenna flashes an ICE COLD LOOK at the Cosmetologist, who 
quickly and carefully cleans up the mess.

             COACHMAN 
      Your Beauty... Weve passed into 
      the realm of KING BLOODAXE.

Ravenna immediately throws open the coach curtains and 
beholds an AWESOME SIGHT:

In the distance, a terrifying BLACK FORTRESS is set upon a 
jagged hill, silhouetted against a blood-red sky.  Its 
surrounded on all sides by a sulfurous, hellish wasteland, 
stripped of trees.  Deep quarries, mined by teams of SLAVES 
in chains, cut into the terrain like scars.

Ravenna may have run her kingdom into the ground... but its 
nothing compared to what this King Bloodaxe has done to his.

It brings a look of dread, or perhaps envy, to her eyes.

EXT. KING BLOODAXES FORTRESS - RAMPART - LATER THAT NIGHT

KING BLOODAXE [50s] raises a MASSIVE CROSSBOW.  Hes a dark 
lord if there ever was one.  Pallid skin.  Dark, sunken eyes.

             KING BLOODAXE
      Release the phoenix!

An ATTENDANT releases a MULTICOLORED PHOENIX from a cage.  
King Bloodaxe takes careful aim and fires.  Hitting the bird. 

The bird BURSTS INTO FLAME.  And from those flames, another 
PHOENIX emerges.  King Bloodaxe aims and fires at this one as 
well.  Another burst of flame.  Yet again, a NEW PHOENIX 
rises out of the ashes soaring even higher into the sky.  
Bloodaxe aims his crossbow.  Can he make it three in a row?

             HERALD
      I present Queen Ravenna!

Distracted, King Bloodaxe fires and misses the phoenix.  It 
disappears into the clouds.  Bloodaxe is not happy.  He turns 
around to face Ravenna who stands beside his HERALD.

             RAVENNA
        (curtsying slightly)
      King Bloodaxe...

             KING BLOODAXE
      Your Beauty...

Without masking his irritation, Bloodaxe kisses her hand.

EXT. KING BLOODAXES FORTRESS - COURTYARD - LATER

King Bloodaxe walks Ravenna through an expansive courtyard 
where a large PLATOON of his own DARK ARMY is marshalled.  
Hes showing off, trying to both impress and intimidate her.

Like a gold-digging trophy wife surveying her prospective 
husbands riches, Ravenna takes this all in with eager eyes.  
She wants this kind of power.

INT. KING BLOODAXES DINING HALL - LATER 

King Bloodaxe and Queen Ravenna sit on opposite sides of a 
comically long dining table in the dark and gloomy room.  
Stuffed and mounted HEADS of LEGENDARY CREATURES hang on the 
wall -- unicorns, griffins, basilisks -- as hunting trophies.

             KING BLOODAXE
      How do you find your meat?


Ravenna looks to the blood-raw slab of meat on her plate.
             RAVENNA
      Quite satisfactory.  Its just... 
      Im trying to watch my figure.
        (beat)
      It is my desire to always be 
      pleasing to the eye... and pleasing 
      in other ways.

King Bloodaxe doesnt look up from his meat.

             RAVENNA 
      Your Highness, if I may speak 
      candidly... I am but a weak-willed 
      woman whos grown lonely without a 
      man in my bedchamber.  And as for 
      managing the affairs of an entire 
      kingdom, well, I simply wouldnt 
      know where to begin...

King Bloodaxe cleans his mouth, puts his silverware down.

             KING BLOODAXE 
      Since were being candid.  Your 
      feminine pulchritude is renowned 
      throughout this and many other 
      kingdoms.  Hips seem of appropriate 
      girth for child-bearing.  And to 
      combine my holdings with the those 
      of your late husband, this would be 
      most desirable.  The match seems 
      like a sound one.  I have only one 
      question... 
        (a moment)
      ... about your stepdaughter.

In a minor spasm of rage, Ravenna cuts her meat so hard that 
she SHATTERS the plate beneath it. 

             RAVENNA
        (calming down)
      Stepdaughter?

             KING BLOODAXE
      My advisors tell me she is as 
      beautiful as you, perhaps more so.
      Should I not marry her?  I would 
      still inherit your kingdom.  My 
      bride would be younger and more 
      beautiful... with many more child-
      bearing years ahead of her.

Ravenna clears her throat, trying to control her temper.


             RAVENNA
      It grieves me to say that the young 
      princess died tragically in a... 
      hunting accident.
        (forcing a smile)
      I am afraid you will have to make 
      due with me.

I/E. RAVENNAS COACH - PARKED - LATER THAT NIGHT

The Beauty Experts quickly spiff themselves up as the 
Coachmen open the coach door for Ravenna.  They look to the 
Queen with bated breath--

Until she shows them her massive ENGAGEMENT RING topped off 
with an enormous BLACK GEMSTONE.

EXT. ICY REALM - DAY

Eric and Snow White trudge through icy tundra, buffeted by 
wind and snow.  Theyre very under dressed.

But then, HORNS sound in the distance.  Like those signalling 
the arrival of Viking invaders.  Eric and Snow White look up, 
see a SQUAD OF MEN ON HORSEBACK standing upon a high ridge.

Swirling snow will prevent us from seeing them clearly, but 
at this distance, they appear to be GREAT BARBARIAN WARRIORS, 
clad in fur and armor, and riding upon magnificent steeds.  
Like something out of a Frazetta painting.  Quite imposing.

And then, the men draw swords... and begin a charge down the 
hillside, heading right for Eric and Snow White.

Snow White starts to run -- Eric holds her back.

             ERIC
      Just wait...

But Snow White decides to hide behind Eric anyway.

The men barrel down the hill... but as they ride closer...  
it becomes clear that these barbarian warriors are only a 
COUPLE OF FEET TALL.  And they ride upon MINIATURE PONIES.

The EIGHT DWARFS line up in front of Eric, weapons drawn.

             ERIC
      Come now, Caesar, I thought we were 
      friends.

Caesar, the eldest DWARF, with the longest beard, speaks up.


             CAESAR
      We were friends.

NERO, an angry-looking dwarf rides forward.

             NERO
      Before you BETRAYED US!!!

             CAESAR
      Do not interrupt me, Nero!

             NERO
      Apologies.

             CAESAR
      What be your purpose here, Eric?

             ERIC
      We seek shelter from the storm.

TIBERIUS, the biggest and burliest dwarf, chimes in.

             TIBERIUS
      You expect us to help you?!

             NERO
        (threatening)
      Give us one good reason why we 
      shouldnt priggle you right where 
      you stand!

The twin dwarfs, HADRIAN and TRAJAN, nod in unison.  And 
together, the dwarfs ride closer to Eric.

             CONSTANTINE 
      Hold...

The other dwarfs stop, heeding the words of CONSTANTINE, a 
BLIND dwarf with a solemn face.

             CONSTANTINE
      I smell a woman.

CLAUDIUS, a timid dwarf, tries to join the conversation.

             CLAUDIUS
        (stuttering)
      A wo-- wo-- wo--

      HADRIAN
	A woman!


	TRAJAN
	A woman!

And then, Snow White peeks out from behind Erics back.  This 
elicits a chorus of OOHS and AAHS from the dwarfs.


GUS, a young beardless dwarf, much smaller than all of his brothers, seems particularly smitten with Snow White.

             CAESAR
      Pardon my brothers, maam.  Until 
      today, wed never actually laid 
      eyes on a flesh and blood woman.

             SNOW WHITE
      Its quite alright.  Until today, 
      Id never seen a dwarf.

The dwarfs go silent, fixing their gaze on Snow White.

             SNOW WHITE
      Have I... said something wrong?

The dwarfs dont respond.  Eric leans in close to Snow White.

             ERIC
      They dont like to be called...
        (whispering)
      ... dwarfs.

Snow White looks to the dwarfs, puts on a friendly smile.

             SNOW WHITE
      So, about that shelter...?

INT. DWARF ICE CAVE - LATER THAT NIGHT

In contrast to the frozen world outside, the inside of this 
ICE CAVE HOME is warm and flame-lit.  Furs cover the floor.

The dwarfs sit around a large, low, round table.  Huge bowls 
of steaming, meaty stew rest in front of each dwarf.  Places 
have been made for Eric and Snow White as well.

Constantine leads his brothers in a mystic DWARF PRAYER.

As soon as the prayer ends, the dwarfs dive in: slurping, 
swallowing, spilling.  Bits of meat fly everywhere.  

Snow White looks around at the ravenous little men, clearly a 
bit disgusted by their boorish behavior.

Just as Snow White prepares to eat a bite of stew herself--  
SPLASH!!!  Nero spills his stew onto the table.

And then, Nero starts to lick it up off the table.

             SNOW WHITE
      Disgusting!


Snow White slaps Neros hand.  The dwarfs go silent.  Nero 
angrily recoils and draws his sword--

But then, the whole table BREAKS INTO LAUGHTER.  Nero 
grudgingly laughs, sheathes his sword and sits back down.

Meanwhile, Eric taps Caesar on the shoulder, WHISPERS...

             ERIC
      Caesar... theres something we need 
      to discuss.

             CAESAR
      Not now, Huntsman.

             ERIC
      I can help you settle your score 
      with the Queen...

Caesar turns and looks Eric in the eye, intrigued.

INT. THORNY FOREST - THAT NIGHT

Finn stands amidst giant, thorny vines.  Hes talking to 
someone.  Or something.  Whoever hes talking to is BUZZING 
AROUND in the air above.  At a lightning-fast speed.

             FINN
      Theres two.  A huntsman and a 
      girl.  Queen wants them both outta 
      the way before her wedding starts.  
      And to get the job done right, we 
      need a little extra... manpower.

NEARBY, Bruno and Bilge-Rat converse, clearly frightened.  
They must have reunited with their old boss, Finn.

             BILGE-RAT
      Funny, I thought theyd be smaller.

             BRUNO
      And, um... less evil...

REVEAL: a troop of at least a dozen winged FAIRIES.  Three 
feet tall.  But these arent normal fairies.  They are strong 
and menacing, with bat-like wings and sharpened teeth. 

The FAIRY CAPTAIN zooms towards Bilge-Rat and Bruno, 
clutching a thorny spear.  Bilge-Rat and Bruno flinch.

             FAIRY CAPTAIN
      This aint a fairy tale.


INT. ICE MINE - NEXT DAY

The icy walls glitter with gemstones.  A MINE CAR TRACK 
snakes around stalactites and stalagmites.  The eight dwarfs 
work at various jobs throughout the cave.

Snow White, now wearing a thicker fur ensemble, dips her feet 
into a STREAM.  The stream spins a waterwheel, powering a 
conveyor belt and an ore crusher.  

Across from Snow White, Gus, the beardless dwarf, pans for 
gold in the stream.  After a moment, Gus finds a small 
SAPPHIRE.  He gives it to Snow White with a smile.  

But then, Gus playfully splashes Snow White with water.

             SNOW WHITE
      Oh, youre in trouble now!

The gentle splashing becomes a playful water fight.  

IN ANOTHER PART OF THE ICE MINE

Eric conspires with Caesar, Nero and Constantine.

             ERIC
      I have Snow White, but I need a way 
      to get her inside, understand?

             CAESAR
        (amused)
      Aye, aye... you need our help to 
      storm the palace.

             ERIC
      Its the Way of the Woods.

             NERO
      We no longer abide in the woods!

             ERIC
      Because the Queen drove you out!

             NERO
      With your help!

             ERIC
        (apologetic)
      I was a different person then.

             CAESAR
      And you expect us to forgive you 
      overnight?

             ERIC
      I dont want forgiveness.  I want 
      the Queen dead.  And so should you.

Nearby, Constantine taps gemstones with a hammer, listening 
to the sound they make.  He interjects:

             CONSTANTINE
      Huntsman.  Why not tell the girl 
      about her destiny... to kill the 
      witch-queen and free this land?

             ERIC
      What if shes afraid?  What if she 
      runs?

             CONSTANTINE
      And what if she sees eye to eye 
      with you?

             ERIC
      As soon as shes found her 
      strength, then Ill tell her.

             SNOW WHITE 
      Tell me what...?

Eric spins around, sees Snow White standing behind him.

             ERIC
      Its nothing.

             SNOW WHITE
      Can I speak with you?

Eric nods, but as they step away from the dwarfs-- 

A DARK FIGURE creeps up behind them... 

             SNOW WHITE
      I just wanted to thank you... for 
      everything...

Snow White pulls off her LOCKET and places it in Erics hand.

             ERIC
      This was your fathers.  I cant--

Eric tries to hand it back, but Snow White wont take it.  
She smiles, fastens the locket around Erics neck before he 
has a chance to stop her.

             SNOW WHITE
      Too late.  What do you think?


             ERIC
      Its very... shiny.  Thank you.

But then, a BLADE cuts out of the darkness, comes to rest 
against Erics neck.   The Dark Figure steps out of the 
blackness.  Its Prince Charmant, son of Duke Charmant! 

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Move and Ill cut your throat!

Eric seems more irritated than frightened.  

Snow Whites eyes light up when she sees Prince Charmant. 
It's been many years since their eyes last met. 

             SNOW WHITE
      Prince Charmant?!

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Snow White...

Eric sees Prince Charmants hand nervously shaking.

             ERIC
      Take a few deep breathes, boy.  
      Should help steady the nerves.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Do you remember what I whispered in 
      your ear that day?  The last time 
      we saw each other.

             SNOW WHITE
      You said... youd come back for me.

Prince Charmant and Snow White get lost in each others eyes 
for a moment, remembering old times.  Until...

             ERIC
        (wryly)
      How romantic.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Shut your mouth!
        (to Snow White)
      I have a horse outside.

             SNOW WHITE
      Just let him go.  Then we can talk.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Why are you protecting him?  Hes a 
      killer--


             SNOW WHITE
      No -- I mean, yes -- but now hes 
      helping me -- its complicated --

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      How complicated can it be?

             ERIC
      Enough chit-chat.

Eric twists Prince Charmant over his shoulder, SLAMS HIM HARD 
into the rock floor.  Snow White runs to Prince Charmant.  
Hes knocked out cold, with a bloody forehead.

             SNOW WHITE
        (to Eric)
      What was that for?

             ERIC
        (playfully)
      He was trying to kill me.

INT. DWARF ICE CAVE - BACK ROOM - THAT NIGHT

Prince Charmant lays on a cot.  He slowly opens his eyes... 
and sees Snow White coming into focus.  Shes leaning over 
him, carefully tending to his wounded head. 

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      I told you Id come back.

             SNOW WHITE
      I thought youd forgotten about me.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Forgotten?  I think about you every 
      day.  My father, he wouldnt let me 
      leave his estate.  But look--

Prince Charmant pulls a STACK OF LETTERS out of his satchel.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      Letters... all addressed to you... 
      all returned...

Snow White smiles, moves to open one of them.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      You can read them later.  We need 
      to go.

Prince Charmant tries to stand, but quickly gets woozy.


             SNOW WHITE
      You need to rest.  Come here...

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      If I was able to track you here, 
      then the Queens men cant be far 
      behind.

             SNOW WHITE
      Were safe.  The Huntsmans gotten 
      me this far.

Prince Charmant rolls his eyes.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      You cant stay here forever.  Come 
      with me to my fathers estate.  We 
      can leave tonight.  Right now!

             SNOW WHITE
      And the Queen will follow me there.  
      Ill endanger you, your family... 
      everything you care about.
        (a moment)
      Not even your father can protect me 
      from the Queen.  No one can.

Snow White pauses for a moment, lost in thought.

             SNOW WHITE 
      Ill keep running and running... 
      and I wont be able to stop... 
      until someone brings Ravenna down.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Someone will.  Someday.  
        (a moment)
      But that someone isnt you.

Snow White smiles, comforted.

             SNOW WHITE
      How did you know I was in danger?

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      I got word that Ravenna was sending 
      men to track down a girl with skin 
      as white as snow, hair as black as 
      ebony and lips as red as blood.
        (moving closer)
      They were looking for the fairest 
      woman in the land.  And theres 
      only one girl I know who fits that 
      description...


They lean in, but just before their lips meet--

             ERIC 
      Getting late, isnt it?

Eric peeks his head into the room.  Snow White and Prince 
Charmant quickly break apart.  They look back to Eric, who 
stands in an open doorway.

             SNOW WHITE
      I suppose so...

INT. DWARF ICE CAVE - MAIN ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

As the rest of the cave sleeps, Snow White sits alone at the 
main table, reading all of Prince Charmants returned LOVE 
LETTERS by candlelight.  She smiles as she reads.

             ERIC 
      Im sorry... about earlier...

Eric steps into the room.

             SNOW WHITE
      No, we shouldnt have... I 
      shouldnt have... its just, we 
      have a history.

             ERIC
      I think you have more than that.

             SNOW WHITE
        (opening up a bit)
      I always hoped we would be together 
      again someday.  But now that we 
      are... in so many ways, hes still 
      the same boy I grew up with, 
      playing at being a knight in 
      shining armor, rescuing his damsel 
      in distress.
        (a moment)
      But I am not a damsel.  Not 
      anymore.

Eric nods proudly -- she most certainly isnt.

             SNOW WHITE 
      I cant help but think that maybe 
      theres someone out there... more 
      suitable for me...

Eric realizes where Snow White is going with this, tries to 
steer the conversation in a different direction.

             ERIC
      I saw how you were looking at each 
      other, Snow White.  I used to look 
      at someone like that... a long time 
      ago.  My advice, such as it is: if 
      there was ever love between you... 
      then there is still love between 
      you.  It doesnt die.
        (a moment)
      So, you fell in love with a boy, 
      now youll have to learn to love 
      the man hes become.

INT. ICE MINE - NEXT DAY

The dwarfs are back at work.  Caesar, Nero and Constantine 
carefully inspect their gemstones as Eric argues with them. 

             ERIC
      And thats the final word?

             CAESAR
        (re: gemstones)
      Buy yourself an army.  Take all you 
      need.

             ERIC
      Dont you want your revenge?

             NERO
      This isnt about our revenge!

             ERIC
      Was I talking to you, little man?

             CAESAR
      Dont speak to my brother that way!

             NERO
      Aye!  Dont speak to his brother 
      that way!

             CAESAR

      Nero!
        (bluntly, to Eric)
      Eric.  You are the finest hunter I 
      have ever known... and Ive hunted 
      with many, short and tall alike.  
      But some quarry, even the Huntsman 
      cannot catch.  Weve moved on.  
      Maybe you should too.

Eric turns away, dejected -- but SOMETHINGS WRONG.


             ERIC
      Snow White... where did she go?

EXT. ICE MINE ENTRANCE - MOMENTS LATER

Eric runs out of the cave, sees Snow White and Prince 
Charmant standing beside a LOADED HORSE in the icy clearing.

             ERIC
      Whats this?!

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Shes coming with me!

             SNOW WHITE
      I havent exactly agreed yet.  
        (to Eric)
      And what about all those things you 
      said last night?

             ERIC
      I was drunk!
        (grabbing Snow White)
      Get inside.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Youre not her father!

             ERIC
      Youll get no disagreement from me 
      on that point.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      I can protect her.  Thats more 
      than anyone can say about you!

Eric lets out a small snort of laughter.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      Something funny?

             ERIC
      She doesnt need protecting, boy.  
      Even if she did, I doubt youd be 
      the man for the job.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
        (drawing his sword)
      Shall I prove it to you?

             ERIC
        (drawing his axe)
      Oh, I wish you would.

INT. ICE MINE 

The dwarfs are busy at work throughout the mine.

BUT ON A HIGH STALACTITE

Theres an EVIL FAIRY perched.  The fairy pulls a BOMB from 
his belt.  He lights it, tosses it down.  

KA-BLAM!!!  The bomb tears into the cave wall.  Rocks fly. 

The EVIL FAIRIES have come.

EXT. ICE MINE ENTRANCE

Before Eric and Prince Charmant come to blows, an EXPLOSION 
echoes out of the cave.  Eric, Snow White and Prince Charmant 
look back towards the cave. 

             ERIC
      Wait here.

Eric runs back into the mine.

INT. ICE MINE

Eric storms back in, sees the chaos -- as bombs explode, the 
dwarfs use their mining tools to fend off the flying fairies. 

             CONSTANTINE
      Huntsman!  BEHIND YOU!!!

Eric ducks and rolls, narrowly avoiding a thrown spear.

AMIDST THE CHAOS

Our old pals, Bilge-Rat and Bruno appear, dodging spears and 
other shrapnel.  Theyre not really interested in capturing 
Eric and Snow White-- Its the gemstones theyre after.

             BILGE-RAT
      Bit slippery over ere.

With that, Bilge-Rat SLIPS on the ice, FALLS on his behind.  
Bruno tries to help him up, but he too SLIPS.  After a few 
failed attempts, they manage to get to their feet and into--

THE DWARFS STORE ROOM

Filled with glittering gemstones.  Bilge-Rat and Bruno 
exchange a wide-smile, almost hypnotized.  They immediately 
go to work filling up a BURLAP SACK.

EXT. ICE MINE ENTRANCE

The sound of another explosion echoes out of the cave.  
Prince Charmant extends his hand to Snow White.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Nows our chance!  Hop on, quick!

But then... Snow White runs back into the mine.

INT. ICE MINE - MOMENTS LATER

Snow White stumbles right into the action.  Eric spots her.

             ERIC
      GET OUT!!!

But an EXPLOSION knocks Eric and Snow White to the floor. 

Snow White sits up, rubs her head, and hears a loud BUZZING 
OF WINGS.  The Fairy Captain drops down in front of her. 

Snow White draws her dagger, but the fairy knocks it away.

             SNOW WHITE
      Huntsman...

But Eric is on the other side of the cave, picking himself up 
off the ground.  Hes disoriented.  Vision blurred.

             SNOW WHITE
      HUNTSMAN!!!

Snow Whites plea is drowned out by the sound of HOWLING.  
Eric looks to a SIDE TUNNEL and sees the ghostly form of--

A WHITE WOLF

Eric shakes his head, looks again -- THE WOLF IS GONE. 

Still disoriented, Eric ignores Snow Whites cries.  He 
stumbles into the tunnel where he saw the white wolf. 

MEANWHILE, the Fairy Captain closes in on Snow White.  

But then-- 

Prince Charmant sprints into the cave, tackling the Fairy 
Captain, saving Snow White.  

The Fairy Captain takes flight, PULLING PRINCE CHARMANT UP 
OFF THE CAVE FLOOR.  Prince Charmant holds on for dear life. 

IN THE DWARFS STORE ROOM

Bilge-Rat climbs up to a HIGH SHELF to get access to more of 
the dwarfs gemstones.

             BILGE-RAT
      Catch!

Bilge-Rat starts tossing large jewels down at Bruno.  Bruno 
DROPS HIS SACK and tries to catch them with his bare hands.  
Many of the stones hit him on the head.

             BILGE-RAT
      With the sack, you bleedin idiot!

             BRUNO
      Oh, right, that does make more 
      sense.

Bruno opens up the sack, catching more gemstones.

INT. UNDERGROUND CHASM

Still looking for the white wolf, Eric has ventured deep 
inside the ice cave system.  He finds himself alone at the 
edge of a deep precipice.  Silence for a moment. 

Until a SPIKE whips through the darkness, slices Erics leg. 
Eric falls to his knees. 

Finn leaps out of the darkness.  Eric hops to his feet, draws 
a hatchet, attacks Finn. 

Finn parries frantically with his spiked arm.  SPRANG!!!  
SPRANG!!!  SPRANG!!!  His three prongs snap open and shut 
like giant scissors. 

Eric sidesteps, grabs hold of Finns stump-spike apparatus 
and PULLS WITH ALL HIS MIGHT.

             ERIC
      Nifty little toy.

Eric tosses the stump-spike apparatus into the chasm.  He 
slams the weakened Finn against the rock wall and examines 
Finns ARM STUMP. 

             ERIC
      I think your head deserves the same 
      treatment.

Eric brings his hatchet to Finns neck.

             FINN
      I got news for ya, Huntsman.
        (beat)
      My hand aint the only thing ya cut 
      off.

Finn looks to the WHITE WOLFS TAIL hanging from Erics belt. 

And then, Finn closes his eyes and opens them again.  But 
they arent normal human eyes anymore... they are savage WOLF 
EYES!  WHITE HAIRS sprout from Finns face.

             ERIC
      You...?

Finns teeth grow long and sharp.  A snout BURSTS OUT from 
his face.  He drops to all fours, SCREAMS IN PAIN.  The 
scream becomes a HOWL.  And in moments, Finn has fully 
transformed INTO A WHITE WOLF. 

With a MISSING PAW and a MISSING TAIL. 

It must have been Finn, in the form of the white wolf, who 
was sent by Ravenna to kill Erics wife. 

Eric grips his hatchet tight.  The white wolf snarls.  And 
they lay into each other. 

INT. ICE MINE - MAIN CHAMBER

As the dwarf-fairy battle rages all around, Bruno and Bilge-
Rat dart out of the store room, carrying their gemstone sack.  

But Bilge-Rat spots a spear heading his way.

             BILGE-RAT
      Duck!

Bilge-Rat and Bruno duck.  But the spear GRAZES THE BURLAP 
SACK, ripping it.  Bilge-Rat and Bruno dont see it happen.

             BRUNO
      Ha!  Lucks on our side, brother!

But as they run out of the cave, the tear in the sack 
grows... and precious gemstones start to slowly trickle out 
of the bag.  Unbeknownst to Bilge-Rat and Bruno.

MEANWHILE, ON THE ICE CAVE CEILING

Prince Charmant fights with the Fairy Captain as they fly 
haphazardly throughout the cavernous mine. 


But then, Prince Charmant pulls a dagger, SLICES one of the 
Fairy Captains wings off.  The wounded Fairy Captain spirals 
towards the ground.  Prince Charmant breaks away-- 

--but he SLAMS onto the rock floor, UNCONSCIOUS. 

The wounded Fairy Captain limps towards Prince Charmants 
body, raises his spear, ready to deliver the deathblow. 

But nearby, Snow White grabs a rope, quickly TIES A LOOP.  
She tosses the rope, lassos the Fairy Captains neck and 
pulls tight, strangling the Fairy Captain.

ELSEWHERE IN THE ICE CAVE

Things are not going well.  The evil fairies have all of the 
dwarfs backed against the wall.  Theyre too powerful.

But then-- Theres a LOUD WHISTLE.  So loud, in fact, that 
all the dwarfs and fairies stop and turn towards the sound.

Its Gus, the young beardless dwarf.  Hes in a mine car, and hes got one of the evil fairies TIED UP next to him.  Gus 
hits a lever.  The mine car starts to race down the track.

The evil fairies turn away from their dwarf victims and chase 
after Gus.  He leads them on a wild goose chase... all the 
way to the towering ORE CRUSHER MACHINE.

And then, Gus simply smiles and pulls out--

--ONE OF THE FAIRY BOMBS.  He tosses it into the ore crusher.  
Moments later, the whole apparatus EXPLODES in a storm of 
flame and twisted shrapnel.

The evil fairies are all DISINTEGRATED in the blast.  Gus is 
knocked to the floor by the shockwave.  Motionless.

INT. UNDERGROUND CHASM

Eric and the white wolf trade blows, but Eric finally gets a 
CLEAN SHOT.  As the wounded wolf tumbles towards the edge of 
the chasm, it TRANSFORMS BACK into a severely wounded Finn. 
Eric grabs him by the neck.  And then, Finn starts laughing.

             FINN
      Youre too late, Huntsman.  
        (explaining)
      Queen marries King Bloodaxe.  Noon 
      tomorrow.  A new darknessll sweep 
      over this land.  Gonna make the 
      Queens reign of terror look 
      downright benevolent.


Erics eyes widen at this new piece of information.  But then, he gets tough again.


             ERIC
      Not my concern.

             FINN
      Thats the Huntsman we know and 
      love!  Couldnt give a damn about 
      the problems of the world.  Only 
      out for himself...

Finns words clearly get to Eric.  But then, Erics face 
hardens... he backs Finn up against the chasm.

             FINN
      The Queen -- she sent me after your 
      wife -- kill her if you want 
      revenge --

             ERIC
      I plan to.

             FINN
        (pleading)
      If I deserve to die, then so do 
      you!  All those women in the 
      dungeon.  You helped put em there.  
      Were cut from the same cloth.  
      There aint no difference tween 
      you and me.

             ERIC
      Theres one: Im alive.

With a mighty heave, Eric tosses Finn into the chasm.

             ERIC 
      Youre dead.

EXT. ICE FLOE - LATER THAT DAY

The SURVIVING DWARFS -- all SEVEN of them -- Caesar, Nero, 
Constantine, Claudius, Hadrian, Trajan and Tiberius stand at 
the edge of a vast arctic sea, holding back tears.  Eric, 
Snow White and Prince Charmant nearby.

             NERO
      Didnt even have a chance to earn 
      his beard...

The lifeless body of the youngest dwarf, Gus, lays out on the 
bed.  He sacrificed himself to save his brothers.


Constantine drops a small RED RUBY into Gus mouth.  He holds 
his hand out, utters a SOLEMN DWARF PRAYER.  And then, Gus 
lips TURN TO STONE, followed by his face and neck.  In 
moments, Gus is completely TRANSFORMED INTO STONE.

             CONSTANTINE
      May his spirit float Northward, to 
      the Dark Fells, and the dwelling-
      place of our ancestors.

The seven dwarfs use their pickaxes to break off the chunk of 
ice.  The ice floats out to sea, carrying Gus body with it.

             ERIC
        (quietly)
      Caesar... Im sorry--

             CAESAR
        (interrupting)
      Blood for blood.  Flesh for flesh.

             ERIC
        (finishing the rhyme)
      Life for life.  Death for death.

             CAESAR
      You do not have our forgiveness, 
      Eric.  But you have our aid, if you 
      desire it.

Its all too much for Snow White.  The emotions overwhelm 
her, and she tearfully storms back towards the dwarf cave.

Prince Charmant moves to follow her, but Eric stops him.

             ERIC
      Stay here.

INT. DWARF ICE CAVE - WASHROOM

Snow White runs inside and locks the door behind her.  She 
steps to a WASH BASIN.  Her tears splash down into the water, 
distorting her reflection. 

And then, she reaches for a STONE KNIFE. 

             ERIC 
        (banging on the door)
      Snow White!  Open the door!

Snow White brings the knife to her cheek, closes her eyes.

Eric finally throws open the door, sees Snow White.

             SNOW WHITE
      We do strange things when all hope 
      seems lost.

             ERIC
      Snow White... put it down...

             SNOW WHITE
      My beauty... the Queen wont stop 
      until shes taken it from me.  What 
      if I dont give her the chance...?

Unbeknownst to Eric and Snow White, ALL SEVEN DWARFS peek 
their heads into the room, spying on the scene.  And then, 
Prince Charmant pokes his head in as well, eavesdropping.

Meanwhile, Snow White presses the blade against her cheek.

             SNOW WHITE
      Ill be free.

             ERIC
      Snow White... theres something I 
      have to tell you...

Snow White listens intently... as do Prince Charmant and the 
seven dwarfs...

             ERIC
      This is hard for me to say... and I 
      would have told you sooner...

             NERO
        (whispering)
      Just spit it out.

Claudius slaps Nero on the back of the head.

             ERIC
      By fairest blood it is done...   
      And only by fairest blood can it be 
      undone.

Prince Charmant and the dwarfs exchange puzzled looks.

             ERIC
        (explaining)
      Only the fairest woman in the land 
      can kill the Queen.

Snow White can hardly believe her ears.  Its almost as if 
the wind is knocked out of her.

She drops the stone knife.  Eric quickly picks it up.


             SNOW WHITE
      Youve been using me.  All this 
      time.  For your revenge.

             ERIC
      No--

             SNOW WHITE
      I trusted you...

Snow White rips the locket from Erics neck.

             SNOW WHITE
      Get out!

Snow White sees Prince Charmant and the dwarfs peeking in..

             SNOW WHITE
      All of you!  Get out!

Eric nods to Prince Charmant and the dwarfs.  He closes the 
door, leaving Snow White alone in the wash room.

INT. DWARF ICE CAVE - LATER

Eric and Prince Charmant argue as the dwarfs sit around their 
round table.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      How could you not have told her?

             ERIC
      You and I can sort this out later.  
      Weve got bigger things to worry 
      about now.

The dwarfs listen intently, whats Eric talking about?

             ERIC 
      The Queen means to marry King 
      Bloodaxe.  Tomorrow at noon.

The dwarfs let out a collective GASP.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
        (truly disturbed)
      My father and the king fought for 
      decades to keep Bloodaxe at bay.  
      If he marries the Queen...
        (a moment)
      There will be no hope for us.


             ERIC      Maybe a glimmer...

Eric dips his fingers in lampblack and scrawls a diagram on 
the white cave walls.

             ERIC
      Theres only one safe passage from 
      Bloodaxes realm into our own.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      The Perilous Pass.

             ERIC
      Well hijack Bloodaxes wedding 
      caravan, smuggle Snow White into 
      the palace and use her to kill the 
      Queen before the wedding begins...

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Sounds risky to me...

             ERIC
      Luckily, its a risk you wont have 
      to share.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Pardon me?

             ERIC
      Youll put us in danger.

Prince Charmant stands and draws his sword.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      I followed you through the Dark 
      Forest... further than any of my 
      line have dared venture before.  I 
      risked my life to save Snow White. 

Eric SLAPS THE BLADE away, GRABS Prince Charmants neck.  

             ERIC
      If you had saved Snow White, she 
      would never have learned to save 
      herself. 

Eric drops the Prince, SHATTERING one of the dwarfs chairs.  
The dwarfs CRINGE at the destruction of their property.

But Prince Charmant hops to his feet, charges Eric.  Eric 
sidesteps, easily trips Prince Charmant.  Prince Charmant 
tumbles to the ground, DESTROYING several dwarf beds.  Again, 
the dwarfs cringe.


             ERIC
      Why are you doing this?

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Because I love her!  Do you even 
      know what that means?  
        (beat)
      How could you?  You were going to 
      trade her for a handful of gold--

             ERIC
      It was more than a handful.  
        (beat)
      And I have loved more than you can 
      possibly imagine!

Prince Charmant SLASHES at Eric with his sword. 

             ERIC
      You want to play rough?  Lets play 
      rough!

Prince Charmant attacks Eric with a flurry of fencing moves, 
skilled but dainty.  As Eric and Prince Charmant fight, they 
leave a WAKE OF DESTRUCTION throughout the dwarfs home.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Maybe youre jealous.

             ERIC
      Jealous?

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      That Snow White wants to be with me 
      and not you.

             ERIC
      I think you have the wrong idea 
      about me, boy.

Eric forces Prince Charmant up against a wall.

             ERIC
      Listen carefully.  I will say this 
      only once.  Snow White doesnt need 
      a protector.  Not anymore.  She 
      needs a partner, and I wont always 
      be there for her.  Understand?

After a moment, Prince Charmant nods.  Eric backs off.

But then, Prince Charmant takes a swing, knocks Eric to the 
ground, OBLITERATING the dwarfs dinner table.

Eric sits up, licks the blood off his lips and GRINS. 

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      And Snow White... whos going to 
      tell her about this plan?

             ERIC
      We both will.  Together.

LATER:

Eric and Prince Charmant open the washroom door--

But the room is empty.  They look to a high window.  ITS 
WIDE OPEN.  Powerful wind blows snow into the washroom.

Eric and Prince Charmant share a worried look.

CUT TO:

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM - DAY

Ravenna stares at herself in her Magic Mirror.  Shes being 
fitted by her Beauty Experts for her WEDDING DRESS.  As 
usual, the Beauty experts jostle behind her back, fighting 
for their territory.

Ravenna holds a sample of WHITE FABRIC up to her chest, 
seeing how it plays against her skin.

             RAVENNA
      Such beautiful material...  It will 
      be a shame to see it spangled with 
      my new husbands blood on our 
      wedding night.

But then, the Royal Guard Captain escorts Bilge-Rat and Bruno 
in.  Bruno still carries the burlap SACK.  And, somehow, gems 
are still trickling out of it.  One drops every few feet.  
Bilge-Rat and Bruno still seem clueless about the leak.

             BILGE-RAT
      Before you say anythin, Your 
      Beauty... we knew youd be a bit 
      peeved with us for not comin back 
      with the girl like you wanted...

             BRUNO
      But dont worry.  We did bring ya a 
      proper weddin gift...

             BILGE-RAT
      To help ease your pain.


Bilge-Rat reaches into the sack just as the last gemstone 
falls out of it.  He looks to Bruno, concerned.  Bruno flips 
the sack inside out, sees that all the gems are gone.

             RAVENNA
      And Finn...?

Bilge-Rat and Bruno shake their head in unison, no.  

             RAVENNA
      Thats the last time I send a man 
      to do a womans job!
        (calming herself)
      Tell me exactly where Snow White 
      is... and maybe, just maybe, I 
      wont use you to dye my wedding 
      carpet.

             BRUNO
      Sounds fair to me.

             BILGE-RAT
      Shes with the dwarfs.  In the Ice-
      Lands.

Ravenna ponders for a moment.

             RAVENNA
        (to Guard Captain)
      Give them a seat of honor at my 
      ceremony.

Bilge-Rat and Bruno are escorted out of the throne room, 
thanking Ravenna profusely and bowing obsequiously.

             RAVENNA
      SPECK!!!

A HATCH in the floor POPS OPEN.  Speck, Ravennas jittery, 
bespectacled alchemist, pops his head out of the hole.

             RAVENNA
      We have work to do.

INT. ALCHEMY CHAMBER - MOMENTS LATER

This is the dark underbelly of Ravennas posh throne room.  
Filled with cobwebs, potions and jars of magical ingredients.

Speck walks down a line of old wooden shelves, picking up 
ingredients.  Ravenna walks behind him.

LATER:


Ravenna oversees as Speck frantically whips together strange 
ingredients in oddly-shaped vials.

             RAVENNA 
      Fang of asp, rabbits toe and 
      arrowroot to send a shot of deadly 
      poison to her heart...

Speck brings the mixture to a boil... as Ravenna dips an 
apple into it.  But not just any apple.  A RED-AND-WHITE 
apple, clearly plucked from the apple tree in the courtyard.

Speck combines different ingredients in a large glass jug.

LATER:

             RAVENNA
      Mandrake, mugwort and musk of eel 
      to hide my true form...

Ravenna pours the liquid over herself, SCREAMING IN PAIN.

She remains shrouded in darkness, so we wont see HER FULL 
TRANSFORMATION clearly just yet.  But well watch as her 
spine starts to curve, her body starts to hunch and her hair 
begins to turn bone-white.

Speck carefully grinds up a powder with a mortar and pestle.

LATER:

             RAVENNA
      And essence of thunder, with a 
      pinch of powdered lightning... to 
      speed my flight.

Speck pours the powder into his hand.  And then, he BLOWS THE 
POWDER onto Ravenna, still partially hidden in the darkness.

Ravenna starts to laugh, but the LAUGHTER transforms into the 
WILD CACKLES of birds.  Wings sprout out of the darkness.  
And Ravenna transforms into a flock of red-eyed RAVENS.

The ravens zoom past Speck and out a small window.

CUT TO:

EXT. ENDLESS ICE FIELDS - SUNSET

Blizzardy conditions.  Its hard to see even a few feet.

But then, Snow White appears out of the snow.  Shivering.  
Delirious.  Tears freezing before they leave her eyes.


Snow White looks to the west, sees the sun starting to set.  
She doesnt have long.

But then-- 

SOMETHING darts past her.  Over her.  Behind her.

Something colorful.  Something beautiful.  Something warm.

FAIRIES

Vaguely human-like.  But not quite.  With translucent 
dragonfly wings that sparkle in the setting sun.

And when they arrive, the wind starts to die down, the snow 
dissipates and the sky clears.  

The fairies dance and twirl around Snow Whites freezing, 
barely conscious body, engulfing her in light... in warmth... 
in life.  They are here to protect her.

But then, the sun starts to disappear beneath the horizon.

And BLACK-WINGED CREATURES start to chase off the fairies.

RAVENS

Before long, the sun sets, leaving only faint moonlight to 
illuminate the ice fields.  No more fairies.  No more warmth.

Snow White drops to her knees.

             OLD CRONE 
      Good evening, dearie...

Snow White turns around and sees an ugly OLD CRONE limping 
out of the darkness.  Its Ravenna in disguise.

             OLD CRONE 
        (sweetly)
      Is everything alright, dearie...?

             SNOW WHITE
        (a bit delirious)
      I... I cant believe I was so 
      foolish... I thought he really... I 
      thought he really cared...

Snow White looks down at the locket in her hand.  And then, 
she tosses it away.

             OLD CRONE
      Thats over now...

The Old Crone reaches into her robes and presents her ripe 
red-and-white apple to Snow White.

             OLD CRONE 
      Something to warm your heart... 
      with happier memories... of life 
      and love...

Snow White immediately recognizes the red-and-white apple.  
It brings up all sorts of memories.  She gently takes it.

But before she bites--

             SNOW WHITE
      No... no... Im lost... I have to 
      find my way back.  The Queen.  Im 
      the only one who can--

             OLD CRONE
      Dont worry your head about that, 
      dearie... just have a bite...

With the Old Crones help, Snow White TAKES A BITE.

             SNOW WHITE
        (growing light-headed)
      Yes... I do feel a bit... warm...

And then, Snow White drops to the ground.

The Old Crone looks down at Snow White and smiles.  And when 
she smiles, she transforms BACK INTO RAVENNA.

Ravenna is finally the fairest in the land.

After a moment, Ravenna transforms back into the flock of 
ravens.  The birds scatter and soar up into the moonlit sky.

EXT. DWARF ICE CAVE - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Eric, Prince Charmant and the seven dwarfs layer on thick 
furs, strap on bits and pieces of armor and gird themselves 
with assorted weaponry.  The dwarfs saddle up their tiny 
horses.  Theyre all getting ready for action.

During the commotion, Constantine tugs on Erics shirt.

             CONSTANTINE
      The girl is dead.  Theres little 
      question about that.  The ice has 
      taken stronger folk in less time...

Constantine hands Eric a glass VIAL filled with RED FLUID.

             CONSTANTINE
      But if you get this to her soon 
      enough, you might be able to bring 
      her back.  No guarantees.

             ERIC
      If I find her, Ill catch up with 
      you.  If I dont... stop the 
      wedding any way you can.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      Huntsman... Ive been thinking...

Eric turns to face Prince Charmant.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      As much as it pains me to admit 
      it... youre right.  I have little 
      skill in battle.  And men are not 
      quick to respect me... I imagine it 
      would be much the same with dwarfs.
        (a moment)
      You should be the one to lead the 
      attack on Bloodaxes caravan.  Ill 
      go after Snow White.

Eric knows that Prince Charmant is probably right.

             ERIC
      You realize its most likely a 
      suicide mission.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      I am prepared to die.

After a moment, Eric hands Prince Charmant the dwarfs life 
potion and clasps his hand in a show of respect.

             ERIC
      Im trusting you.

Prince Charmant nods, then leaps onto his stallion and rides 
into the night.  Eric watches as the young Prince fades into 
black, almost impressed with his bravery.

             NERO 
      Huntsman!  We found you a horse!

Tiberius presents a TINY MINIATURE PONY to Eric.  Eric sighs 
as the dwarfs burst into laughter.

CUT TO:

EXT. PERILOUS PASS - SUNRISE

A solitary pass cuts through the jagged mountain range.

Just as Eric predicted, King Bloodaxes WEDDING CARAVAN rolls 
through.  It consists of several dozen INFANTRY and CAVALRY, 
along with a few store-wagons bearing gifts and supplies.

And at the end of the caravan--

King Bloodaxes ROLLING MINIATURE PALACE.  Reminiscent of 
Genghis Khans mobile yurt palace, only bigger and more 
imposing.  It consists of a massive rolling platform pulled 
by a dozen draft horses.  Sitting on the platform is a WOODEN 
HOUSE-LIKE STRUCTURE -- King Bloodaxes home away from home.

I/E. KING BLOODAXES ROLLING PALACE

King Bloodaxe drops a tiny PIXIE (like a fairy, only smaller 
and less human-like) into a KILLING JAR... and watches with 
cold eyes as it slowly dies.

The HEAD GUARD pops his head into the chamber.

             HEAD GUARD
      Weve reached the pass, Your 
      Highness.

King Bloodaxe nods.  He then carefully removes the dead pixie 
and pins it to a board, where it is displayed next to dozens 
of other pixies.  Like a butterfly collection.

EXT. PERILOUS PASS - ROUND THE BEND - MOMENTS LATER

King Bloodaxes wedding caravan rounds a corner... but finds 
its path blocked by a HAY WAGON with a BROKEN WHEEL, hitched 
to a team of miniature ponies.

Three of the dwarfs -- Caesar, Claudius and Nero -- mill 
about the wagon, pretending to fix the broken wheel. 

The five ADVANCED GUARDS riding at the head of the caravan 
see the broken wagon and signal for the caravan to halt.

             POCKMARKED GUARD
      Whatve we got here?

             SNAGGLETOOTHED GUARD
      Looks like dwarfs to me.

Nero fumes a bit upon hearing that word.  Claudius gives him 
a look, reminding him to stay calm.


             POCKMARKED GUARD
      Definitely dwarfs.

The Guards know theyre insulting the dwarfs.

             EMACIATED GUARD
      I aint seen a dwarf in... I dont 
      know how long.

Caesar tries to swallow his pride, stay in character.

             CAESAR
      Perhaps you goodly gentleman might 
      help us reattach the wheel?

             POCKMARKED GUARD
      I dont think well be doin that, 
      little fella.

             CAESAR
      Well, it looks to me like you lot 
      have some place mighty important to 
      be getting to.  Mightnt you be 
      able to at least help us push it 
      off the road, so that you can be 
      getting on your way?

The dwarfs and the Guards push the hay wagon--

BEHIND A BOULDER

Out of sight of the rest of the caravan.

LATER:

             CAESAR
      Much obliged.
        (a moment)
      Just one more thing...

             NERO
      Would you mind apologizing?

             SNAGGLETOOTHED GUARD
      For what? 

             CLAUDIUS
      F-- f-- for calling us...

             EMACIATED GUARD
      For calling you what you are?

             POCKMARKED GUARD
      Dwarfs.


And then, the remaining four dwarfs burst out of the hay in 
the back of the wagon and start to attack the guards.

Eric leaps down from the boulder and gets into the action.

In seconds, the Advanced Guards are down for the count.

EXT. ENDLESS ICE FIELDS - SUNRISE

Prince Charmant rides upon his stallion, braving the bitter 
weather.  Hes caked with snow and bitten with frost.

He seems barely alive himself, slumping over, perhaps ready 
to accept defeat.  But then, he sees a GLINT OF GOLD.

Prince Charmant reaches down and grabs SNOW WHITES LOCKET.

And then, theres a gentle wind, which blows away the snow 
and clears the mist, revealing an ICE CLEARING up ahead.  

Prince Charmant leads his horse by the reins and steps into--

THE ICE CLEARING

A small enclosed glen formed by glacial walls and accessed 
only through a small entrance at the front.

Thats when Prince Charmant sees Snow Whites body, resting 
upon a glacial outcropping, which looks almost like an altar.  
Her body has been covered in a CRYSTAL-CLEAR BLOCK OF ICE.

Assorted ANIMALS surround Snow Whites body -- polar bears, 
arctic foxes, snow owls -- as if keeping vigil over her.

Prince Charmant takes a step towards Snow Whites ICE COFFIN.  
The beasts raise their heads and snarl at Prince Charmant.

But he takes a deep breath and bravely continues forward.

As soon as Prince Charmant reaches the ice coffin, the 
animals disperse, leaving him alone with Snow Whites body.

Prince Charmant looks down through the ice at Snow White.  He 
sees the half-eaten apple still in her hand.

And then, he draws his sword and brings it down on the ice 
coffin.  The ice shatters, leaving Snow Whites body intact.

Prince Charmant quickly uncorks the dwarfs life potion and 
tries to pour it into her mouth.  But it doesnt work.  Her 
mouth is frozen shut.  Like a delicate porcelain doll.


             PRINCE CHARMANT
      No... no...

But then, an idea!  He drinks the life potion himself, then 
kneels beside Snow Whites body and gently KISSES HER.  

Nothing happens... until... Snow Whites lips seem to SOFTEN, 
followed by the rest of her face and body.  Her eyes open...

She sits up and kisses Prince Charmant passionately on the 
lips, wrapping her arms around him.  

             SNOW WHITE
        (after a moment)
      Wheres the Huntsman?

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Would you forget about him?

             SNOW WHITE
      I overheard you all talking about 
      the wedding.  Hes gone to attack 
      the Queen, hasnt he?
        (a moment)
      And were meant to follow him.

Snow White tries to stand, but her legs dont work yet. 

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Well find another way.

             SNOW WHITE
      There is no other way.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Snow White.  Im not going to let 
      you get hurt again.

             SNOW WHITE
      I appreciate the sentiment.  But I 
      dont need your protection...
        (a moment)
      I need your love.

Prince Charmant nods, realizing that Snow White is right.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      So, were supposed to simply waltz 
      into the Queens palace... with two 
      men, a girl, and seven dwarfs...?

             SNOW WHITE
        (after a moment)
      What if we bring reenforcements?

EXT. PERILOUS PASS - KING BLOODAXES ROLLING PALACE

King Bloodaxes wedding caravan is still halted... 

The rolling palace is surrounded by at least a DOZEN GUARDS.

And then--

Eric and the seven dwarfs pop out from underneath the rolling 
palace platform, engaging Bloodaxes guards.  The fight 
ranges all around the perimeter of the rolling palace.

Eventually, Eric and the dwarfs dispatch all of the Guards.

I/E. KING BLOODAXES ROLLING PLACE - MOMENTS LATER

Eric and the seven dwarfs charge inside, expecting to find 
King Bloodaxe alone and unprotected--

But instead, they find dozens of ADDITIONAL GUARDS, waiting 
with swords at the ready.  Theyve been trapped.

             CAESAR
      By the Blood of Brimir...

And then, King Bloodaxe steps out from behind his guards.

             KING BLOODAXE
      Do you have any idea how many times 
      Ive been ambushed in the Perilous 
      Pass..?

CUT TO:

EXT. DUKE CHARMANTS ESTATE - LATER THAT DAY

Prince Charmant and Snow White, both riding the same white 
stallion, crest a hill and ride down towards the compound.

INT. DUKE CHARMANTS WAR ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

As usual, Duke Charmant sits, pouring over maps with his 
fellow knights.  

Until-- The doors fly open.  

Prince Charmant marches into the room, holding the still-
weakened Snow White in his arms.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      FATHER!!!

The Duke and his knights look up and see Prince Charmant, 
bruised, bloody and tattered.  A far cry from the naive young 
Prince who stepped through these doors a few weeks ago.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
        (with authority)
      I need men.  And horses.

And this time, Duke Charmant and his knights do not laugh.

CUT TO:

EXT. RAVENNAS PALACE - LATER THAT DAY

The walls are festooned with white wedding banners.

King Bloodaxes long WEDDING CARAVAN makes its way through 
the Royal Village and towards the palace.

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - LATER

The Royal Guard Captain escorts Ravenna up to the rear of one 
of King Bloodaxes LOCKED STORE-WAGONS.

             ROYAL GUARD CAPTAIN
      They come bearing gifts...

The Royal Guard Captain throw open the door, revealing--

Eric and the seven dwarfs, bound and gagged inside.  

Ravenna cant help but smile.

INT. RAVENNAS DUNGEON - LATER

TEN ROYAL GUARDS drag Eric down into the dungeon.  They toss 
him into a cell and slam the door shut behind him.

             BULBOUS GUARD
      Enjoy your stay, Huntsman!

Thats when Eric looks around and sees that--

The dungeon is filled with frightened, beautiful young women.  
Many of whom Eric recognizes.  He helped to put them there.

In fact, the Redhead that Eric captured at the beginning of 
our story -- shes in the adjacent cell.

The women just stare at Eric.  They recognize him too.

EXT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL - LATER

Within the palace walls.  The doors of the magnificent GOTHIC 
STRUCTURE fly open, and an epic ORGAN CONCERTO wafts out, 
signalling that the wedding is soon to begin.

GUESTS start to stream into the cathedral.  Obviously, there 
are no young, beautiful women in attendance.  Just stuffy old 
LORDS and dowdy old LADIES.

As the guests step inside, they pass--

BILGE-RAT AND BRUNO

Who are prominently displayed in STOCKS outside the front 
doors, looking more than a little bit peeved.

             BILGE-RAT
      Seat of honor, my arse.

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM

Ravenna is now garbed in her BEAUTIFUL WHITE WEDDING DRESS.  
Intricately stitched and ruched, with a long, flowing train.

She examines herself in the Magic Mirror.  She looks 
beautiful.  Absolutely flawless.

After a moment:

             RAVENNA
      Mirror, mirror, on the wall,      
      Who is fairest of them all?

Mirror Man emerges from his frame and speaks:

             MIRROR MAN
      From misty glade to sunburnt sand,
        (a moment)
      Snow White is fairest in the land.

As if by reflex, Ravenna clutches her stomach.  She tries to 
control a dry heave.  Her body is literally in pain at 
hearing this news.

Ravenna drops to her knees, frothing, convulsing with rage.

INT. RAVENNAS DUNGEON - MOMENTS LATER

Eric stews in the dungeon.  But then, he hears WEDDING BELLS 
in the distance.


             ERIC
        (to himself)
      Its starting early.

Eric looks around, clearly trying to formulate a plan.

He approaches the Redhead -- who recoils in fear.

             ERIC
      Please, no... I wont hurt you.

             REDHEAD
      You-- you put us here.

             ERIC
      I know, I know... and for that, Im 
      sorry, but you must believe me when 
      I tell you that... Ive changed.

Eric starts to address all the women in the dungeon.

             ERIC
      The Queen is my enemy now.  And she 
      must be destroyed.  But I need your 
      help to do it.

             REDHEAD
      We cant-- its impossible-- were-- 
      were all alone.

             ERIC
      You are not alone!  We can get out 
      of this!  Together.

INT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL - LATER THAT DAY

Packed to the brim.  Guests sit in the front of the nave.   
And the rear of the church is filled with Ravennas SOLDIERS, 
standing at attention.

King Bloodaxe, decked out in formal finery, black of course, 
waits at the altar.

The ORGANIST begins a wedding march.

And Ravenna glides into the cathedral, walking alone, her 
face shrouded by a lace veil.  Her white bridal train drifts 
over the blood-red carpet.

AND UP IN THE RAFTERS

The seven dwarfs hang in small cages, frowning, arms crossed. 


DOWN BELOW

Every so often, the wedding guests gawk and point at the 
strange little men hanging in the cages above.

King Bloodaxe in particular seems to enjoy these twisted 
wedding decorations.

EXT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL - STOCKS

Bilge-Rat and Bruno stew in the hot sun.  But then, Bilge-Rat 
drops his toothpick down into his hand.  He picks the lock 
and sets himself and his brother free.

INT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL - RECTORY

As the wedding continues, Bilge-Rat and Bruno sneak inside 
and swipe two PRIEST ROBES off the wall.

INT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL - NAVE

Bilge-Rat and Bruno sneak into the wedding, dressed in their 
ABSURDLY ILL-FITTING ROBES.  They tiptoe towards the altar.

INT. RAVENNAS DUNGEON

Bulbous Guard waddles down the aisle, making his rounds.

Eric pretends to be asleep.  Until... he grabs a ROPE and 
pulls.  The rope emerges from the hay, tripping the Guard.

As soon as Bulbous Guard hits the ground, the imprisoned 
women reach through their bars and BEAT HIM SENSELESS. 

Eric grabs the KEY RING, unlocks his cell, tosses the keys to 
the Redhead.  She quickly frees the other female prisoners.

INT. RAVENNAS DUNGEON - ARMORY

Eric breaks inside and quickly straps on his weapons.  But 
then, he sees CRATES FULL OF OTHER WEAPONS.

MOMENTS LATER:

As the female prisoners stream out of the dungeon, Eric hands 
them each a weapon: spikes, swords, flails and maces.

             REDHEAD
      What do we do with it?

             ERIC
      Swing it at anything that moves.

EXT. PALACE RAMPART

Eric leads the female prisoners up onto the rampart--

From this vantage point, Eric is able to peer through a high 
window in the CATHEDRAL.  Its FILLED WITH SOLDIERS.  Way too 
many to fight through.  Even for the Huntsman.

Eric has hit a dead end.

But then, a DOZEN TRUMPETS SOUND--

Eric and the female prisoners look to the horizon and see--

SEVERAL HUNDRED ARMED KNIGHTS, standing upon a ridge 
overlooking the palace.  Their silver armor gleaming in the 
bright noonday sun.  Heralds carry bright standards that 
billow in the wind.  Duke Charmant and his knights have come.  

EXT. OVERLOOKING RIDGE

Prince Charmant, clad in shining silver armor stands beside 
his father on horseback, at the head of the force of knights. 

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Thank you, father...

             DUKE CHARMANT
      When the battle is won and the 
      Queen is dead, then you can thank 
      me.

Its the Dukes strange way of telling his son that he loves 
him and is proud of him.  Prince Charmant manages a smile.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      I need your ten fastest knights.

INT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL

As she walks down the aisle, Ravenna also hears the TRUMPETS 
SOUND.  She looks to her Royal Guard Captain and NODS.

The Guard Captain runs down off the altar and musters all of 
Ravennas soldiers, who stand near the rear of the cathedral.

AT THE ALTAR, King Bloodaxe exchanges suspicious looks with 
his guards, wondering what the hell is going on outside.

EXT. PALACE RAMPART

Eric sees the soldiers heading towards the exit of the 
cathedral.  He springs into action, leaping off the rampart.

EXT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL

Eric runs to the front door.  And uses a WOODEN BEAM to bar 
the doors... just as the Queens soldiers try to open them.  
He has trapped Ravennas soldiers inside the cathedral.

EXT. OVERLOOKING RIDGE

Amidst Duke Charmants cavalry, Snow White waits on 
horseback.  She wears a leather tunic and light mail.

Prince Charmant and a small force of TEN KNIGHTS ride to her.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Ready?

             SNOW WHITE
        (with a smile)
      Not really.

And then, Prince Charmant and his knights snap their visors 
shut.  Prince Charmant draws his sword--

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      CHARGE!!!

Prince Charmant, Snow White and the small team of knights 
rides down the hill at a breakneck pace, towards the LOWERED 
DRAWBRIDGE.  As they ride, the armored knights take up 
positions around Snow White, shielding and protecting her.

The main cavalry force remains on the ridge.  Duke Charmant 
watches his son ride into battle, both proud and worried.

But then, THE DRAWBRIDGE RISES AND CLOSES, blocking the entry 
point for Prince Charmant and Snow White.

EXT. RAMPART

Eric sees the small group of knights riding towards the 
CLOSED DRAWBRIDGE.  He immediately realizes what he has to 
do.  He runs back to the female prisoners...

             ERIC
      Follow me.


EXT. DRAWBRIDGE CONTROL ROOM

Eric and the female prisoners peek around the corner and see 
the Aged Gatekeeper protected by a small force of Guards.

             ERIC
        (to the female prisoners)
      Do exactly what I do.

Eric runs out from around the corner, with his axe held high, 
running right at the drawbridge guards.

             ERIC
      AAAHHHH!!!!!!

And then, the female prisoners run out from the around the 
corner, swinging their weapons wildly.

             FEMALE PRISONERS
      AAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!

The drawbridge guards FLEE.  Eric runs to the Gatekeeper.

             ERIC
      Lower the drawbridge!  Now!

             AGED GATEKEEPER
      Would it kill you to say please?

EXT. OUTSIDE THE PALACE

Prince Charmant, Snow White and the knights ride headlong 
towards the front of the palace.

AND THE DRAWBRIDGE LOWERS!  It touches down just as Prince 
Charmant, Snow White and the knights reach it.

But then, a small FORCE OF ARCHERS pops out on the rampart 
and fires a barrage of arrows.  Some of them hit their mark.  
Several of the knights fall off their steeds.

And Prince Charmant takes an arrow in the side.

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - NEAR THE APPLE TREE

Snow White, Prince Charmant and the remaining knights ride 
into the courtyard.  Eric flags them down, and for the first 
time, sees that Snow White is alive.

             ERIC
      Snow White... Im sorry for 
      everything.


             SNOW WHITE
      Its the Way of the Woods.  I 
      understand.

             ERIC
      No.  The Way of the Woods, thats 
      just some old words--

             SNOW WHITE
      Huntsman!  You dont have to say 
      anything.  Im here.  Now lets go 
      kill the Queen.

Huntsman nods, sort of impressed, sort of surprised by Snow 
Whites new HARDNESS.  She reminds him of... himself.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Little help over here.

Eric helps Prince Charmant off his horse.  He winces.

             ERIC
      Boys got his first battle scar.
        (patting him on the back)
      Youll survive.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Where are the Queens men?

             ERIC
      Archers on the rampart.  I trapped 
      the rest inside the cathedral.  
      Should be a few more minutes before 
      the doors give way.

INT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL

Using the pews as battering rams, Ravennas soldiers finally 
FORCE OPEN the doors.  They stream out of the cathedral.

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - NEAR THE APPLE TREE

Eric hears the doors being smashed open.

             ERIC
      Scratch that.  We need to go.  Now.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Im coming with you.

Prince Charmant moves to follow, but he LIMPS with each step.


             ERIC
      You signal the cavalry.  Ill take 
      Snow White the rest of the way.

Prince Charmant nods, realizes Eric is right.  And then, he 
looks to Snow White.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Good luck.

             SNOW WHITE
      You as well.

And then, Snow White and Prince Charmant lean in and kiss... 
right beneath their favorite apple tree.

Eric remains stone faced for a moment, but something like a 
smile forms at the edges of his mouth.  Hes not entirely put 
off by this display of young love.  Perhaps it reminds him of 
the old days spent with Sara.

But the Queens SOLDIERS start to charge into the courtyard.

             ERIC
      Quickly!

Eric and Snow White run off and disappear around a corner.

The knights and the female prisoners help Prince Charmant 
retreat through a door just as Ravennas army passes by.

INT. ROYAL CATHEDRAL

The wedding proceeds: Queen Ravenna and King Bloodaxe now 
stand at the altar.  A BISHOP stands between them.

NEARBY, Bilge-Rat and Bruno, still in disguise, have sidled 
up on either side of the young RINGBEARER, who carries the 
substantial WEDDING RING on a pillow.

Bilge-Rat tries to swipe the ring -- the Ringbearer slaps his 
hand away.  Next, Bruno tries to swipe the ring from the 
other side -- the Ringbearer slaps his hand away too.

             BISHOP
      If there is anyone here who has 
      reason why these two should not be 
      wed, speak now or forever hold your 
      peace...

             BILGE-RAT
        (reacting to the slap)
      OW!!!


Queen Ravenna and King Bloodaxe, along with everyone else in the church, whips their head towards Bilge-Rat and Bruno.

             RAVENNA
      What did you say?!

             BILGE-RAT
      Oh, I didnt say anythin.

             KING BLOODAXE
      You clearly did. 

             BILGE-RAT
      Oh, you mean my brother?

             BRUNO
      Right.  See, were twins.  Thats 
      where you might be confused.

             BILGE-RAT
      People mix us up all the time.

             KING BLOODAXE
      Can someone please kill them?

CRASH!!!  Eric and Snow White swing THROUGH A STAINED GLASS 
WINDOW, landing up in the choir loft.  The crowd GASPS.

Eric and Snow White look to the altar and see that Ravenna is 
not well-guarded.  Most of her soldiers have left to fend off 
Duke Charmants cavalry attack.

And then, Eric draws two hatchets and throws them both.  The 
hatchets spin through the air, SLICING ALL THE ROPES which 
suspend the dwarfs cages in the air.  The cages SHATTER on 
the floor, freeing the angry dwarfs.

             STUFFY OLD LADY
      DWARFS!!!   AAGGGGHHHHHH!!!!!!!!

A whole series of SCREAMS echoes throughout the cathedral.  
The crowd panics and starts to rush towards the exit.

With the Ringbearer and everyone else distracted, Bilge-Rat 
and Bruno reach for the wedding ring -- but just before they 
grab it, they get caught up in the mob of guests escaping the 
cathedral.  Theyre swept off and out of sight.

AT THE ALTAR

King Bloodaxe looks to his guards.

             KING BLOODAXE
      Its a trap!  I knew it.


His Guards rally to him and draw swords, fighting their way out of the cathedral, adding to the already chaotic scene.

             RAVENNA
      I was going to kill you anyway!

             KING BLOODAXE
      I was going to kill you!

             RAVENNA
      I would have liked to have seen you 
      try!

             KING BLOODAXE
      I will be back... and next time, I 
      wont be bearing a ring!

Ravenna turns to her own Guards, whats left of them anyway.

             RAVENNA
      Get me to the tower!

Eric and Snow White see Ravenna on the move.  They leap down 
into the nave and give chase--

INT. ROYAL STABLES

Hundreds of the Queens finest soldiers storm inside. 

They strap on black armor, gird themselves with lance and 
sword, and leap onto mighty steeds.

INT. SERVANTS QUARTERS

Still hiding out, Prince Charmant pulls a longbow from his 
back.  He wraps the tip in rags, douses it with oil and dips 
it in the fire pit, CREATING A FLAMING ARROW.

Despite his wound, Prince Charmant mans up and runs out into 
the courtyard, firing his FLAMING ARROW high into the sky.

EXT. OVERLOOKING RIDGE

Duke Charmant, still waiting with his large force of knights, 
spots the FLAMING ARROW and smiles.

He slips on his helmet and leads a SLOW MARCH down towards 
the palace.  His knights follow.

But then, the Queens BLACK KNIGHTS ride out of the palace, 
across the drawbridge, forming a seemingly impenetrable wall.


EXT. RAVENNAS TOWER ENTRANCE

Eric and Snow White round a corner and find--

Ravennas Royal Guards, blocking the main door to Ravennas 
tower.  A dozen in all.  Eric and Snow White exchange a look.

             ERIC
      Its not too late to turn back.

             SNOW WHITE
        (with a smile)
      It most certainly is.

The Guards attack.  Eric and Snow White spring into action.  
Eric draws his hatchets, Snow White draws her daggers.

Two warriors at the top of their game.

Snow White finally has a chance to show off all the skills 
that Eric taught her.  In moments, all of the Royal Guards 
have been knocked aside.

Eric and Snow White race into the tower.

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - MOMENTS LATER

Eric and Snow White run through the hall, but find the door 
to Ravennas throne room LOCKED.

INT. SERVANTS QUARTERS

The Redhead tries to clean and dress Prince Charmants wound.  
BUGLES SOUND in the distance.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Theyve begun the charge.

             REDHEAD
      What about the archers?

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      The archers?

             REDHEAD
      On the rampart.

Prince Charmant totally forgot about the archers.


EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - MOMENTS LATER

Prince Charmant, still limping, leads his knights and the 
female prisoners out of the scullery and towards the rampart.  
But when they turn a corner, they run right into--

   FEMALE PRISONERS
	AAAHHHHH!!!!!!!!

	SEVEN DWARFS
	AAAHHHHH!!!!!!!!

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Quiet... quiet...

             CAESAR
      Where are you going?

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      To get rid of the archers.

             TIBERIUS
      That sounds like fun.

             NERO
      Need any help?

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS

With a final shove, Eric and Snow White force open the door--

Revealing Ravenna... and the fully-formed MIRROR MAN!

             RAVENNA
        (re: Mirror Man)
      Youll want to be careful with 
      him... hes quite sharp.

And then, Mirror Mans flowing mirrored skin SUDDENLY 
HARDENS, almost like freezing water, forming RAZOR SHARP 
MIRRORED SCALES that cover his whole body.

             ERIC
      You take the Queen.  Ill deal 
      with... 
        (struggling for the word)
      ... the mirror.

Eric swings his hatchet at Mirror Man, but all he gets for 
his trouble is a SLICED UP HAND.

Mirror Mans movements are almost superhuman.  Eric must 
dodge every punch or else risk a deadly wound. 


IN RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM

Snow White draws two daggers and races towards Ravenna--

But Ravenna lifts up her wedding dress and pulls a large 
CURVED DAGGER from a hidden holster on her thigh.

They clash.  Dagger vs. dagger.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE PALACE

Duke Charmant and his knights BREAK INTO A GALLOP.  Theyre 
now careening down the hillside, heading straight for a 
collision with the Queens formidable black knights.

EXT. FORWARD RAMPART

Several dozen of the QUEENS ARCHERS stand on the ramparts, 
waiting for Duke Charmants knights to come within range.

But then--

Prince Charmant, the female prisoners and the dwarfs sneak up 
behind the archers.  Ever so quietly.  

They grab the archers by the legs and flip them over the side 
of the wall.  The archers splash into the moat.

INT. RAVENNAS THRONE ROOM

Mirror Man knocks Erics hatchet away.  With no weapon to 
defend himself, Mirror Man drives Eric all the way onto--

THE BALCONY

Mirror Man connects with a punch to Eric.  Eric falls flat. 

As Eric writhes on the floor, he spots Duke Charmants 
approaching army and manages a slight smile.

But then, Mirror Man raises his foot over Erics face.  Eric 
manages to roll out of the way just as Mirror Man SLAMS his 
deadly foot down.  The mirrored foot shatters. 

Its now or never.  Eric has to make a move.  He summons all 
his mettle, screams and grabs Mirror Man around the waist. 

With severely WOUNDED HANDS, Eric tosses Mirror Man off the 
balcony.  Mirror Man shatters on the ground far below. 

Eric drops to his knees, badly wounded.


INT. HALL OF MIRRORS

Snow White and Ravennas knife battle has ranged out of 
Ravennas throne room and into the mirrored hall.  They spar 
along its entire length.

But then, Ravenna knocks both of Snow Whites daggers away 
and pushes her back.  Snow White stumbles backwards, BASHES 
INTO A MIRROR.  She grabs her head, DAZED and DISORIENTED.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE PALACE

Duke Charmant and his charging knights are about to collide 
with the Queens black knights.

The black knights level sharp lances...

EXT. FORWARD RAMPART

But the dwarfs and the female prisoners have taken up the 
archers longbows.  Prince Charmant holds a bow of his own.  
He talks the dwarfs and the female prisoners through the 
proper firing technique.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      Carefully nock the arrow...

The female prisoners follow the instructions well.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      Breathe deep.  And with two 
      fingers, draw the bowstring back... 
      all the way to the ear.

As for the dwarfs, it takes two of them to operate a longbow.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
      Exhale... and release!

They unleash a storm of arrows.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE PALACE

The arrows catch the Queens black knights completely by 
surprise, thinning their ranks significantly--

--just as Duke Charmant and his knights crash into the black 
knights.  The cavalry battle is on.


INT. HALL OF MIRRORS
Snow White lays on the floor.  Ravenna stands over her.

             RAVENNA
      Sometimes, when I look in the 
      mirror, it feels as if theres a 
      different person on the other side 
      of the glass, staring back at me.
      And in that world, life is perfect.  
      Im a loving stepmother.  A good 
      wife.  A righteous queen.
        (another)
      But when I try to step across to 
      the other side, the mirror blocks 
      my path.

Ravenna raises her dagger.  And thrusts it at Snow White--  
But Snow White throws up her hand, holding the dagger at bay.

             RAVENNA
      Just... one... cut...

The tip of Ravennas blade dances just millimeters away from 
Snow Whites beautiful face. 

Just as Ravenna prepares to stab Snow White--

Eric leaps into the path of the blade.

And is stabbed right in the heart.

In his last throes of life, Eric reaches out and DIGS HIS 
FINGERS into Ravennas face, tearing off a CHUNK OF SKIN-- 

--revealing ROTTEN, PUTRID GREEN FLESH beneath. 

Eric falls to the floor. 

And then-- 

Ravenna spots her reflection in a mirror.  She looks HIDEOUS. 

             RAVENNA
      No...

Ravenna looks away, only to find herself staring at her 
reflection in another mirror.  There are SO MANY MIRRORS that 
no matter which way she turns, her DISGUSTING REFLECTION is 
there, staring back at her. 

             RAVENNA
      NO!!!!!!


MEANWHILE, Snow White regains her senses.  She looks to a CUT on her hand.  A drop of blood splashes onto her white tunic.


             ERIC
        (barely able to speak)
      By fairest blood it is done...

             SNOW WHITE
      And only by fairest blood can it be 
      undone...

Snow White takes advantage of Ravennas distraction.  She 
grabs a MIRROR SHARD from the floor-- 

And PLUNGES it into Ravennas chest.

But just before Ravennas death, times seems to SLOW DOWN for 
a moment... and instead of her own hideous reflection in the 
mirror... she sees her MOTHER staring at her.

And then, Ravenna emits a bloodcurdling DEATH SCREAM!  And 
every mirror in the hall SHATTERS!

EXT. OUTSIDE THE PALACE

The tide of battle turns in favor of Duke Charmant and his 
knights.  The Queens black knights break rank and scatter, 
retreating through the village and out of sight.

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS

Snow White lays next to the badly-wounded Eric.

             ERIC
      Not bad...
        (smiling through the pain)
      For a girl...

             SNOW WHITE
      Youll be fine.  Stay with me.

Erics eyes close.

             SNOW WHITE
      No!  Look at me.  I want you to 
      know... you are not alone.  Im 
      with you.

His eyes open again.  Snow White frantically pulls the locket 
from her neck, places it in Erics slack hand and closes his 
fingers around it. 

             SNOW WHITE
      Its you and I...

Eric looks down at the locket, smiles.

             ERIC
      Together...

Eric finally closes his eyes.

             SNOW WHITE
      No -- no -- please -- dont go --

Prince Charmant and the dwarfs run into the hall, joyous.

             PRINCE CHARMANT
      We have the palace!

They see Eric lying dead on the ground.  Snow White looks to 
Prince Charmant with tears in her eyes.

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - THAT NIGHT

Snow White holds a torch in her hand.  She steps forward and 
lights a large WOODEN PYRE.

The Huntsmans body lays atop the pile of wood.

And then, the seven dwarfs ignite a different portion of the 
pyre with their own torches.  The pyre fully ignites. 

Illuminating the MASSIVE CROWD gathered for this ceremony:  
Prince Charmant, Duke Charmant, the female prisoners and all 
of the knights.  All here to witness a heros funeral.

WHITE flecks of ash float up into the BLACK NIGHT SKY...

DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. PALACE COURTYARD - DAY - WEEKS LATER

And WHITE SNOW drifts back down to the ground...

The Queens REBUILT STONE SARCOPHAGUS stands in the middle of 
the courtyard.  Duke Charmant and his knights hold Speck at 
sword-point, forcing him to reverse the aging procedure.

The stone sarcophagus door opens... and out steps the YOUNG 
BLONDE WOMAN that we met earlier.  Shes back to normal.



EXT. ROYAL VILLAGE - THAT DAY

The Blonde Woman joins a throng of VILLAGERS gathered around 
a DECORATED DAIS, where Snow White and Prince Charmant stand.

A few familiar faces are visible in the crowd: the BEAUTIFUL 
PRISONERS... who have cleaned themselves up quite nicely, and 
the SCARRED WOMEN... who no longer wear their burkas.

IN THE CROWD, 

Our old buddies, Bilge-Rat and Bruno sneak up behind THE 
REDHEAD, reaching for a NECKLACE hanging around her neck.  

But just before they grab it, the Redhead spins around and 
cold-cocks them both with one swing, laying them out.

Snow Whites not the only girl whos learned something from 
the Huntsman.

UP ON THE DAIS, 

Prince Charmant and Snow White, both in regal attire, kneel 
before Duke Charmant, who places crowns upon their heads.

But something catches Snow Whites eye.  Off in the distance.

She looks through the falling snow and sees a WHITE WOLF on 
the horizon, at the edge of the woods.  The white wolf stops 
for a moment and looks Snow White dead in the eye.

Snow White seems a bit frightened...

Until she sees that this white wolf is different.  Its 
gentle.  At peace.  And it has a tail.

In fact, for a split-second, Snow White can almost swear she 
sees THE HUNTSMAN in the distance, staring back at her.

But when she blinks, its the white wolf again.  The 
magnificent creature turns away and FADES INTO THE WOODS.

             PRINCE CHARMANT 
        (quietly)
      Snow White...

Snow White turns back to Prince Charmant. 

And then, Prince Charmant hands her a RED AND WHITE APPLE.  
Snow White smiles as old memories come flooding back. 

They KISS PASSIONATELY as the crowd roars.

FADE TO BLACK.

