               SPOTLIGHT

               Written by

         Josh Singer & Tom McCarthy

 

                          June 5, 2013


            Based on a True Story

INT. HINGHAM POLICE STATION - NIGHT, 1974

A quiet, cold winter night.  A YOUNG COP sits behind the 
front desk.  Two bundled up COPS exit the precinct.   

AN OLDER COP EMERGES from an INTERVIEW ROOM.  He makes a 
face.  Whatever’s going on the interview room isn’t pretty. 

             YOUNG COP
      How’s that going? 

             OLDER COP
      The mother’s bawling and the uncle’s 
      pissed off. 

             YOUNG COP
      She’s not married?  

             OLDER COP
      Divorced with four kids. I guess 
      Father Geoghan was helping out. 

             YOUNG COP
      Helping out? 

The Older Cop shrugs. The front door opens and BURKE, FRESH 
FACED, 32, walks in.  He wears a dark overcoat. 

             OLDER COP
      Hey, Mr. Burke.  They’re in there 
      talking to the Monsignor.  

             BURKE
      And Father? 

The Older Cop nods in the other direction. 

             OLDER COP
      Holding. 

             BURKE
      Any press?

             OLDER COP
      Just a guy from the Gazette, we sent 
      him away.  None of the big papers.  

             BURKE
      Let’s keep it that way.

             OLDER COP
      You got it.  

Burke walks toward holding.  The Young Cop nods “Who’s that?”


             OLDER COP
	(CONT’D)
      Assistant DA. 

             YOUNG COP
      Gonna be hard to avoid press at the 
      arraignment.

             OLDER COP
      What arraignment? 

He’s matter of fact.  Off the Young Cop, clocking it.  

INT. POLICE STATION, HALLWAY - LATER

Burke arrives at holding and looks through the door.  He sees 
FATHER GEOGHAN, 45, sitting quietly in the brightly lit room.  

INT. INTERVIEW ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

A MONSIGNOR, 50s, sits at a table with SHEILA, 33, and her 
brother FRANK, 38.  TWO BOYS, 7 and 9, sit coloring.  The 
Monsignor talks to Sheila and Frank in hushed tones.

Burke walks in, sits off to the side.   He sees Sheila 
nervously fingering ROSARY BEADS.  

             MONSIGNOR
      We’ll just be another moment, Paul. 

             BURKE
      Of course, Father.

The Monsignor takes a card from his pocket and hands it to 
Sheila.  Her brother looks away, embarrassed and angry. 

EXT. POLICE STATION - LATER

The Young Cop stands outside smoking.  He watches as the 
Monsignor and the Priest exit the police station and get into 
a CAR.  As they drive away, we HOLD ON the cop.  PROCESSING.

INT. ROW HOUSE, STAIRWELL - DAY, 2001

A FIGURE walks up narrow stairs to a poorly lit top floor. 

INT. MIKE’S APARTMENT - DAY

A spare, empty studio apartment.  More for a college kid than 
a 38 year old.  A small desk, a futon without sheets.  

A man walks in, carries a backpack and a LARGE DUFFEL BAG. 
MIKE REZENDES, good looks, bad haircut, wears a wedding ring. 



Mike sets down the duffel, looks around.  He walks to the 
sink, turns on the tap.  Rust colored water.  He turns it 
off, assessing his new digs, maybe his new life... 

His phone rings, he checks it. The screen reads MARGARET. He 
lets it ring, doesn’t pick up.  A beat, then we PRELAP --

             DAN
	(O.C.)
      I told you, I can’t help you. 

INT. LAUNDROMAT - NIGHT, 2001

CLOSE ON a glass dryer door.  Whites SPINNING.  

             MIKE 
      Yeah, see I don’t believe you, Dan.   

A crappy laundromat, empty, bad light.  Mike’s with DAN, 50s, 
thin, tiny glasses.  Dan, nervous, puts clothes in a dryer.  

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      We talked to Mary Malina in D.C., we 
      talked to our guy at the Bureau of 
      Justice Statistics... 

Mike picks up a sock Dan dropped, drops it into the dryer. 

             DAN
      Who? 

             MIKE
      Doesn’t matter who.  We know the 
      numbers and we know the Boston PD 
      should have a lot more people behind 
      bars. I’m not asking if they’re 
      lying, we know they are.  I’m asking 
      who’s behind it. 

Dan loads in quarters, starts the wash. 

             DAN
      And I’m telling you, this isn’t 
      regulated by the comptroller’s 
      office, I don’t know anything about 
      it, would you let me do my freakin’ 
      laundry and stop busting my balls? 

             MIKE
      Busting your balls? We’re trying to 
      help you and you think we’re... 
      alright, fine, I’ll stop busting 
      your balls, Dan.  You can do your 
      laundry and then read about it in 
      the paper. I’m done with this.  


Mike storms off, slamming the door of an empty machine on his 
way out.  Dan shakes his head.  

             DAN
      What’s the matter with that guy?   

             ROBBY 
      Mike?  He’s just enthusiastic.

REVEAL an OLDER MAN in a chair off to the side.  Meet WALTER 
‘ROBBY’ ROBINSON, 55, Boston Everyman.  An easy smile.  

             DAN
      I just freakin’ lost my house, 
      Robby.  We’re in a crappy apartment 
      in Alston and if, if you’re right 
      about this, people are gonna be mad.  

             ROBBY
      Look, I get where you’re coming 
      from.  And this thing, well, we both 
      know there’s no easy way to fix it.  
      This gets out, you’re right, people 
      are gonna be mad.  But a story like 
      this, Danny, it’ll force the powers 
      that be to give the Boston PD more 
      resources.  Money they need to do 
      their job. 

Dan considers, Robby’s right. 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      You’ve known me a long time, Danny, 
      you know I’m gonna get an answer 
      from someone.  Probably better if 
      that someone is you. 

Dan remains stone-faced. Robby pats him on the back, exits. 

INT. ROBBY’S CAR - LATER

Mike sits reading the sports section of the Globe.  The 
driver’s side door opens. Robby sits into the driver’s seat. 

             MIKE
      I overplay it? 

             ROBBY
      Felt about right.  

             MIKE
      Gotta say, even if he folds, I’m not 
      sure this story’s big enough for us.


             ROBBY
      That’s a surprise. 
        (starts ignition)
      ‘My dropping you at home?

             MIKE
      Just drop me in Kenmore.  

             ROBBY
      You sure? Never mind seeing 
      Margaret.    

             MIKE
      Nah, I’m gonna go see a buddy. 

Robby clocks this, pulls out. 

INT. BOSTON GLOBE, NEWSROOM - DAY, 2001 

A large newsroom.  REPORTERS and EDITORS gathered in the 
center.  An older reporter, STEWART, 60s, sits by a cake.  

             ROBBY
	(O.C.)
      Stewart’s one of the few reporters 
      who’s been here longer than me... 

FIND Robby sending off Stewart.. who’s not quite ready to go.  

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Which I didn’t think was possible. 

A number of the reporters laugh.  Mike stands among them.

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      And sad as I am to see him depart, I 
      do find his choice of departure date 
      quite curious.  The corner office 
      sits empty, we’ve got a new editor 
      coming on Monday... and Stewart’s a 
      great reporter, so I gotta ask... 
      Stewart, what the hell do you know? 

Stewart covers his mouth. Speak no evil.  The room LAUGHS. 

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - LATER

A CRAMPED OFFICE.  Small windows, three desks, lots of paper.  

Mike eats a slice of cake and stares at an old laptop amidst 
the UNHOLY MESS on his desk.  A phone RINGS.  He picks up.

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Spotlight.  No, he’s not.  Can I 
      take a message?  OK, got it. Thanks.  


Mike hangs up, jots a note as SACHA PFEIFFER, 28, wholesome, 
and MATTY CAROLL, mid 30s, thick accent, moustache, walk in.   

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Matty, you got a call from DC.  

Mike hands Matty the note.  Matty takes it, sits at his desk, 
peppered with FAMILY PHOTOS.  Sacha sits at her tidy desk.   

             MATTY
      Thanks. Sad to see Stewart take a 
      buyout, huh?

             MIKE
      Yeah. Damn good reporter. Hard to 
      imagine this place without him.  

             MATTY
      You hear they let ten more go from 
      classifieds?

             SACHA
      And I heard Lubin and Connor are 
      going to the Times. 

             MATTY
        (shaking his head)
      First they buy us, now they’re 
      leaching us. 

             MIKE
      It’s gonna get worse, new boss made 
      a lot of cuts when he was in Miami.  

             SACHA
      My friend there had some good things 
      to say about him actually.  

             MIKE
      I still think he’s coming here to 
      clean house.

             MATTY
      You think he’s gonna look at 
      Spotlight? 

             MIKE
        (shrugs)
      He’s having lunch with Robby 
      tomorrow. 

             MATTY
      Great. Another thing to worry about.   


             SACHA
        (to Mike, all business)
      How’d it go with the guy from the 
      comptroller’s office? 

             MIKE
      Okay. I just don’t think there’s 
      enough there for a story. 

             MATTY
      Let me guess, not big enough? 

             MIKE
      We need a story that’s gonna make a 
      difference. We’re not on a beat, 
      this is Spotlight. 

Matty and Sacha trade a look.  

             MATTY
      Mike Rezendes. True believer. 

INT. FOUR SEASONS HOTEL, RESTAURANT LOBBY - DAY 

Robby enters the restaurant and approaches the hostess. 

             ROBBY
      Reservation is under Marty Baron. 

             HOSTESS
      Yes. Mr. Baron is already here. 
      Follow me, please. 

Robby follows, checks his watch, not used to being upstaged. 

INT. FOUR SEASONS HOTEL, RESTAURANT - LATER

MARTY BARON, 46, bearded, intellectual, sits at a table 
reading “The Curse of the Bambino,” a NOTEPAD beside him.

             ROBBY
      Mr. Baron.  

Marty looks up and rises to greet Robby. 

             MARTY
      Uh, Walter?

             ROBBY
      Call me Robby.

             MARTY
      Thanks for taking time out of your 
      weekend. 


             ROBBY
      I was flattered to be asked.  
        (sitting)
      That’s a good book, it was written 
      by one of our sports writers. 

             MARTY
      It seems you can’t properly consider 
      Boston without considering the Red 
      Sox.   

             ROBBY
        (playfully)
      I hope you’re not a Marlins fan.  

             MARTY
      Uh, no. I actually don’t care much 
      for baseball. 

             ROBBY
      Oh. 

Awkward moment.  

             MARTY
      So I, uh, asked a few senior editors 
      who I should sit down with and your 
      name was at the top of every list.

             ROBBY
      Well, I’m sure I’m on a few of those 
      lists for the wrong reasons. 

             MARTY
      They were mostly positive. 

Robby reacts.  Mostly?  

             MARY
      In fact, a few referred to you as an 
      elder statesman. 

Elder?  Robby doesn’t like the sound of that either. 

             ROBBY
      I’m very proud to work as a reporter 
      for this paper. 

Marty eyes his notebook. 

             MARTY
      You are an editor, though?  For, uh, 
      the Spotlight team?  


             ROBBY
      I prefer to think of myself as more 
      of a player coach.  But yes.  You’re 
      familiar with Spotlight? 

             MARTY
      Uh, not particularly. 

Nothing is smooth with this guy. 

             ROBBY
      It’s a four person team, long term 
      investigative. Mike Rezendes, real 
      bulldog; Sacha Pfeiffer, she’s young 
      but knows the courts; Matty Carroll, 
      computer-assisted-reporting.  And of 
      course, we report to Ben Bradlee.  
      We just put out a piece on this 
      negligent construction outfit, now 
      we’re trolling around for our next 
      story.  

             MARTY
      How long does that usually take? 

             ROBBY
      Few weeks, we don’t like to rush it.  
      Once we focus on something we invest 
      a lot of time and resources. 

             MARTY
      Yes, I can imagine.  

Marty jots down some notes.  Is he judging? 

             MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      So what are you considering now? 

Robby, used to asking the questions, turns it around. 

             ROBBY
      Well, to be honest, we’ve all been 
      doing a little investigating into 
      Marty Baron. 

Marty puts down his pen. 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      First Editor from the outside. Shaky 
      economic times, I think some people 
      are jittery. 


             MARTY
      That’s understandable.  All 
      indicators suggest that we are going 
      to lose all of our classified 
      revenue before the end of year. 

             ROBBY 
      That’s a lot of money lost.  

             MARTY
      Yes it is. 

             ROBBY
      I’m curious, is that why you’re 
      asking about Spotlight? 

             MARTY
      No.  It was unrelated. 

He jots down more notes.  Off Robby, unsure.

INT. GLOBE, NEWSROOM - DAY

DEPUTY MANAGING EDITOR BEN BRADLEE, JR., 50s, gruff, strides 
across the bullpen.  Robby falls in. 

             ROBBY
      Morning, Mr. Bradlee. 

             BEN
      Where are we with the crime numbers?   

             ROBBY
      I think there’s something there. 

             BEN
      Good.  
        (realizing)
      Where you going? 

             ROBBY
      To the ten-thirty. 

             BEN
      You?  Since when? 

             ROBBY
      Technically, I am an editor. 

             BEN
      Technically.  Your sit down with 
      Baron go that well?  

             ROBBY
      No, actually, but it did make me 
      curious. 

             BEN
      He’s just another boss.  

             ROBBY
      Maybe.  

Ben shoots Robby a look as they approach the CONFERENCE ROOM.  

INT. GLOBE, LARGE CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER

Editors around a horseshoe table, side seats filled.  It’s 
QUIET, nervous eyes on Marty, who reads some notes.  Robby 
stands in the back, WATCHING.  A beat, Ben leans in to Marty.   

             BEN
      You want to say something, Marty? 

             MARTY
      Uh, sure.
        (to the group)
      Hello.  My name is Marty Baron, if 
      you can tell me your name as we go 
      around, that would be helpful.    

Marty looks back to his notes.    

             BEN 
      Is that it? 

             MARTY
      Yes. 

             BEN
      Okay.  Tom?   

METRO EDITOR TOM DROHAN, in the corner, jumps in.   

             DROHAN 
      Tom Drohan, Metro.  We’ve got a 
      major Big Dig closure that’s just 
      been scheduled for early August, 
      we’re expecting a verdict in the...

Marty makes notes.  Off Robby, watching Marty.   

INT. GLOBE, BULLPEN - LATER. 

Mike walks over to STEVE KURKJIAN’s desk.  60s, an old timer. 


             MIKE
      Hey Steve.  Crummy game last night. 

             KURKJIAN
      A disgrace, they can’t hit worth a 
      nickle. 

             MIKE
      How you think it’s going in the ten-
      thirty?  

             KURKJIAN
      Like it goes every morning. 

Mike looks toward the conference room. 

             MIKE
      What’s Eileen doing in there? She’s 
      not an editor. 

             KURKJIAN
      Do you need something, Mike?  

             MIKE
      No.  Just curious. 

             KURKJIAN 
      I’m on deadline. Go be curious 
      somewhere else, will you? 

INT. GLOBE, LARGE CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER

The meeting is wrapping up. 

             SPORTS EDITOR
      ...and it looks like Pedro’s gonna 
      be out until September 1st. 

A groan in the newsroom.  

             SPORTS EDITOR
	(CONT’D)
      Jimmy says he’ll be back this year, 
      but the doc looked pretty grim.  

             BEN
      When do the Pats open camp?  

Laughter.  

             MARTY
      Is that everybody?  

             BEN 
      Yeah, that’s it.  


             MARTY
      Great, thank you.  Uh, did everyone 
      read Eileen McNamara’s column this 
      weekend?  

He holds up a column: Passing the Buck.  The room reacts. 
Huh?  Editors look over at EILEEN MCNAMARA, 50s, battle axe.

             BEN 
      This is the Geoghan case?  

             MARTY
      Yeah, what’s the folo on it?   

             BEN
      It’s a column, what kind of folo 
      were you thinking? 

             MARTY
      Well this priest molested kids in 
      six different parishes over the last 
      thirty years and the attorney for 
      the victims, Mr...  

             EILEEN 
      Garabedian.

             MARTY
      Thank you.  Mr. Garabedian says 
      Cardinal Law found out about it 
      fifteen years ago and did nothing.  

             DROHAN
      The attorney’s a bit of a crank. And 
      the Cardinal said he didn’t know, he 
      wasn’t actually aware -- 

             EILEEN 
      He said, she said. 

             MARTY
      Yes.  And whether Mr. Garabedian is 
      a crank or not, he claims to have 
      documents that prove Law was 
      negligent.  Is that right, Eileen?   

             EILEEN 
      That’s right.  

             MARTY
      Okay. So is this lawyer shooting his 
      mouth off or does he have something?   

Silence.  No one knows what to do.  Robby watches. 


             MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      Look, I know I’m just walking in 
      here, but from what I could find, 
      we’ve written all of...
        (checking his notes)
      ...two stories on this in the last 
      six months.  

A few people stir. This is getting unpleasant. 

             MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      Let me be clear about something. 
      This is a very good paper, but the 
      business is changing and if this 
      paper is to survive, we will have to 
      make ourselves essential to this 
      community. Geoghan allegedly abused 
      eighty kids, we’ve got a lawyer who 
      says he has proof the Cardinal knew 
      about it, why aren’t we going after 
      those documents?  

No one says anything.  Robby speaks up.  

             ROBBY
      As I understand it, the documents 
      are under seal.    

             MARTY
      Okay, well I don’t know what the 
      laws are here, but in Florida we 
      would go to court.   

Robby raises an eyebrow.  In fact, the whole room does. 

             BEN
      You want to sue the church?  

             MARTY
      Technically we wouldn’t sue the 
      Church. We would file a motion to 
      lift the seal on those documents.  

             BEN
      The church will read that as us 
      suing them.  So will everybody else. 

             MARTY
      Good to know. 

Off Robby, intrigued -- 



INT. GLOBE, BEN’S OFFICE - LATER. 

Mike sits on the couch flipping through a Ted Williams book.  
He looks up as Ben and Robby enter, shut the door.    

             MIKE
      Ted Williams, he was a player. 

             BEN
      What do you want? 

             MIKE
      How’d it go?

             BEN
      Certainly didn’t tiptoe in.  

Mike looks at Robby.  What’s up?   

             ROBBY
      Baron wants to sue for the sealed 
      docs in the Geoghan case.   

             MIKE
      No shit.  Really?  

             BEN
      No way this plays down front.   

             ROBBY
      With our numbers?  Gilman’s gonna 
      shit a brick. 

             MIKE
      You think the suit has a chance?  

             BEN 
        (no fucking way)
      In Boston?  

             ROBBY
      Oh boy.  

Robby’s looking through the window.  Ben and Mike follow his 
gaze, see Marty walk into his office with Eileen. 

             BEN
      Jesus.  She’s got her teeth in now.

             MIKE
      Kind of a gutsy move, going after 
      the church. 


             BEN
      That’s one word for it...  

The phone rings.  

             BEN
	(CONT’D)
      ...but somehow I doubt it’s the best 
      way to make the paper essential to a 
      city full of Catholics... 

Ben turns to the phone, eyes the extension.  And picks up.  

             BEN
	(INTO THE PHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      Bradlee.  Yeah.   Okay.  
        (hanging up, to Robby)
      Baron wants to talk to us.  

Off Robby, surprised -- 

INT. GLOBE, MARTY’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Marty talks to Eileen.  Ben and Robby show up at the door.  
Marty waves them in. 

             MARTY 
      Uh, and how far is the Residence? 

             EILEEN
      Lake Street? It’s in Brookline, 
      twenty minutes away, forty with 
      traffic. 

             BEN
      You telling the Cardinal in person? 

             MARTY
      We had a meeting on the books.  His 
      idea. 

             EILEEN
      Don’t eat the sandwiches.  They’re 
      horrible. 

             MARTY
      Uh, okay. 
        (then, checking his pad)
      I’m going to sit down with...
      Jon Albano from legal tomorrow.

             BEN
      Who’s the Judge on this case?

             EILEEN
      Constance Sweeney.  

             ROBBY
      Good Catholic girl.  

             BEN
      At least she’ll be polite when she 
      tells us to fuck off. 

Marty lets it pass. 

             MARTY
      So, uh, I understand we haven’t done 
      any investigation on this?

Ben shoots Mac a look.  

             BEN
      On Geoghan?  Paulson ran it out. 

             EILEEN
      Paulson’s a beat reporter.

             BEN 
      A good one and he covered it.    

             EILEEN
      Agreed.  Now it’s time to 
      investigate it.  

             BEN
      Come on, Eileen. 

             EILEEN
      It’s not a sin, Ben. 

             MARTY
      Um, so, I just want to understand.  
      Have we committed any real 
      investigative resources to this 
      particular question?  

             BEN 
      No.  We have not. 

             MARTY
      And this is the kind of thing you 
      do?  

He turns to Robby.  Who blinks, surprised.  

             ROBBY
      Spotlight?  

             MARTY
      Yes.  Spotlight.  


             ROBBY
      Well, we’re prospecting another 
      story right now, we think Boston PD 
      is inflating the number of violent 
      crime cases they’ve cleared.  

             MARTY
      But you haven’t committed to it yet? 

             ROBBY
      No.  

             BEN
      Typically Spotlight picks their own 
      projects.  

             MARTY
      I see.  Well, uh, would you consider 
      picking this one?  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - LATER

Mike, Sacha and Matty all working.  Mike is on the phone. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Can I talk to him?  Uh huh. Okay.  

Robby enters. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry, I have to call you back. 
        (He hangs up.)
      Are we on this?    

             ROBBY
      We’re gonna look into it, yeah.  

             MATTY
      We’re going after Cardinal Law?

             MIKE
      Did Baron ask or did you offer?  

             ROBBY
      How about I talk and then you ask 
      questions? 

The team quiets.  Robby perches on a desk.  

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, Baron’s considering a lawsuit.  
      Meantime, he asked us to fish 
      around, see what we can find on 
      Geoghan and the church. 


             MATTY
      Geoghan’s been in the papers for 
      years, what’s fresh here? 

             MIKE
      Garabedian’s alleging Cardinal Law 
      knew about this and covered it up. 
      We prove that, it’s big. 

             SACHA
      Is this guy Garabedian legit?

             MIKE
      Eileen thinks he is.

             MATTY
      Could be an ambulance chaser.  

             ROBBY
      Drohan said he’s a crank. 

             MIKE
      I like cranks.  

             ROBBY
      Fine.  He’s yours. 

             MATTY
      What about the lawyer who was all 
      over TV for the Porter case? 

             MIKE
      Eric MacLeish.  

             SACHA
      What was the Porter case? 

             MATTY
      Father Porter, he was the Geoghan 
      before Geoghan.  Story broke in ‘92. 

             MIKE
      Scumbag molested dozens of kids in 
      Southern mass, MacLeish repped the 
      victims.  Should have some insight.  

             ROBBY
      Yeah, let’s set a meeting. 

             SACHA
      So we’re dropping crime stats? 

             MIKE
      I vote yes. 

             ROBBY
      We’re just putting it aside until we 
      get up to speed on this.  And folks, 
      let’s be discreet.  

             MIKE
      Aren’t we always? 

             ROBBY
      This is different, it’s the church, 
      people are gonna talk, even our 
      people. I don’t want Lake Street 
      getting wind of this before we even 
      know if there’s a story here. 

             MATTY
      Good luck with that.     

They reach for phones and laptops.  Robby leaves them to it. 

INT. ROBBY’S HOUSE, DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Robby finishes up dinner with his wife, BARBARA, 50s.  

             BARBARA
      Your sister’s gonna flip.

             ROBBY
      I would imagine half the city’s 
      gonna flip. 

             BARBARA
      We should just cancel dinner with 
      the O’Neills now. 

             ROBBY
      I’m not even sure there’s a story 
      there, Barbara.    

             BARBARA
      “Globe sues Church?” There’s gonna 
      be a story, Robby.  And another 
      libel suit if you’re not careful.   

             ROBBY
      I’ve won all three of those.  

             BARBARA
      They didn’t feel like victories at 
      the time.  And I’m telling you this 
      one is gonna hit close to home.  

             ROBBY
      Not our home. 

             BARBARA
      Robby.

Robby stands up, starts to clear the table. 

             ROBBY
      I’m just saying...  

             BARBARA
      You know the Apostles’ creed by 
      heart, don’t you?  

             ROBBY
      Everyone in town knows that by 
      heart.   

             BARBARA
      Exactly. 

             ROBBY
      Look, if not me, than who? 

             BARBARA
      Someone who doesn’t care about 
      ending their career with a black 
      eye. 

INT. MITCHELL GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE - DAY

Mike steps off an elevator and into a DUMP of an office.  He 
eyes a small reception desk covered with FILE BOXES.  In 
fact, there are file boxes just about everywhere. 

             MIKE
      Hello. Hello? 

Mike peeks through an open door... a small office, crammed 
FLOOR TO CEILING with BOXES, each with GEOGHAN written on it.  

             FEMALE VOICE
	(O.C.)
      Can I help you? 

Mike turns.  In a SIDE OFFICE, A YOUNG WOMAN sits at a desk.  

             MIKE
      Oh. Hi. I’m Mike Rezendes from the 
      Boston Globe. I’m here to see 
      Mitchell Garabedian. 

             RECEPTIONIST
      He’s on a call. Please have a seat. 

She exits.  Mike grabs a seat, checks his watch.  He hears 
YELLING coming from behind a closed door.  Garabedian? 


INT. LOBBY, ONE INTERNATIONAL PLACE - DAY

An enormous, marble and stone lobby, a STARK CONTRAST to 
Garabedian’s digs.  Robby and Sacha walk in --

INT. GREENBERG TRAURIG LOBBY, ONE INTERNATIONAL PLACE - DAY

A SLEEK, MODERN LOBBY.  Robby and Sacha walk up to reception. 
As the receptionist stands, leads them down the hall, PRELAP-- 

             SACHA
	(PRELAP)
      You work on the Father Porter story?

             ROBBY
	(PRELAP)
      No, I was covering Iraq.  That was 
      Ben and Kurkjian and Linda Matchan.  

INT. GREENBERG TRAURIG CONFERENCE ROOM, ONE INTL PLACE - DAY

Robby and Sacha stand by a grand conference table. 

             ROBBY 
      It pissed a lot of readers off, they 
      thought we were church bashing.  
      MacLeish said he had death threats.

             SACHA
      Didn’t seem to hurt his practice.  

Robby smiles, taking in the CRAZY VIEW of the harbor.

             ROBBY
      Beats our view, huh?  

             ERIC MACLEISH
	(O.C.)
      The famous Walter Robinson in my 
      conference room.  

ERIC MACLEISH, broad-shouldered, good looking, black Irish, 
quick with a story and smile.  Robby shakes his hand.    

             ROBBY
      Great to see you again, Eric.  Sacha 
      Pfeiffer, Eric MacLeish. 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Nice to meet you. Do you golf? 

             SACHA
        (caught off guard)
      Golf? No. 


             ERIC MACLEISH
      Good. Your colleague took some money 
      off me at a charity event last year. 

             ROBBY
      Lucky putt.  I had my eyes shut. 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      So, what can I do for you? 

             ROBBY
      You been following the Geoghan case?   

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Sure.  Eighty plaintiffs.  And 
      they’re all individual cases, 
      Garabedian must be swimming.   

             ROBBY
      And the allegations he’s made about 
      Law? 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      He’s playing the hand he’s been 
      dealt.  Look, the thing you need to 
      understand is that these are shitty 
      cases.  

             SACHA
      The Geoghan cases? 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      The Geoghan cases, the Porter cases, 
      all of them.  See, the statute of 
      limitations is only 3 years, most of 
      the victims don’t come forward until 
      long after it happens. 

             SACHA
      Why? 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Shame. Guilt. These kids come from 
      tough neighborhoods, no one wants to 
      admit this kind of thing.  So you’re 
      screwed on the time limit and even 
      if you argue your way around that, 
      the charitable immunity statute caps 
      damages at twenty grand.  

             ROBBY
      That’s it?  Twenty grand for raping 
      a kid?  

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Your only chance is to try these 
      cases in the press like I did on 
      Porter.  But most of the Geoghan 
      victims are skittish about press. 
      That’s a huge handicap.  

             SACHA
      How do you know they’re skittish? 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      I represented some of them. 

Robby leans forward.  This is getting interesting.   

             SACHA
      These were other Geoghan vicims?  
      And you tried their cases? 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      No, we settled.  Look, most of these 
      folks just want some acknowledgement 
      of what happened. We got them a sit 
      down with the bishop and a little 
      dough. It was the best they could 
      hope for.

             ROBBY
      Mitch Garabedian seems to have a 
      different approach.

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Yeah, he’s taking a huge risk.  He’s 
      investing a lot of resources and, 
      frankly, I think the Church is just 
      going to stall until he runs out of 
      money.  My guess?  He doesn’t have 
      anything on Law, he’s just trying to 
      up the ante to cut a better deal.    

             ROBBY
      Sounds a bit reckless. 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Have you met Mitch Garabedian? 

INT. MITCHELL GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE - LATER

Mike, still waiting, checks his watch.  He hears more YELLING 
behind the door. Suddenly the door opens. A SHORT MAN exits.  

Mike looks at the receptionist, points: “Is that him?”  She 
shakes her head.  Mike, impatient, stands, walks into --  


INT. GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE, CONFERENCE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A small converted boardroom.  MITCHELL GARABEDIAN, wire thin, 
50s, sits at an oval table buried in paperwork.  Mitch is 
abrasive, to say the least.

             GARABEDIAN
      Who are you? 

             MIKE
      Mike Rezendes, Boston Globe.  I had 
      an appointment about an hour ago. 

             GARABEDIAN
      I’m sorry but I’m very busy...

Mike continues toward Garabedian’s desk.  

             MIKE
      I’m sure you are, I’m just following 
      up on an article...

             GARABEDIAN
      The one in the Phoenix? 

             MIKE
      No. In the Globe. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Oh. Did you see the one in the 
      Phoenix? I thought it was very good. 
      I have a copy here somewhere. 

He starts to dig through the heap of papers.  

             MIKE
      That’s okay. I’ll track it down. I’m 
      actually following up on a column 
      that Eileen McNamara wrote for the 
      Globe about your suit. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Suits. There are 86 of them, you 
      should get your facts straight.

True to word. Garabedian is a bit of crank. 

             MIKE
      You’re right. I should.  I’m just 
      trying to get some background 
      information on the Geoghan case...  


             GARABEDIAN
        (brusk)
      I can’t show you the church 
      documents if that’s what you’re 
      after, they’re under seal.  

             MIKE
      I know that.  

             GARABEDIAN
      Do you?  Do you also know the church 
      has tried to bring me before the 
      Massachusetts board of overseers 
      three times?  They’d like to get me 
      disbarred, they are watching me very 
      closely. I probably shouldn’t even 
      be speaking to you. You’re not 
      recording this are you?   

             MIKE
      I wouldn’t do that without asking. 
      Look, Mr. Garabedian, I know there 
      are things you can’t tell me.  But I 
      also know that there’s a story here.  
      I think it’s an important story.

             GARABEDIAN
      I already talked to the Phoenix.  

             MIKE
      Yeah, and there’s a reason I didn’t 
      read about it.  No one reads the 
      Phoenix anymore.  They’re broke, 
      they don’t have any power. But the 
      Globe does.  And if we cover this 
      story, everybody will hear about it.  
      The Catholic church is a very 
      powerful institution. But so are we. 

He finishes his pitch. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Well, I can’t tell you anything.  
      You want to understand this story, 
      you need to talk to the victims.  

             MIKE
      Can I do that? Can I talk to some of 
      your victims?   

Garabedian eyes him.  


             GARABEDIAN
      I don’t know. Call me tomorrow. I 
      need to think about this. 

INT. GLOBE, GILMAN’S OFFICE - DAY

A large, plush office.  RICHARD GILMAN, 50s, a surface calm 
to match his Brooks Brothers suit.  He’s on the phone.

             GILMAN
	(INTO THE PHONE)
      Yeah, tomorrow is fine. Great. 
      Thanks, Steve. 

Gilman hangs up, joins Marty on a couch in the sitting area. 

             GILMAN
	(CONT’D)
      So, how are you settling, Marty? 

             MARTY
      Just fine, thanks.  Uh, how are you? 

             GILMAN
      Well, aside from the Q2 prelims 
      which have us down 100 million year 
      to year, not bad. But I’m sure you 
      didn’t come here to discuss that. 

             MARTY
      No, I didn’t.  I’d like to challenge 
      the protective order in the Geoghan 
      case.  

             GILMAN
        (not completely following)
      The priest? 

             MARTY
      Yes.  Father Geoghan, the one who 
      allegedly molested...

             GILMAN
      You want to sue the church?  

             MARTY
      Technically, it’s not suing the 
      church, we’re just filing a motion. 
      But yes.  

Gilman considers this for a long moment. 

             GILMAN
      You know that our subscriber base is 
      53% Catholic. 

             MARTY
      Uh, well, I’m sure they’ll be very 
      interested.  

             GILMAN
      So will our advertisers.  Did you 
      speak with legal? 

             MARTY
      John Albano.  He gave us even odds. 

             GILMAN
      Even odds?  

Marty shrugs. Yep. Gilman looks unsettled.    

             GILMAN
	(CONT’D)
      You think this is the right thing to 
      do? 

             MARTY
      I do. 

Gilman eyes Marty.  

             GILMAN
      Okay. 

             MARTY
      Thanks, Dick. 

Marty exits.  Quickly.  Off Gilman, concerned --  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - LATER

A desk covered with old newspaper clips, Matt and Sacha read.  
There’s a knock, a YOUNG INTERN in the door.  With a box.   

             YOUNG INTERN
      I got more clips from the library. 

The intern drops them by Matty’s desk.    

             YOUNG INTERN
	(CONT’D)
      So you guys looking into the church? 

             MATTY
      We can’t talk about that.  

The intern reacts, sheepish.  He goes.  

             SACHA
      You find anything on this guy Phil 
      Saviano?  

             MATTY
      No.  Who’s that? 

             SACHA
      He’s part of a survivors’ 
      organization.  Kurkjian ran a story 
      on him just after the Porter case.  

Robby’s walked into the room.  He grabs some coffee. 

             ROBBY
      There’s a survivors’ organization? 

             SACHA
      Yeah, it’s called SNAP, Survivors 
      Network of those Abused by Priests. 

             MATTY
      Clumsy acronym.  

             SACHA
      Guy sounds a bit sketchy but he 
      might be helpful.   

             ROBBY
      Let’s track him down.

             MATTY
      Hey guys... 

Robby and Sacha turn.  Matt stares down at a clip.

             MATTY
	(CONT’D)
      There’s a clip here from ‘98... I 
      think I got another priest.

             SACHA
      Porter?  

Matty shows them the clip.

             MATTY
      No. Robert Burns. He molested some 
      kids in Ohio then was moved here to 
      Boston and he did the same thing. 

             ROBBY
      This was one of our clips?  

             MATTY
      Yeah.  Byline’s John Ellement.  Back 
      when he was working religion.

Matty holds out the article.  Robby’s perplexed.  


             ROBBY 
      Was there any folo? 

             MATTY
      Not much. One short piece.
        (then)
      Isn’t Tim O’Neill a friend of yours? 

             ROBBY
      Yeah, why? 

             MATTY
      Looks like he was Burns’ lawyer.

Robby looks at the article.  Mike walks in. 

             SACHA
      How’d it go with Garabedian? 

             MIKE
      He’s paranoid as hell but I’ll get 
      him.  What’s going on? 

             MATTY
      We found another priest in the 
      clips. 

             MIKE
      Really? Under Law?  

             SACHA
      Before Law. Cardinal Medeiros. But 
      the suit alleges Medeiros knew. 

Sacha hands Mike the clip.  Mike reads.  

             MIKE
      This is the same story as Geoghan.  

             SACHA
      And Porter.  

             MIKE
      That’s three priests.  Porter, 
      Geoghan and now Burns, shuffled from 
      parish to parish, it’s like an M.O.  

             ROBBY
      Priests are rotated all the time. 

             MIKE
      Not this frequently, look at the 
      clip.  

             MIKE
	(CONT'D)
      Parents complain about the guy, they 
      ship him to another parish, couple 
      years later parents complain again, 
      they ship him somewhere else.  
        (then)
      This is a pattern, Robby.  

             ROBBY
      Maybe.  

             MIKE
      Maybe what? A pattern’s a pattern. 

             ROBBY
      Maybe. 

Robby walks into his office. Mike watches him go, confused. 

INT. GLOBE, ROBBY’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Robby reaches for his coat.  Mike walks in, shuts the door.  

             MIKE
      What’s going on with you?

             ROBBY
      With me? Nothing. I’m just looking 
      for something solid.   

             MIKE
      This is solid, we got something 
      here.  

             ROBBY
      Eric MacLeish thinks Garabedian’s 
      bluffing. 

             MIKE
      What about the three priests?   

             ROBBY
      Three is not a pattern. It’s vague, 
      Mike.       

Robby puts on his jacket on. 

             MIKE
      All leads are vague, that’s what a 
      lead is.  Come on, Robby, we had 
      less on the crime stat story and 
      we’d been working on that for weeks.  

             ROBBY
      This is different. 

             MIKE
      Why?  Because it’s the church?  

             ROBBY
      Yeah, Mike.  Because it’s the 
      church.

And he’s out the door. 

INT. MAMMA MARIA ITALIAN RESTAURANT, NORTH END - NIGHT

A lovely, candlelit room. Robby and Barbara have dinner with 
TIM O’NEILL, 50s, and his wife, KATHY.  Robby is distracted.  

             TIM
      So Robby’s going on and on the whole 
      game about what a jerk this guy is 
      and then we get up to leave...he’s 
      sitting two seats behind us.  

The group laughs.  Robby makes an effort to join in the fun. 

    		TIM
	(CONT’D)
	“Hello Jim, good to see you!” 

		BARBARA
	Walter. 


EXT. MAMMA MARIA, NORTH END - LATER

Tim and Robby walk to get the cars.  In the distance, we see 
their wives waiting by the entrance to the restaurant.  

             TIM
      How’s the new Editor? 

             ROBBY
      Well, he doesn’t like baseball.

             TIM
      Come on.  Domineering wife? 

             ROBBY
      He’s not married.

             TIM
      Divorced?

             ROBBY
      Don’t think so. 

Tim blinks.  

             TIM
      So the new Editor of the Globe is an 
      unmarried man of the Jewish faith 
      who hates baseball? 


Robby smiles.  Tim shakes his head.

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Shoulda given it to Ben. Or you. 

             ROBBY
      I’m a reporter.  I don’t need that. 

They smile.  A beat, then --

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      By the way, I was reading about this 
      priest the other day, Robert Burns. 
      It said you represented him? 

Tim looks up, surprised.  

             TIM
      Yeah. I represented Burns. Bad egg.

             ROBBY
      Since when do you work with the 
      Archdiocese?  

             TIM
      They needed help, I was asked to 
      step in. 

             ROBBY
      The victims said Cardinal Medeiros 
      knew about it.  

             TIM
      You know I can’t talk about the 
      case, Robby.  

             ROBBY
      Off the record?  

Tim looks at his friend. 

             TIM
      Off the record, I can’t talk about 
      it.  Is this related to the lawsuit?

Now Robby hides his surprise. 

             ROBBY
      You heard about that, huh?  

             TIM
      It’s a small town, Robby.  
        (then)
      Just be careful with this one, pal. 

             TIM
	(CONT'D)
      I don’t know what your new editor’s 
      agenda is and frankly I don’t care, 
      I just don’t want you taking a 
      bullet for him.  
        (a pat on the back)
      See you at book club.  

Tim walks away.  Robby watches him, processing --

             PRIEST
	(PRELAP)
      ‘Scandalum.’ It’s Latin for scandal.  

INT. ST. PETER’S CHURCH, SOUTH BOSTON - DAY

Sunday morning mass.  The MIDDLE AGE PRIEST is mid homily. 

             PRIEST
      Does anyone still speak Latin? Oh. 
      One there in the back. 

The Church laughs. 

             PRIEST
	(CONT’D)
      We all read the papers, watch the 
      television. Some of us even go on 
      the World Wide Web. 

Polite laughter from the parish congregation. Sacha sits a 
bit apart with her husband, HANS, 35 and her GRANDMOTHER, 77.  

             PRIEST
	(CONT’D)
      And what do we see there? Scandal. 
      With our politicians. Our bankers. 
      Our athletes. And even our Church. 

Hans checks his watch.  Sacha looks over at her grandmother. 

EXT. ANOTHER CHURCH - DAY

A different Priest stands out front greeting parishioners. In 
line we find Matty with his wife, ELAINE, 30s.  Matty holds a 
2-year-old, three other small children clustered around them. 

             PRIEST
	(V.O.)
      One scandal after another. Let’s 
      face it, it’s depressing. So how do 
      we not let these scandals overwhelm 
      us?  Overwhelm our faith in each 
      other? And our faith in God? 

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

Mike sits in the empty office in shorts and a T-shirt. 


             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Hey Mitch. It’s Mike Rezendes again. 
      Calling you on Sunday, August 12th, 
      can you give me a call?  Thanks.   

Mike hangs up. 

             ROBBY
      You bothering people on Sundays now?   

Mike turns.  Robby’s in the door.

             MIKE
      Shouldn’t you be golfing?

             ROBBY
      Couldn’t get a tee time. 

             MIKE
      Is that what they call it?  A tee 
      time? 

             ROBBY
      Yeah, they also call it a leisure 
      activity. You should try it.   

             MIKE
      I run.  

             ROBBY
      You run to work. 

             MIKE
      Saves gas money.  

Robby walks over the coffee machine, pours a cup of coffee. 

             ROBBY
      Garabedian still dodging you?  

             MIKE
      I’ll get him. 
        (then)
      So, really, what are you doing here? 

Robby turns to Mike, pensive. 

             ROBBY
      You ever know me to hesitate on a 
      story?    

             MIKE 
      Never. 

             ROBBY 
      Me neither. 

Robby looks to Mike who shrugs.   

             MIKE
      Maybe not the time to start. 

             ROBBY
      Maybe not.  So what do we have?

Robby sits down next to Mike.   

             MIKE
      Burns clips are here. And you should 
      look at these clips on Phil Saviano, 
      Sacha reached out, he’s coming in. 

Mike hands Robby some clips.  As they start to dig in... 

EXT. LAKE STREET - DAY

An old Buick pulls up in a large parking lot.  Marty gets 
out, looks up at the Cardinal’s MASSIVE LAKE STREET MANSION.  

Marty takes it in, walks towards the large porte-cochere.   

             CARDINAL LAW
	(PRELAP)
      I’ve always been fascinated by the 
      newspaper business.  

INT. LAKE STREET, PRIVATE STUDY - DAY

Mahogany bookshelves, impressive leather furniture.  CARDINAL 
LAW, large, 50s, wears a collar and sits across from Marty.  
A servant places a tray of sandwiches in front of them.

             CARDINAL LAW
      I used to sit in on lectures at the 
      Nieman School when I was at Harvard.   
        (off the tray)
      Care for a sandwich?

             MARTY
      No thank you.  Not for me.  

The servant exits.  Law takes a sandwich.    

             CARDINAL LAW
      And I was an editor myself once.   
        (off Marty’s look)
      The Mississippi Register.  


             CARDINAL LAW
	(CONT'D)
      A small, diocesan newspaper in 
      Vicksburg, but for a 30-year-old 
      assistant pastor it was a lot of 
      responsibility.  

             MARTY
      In Vicksburg?  

             CARDINAL LAW
      Yes, in the 60s.  I was close with 
      the Evers brothers, the paper took a 
      strong stand on the civil rights 
      movement. So did our readership. 

             MARTY
      I can imagine. 

             CARDINAL LAW
      Did you have any trouble in Miami? 

             MARTY
      We were fairly critical of the 
      Gonzalez family during Elian. That, 
      uh, didn’t go over well.    

             CARDINAL LAW
      Hard sitting in that seat. 

             MARTY
      And a privilege.  

             CARDINAL LAW
      Indeed.  Well, I look forward to 
      working together, Mr. Baron.  This 
      city flourishes when all of its 
      great institutions work together. 
      And I certainly count the Globe as 
      one of our great institutions. 

             MARTY
      Yes, well, uh, thanks.  Of course, I 
      am of the belief that for the paper 
      to best perform its function it 
      needs to, uh, stand alone. 

Law doesn’t like that answer. 

             CARDINAL LAW
      Of course.     
        (then)
      The Register lost a lot of our 
      subscribers when we threw our weight 
      behind the civil rights movement.  
      It hurt the paper.  

             CARDINAL LAW
	(CONT'D)
      But I never lost any sleep over it 
      because I was certain our cause was 
      just.  

Pointed.  A beat, then there’s a KNOCK on the door.  

             CARDINAL LAW
	(CONT’D)
      Come in. 

An older SECRETARY comes in with a SMALL WRAPPED GIFT.   

             CARDINAL LAW
	(CONT’D)
      Ah. A little welcome gift.  Think of 
      it as a Cardinal’s guide to Boston. 

Law hands the gift to Marty.  Who looks at it.  Bemused.   

             MARTY
      Uh, thank you. 

EXT. LAKE STREET/INT. MARTY’S CAR (PARKED) - LATER

Marty returns to his car.  He gets in, unwraps the gift.  A 
thick book, THE CATECHISM OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH.  Off Marty--

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

The entire team sits at a table facing PHIL SAVIANO. PHIL is 
mid-40’s, thin and twitchy.  He rifles through some papers. 

             SAVIANO
      So am I the first survivor you’ve 
      talked to? 

             ROBBY
      Yes, Phil. You are. 

             SAVIANO
      Oh. Well, then this should be fun. 

Mike and Matty share a look, fun?  

             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, so first of all, you gotta 
      know that this is a very big 
      problem.  And my organization SNAP 
      is at your disposal. 

             ROBBY
      How many members are there in your 
      organization, Phil?


             SAVIANO
      In my chapter. Seven. No six. One 
      moved. 

The team trades a look.  Is this for real? 

             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      But you gotta remember, whenever I 
      talk about getting molested, I’m not 
      talking about Phil Saviano now. I’m 
      talking about Phil Saviano then. 

He reaches into a file, pulls a PHOTO of himself as a kid. 

             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      I was eleven.  And I was preyed upon 
      by Reverend David Holley in 
      Worcester. And I don’t mean prayed 
      for. I mean preyed upon.  Are any of 
      you Catholic?

The whole team looks at each other. Good question. 

             MATTY
      I was raised Catholic but now I go 
      to my wife’s Presbyterian church.  

             SACHA
      I go to church with my grandmother 
      sometimes, but that’s about it.

             ROBBY
      Eh, I think we were all raised 
      Catholic but now... 

             MIKE
      Not so much. 

             SAVIANO
      OK. Good to know. I was a cradle 
      Catholic and you gotta remember back 
      then when a parish priest pays 
      attention to you it’s a big deal. 
      It’s like God asking for help.  So 
      one day, when he asks you to jerk 
      him off, you do it. 

The group blinks. 

             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      You see, it’s physical abuse but 
      even worse, it’s spiritual abuse.  A 
      priest does this to you, he robs you 
      of your faith.  


             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      And you’re so damn ashamed, you’re 
      not gonna talk about it.  You think 
      you’re the only one.  So you reach 
      for the bottle or the needle and if 
      those don’t kill you, you jump off a 
      freakin’ bridge.  That’s why we call 
      ourselves survivors.   

The team stares, gobsmacked.  

             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      But you get the word out on this, 
      let people know how big this is and 
      they’ll know they’re not alone! 
      You’ll be saving lives. No shit.   
        (then)
      You read Jason Berry’s book? 

             ROBBY
      Who? 

             SAVIANO
      Jason Berry, he wrote a book about 
      the Gauthe case in Louisiana?  

       		ROBBY
	We’re not familiar.  

		SACHA
        That’s G-U...

             SAVIANO
	(CONT’D)
      G-A-U-T-H-E.  It was the first big 
      case, back in 1985, you should start 
      there.  And talk to Richard Sipe, 
      he’s been studying this for years.  

             MIKE
      Who’s that? 

             SAVIANO
      Sipe?  He was a priest, he used to 
      work in one of the big ‘treatment’ 
      centers in Baltimore, before he left 
      the priesthood.  He married a nun, 
      it’s pretty typical, actually. 

             SACHA
      Uh, Phil, what’s a treatment center? 

             SAVIANO
      It’s where they send priests when 
      they get caught.  For ‘treatment.’ 
      It’s all in the packet I have for 
      you guys.  By the way, I sent the 
      Globe a lot of this before. 


             MIKE
      You did? 

Robby clocks this. 

             SAVIANO
      Yeah, four, five years ago, but I 
      never heard nothing.  I was shocked  
      I mean, like I said, this is big.  
      It’s not just Boston, it’s the whole 
      country.  And it goes right up to 
      the Vatican.  How else could they 
      have hidden it for so long?  I mean, 
      there’s a ton of these guys.  

             MIKE
      A ton of priests, Phil?

             SAVIANO
      Oh yeah.  I know of eight right here 
      in Boston.

Robby and Mike share a look.  Is this guy nuts? 

             ROBBY
      You know of eight priests who have 
      molested children in Boston?  

             SAVIANO
      Yes.  It’s in the packet, it’s all 
      in the packet... Let’s see here... 

Phil pulls a CLUTTER OF PAPERS out of a packet, starts 
fishing through them.  The team watches him, uneasy.  Is Phil 
a mad prophet or simply mad?  Off the team, UNSURE -- 

INT. FENWAY PARK - NIGHT

Robby and Mike hurry down the stairs and make their way along 
the seats to join Ben and Steve Kurkjian. 

             KURKJIAN
      ‘Bout time.  It’s the third inning 
      for Christ sake.

             BEN
      Where the hell you been? 

             ROBBY
      Interview. I think we finally got 
      something solid. 

             BEN
      What?  

Robby looks at Kurkjian. Ben follows his gaze. 

             KURKJIAN
      It stays here. Carry on. 

             ROBBY
      A guy named Phil Saviano, he’s a 
      part of some organization called...

Steve snorts. 

             KURKJIAN
      Oh Lord...

             MIKE
      What? You know him? 

             BEN
      Yeah, we know Phil.  

             KURKJIAN
      He’s pretty banged up.  I think he’s 
      got AIDS.

             BEN
      He’s not a reliable source. 

             KURKJIAN
      He must have sent me a hundred 
      letters after Porter. We ran a story 
      on him and he still wouldn’t stop. 

             ROBBY
      He said some pretty interesting 
      things today.   

             KURKJIAN
      I’m sure he did.  Phil wants jihad. 
      Boy, does that guy hate the church.  

             BEN
      He’s too emotional, he’s not gonna 
      advance your story.

             MIKE
      He’s got a list of priests.  

             BEN
      What?  A few priests in Worcester?  

             ROBBY
      They’re not just in Worcester. 

             BEN
      So he says.  We been down that road, 
      trust me, it’s all dead ends with 
      that guy.  
        (then)
      How’s it going with Garabedian?  

             MIKE
      I’m working on him.  

             BEN
      So he’s not talking yet? 

             MIKE
      No, not yet. 

             KURKJIAN
      Hey guys, can we not talk shop the 
      whole game?

             BEN
      Doesn’t sound like we have much to 
      talk about anyway.  

EXT. FENWAY PARK - LATER

Mike and Robby walk through the crowd, silent.  They slip 
down an alley, find a THICK GUY watching a couple of CARS.  

             THICK GUY
      Night, Robby.  

Robby slips him a ten.  He and Mike get into --

INT. MIKE’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

They get in.  Mike sits behind the wheel for a beat, stews.   

             ROBBY
      You gotta put the key in the 
      ignition, Mike.

             MIKE
      Saviano’s our best lead.  

             ROBBY
      Unless he’s a nut job.  

             MIKE
      Kurkjian seemed pretty sure about 
      that. 

             ROBBY
      Maybe Kurkjian missed it. 

             MIKE
      Kurkjian broke freakin’ 
      Chappaquiddick, he doesn’t miss 
      much.  

             ROBBY
      Yeah.  
        (thinking)
      You try following up with the ex-
      priest Saviano mentioned?

             MIKE
      I did. Wrong number.  

Robby looks at him.  That’s not good.  Mike pounds the wheel. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      If he’s a nut job, I’m gonna kill 
      him.  

             ROBBY
      Just keep working Garabedian, Sacha 
      and I will push on Saviano.  

Mike starts the car, shaking his head. 

             MIKE
      Garabedian’s a pain in the ass.

             ROBBY
      You can be a pain in the ass, 
      Michael. 

Off Mike’s look --

EXT. STATE STREET, BOSTON - DAY

Garabedian walks down State Street.  Mike falls in with him.  

             MIKE
      Mitch, what a surprise. How are you? 

             GARABEDIAN
      I’m fine, Mr. Rezendes. 

The light changes and Garabedian walks. Mike tags along. 

             MIKE
      I never heard back from you. 

             GARABEDIAN
      I’ve been very busy.   

             MIKE
      Jeez, I’m sure you are. Look, Mitch, 
      lemme talk to one of your victims... 
      You can sit there, if you’re not 
      happy you can kill the interview. 

             GARABEDIAN
      I spoke to my clients, they don’t 
      want to be in the press. 

Garabedian walks into --

INT. GARABEDIAN’S BUILDING, LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

A shitty lobby, Mike follows Mitch in, continues --

             MIKE
      I don’t need names, Mitch.  

             GARABEDIAN
      Whaddya mean, you don’t need names?

Mitch walks to the elevator, presses the button. 

             MIKE
      We’re not writing a profile here.  
      We’re working on something bigger.

The elevator opens.  Mitch walks on.  Mike follows him into --

INT. GARABEDIAN’S BUIDLING, ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

The doors close.  It’s cramped, but Mike keeps going.

             MIKE
      Look Mitch, I’m not supposed to tell 
      you this, but we’re considering it 
      for a Spotlight piece.  That’s a 
      four part series, front page of the 
      Globe.  
        (then)
      I know a lot of people don’t believe 
      in what you’re doing.  I’m gonna be 
      honest, Mitch, some of my own 
      colleagues think we’re wasting our 
      time.  But I think you’re one of the 
      good guys.  That’s why I’m here, 
      that’s why I’m talking to you.   

Mitch studies him.  

             MITCH
      Spotlight’s on this?  

             MIKE
      Yeah, Mitch.  Between us, that’s 
      right.  Just give me a shot here.

             GARABEDIAN
        (beat, then)
      Come back on Thursday. 9:30am. 

Doors open.  Garabedian walks out.  Mike smiles.  Got him. 

EXT. FANEUIL HALL - DAY

Robby and Sacha sit at an outdoor table with Saviano.  
Saviano tucks into a sandwich.  

             SAVIANO
      You think I made this shit up? 

             ROBBY
      That’s not what I said, Phil.

             SAVIANO
      So why do you need to verify 
      anything?  Who talked to you?  

             ROBBY
      No one talked to us. 

             SAVIANO
      They got lots of people to drag my 
      name through the mud.  Whispers, 
      smears, lies, that’s how they do it.

             SACHA
      If we could just speak with someone 
      else in your group. 

             SAVIANO
      This stuff isn’t exactly easy to  
      talk about.  Most of these guys have 
      never told anyone, let alone a 
      reporter from the Boston Globe.  

             ROBBY
      Sacha’s a pretty good listener.

             SAVIANO
      And nobody wants to go through that 
      if it’s just gonna be a big yank.  I 
      mean, I gave you all this before and 
      no one did nothing.  

             ROBBY
      You didn’t give it to me before.  
      And we’ve got a new editor now, he’s 
      never worked at the Globe, he’s very 
      serious about this.  We all are.  
        (then)
      Phil, if there’s a story here, I 
      promise you, I’m gonna tell it. 

Off Phil, considering... 

INT. CAFE FRANCESCA - DAY

A small, bohemian cafe, mostly men.  JOE CROWLEY, 42, heavy, 
boyish face, sits alone WATCHING the door.  NERVOUS as shit.  

The door opens.  Sacha walks in, pauses, looking around...

             JOE CROWLEY
      Ms. Pfeiffer? 

             SACHA
      Joe?   

             JOE CROWLEY
      Yeah.  That’s me.  Uh, hi. 

He stands, almost knocking over his glass of soda. 

             JOE CROWLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Shoot.  Uh...Please sit. Is this 
      table okay? 

             SACHA
      Sure. I hope I’m not late, Phil told 
      me two.

             JOE CROWLEY
      Yeah, I got here early. About an 
      hour. And a half. 

He laughs nervously as Sacha sits. 

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
	(PRELAP)
      You’re not gonna use my name, right?

INT. GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE, CONFERENCE ROOM - SAME TIME

Mike and Garabedian sit with 25 year old PATRICK MCSORLEY.  
McSorley is good looking but ragged.  Not nervous like Joe. 
Instead, he’s got a high pitched voice and an ADDICT’S ITCH.  

             MIKE
      Not if you don’t want me to. 

             GARABEDIAN
      And you can stop this interview any 
      time you want, Patrick. 

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
      Uh, okay.  So where do you want me 
      to start? 

             MIKE
      Where did you live when it happened?  

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
      In the projects, over in Hyde Park.  

             MIKE
      Across from the Stop & Shop?  

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
      Yeah, right, that’s it.  Anyways, I 
      was twelve and, see, my dad, he 
      committed suicide.  

             MIKE
      Jeez.  

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
      Yeah, right?  I mean, my old man was 
      a real asshole, but still.  And my 
      mom, you know, she wasn’t exactly 
      stable to begin with.  

             GARABEDIAN
      She was schizophrenic. 

Patrick nervously itches at his arm as we PRELAP -- 

             JOE CROWLEY
	(PRELAP)
      ...my mother was a mess, my older 
      sister’s schizophrenic...  

INT. CAFE FRANCESCA - DAY

Joe talks very fast.  He takes a big gulp of water. 

             JOE CROWLEY
      ...and I was in elementary school at 
      St. Ambrose...

             SACHA
      In Dorchester?

             JOE CROWLEY
      Yeah, and there was this nun, Sister 
      Barbara, she had this group for kids 
      from troubled families, she worked 
      with this street priest, Paul 
      Shanley.  Sister Barbara knew about 
      my family issues, she sent me to the 
      group, to Shanley -- he was the one 
      who raped me. 

Joe stops as the WAITER arrives with lunch.  Bad timing. 

             WAITER
      Uhm... who had the roast beef? 

             JOE CROWLEY
      Do you mind if we get it to go?  

Off Sacha, nodding --

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
	(PRELAP)
      Priests, they were next to God... 

INT. GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE, CONFERENCE ROOM - SAME TIME

Mike sits with McSorley and Garabedian.

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
      And my sister, when she saw Geoghan 
      in the Dunkin’ Donuts, she told him 
      about my old man killing himself 
      and, well, he rushed right over.  

Patrick itches at his arm again.  

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
	(CONT’D)
      He offered to take me to get ice 
      cream.  And he’s a priest and I like 
      ice cream, I mean, what kid doesn’t?  

Patrick is struggling a bit.

             PATRICK MCSORLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Then, you know, we’re riding home... 
      and then he starts patting my leg.  
      He’s driving and he’s patting my leg 
      and then... and then...his hand 
      slides up towards my crotch. And he, 
      uh, he...put his hand on my dick.   
        (He catches his breath)
      I froze up.  I didn’t know what to 
      think.  I was fucking petrified. 

McSorley stares down at his hands. Quiet. Trembling. 


             PATRICK MCSORLEY
	(CONT’D)
      I never even touched my freakin’ ice 
      cream, it melted down my arm. 

He itches his arm.  This time, Mike notes the HEROIN TRACKS.  

             JOE CROWLEY 
	(PRELAP)
      Shanley lived on Beacon Street.   

EXT. RINGGOLD PARK - DAY

Crowley and Sacha sit on a secluded bench, sandwiches on 
their laps.   Crowley’s a little less nervous.

             JOE CROWLEY
      I’d never seen an apartment in Back 
      Bay, I was from Dorchester.  So I 
      get there and I’m nervous and 
      Shanley opens the door.  And he says 
      “What’s the matter, didn’t you 
      expect me to be so handsome?” 

Sacha takes this in. 

             JOE CROWLEY
	(CONT’D)
      The weirdest thing was he had one of 
      these mobiles, like over a baby’s 
      crib, but on it were different 
      words.  Homosexual, transsexual, Bi-
      sexual. He made it seem so normal. 

Joe takes a breath.  

             SACHA
      You hadn’t had sex before?

             JOE CROWLEY
      No.  And being gay just made it more 
      confusing.  To be introduced to sex 
      like that and then to be attracted 
      to men... 

He shrugs.   

             SACHA
      Did you ever try to tell anyone? 

             JOE CROWLEY
      I kept it to myself for a long time.  
      I thought I was the only one.  But 
      it wouldn’t have made a difference.  
      When I was fifteen my mother found 
      my journal.  

             JOE CROWLEY
	(CONT'D)
      I’d written all about what happened 
      and, well, she called Cardinal 
      Medeiros.  
        (then)
      He didn’t move Shanley for another 
      five years.  

             SACHA
      Your mother didn’t try to hire a 
      lawyer? 

             JOE CROWLEY
      Against the church? Oh my God, 
      never. I actually went to a lawyer a 
      few years ago.  He told me he could 
      get me a small settlement but it 
      didn’t seem worth it. 

             SACHA
      Who was the lawyer? 

             JOE CROWLEY
      Oh...I forget his name but he repped 
      the Porter victims.  Very macho guy.  

             SACHA
      Eric MacLeish? 

             JOE CROWLEY
      Yeah, that’s it.  You know him?  
      He’s very macho, right?   

Sacha nods, her mind racing...

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - NIGHT

Mike and Sacha download Robby.     

             SACHA 
      I called Saviano after talking with 
      Joe, he said MacLeish settled cases 
      with a bunch of priests.

             MIKE
      MacLeish didn’t mention that when 
      you guys talked to him.  

             ROBBY
      No. 

             SACHA
      I’m gonna check it out at the 
      courthouse tomorrow. 

             MIKE
      If Crowley’s story is real then 
      Shanley is our fourth priest. 

             ROBBY
      Yeah. And Phil’s lining up other 
      victims for Sacha to talk to. 

This lands.  Sacha and Mike are both floored and troubled.

             SACHA
      I gotta say, it’s brutal listening 
      to them relive this.  It’s so raw 
      for Joe even now, he seemed so 
      fragile, lost.  

             MIKE
      McSorley too.  It’s like Saviano 
      said, the church is such a big part 
      of their life.  They got nowhere to 
      turn.    

             SACHA
      It’s gotta be devastating.  

They sit there, a bit devastated themselves. 

             ROBBY
      Okay. Everybody go home. We’ll hit 
      it again tomorrow. 

INT. CRAPPY DINER, EAST BOSTON - NIGHT

Mike sits alone in a crappy dinner, sips a beer.  He stares 
off, bleary-eyed, ragged.  A beat, then --

             WOMAN
      Mike. 

Mike looks up.  Blinks up at MARGARET, pretty, 30s.       

             MIKE
      Hey.  Thanks for coming.   

Mike stands, gives her a peck.  

             MARGARET
      You could’ve come to the house.  

             MIKE
      Yeah, I know. I just didn’t want it 
      to be weird.  

And now it is.  They sit.  An awkward beat.   


             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      You look good.  

             MARGARET
      You look like shit.  You sleeping? 

             MIKE
      Not a lot.  

             MARGARET
      How’s the story coming? 

             MIKE
      It’s coming.  Yeah... it’s coming.   
        (changing the subject)
      How about you?  

             MARGARET
      I started working on this piece on 
      the Boston Parks commission. 

             MIKE
      Oh yeah, what’s going on? 

             MARGARET
      They’re being pressed by the city on 
      some zoning issues, the commissioner 
      is digging his heels in. 

The conversation is easy, this is where these two connect.

             MIKE
      Sounds cool. I’ve got a guy in City 
      Hall who might be able to help.  

Mike’s phone lights up on the table.  He checks the number.

             MARGARET
      That’d be good.  Yeah, I’ve been 
      talking to someone but I...

She trails off.  He’s clearly stopped listening.  

             MIKE
      I’m sorry.  858, is that California? 

Margaret knows this drill, she doesn’t like it. 

             MARGARET
      Yeah, I think it is.

Mike stares at the phone.  Shit.  

             MARGARET
	(CONT’D)
      Go ahead.  

             MIKE
      Nah, it’s okay.  

It’s obviously not okay. 

             MARGARET
      Mike. Just answer it.  

             MIKE
      It’s just, I’ve been trying to 
      reach...  
        (picking up)
      Mike Rezendes.  

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Mr. Rezendes?  This is Richard Sipe. 
      I hope I’m not calling too late?  

Mike reacts.  Fuck.  

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      No, no... Can you hold on Richard? 
        (cups phone, to Margaret)
      I’m sorry, hon, I gotta, can you 
      just give me two minutes? 

Margaret looks at him. This is where these two don’t connect.

             MARGARET
      Sure, Mike.  

             MIKE
      Thanks.  Thanks, Mags.  

Mike pulls out his pad. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, sorry, Richard.  Phil Saviano 
      gave me your name, I was wondering 
      if I could ask you a few questions. 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Of course. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Great. You started studying the 
      issue of clergy sex abuse in 
      Baltimore when you worked at one of 
      the church’s treatment centers... 
        (off the pad)
      ...the Seton Psychiatric Institute?  


             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Yes, that’s right.  I was hired in 
      1967, just after my psychotherapy 
      fellowship.  Of course, it soon 
      became clear that the problem wasn’t 
      just a few bad apples.  This was a 
      recognizable psychiatric phenomenon.   

Mike starts scribbling, sucked back in, so engrossed that he 
doesn’t even notice as Margaret GETS UP and LEAVES...

INT. GLOBE, HALLWAY - LATER

Robby and Mike walk down the hall.  Mike debriefs him, a 
little manic, not unaffected by what he’s picked up.  

             MIKE
      They all target the same kinda kid.  
      Low income family, absentee father, 
      starved for attention. And get this, 
      guys like Geoghan target boys 
      because boys are more ashamed...

             ROBBY
      And less likely to talk.  

             MIKE
      Exactly.  These priests are 
      predators, Robby. Sipe says he saw 
      dozens of them at Seton in the 60s.

             ROBBY
      Why hasn’t he gone public? 

             MIKE
      He has.  But the church made a huge 
      effort to discredit him.  Smear 
      campaigns, public statements by 
      prominent bishops, they’ve done 
      everything but defrock him.  

             ROBBY
      Sounds familiar.      

             MIKE
      It’s just like their stance on 
      Garabedian.  

             ROBBY
      And Saviano, if we believe him.    

             MIKE
      Sipe backed up everything Saviano 
      told us, he feels legit to me. 

They push though the door and walk into -- 

INT. GLOBE, BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

A dank basement, low fluorescents and rows of old books on 
cheap tin bookshelves.  Robby and Mike react to the smell. 

             MIKE
      Jeez, what the hell is that smell?  

             MATTY
      There’s a dead rat in the corner.   

Mike and Robby find Matty standing over a HUGE STACK OF BOOKS 
he’s pulled from a shelf.  He thumbs through one of them. 

             MATTY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a glamorous job.

Mike shakes his head.  Robby reaches for one of the books.  

             ROBBY
      These are the Directories?  

             MATTY
      Yeah. 
        (to Mike)
      The Archdiocese puts them out every 
      year.  It’s every priest in Boston.

             ROBBY
      Matty thought they’d help us track 
      down the priests Saviano mentioned. 

             MIKE
      These are official?  

             MATTY
      Yeah. 

Mike grabs a directory.  Robby flips through, SQUINTING.  

             ROBBY
      Can we turn on some more lights?   

             MATTY
      I couldn’t find the switch, you want 
      my glasses?  

             MIKE
      Is this what they mean when they say 
      we’re a dying breed?

             ROBBY
      Just you wait... 

             MIKE
        (smiles, flips through)
      1973, Geoghan... St. Paul’s in 
      Hingham.  So we can see where any 
      priest was in any given year. 

             MATTY
        (flips through another)
      Exactly.  I got him here at... huh. 

             ROBBY
      What?

             MATTY
      1980, the year he was pulled from 
      JP.  It says he’s on sick leave.  

Mike looks over his shoulder.   

             MIKE
      It actually says sick leave? They 
      kept a record of that? 

             MATTY
      Guess so. 

Robby starts rifling through the directories.  

             ROBBY
      Where’s ‘91? 

Robby finds the 1991 Directory and opens it. He searches...

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Burns... Burns... Robert Burns.. 

Robby stops.  

             MIKE
      Sick leave? 

             ROBBY
      The year he was pulled out of 
      Charlestown. 

He shows Mike.  We see the designation.  SICK LEAVE.  

             MATTY
      It’s an official designation.


They stare at each other, INCREDULOUS.  Suddenly, ALL THE 
LIGHTS IN THE ROOM flash on.  They react, a bit SPOOKED.  

             KURKJIAN
      What’s this, a poker game? 

Kurkjian walks in.  They stare at him, cat with the canary.  

             ROBBY
      Hey, Steve.  You need something?

Kurkjian gives the three of them a look.  Gets it.   

             KURKJIAN
      Nope.  Carry on, gentlemen. 

Steve heads down an aisle.  Robby turns to Matty and Mike.

             ROBBY
      Let’s get these upstairs.  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - LATER

Robby, Mike and Matty sit around with the directories.  

             ROBBY
      How about Shanley?    

             MATTY
      He’s one of Saviano’s?

             MIKE
      Yeah.  The victim Sacha spoke to 
      said he was moved in ‘79.  

Matty grabs 1979, flips through.  Pauses, reacts. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Sick leave?  

             MATTY
      No.  “Emergency response.”

             ROBBY
      They got a name for everything, 
      these guys.  

             MIKE
      Except rape. 

Robby’s office phone rings, he moves for it. 

             ROBBY
      Matty, I want you to track all the 
      priests Saviano gave us.  If it’s 
      like this for all of them... 

             MATTY
      Yeah, I got it.  

INT. GLOBE, ROBBY’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Robby walks in, grabs the phone. 

             ROBBY
	(INTO THE PHONE)
      It’s Robby. 

INT. SUFFOLK COUNTY COURTHOUSE, RECORDS ROOM - DAY

Sacha makes notes on a pad, a couple of files to one side. 

             SACHA
	(INTO THE PHONE)
      Hey, I’m at the courthouse.

INTERCUT THE TWO SCENES 

             SACHA
	(CONT’D)
      We gotta talk to MacLeish again. 
      Something doesn’t sync.  Hold on.  

In the records room, a COURT CLERK comes over. 

             COURT CLERK
      That’s it, Sacha.  Those are the 
      only docket numbers for MacLeish.  

             ROBBY
	(INTO THE PHONE)
      Sacha?

Sacha frowns, looks down at her pad.  And repeats herself.  

             SACHA
	(INTO THE PHONE)
      Yeah, we definitely gotta talk to 
      MacLeish again.  

INT. GLOBE, MARTY’S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Marty sits at his computer.  Working.  He hears a knock, 
turns and is somewhat surprised to find Gilman there.  

             GILMAN
      Hey Marty, sorry to barge in, do you 
      have a minute? 

Marty looks put off, but he gestures to a chair. 


             MARTY
      Certainly. 

             GILMAN
        (sitting)
      I heard Spotlight’s officially on 
      the church story?  

             MARTY
      That’s right. 

             GILMAN
      Look, Marty, circulation is the one 
      bright spot in our P&L.  That 
      lawsuit alone could alienate half 
      our subscribers.  We need to proceed 
      with caution.  And maybe make a bit 
      of an effort on the PR front. 

             MARTY
      Is that why I was invited to the 
      Catholic Charities Gala?  

             GILMAN
      It’s a good cause.  And yes, showing  
      your face it might help send... the 
      right message.

Marty eyes him, reaches for a piece of paper.  He reads --

             MARTY
      “We should dwell on the virtues of 
      men and institutions rather than 
      upon their faults and limitations.” 

             GILMAN
      What the hell is that?  

             MARTY
      A quote from Charles Taylor.  It’s 
      on a plaque in the lobby.  I wrote 
      it down when I read it because I 
      found it anathema to what this paper 
      should stand for. 

             GILMAN
      The Taylors don’t own the paper 
      anymore.  The New York Times does.  

             MARTY
      Good to know.
        (then)
      By the way, how did you hear 
      Spotlight was on the Church story? 

             GILMAN
      Actually, a board member mentioned 
      it to me. 

             MARTY
      And uh, how’d the board member know? 

             GILMAN
      Welcome to Boston, Marty.  Enjoy the 
      gala.   

INT. GREENBERG TRAURIG CONF ROOM, ONE INTL PLACE - MORNING

Robby and Sacha have been waiting for a while.  A beat and 
finally, MacLeish rolls in. 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Sorry, I got stuck in a deposition.  

             ROBBY
      No problem.  Thanks for seeing us 
      again. 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Something else I can help you with?  

             SACHA
      Mr. MacLeish, are you familiar with 
      a priest named Paul Shanley?   

MacLeish looks at her.  

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Yeah.  I am.  

             SACHA
      You’ve settled cases against Father 
      Shanley?  

             ERIC MACLEISH
      I can’t discuss that with you.  

             ROBBY
      What about Father Ronald Paquin?  
      Father Daniel Mahan?  

             SACHA
      We understand you’ve settled several 
      cases against each of them.  

             ERIC MACLEISH
      The settlements were confidential, I 
      could be disbarred for even 
      acknowledging their existence.  


Robby just looks at him.  That’s a yes.  

             ERIC MACLEISH
	(CONT’D)
      Look, I told you last time, this is 
      what was best for my clients.  
        (and then)
      The church promised to take the 
      priests out of circulation.    

             SACHA
      Why aren’t there any records?  

MacLeish blinks.  Another moment of hesitation here...   

             SACHA
	(CONT’D)
      I was just down at the courthouse, 
      why aren’t there any records of 
      these settlements? 

MacLeish pauses.  Then -- 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      We dealt directly with the church.  
      We’d write up a demand letter and 
      we’d send it to the chancery. 

             SACHA
      You never filed anything in court? 

             ERIC MACLEISH
      It was a private mediation.  

So that’s a no.  Jesus.  Sacha and Robby react. 

             ROBBY
      Church pay a premium for that 
      service?

             ERIC MACLEISH
        (unashamed)
      They paid the going rate.   

             SACHA
      And this is just you and the 
      archdiocese’s lawyers in a room?    

             ERIC MACLEISH
      Priest always had a lawyer, too.  
      There were one or two defense 
      attorneys the church liked.     

             ROBBY
      You remember their names?

             ERIC MACLEISH
        (stonewalling him)
      No.  No I don’t.  

INT. GLOBE, MARTY’S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Marty and Ben sit with the whole gang.  

             MARTY
      So uh, this was all under the table? 

             SACHA
      There’s no paper trail at all.  The 
      victim has to sign a confidentiality 
      agreement to get the settlement.  

             MIKE
      Lawyer takes his third, the church 
      washes its hands and the victim gets 
      screwed all over again.  Shitbirds 
      are running a freakin’ racket. 

             BEN
      MacLeish isn’t wrong, they have a 
      duty to their clients. 

             MIKE
      Maybe at first but how many victims 
      do you represent...

             SACHA
      And profit from. 

             MIKE
      And profit from before you say 
      “Something bigger and badder is 
      happening here and I’m the only one 
      who has all the information.” 

Robby frowns, chewing on something.  

             BEN
      Well, ethically it is a bit more 
      complicated...

             MIKE
      Not for Garabedian.

             MATTY
      So he’s not a crank? 

             MIKE
      Oh, I didn’t say that.

             BEN
      But MacLeish confirmed all of 
      Saviano’s priests.  

             ROBBY
      Yeah.  Between MacLeish and Sipe, we 
      think Saviano’s solid, Ben. 
        (to Marty)
      Which means we’re looking at seven 
      or eight priests, maybe all of them 
      with some kind of cover up.  If we 
      can nail even five of ‘em... 

             MARTY
      Sounds like you got something.  Keep 
      me up to date.  Thanks everybody.  

They all start to get up and leave.  

             BEN
      Do you know who the lawyer is that 
      represented the priests? 

             SACHA
      No.  MacLeish didn’t give us a name. 

Robby holds his tongue.  Mike and Sacha trade a look.  

INT. ISABELLA STEWART GARDNER MUSEUM - NIGHT 

A swank Gala in full swing.  Robby walks along the edge of 
the party.  Looking for someone.  A beat, then he spots... 

Tim O’Neill.  Glad-handing some suits.  Robby watches him, 
pensive, considers approaching him when...      

             MARTY
      Robby. 

Robby turns.  There’s Marty.  A little less rumpled.  Holding 
a glass of wine and hiding out beside a pillar.   

             ROBBY
      Marty.  Wouldn’t think this would be 
      your thing. 

             MARTY
      It’s not, that’s why I’m standing 
      over here. 
        (then)
      Dick asked me to come. 

             ROBBY
        (smiles)
      Did he now?

             MARTY
      And you?    

             ROBBY
      My friend Ray Flanagan sits on the 
      board. We went to BC High together.

             MARTY
      That’s the school across the street 
      from the Globe? 

             ROBBY
      My alma mater.  Fancy crowd, huh?   

Robby nods to Cardinal Law in the crowd.  A PRETTY BLONDE, 
29, and a GOOD LOOKING YOUNG MAN, 40s, trail behind.

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      The woman is Donna Morrissey.  New 
      spokeswoman for the Archdiocese. The 
      guy behind her is Jack Dunn, does PR 
      work for BC, Catholic Charities, the 
      Archdiocese... 

Law makes a beeline for PETER CONLEY, a large, very wealthy 
looking man.  Law reaches out, warmly shakes Conley’s hand. 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      And the handshake is Pete Conley.  
      Self made Prince of the city, sits 
      on a dozen different boards, a real 
      Irish swell.   

They watch for a moment.  Then -- 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      How was your sit down, by the way?  

             MARTY
      Uh, he gave me a copy of The 
      Catechism. 

Robby raises an eyebrow.   

             ROBBY
      If it makes you feel any better, he 
      called down the wrath of God on us 
      when we were investigating Porter.

             MARTY
      Uh, really?  How did that play out?

             ROBBY
      A week later our editor broke his 
      leg skiing.  

Marty blinks.  

             MARTY
      Good to know. 

Robby smiles as a WAITER comes by with a tray.   

             WAITER
      Shrimp toast? 

The men inspect it... then each take one.  

INT. ARMENIAN DINER - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a greasy TUNA MELT.  HANDS reach for it... REVEAL 
Garabedian and Mike having dinner.  Mike’s going over notes.  

             MIKE
      So Peter Canshun filed a criminal 
      complaint before he came to you? 

             GARABEDIAN
      Yeah, but Geoghan got probation and 
      the judge sealed the case records 
      after friends of the church stepped 
      in. The Church has a lot of friends.  

             MIKE
      Like Eric MacLeish?    

Garabedian sees he understands.  Garabedian’s impressed. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Exactly.  He’s a big part of the 
      problem.  Off the record. 

             MIKE
      Of course.

Garabedian pops a french fry in his mouth. 

             GARABEDIAN
      You work hard, Mr. Rezendes. I can 
      see that. Do you have kids? 

             MIKE
      No. 

             GARABEDIAN
      And your wife doesn’t mind you 
      working all the time? 

Mike bristles at the personal questions, covers. 

             MIKE
      Yeah, she does. 

             GARABEDIAN
      See.  That’s why I never got 
      married. I’m too busy, what I do is 
      too important. 

             MIKE
      Well, that’s why I’m here. 

Garabedian senses Mike is working him.  He darkens. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Where were you five years ago?  How 
      about ten?
        (then)
      Your new Editor, he’s a Jew right? 

             MIKE
      Uh, that’s right. 

             GARABEDIAN
      He comes in, suddenly everybody is 
      interested in the Church. You know 
      why?  Because it takes an outsider. 
      Like me. I’m Armenian. How many 
      Armenians do you know? 

             MIKE
      Steve Kurkjian, works at the Globe. 

             GARABEDIAN
      That’s two! You should get a prize 
      or something. What are you, Italian? 

             MIKE
      Portuguese. 

             GARABEDIAN
      From where? 

             MIKE
      East Boston.

             GARABEDIAN
      You don’t sound like it.  

Mike doesn’t say anything.  Garabedian shakes his head.

             GARABEDIAN
	(CONT’D)
      This city, Yankees, Irish, making 
      the rest of us feel like we don’t 
      belong.  They’re no better than us.  
      Look how they treat their children.
        (wiping his mouth)
      Mark my words, Mr. Rezendes, if it 
      takes a village to raise a child, it 
      takes a village to abuse one. 

Garabedian eats.  Mike ponders.  Oddly moved. 

INT. ISABELLA STEWART GARDNER MUSEUM - NIGHT 

Tim O’Neill stands by the bar.  Talking to a YOUNG COUPLE. 

             TIM
      Please tell your father that I said 
      hello and that I expect to see him 
      next weekend.  No excuses. 

The couple smiles, the man shaking Tim’s hand.  As they exit, 
Robby sidles up next to Tim, calls to the Bartender.  

             ROBBY
      Two Macallans. Neat. 

             TIM
      Gotta score on the game? 

             ROBBY
      Sox lost 4-1. 

             TIM
      Why do I even ask? 

The bartender sets down two glasses.  Robby hands one to Tim. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Slainte. 

They clink and drink.  

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      You see Ray yet?  

             ROBBY
      I did.  Divorce becomes him. 

Tim smiles.  


             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      I had an interesting conversation 
      with Eric MacLeish yesterday. 
      Turns out he’s been settling abuse 
      cases with the Archdiocese for 
      years.  No records, just Eric and 
      the Archdiocese’s lawyer, Wilson 
      Rodgers, with cash and a handshake.    

             TIM
      Okay. 

             ROBBY
      But there was always another lawyer 
      at the table.  A defense lawyer for 
      the priest.  I know you said you 
      repped Burns as a favor, I’m 
      assuming that was a one off? 

Tim doesn’t say anything.  Robby reads him... and if he had a 
hunch Tim was the guy, it’s now confirmed.  Robby DARKENS.

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      How many priests have you 
      represented, Timmy? 

             TIM
      You know I can’t answer that, Robby.  
      It’s unethical. 

             ROBBY
      Is that all it is?  

Tim stares Robby down. He drinks.  

             TIM
      So this is the Robby Robinson I’ve 
      always heard about but never met. 

             ROBBY
      Listen to me, Timmy.  You want to be 
      on the right side of this. 

             TIM
      Maybe I am. 

             BOSTON MUCK
	(O.C.)
      Tim.  

A thick BOSTON MUCK joins, reaches for Tim’s hand.  

             TIM
      John, good to see you.

Tim turns to the muck.  Robby’s left nursing his drink...

INT. ROBBY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Robby slips in the door, walks over to the bar.  Pours 
himself another strong drink.  Barbara walks in.  

             BARBARA
      That good, huh?  

Robby glances over.  He looks haggard.  

             ROBBY
      I hate those things.  

             BARBARA
      Never bothered you before.  

             ROBBY
        (sharp)
      Well they do now.  

Barbara watches Robby collapse into his chair. 

             BARBARA
      You talk to Tim? 

             ROBBY
      Yeah.  I did.  

             BARBARA
      And? 

He just looks at her.  A little lost.  As he takes a big 
swallow of his drink, PRELAP --

             SACHA
	(PRELAP)
      “Sick leave, ‘absent on leave,’ 
      ‘unassigned,’ ‘emergency response.’  

INT. GLOBE, ROBBY’S OFFICE - DAY

Matty and Sacha download Robby in his office.  Through the 
glass, we see Mike working at his computer in Spotlight.  

             SACHA
      The directories use those terms 
      interchangeably.

             ROBBY
      For all of Saviano’s priests?  

             MATTY
      Yeah.  And Mike was right, these 
      guys switch parishes more frequently 
      than other priests.  I mean, when I 
      was a kid, the church would move a 
      priest after seven or eight years 
      but these guys are never at a parish 
      longer than two or three.

             SACHA
      It’s the same for Geoghan, Burns and 
      Saviano’s priests.  It’s a pretty 
      clear pattern.

As Robby considers this, Mike pops in -- 

             MIKE
      Guys, I’ve got Sipe.  

They get up, walk into --

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The team gathers round as Mike reaches for his phone.  

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Richard, I’m gonna put you on 
      speaker so my colleagues can hear.  

Mike hits a button and places the receiver in the cradle.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Richard. Go ahead. 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      Hello, everyone. Nice to meet you. 

             ROBBY
      Nice to meet you, Richard. This is 
      Robby.  I know you’ve talked with 
      Mike but we’re still trying to get 
      our arms around all of this.   

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      Yes, I’ve been studying the issue 
      for thirty years and I could say the 
      same.  But I think if you want to 
      understand the crisis, you need to 
      start with the celibacy requirement.  
      After all, that was my first major 
      finding -- only 50% of the clergy 
      are actually practicing celibacy. 

The team share a look.  Can that be true?  


             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      Now, most of them are having sex 
      with other adults.  But this creates 
      a culture of secrecy, a system that 
      tolerates, even protects pedophiles.

             SACHA
      So you believe the church is aware 
      of the extent of this ‘crisis.’ 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      Absolutely.  Tom Doyle, the 
      Secretary Canonist for the Papal 
      Nuncio penned a report in ‘85.  He 
      warned pedophile priests were a 
      billion dollar liability. 

             ROBBY
      Who saw this document?  Anyone in 
      the Catholic hierarchy?   

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      Doyle tried to introduce the report 
      at the National Council of Catholic 
      Bishops.  In fact, your Cardinal Law 
      was an early fan but he withdrew his 
      support at the last minute and they 
      shelved it.  

             MIKE
      So Richard, how big is this problem?

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      My estimates suggest six percent act 
      out sexually with minors.  

             ROBBY
      Six percent?  Six percent of what? 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      Six percent of all priests. 

Holy shit.  Robby turns to the team.  

             ROBBY
      How many priests are in Boston? 

             MATTY
      About fifteen hundred. 

             ROBBY
      What’s six percent of fifteen...

Sacha already has her calculator out.


             SACHA
      Ninety. 

       		ROBBY
	Ninety? 

		MATTY
	Is that possible? 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      From a metric standpoint, that would 
      be in line with my findings.  

Robby considers, his gaze falling on the directories.

             ROBBY
      Richard, could we call you back?  

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      No problem. 

             ROBBY
        (hanging up)
      Matty... the directories... could we 
      work backwards? 

             MATTY
      Backwards?  What do you mean? 

             ROBBY
      You’ve been looking up questionable 
      priests, using the directories to 
      verify that they might have been bad 
      news.  What if we do it the other 
      way around? 

             MIKE
        (following)
      Use patterns in the directories to 
      identify bad priests?

             SACHA
      Sure.  We’d search for sick leave, 
      for priests that we’re moved from 
      parish to parish frequently... 

             MATTY
      It’d take a load of time. 

             ROBBY
      How long?  

             MATTY
      On my own?   Three weeks.  

             ROBBY
      Okay. We’re all on this. I want it 
      done in one, we start now. 

The team immediately digs in and we CUT TO -- 

CLOSE ON a ruler across a directory.  We see the name of a 
priest, his parish and a designation: Unassigned.  CUT TO --

CLOSE ON an excel spreadsheet.  The priest’s name in one 
column, the designation in a second, a date in a third... 

PULL BACK to find Matty hunched over the computer, Mike and 
Sacha on either side.  It’s dark.  Sacha’s phone rings.  

             SACHA
	(INTO PHONE)
      Hello? Hi hon. God, what time is it?  

She looks up.  They all do.  And notice day has become night.  

       		MIKE
	My head’s gonna explode.  

		MATTY
	Freakin’ tedious, huh?  

             SACHA
	(INTO PHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah, I’m leaving now. 

Sacha hangs up, starts packing her things.  

             ROBBY
      Take one for the road.  

             SACHA
        (grabs a directory, exits)
      Thanks.  Bye guys. 

             MIKE
      This week is gonna suck. 

             ROBBY
      Oh yeah. 

As they get back to work, we CUT TO -- 

CLOSE ON a hand turning a page, a finger picking out a 
name... FATHER MAHAN... SICK LEAVE... 

INT. SACHA’S HOUSE - NIGHT

REVEAL Sacha at HER KITCHEN TABLE entering a name in an excel 
sheet on her laptop.  As Hans kisses her good night, CUT TO -- 


INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON the excel sheet, now longer.  Another name, Paquin, 
is typed in and we... 

REVEAL Mike inputting data.  Matty and Sacha stand, hanging a 
list of problematic priests and parishes on the wall. CUT TO-- 

INT. ROBBY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a directory, a scotch glass on the open page.  PULL 
BACK to find Robby in his DEN, reaching for the scotch, LOST.  

Barbara walks past, sees him staring off, considers going to 
him, thinks better of it.  Off Barbara, worried, we CUT TO --

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON the excel spreadsheet.  Much bigger.  But in the 
priest column we see an odd name... FFFFFFFFFFFaer.

REVEAL Mike, head on laptop. He snaps awake, grabs coffee.

INT. MATTY CARROLL’S HOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a directory, a ruler paused and a finger pointing to 
an address.  The finger taps the address and we -- 

REVEAL Matty, at his KITCHEN TABLE, staring at the it.  He 
blinks, PALE, then scribbles on a pad and leaves the house. 

EXT. MATTY CARROLL’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Matty heads across the lawn and down the sidewalk.  He rounds 
the corner, picking up his pace, checking house numbers.  

Finally he stops at A CLASSIC, TWO STORY VICTORIAN HOUSE.

             MATTY
      No way. No fucking way. 

He looks around.  As we wonder what he’s discovered, we --  

INT. MIKE’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Mike eats pizza from a Santarpio’s box and drinks a beer in 
his shitty little studio.  He talks to Sipe on speakerphone.    

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      ...again, it’s a sexually active 
      system.  Everyone has a double life, 
      so when they find a pedophile in 
      their midst, he’s just another 
      priest with a secret.  

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
	(CONT'D)
      They all have an interest in 
      covering for one another.

             MIKE
      Jeez.   

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE) 
      Yeah.  You spend too much time on 
      this, you’ll start drinking. 

             MIKE
      I’m ahead of you on that. 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
        (chuckles)
      Good.  Mike, I’m curious, do you 
      ever go to mass?  

             MIKE
      I mean, I went as a kid, I kinda 
      liked it, actually.  But I used to 
      fight with my old man all the time 
      about the church.  He was a bit 
      rigid. 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      I’ve heard that before. 

             MIKE
      Our last big fight before I moved 
      out was about the infallibility of 
      the Pope.  I was fifteen. 

Mike goes to the fridge, pulls out another beer. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Probably why I became a reporter. 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      If you can’t prove it, it’s not 
      true? 

             MIKE
      Something like that. 

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      So not big on faith. 

             MIKE
      Not big on my old man, that’s for 
      sure.   

We hear Sipe laugh over the phone.  


             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      What about you?  Do you still go to 
      mass?

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE) 
      No.  I still consider myself a 
      Catholic, but I’m no longer a friend 
      of the institution.  There’s a line 
      you don’t cross in the church. 

             MIKE
      That’s why they’ve gone after you?  

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      They will go to great lengths to 
      maintain the system, to silence 
      anyone trying to shine a light on 
      the problem. I imagine that includes 
      you and your colleagues at the...

Suddenly, he hears a KNOCK on the door.  Mike jumps, not 
expecting a late night visitor.   

             MIKE
      Um, Richard, can I call you back?  

             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      Any time, Mike.  

Mike gets up, approaches the door.  A bit tense. 

             MIKE
      Who is it?  

             ROBBY
	(O.C.)
      The Archbishop of Canterbury.  

Mike relaxes, opens the door.  Robby walks in with a bottle. 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Am I interrupting?  

             MIKE
      I was on the phone with Sipe.  How’d 
      you find me?   

             ROBBY
      I know a guy.  How about a breather?  

Robby holds out the bottle.  JAMESON’S.

             MIKE
      A breather sounds good. 

Mike grabs two glasses, checks to make sure they’re clean. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Want some pizza?  Santarpio’s.

             ROBBY
      You ever get tired of that place?

             MIKE
      You ever get tired of Fenway?  

Robby smiles.  Touché.  He starts to open the JAMESON’S.  

             ROBBY
      So this the new clubhouse? 

             MIKE
      Something like that.  

             ROBBY
      How’s Margaret doing?  

             MIKE
      I don’t know, really. I’ve been 
      kinda tied up with this. 

             ROBBY
      You know, a good dinner can save a 
      marriage.  

             MIKE
      Yeah, tried that, didn’t go so well.

Mike pours to drinks.  Hands one to Robby. 

             ROBBY
      Sometimes you gotta put your life 
      first, Mike.  

             MIKE
      That why you’re here drinking with 
      me?  

             ROBBY
      Barbara said that if I kept talking 
      about this story she was gonna throw 
      me outta the house. 

They clink and drink.   

             MIKE
      So you want to call Sipe back now? 

             ROBBY
      Yeah. You got a speaker phone on 
      that thing? 

             MIKE
      Sure do. 

Mike dials.  Robby reaches over and grabs a piece of pizza. 

             ROBBY
      What the hell...

INT. MATTY CARROLL’S HOUSE, KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

Matty’s wife Elaine enters, drowsy.  Matty is at the table 
with coffee. Elaine stops at the refrigerator.  A note is 
taped to the door with XEROXED PHOTOS OF SIX PRIESTS.   

“Kids. Stay away from the house at 193 Leonard Street. And 
stay away from these men.”

             MATTY
      There’s one of those treatment 
      houses on Leonard Street.  

             ELAINE
      There are kids all over this 
      neighborhood.  Should we say 
      something to the neighbors? 

Matty considers this.  Good question.  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON a LAPTOP SCREEN.  We’re scrolling through the EXCEL 
SPREADSHEET.  Dozens of problematic priests.  

             SACHA
      That’s it. 

REVEAL Mike, Sacha and Matty huddled around the laptop.  
Matty PRINTS the SPREADSHEET and Mike closes a directory. 

             MIKE
      Robby? 

Robby looks up from his desk.  He walks over to join them. 

             ROBBY
      How many? 

             MATTY
      Eighty-seven. 

             MIKE
      It’s in line with what Sipe said.  
      Right in line.  

Matty hands the PRINTOUT to Robby.  A beat.  He walks into --

INT. GLOBE, ROBBY’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Robby shuts his door, picks up his phone and dials.  We see 
the team watching through the glass.  

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Walter Robinson for Tim O’Neill. 
      Tell him it’s important. 

A beat, then we hear --  

             TIM
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Hi Robby.  Everything OK? 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Could it be ninety?

             TIM
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      What? 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Could it be ninety priests?

             TIM
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Jesus, Robby. 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Just answer the question, Tim. 

             TIM
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      You gotta stop this, Robby. 

Silence. 

Click.  Robby DARKENS.  A beat, then Matty pops in...

             MATTY
      Robby, you got a minute?  

Robby beckons him in. 

             MATTY
	(CONT’D)
      I, uh, got one of those treatment 
      centers a block from my house. I 
      mean...we got neighbors with kids.  
      I feel like we should tell ‘em.  

             ROBBY
        (beat)
      We’ll tell ‘em soon.  

Matty nods.  Exits.  Off Robby --   

INT. PARKING GARAGE, ONE INTERNATIONAL PLACE - NIGHT

Eric MacLeish is talking on his cell. 

             ERIC MACLEISH
	(INTO PHONE)
      No, I’ll handle him in the morning.  
      It won’t be a problem. 

He hangs up and gets into his MERCEDES 500 SLK. 

INT. MACLEISH’S MERCEDES (PARKED) - CONTINUOUS

MacLeish tosses his briefcase in back and starts to puts the 
key in the ignition... when the passenger door OPENS. 

MacLeish, FRIGHTENED, turns... as Robby gets in the car.  

             MACLEISH
      Jesus.  Scared the hell out of me.  

             ROBBY
      I’ve got 87 priests, I need to know 
      which you’ve settled cases against.  

             MACLEISH
      Get out of my car.  

Robby doesn’t move.  He’s angrier than we’ve seen.    

             ROBBY
      How many priests did you settle? 

             MACLEISH
      You know I can’t tell you...

             ROBBY
      You’re gonna give me their names.  
      And the names of their victims.  

             MACLEISH
      No way.   

A beat.  Robby controls himself, turns calm.  Professional. 


             ROBBY
      There are two stories here, Eric. A 
      story about clergy and a story about 
      the lawyers who spent the last ten 
      years quietly turning their sex 
      scandals into a cottage industry. 
      Ten years without telling a soul 
      about the dozens of priests who were 
      balling little boys.
        (then)
      Which story do you want us to write? 

Off MacLeish, WAVERING... 

INT. GLOBE, MARTY’S OFFICE - DAY

CLOSE ON the EXCEL PRINTOUT.  The list of Priests.  Many of 
them MARKED UP, with VICTIM’S NAMES written in the margins.  

             ROBBY
      MacLeish settled cases with forty-
      six priests.   

REVEAL Marty and Ben across the table from Robby and the rest 
of the Spotlight team.  Marty pages through the printout.

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      And we have corroboration on the 
      eight we got from Saviano, Sacha’s 
      spoken to the victims, a lotta them 
      are willing to go on the record.  

             BEN
      Jesus.  It’s a fucking epidemic. 

             ROBBY
      They all fit the pattern, frequent 
      moves from parish to parish, in and 
      out of treatment centers...  

             MARTY
      Where are we on Law?  

             ROBBY
      Mike’s still trying to empty 
      Garabedian’s pockets.  

Marty considers this.  Then he turns to Robby. 

             MARTY
      I keep thinking about our discussion 
      on Porter the other night. 

             ROBBY
      What about it?  

             MARTY
      You said Law called down the wrath 
      of God when we reported on that.  

             BEN
      That’s Law being Law.  

             MARTY
      Okay, uh, but I looked at the clips, 
      Porter wasn’t even in the Boston 
      Archdiocese. He was in Fall River.  
      Why such an extreme reaction?  

Robby realizes. 

             ROBBY
      He knew there were others.  The way 
      he reacted, Law had to know.   

             MARTY
      That’s the bigger story.  

             BEN
      Bigger than fifty priests?  

             MARTY
      Yes, if it came from the top down.       

             ROBBY
      The numbers clearly indicate -- 

             MARTY
      But that’s all they are, indicators. 
      They don’t tell the full story.  

             MIKE
      Due respect, we run a story about 
      fifty pedophile priests in Boston --   

             MARTY
      We’ll get into the same cat fight 
      you got into on Porter, which made a 
      lot of noise and changed things not 
      one bit. 
        (then)
      The numbers are not enough. Show me 
      the Church manipulated the system so 
      these priests wouldn’t face charges.  
      Show me the Church put these priests 
      back into parishes with children, 
      time and time again. 

             MARTY
	(CONT'D)
      Show me this was systemic, it was 
      institutional and that it came from 
      the top down. 

INT. GLOBE, OUTSIDE MARTY’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Ben and Robby walk through the bullpen towards Ben’s office, 
the team at their heels.  Mike is pissed.    

             MIKE
      Fifty priests is a great story.  

             BEN
      In my office.

They roll into -- 

INT. GLOBE, BEN’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Matty shuts the door behind them.   

             MIKE
      He read the Porter clips and now 
      he’s nervous.

             BEN
      He should be fucking nervous.  If 
      Law attacked us for going after 
      Porter, can you imagine how he’ll 
      use his bully pulpit now that we’re 
      coming after him?   

             MIKE
      We’re talking about fifty priests.  
      Not one.  Not eight.  Fifty! 

             BEN
      Yeah, and if we’re not set up here, 
      Law’s gonna have a thousand priests 
      telling their congregations not to 
      buy the Globe.  Right now, a story 
      like this could tank the paper.

             MIKE
      Come on, we’re playing scared. 

             BEN
      Keep your dick in your pants, we’re 
      playing smart. 

             ROBBY
      He’s right, Mike.  

Mike turns, surprised. 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      We gotta nail the system, we gotta 
      take Law down in such a way that he 
      can’t get back up again.  

             BEN
      Agreed. So let’s stop bitching about  
      it and get to work. 

EXT. DOUBLE-DECKER HOUSE, SOUTHIE - DAY 

Robby and Sacha knock on the door of a DOUBLE-DECKER in 
Southie.  A MIDDLE AGED MAN answers.  He lets them inside. 

             OLDER WOMAN
	(PRELAP)
      The Monsignor took us to the Bishop.  

INT. RUNDOWN HOUSE, DORCHESTER - DAY

Matty sits with an OLDER WOMAN.    

             OLDER WOMAN 
      He told us nothing like this had 
      ever happened before.  He asked us 
      not to press charges.  

             MIDDLE AGED MAN
	(PRELAP)
      The Bishop came over the house. 

INT. APARTMENT, JAMAICA PLAIN - DAY 

Robby and Sacha sit with a middle aged man. 

             MIDDLE AGED MAN
      He brought the local assemblyman.  

             SACHA
      What did your mother do? 

             MIDDLE AGED MAN
      Are you kidding me? She made tea and 
      put out cookies.  

Sacha blinks.  We PRELAP --

             MIKE
	(PRELAP)
      ...and Richard when exactly did you 
      treat Geoghan in Baltimore?

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - EARLY EVENING

Mike leans over his phone, reviewing his notes.


             SIPE
	(ON SPEAKERPHONE)
      I didn’t treat him personally, I 
      thought I mentioned that in our 
      first conversation, Mike.  

             MIKE
        (writing)
      Yeah, yeah, that’s right, sorry.  Do 
      you know who did treat him?   

             SIPE
      Not off hand, I think that was the 
      summer of 1967, I’ll have to check 
      my records.  Of course, everyone 
      knew he had a problem.      

As Mike writes this down, we hear --  

             SACHA
      We’ve got stories on Saviano’s eight 
      and ten of MacLeish’s priests.  

Find Robby and Sacha adding to a list on the wall, 18 PRIESTS 
with 3x5 cards, details of victim’s stories.  PRELAP --

             DROUSSARD
	(PRELAP)
      It wasn’t just the church.

INT. DROUSSARD HOUSE, JAMAICA PLAIN - DAY

Matty sits with MARYETTA DROUSSARD, 57.  A mess. 

             DROUSSARD
      My friends, the other parishioners,  
      they said it would cause a scandal. 

She starts to cry.  Matty waits, pained as we PRELAP --

             YOUNG COP
	(PRELAP)
      Sure, the chief knew, we all did. 
      Geoghan was a bad guy... 

INT. COFFEE SHOP, HINGHAM - NIGHT

Robby sits with the YOUNG COP from the opener. Now 40s. 

             YOUNG COP
      But no one wanted to cuff a priest. 
      And I was just a rookie so...    

             SACHA
      What about the prosecutor?


             YOUNG COP
      Burke?  He’d recommend that they 
      leave it in God’s hands. 
        (then)
      I still remember those two priests 
      driving away that night, but Cap 
      told me to forget it so I forgot it. 

As that LANDS on Robby and Sacha -- 

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

Matty’s at his desk.  He gets up, checks a box on the wall. 
We see NOW 30 PRIESTS with 3x5 cards next. Matty looks at it.

             MATTY
      This is sick. 

He stands there staring as Robby and Sacha enter. 

             MATTY
	(CONT’D)
      How’s it going guys? 

             ROBBY
      Depends how you look at it.  Where’s 
      Mike? 

             MATTY
      Springfield.  For the hearing.  He 
      called in, said nobody was there. 

             ROBBY
      The Herald didn’t show up?  

             MATTY
      Nope.  Nobody.  

Sacha sits at her desk, Robby turns towards his office when -- 

             MATTY
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, Robby, you ever hear of a 
      Father Talbot?  

Robby turns.  Matty shows him an excel priest printout.  

             ROBBY
      There was a Father Talbot at BC High 
      when I was there.  

             MATTY
      That’s the one.  

Matty hands him the printout.  Robby reads it and reacts. 
It’s like a kick in the stomach. 


             ROBBY
      Jesus.  This his victim? 

             MATTY
      Yeah, he just passed, the address is 
      for the wife. 

             ROBBY
      I’ll take this.

INT. COURTROOM, HAMDEN SUPERIOR COURT, SPRINGFIELD, MA - DAY

Mike watching the Globe’s lawyer, JON ALBANO, 50s, white 
beard and moustache, present to JUDGE CONSTANCE SWEENEY, 40s.  

             ALBANO
	(O.C.)
      Your honor, the Globe believes this 
      is a matter of public interest. 

Mike FIGHTS TEDIUM. The courtroom’s empty, Garabedian at one 
desk, WILSON ROGERS, 60s, the Church’s lawyer, at another.   

             ALBANO
	(CONT’D)
      There’s nothing personal in these 
      documents, they concern how the 
      Cardinal is handling --  

             JUDGE SWEENEY 
      Say the Archdiocese.  

             ALBANO
      Er, excuse me?  

             JUDGE SWEENEY
      You don’t get to tag the Cardinal 
      with everything, Mr. Albano.  Say 
      the Archdiocese. 

He looks down at his brief, flustered. 

             WILSON ROGERS
      Your honor, the Globe is not a party 
      to this case.  They simply want to 
      sell papers.  If Mr. Garabedian had 
      not been trying his case in the 
      press and smearing the Cardinal’s 
      good name, we wouldn’t even be here.       

Garabedian shakes his head, angrily muttering under his 
breath.  Mike sits up, catching it.


             ALBANO
      I represent the Globe, your honor, 
      not Mr. Garabedian, and regardless 
      of his tactics, the Archdiocese...

Off Mike, watching Garabedian... 

EXT. HAMDEN SUPERIOR COURT, SPRINGFIELD, MA - LATER

Garabedian stands on the courthouse steps.  Simmering.    

             MIKE
      Nice guy, that Wilson Rogers.   

Mike walks up with two cups of coffee.  He holds one out.   

             GARABEDIAN
      He’s an idiot. A smug idiot. And 
      they’re terrible lawyers. 

             MIKE
        (pushing him)
      He seems pretty competent. 

             GARABEDIAN
      What, cause he dresses nice?  I’m 
      telling you, he’s an awful lawyer.

             MIKE
      Oh yeah? 

             GARABEDIAN
      You don’t know the half of it. If 
      you did you wouldn’t be impressed. 

             MIKE
      So what’s the half of it?  

Garabedian looks at him, wrestling with something.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Mitch? Tell me the half of it. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Off the record. 

             MIKE
      Okay. Off the record. 

             GARABEDIAN
      About three years ago, I get a call.  
      This ex-Priest.  Arthur Benzevich.  

             GARABEDIAN
	(CONT'D)
      He tells me when he was at Blessed 
      Sacrement back in ‘62 he saw Geoghan 
      taking little boys up to the Rectory 
      bedroom.  Benzevich says he told the 
      Bishop, but the Bishop told him to 
      shut it.  Threatened to reassign him 
      to South America.   

             MIKE
      Jeez. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Yeah, anyway, fast forward 30 years, 
      Benzevich reads that Geoghan’s been 
      charged with molesting hundreds of 
      boys.  Benzevich feels guilty.  

             MIKE
      So Benzevich calls you.  

             GARABEDIAN
      I got a priest telling his superiors 
      about Geoghan in 1962?  That’s a 
      witness.  So I ask him to come by 
      the office to sit for a deposition 
      and he agrees.  But the day of the 
      depo, when he shows up... he’s with 
      a lawyer.   

             MIKE
      Wilson Rogers. 

             GARABEDIAN
      That’s the one.  Suddenly, my friend 
      Benzevich has a foggy memory.  He 
      isn’t so sure Geoghan took boys up 
      to his bedroom.  And he sure as heck 
      didn’t tell his superiors.  

             MIKE
      So what’d you do?   

             GARABEDIAN
      Nothing.  There was nothing to do.  
      I go back to work, I forget about it 
      until, a year ago, one of my former 
      assistants, terrible employee, she 
      finds an old article in the paper.  
      “Former priest says he warned church 
      officials about Geoghan.”  

             MIKE
        (stunned)
      Benzevich went to the press.  

             GARABEDIAN
      Local paper, Patriot Ledger, nobody 
      saw it.  But now --  

             MIKE
      You got Benzevich on record.  

             GARABEDIAN
      And I got a good reason to talk to 
      him again.  But when I file a motion 
      to depose Benzevich a second time, 
      Wilson Rogers, that smug asshole, he 
      files a motion opposing my motion.  
      And that’s when I have him!  

             MIKE
      Have him, how? 

             GARABEDIAN
      Rogers opposed my motion. So I gotta 
      make an argument as to why I should 
      be allowed to depose Mr. Benzevich 
      again.  And now I’m allowed to 
      attach exhibits.  So I go through 
      the famous sealed documents that 
      I’ve gotten in discovery and I pull 
      out all the most damning ones.  

             MIKE
      And you attach them to your motion? 

             GARABEDIAN
      14 documents that prove everything.  
      About the church, about the bishops, 
      about Cardinal Law...  

             MIKE
      And it’s all public.  

             GARABEDIAN
      Now you’re paying attention, Mr. 
      Rezendes.  This motion to oppose 
      Rogers’ motion that opposed my 
      motion to depose Benzevich is, in 
      fact, public. 

             MIKE
        (head spinning)
      So I can just walk into the 
      courthouse and get them? 

             GARABEDIAN
      No. You can’t. Because the documents 
      are not there.  

Mike is measured. 

             MIKE
      You just told me they were public, 
      Mitch.

             GARABEDIAN
        (leans in, whispering)
      They are, but this is Boston.  And 
      the Church doesn’t want them to be 
      found, so they are not there. 

Holy shit.  Mike pales. 

             ALBANO
	(O.C.)
      Mitch, Sweeney’s ready to start.

             MIKE
      You think the Church had them 
      removed? 

Mitch collects his things, turns to Mike.  With clarity. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Yes, Mr. Rezendes. I am not crazy 
      and I am not paranoid, I am 
      experienced. Check the docket, 
      you’ll see. They control everything.    

Mitch exits.  Mike watches him go, UNNERVED.  Is Mitch right?  
And was that just the mother of all tips?  

INT. SUFFOLK COUNTY COURTHOUSE, RECORDS ROOM - DAY

A mousy looking clerk carries a BINDER up to a small window.  
He places the binder in the window in front of... Mike.  

Who’s been standing there.  Waiting.  Mike takes the binder. 

             CLERK
      We’re closing in like ten minutes...

             MIKE
      Yeah.  Thanks.   

Mike sits on the bench.  He opens the binder, finds a file. 

CLOSE ON THE FILE: Motion 9817.5 to depose Arthur Benzevich.  
Filed by Mitchell Garabedian.  And a list of 14 exhibits.   

Mike, excited, opens the file, finds the motion and a FOLDER,  
EXHIBITS A - N.  Mike opens it.  It’s empty.  HOLY SHIT.  


             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Shouldn’t there be documents here? 

The Clerk inspects the file.  He reads the description. 

             CLERK
      Yeah.  There should be. 

Mike reacts.  Garabedian was right.  Jesus.  

EXT. BROOKLINE HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

A lovely, suburban home.  Robby is in his car across the 
street, reading through some documents.  Suddenly a CAR pulls 
into the driveway.  A WOMAN and her THREE CHILDREN get out.  

Robby starts to get out of his car when.... his cell RINGS.   

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Robby. 

EXT. SUFFOLK COUNTY COURTHOUSE - SAME TIME

Mike is walking down the stairs of the courthouse. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Garabedian gave me a tip, some of 
      the sealed documents are public. 
      They’re part of a motion he filed. 

INTERCUT THE TWO SCENES

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      So we can get them? 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      I tried. They’re not in the docket, 
      someone pulled them.  Garabedian 
      thinks it was the church, but either 
      way, if  Albano files a motion, 
      Sweeney will order Mitch to refile. 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      And you think these documents...

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      He said they were huge, Robby.  

This LANDS. Robby checks his watch. 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      I’ll call Albano now. 

Robby hangs up.  He watches the house for a beat, considering 
his options.  Then he starts the car and pulls out. 

EXT. GLOBE, PARKING LOT - MORNING

Marty gets out of his car and walks toward the building. It’s 
a beautiful September morning. 

INT. GLOBE, NEWSROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Marty walks into the building and heads toward his office. 
Most of the newsroom is empty. He slows his stride when 
SOMETHING on one of the televisions catches his attention. 

He walks to a TV, joins a A YOUNG REPORTER already watching. 

             YOUNG REPORTER
      Mr. Baron. 

             MARTY
      Morning. What happened?  

             YOUNG REPORTER
      They’re saying it’s a prop plane but 
      that’s not the tail of a prop plane.  

We glimpse the TV.  The World Trade Center.  On fire.  Marty 
hurries to the front desk.  LINDA at reception greets him. 

             LINDA
      Morning, Marty. 

             MARTY
      Get every reporter we have in. Now. 

             LINDA
      Everyone? 

But Marty’s turned.  He beelines for the corner office.

EXT. STATE STREET T-STOP, BOSTON - DAY

Mike walks out of the STATE STREET T STOP. He cell rings. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Hey Robby. What’s up? I’m heading 
      the courthouse to meet Albano. 

Mike slows to a stop. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      When? Out of Logan? 

He turns around, heads back toward the T.  As he descends 
into the T, we DRIFT BACK UP to the BEAUTIFUL SEPTEMBER SKY. 

INT. GLOBE, NEWSROOM - SAME

CLOSE ON a TV.  Cardinal Law addressing a large group of 
reporters, citizens in front of the Cathedral.   

             CARDINAL LAW
      You pray for the injured, and those 
      who survived.  You pray, too, for 
      the nation, that our response might 
      reflect our best ideals...

REVEAL a group watching TV in the corner of the bullpen.  Ben 
is front and center.  Robby, Matty and Sacha off to the side. 

             CARDINAL LAW
	(ON TV)
	(CONT’D)
      ...and God’s teaching as it is found 
      in Christianity and Islam as well. 

             BEN
      Not bad. Who’s there? 

             FEMALE EDITOR
      Paulson. 

Ben starts to move, an editor at his side.

             BEN
      I want to talk to him when he’s 
      back.  Where’s Raphel on the 
      Massport piece?

             FEMALE EDITOR
      He’s calling it in, they’re opening 
      the airport tomorrow. 5am. 

             BEN
        (to Robby)
      Rezendes make it to Miami?  

             ROBBY
      They just opened Providence, he’s 
      gonna catch a flight there. 

             BEN
      Drohan needs help, we’re all hands 
      on deck, I need to pull in the rest 
      of your team, everything else stops.  
      Everything, Robby.   

             ROBBY
      Understood. 

Ben heads off.  Robby looks to Matty and Sacha, then back up 
at Cardinal Law on the TV.   

             MATTY
      This has gotta be the one story that 
      could take us off our story. 

             ROBBY
      Yeah, how ‘bout that. 

Off Robby, FRUSTRATED... 

INT. GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE - DAY

Garabedian works at his desk.  The phone rings, he picks up. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Law offices of Mitchell Garabedian.  

INT. PROVIDENCE AIRPORT, PROVIDENCE, RI - DAY

Mike walks quickly through the concourse with his duffle bag. 

             MIKE
      Mitch, it’s Mike, I’ve been trying 
      to reach you... 

INTERCUT THE SCENES

             GARABEDIAN
      I’m the only one here, Mr. Rezendes. 
      I don’t have time to talk to you. 

             MIKE
      Just tell me, did you refile those 
      documents yet?  

             GARABEDIAN
      No, I did not.  I just got Sweeney’s 
      order, these things take time.  

             MIKE
      Great, that’s great, Mitch, if you 
      could hold off on refiling...

             MITCH
      Hold off?  

             MIKE
      I have to head down to Florida and 
      look into the flight school where 
      Atta and his team --  

             GARABEDIAN
      What does that have to do with me? 

             MIKE
      Look, once you refile there’s gonna 
      be a record, a public record -- 

             GARABEDIAN
      I received a judicial order.  The 
      church is watching me very closely.  

       		MIKE
	Right, but Mitch -- 

		GARABEDIAN
	(CONT’D)
	One misstep and they will go 
        right to the bar association. 

             MIKE
      Mitch, listen, everything’s upside 
      down, I just need a few weeks.  

             GARABEDIAN
      I can’t make you any promises. Call 
      me when you are back from Florida. 

Garabedian hangs up. 

             MIKE
      Mitch!  Shit. 

Mike notices they are closing the gate. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, hold it.  Hold it. 

INT. DOYLE’S PUB, JAMAICA PLAIN - NIGHT

A relatively empty bar.  ON A TV, we see CNN coverage of the 
THIRD DAY OF US BOMBING IN AFGHANISTAN.  Phil Saviano sits in 
a booth across from Robby and Sacha.  Phil’s on the edge. 

             SAVIANO
      I get it, no one wants to read about 
      kids getting molested by priests, 
      especially now.  People need the 
      church, they need to know there’s 
      order in the world.  Terrorists and 
      dirty bombs and anthrax, it’s scary 
      shit.  Well, guess what? I needed 
      the church too.  I still do.

             ROBBY
      Phil, listen to me. We were taken 
      off this story by our editors for 
      reasons that are pretty evident.  
      It’s just gonna be a few more... 


             SAVIANO
      You asked a lot of people to open up 
      their hearts to you and to relive 
      some very painful experiences... 

             ROBBY
      And very soon we’re going to...

Saviano SLAMS the table. 

             SAVIANO
      It’s October!  You’re doing the same 
      thing you guys did last time, you’re 
      dropping us! 

             ROBBY
      Phil, listen to me -- 

             SAVIANO
      I’m tired of listening, I’m tired of 
      waiting, if you don’t print this I’m 
      gonna tell everybody how the Globe 
      set us up again. I’m sure the Herald 
      would like to hear that story. 

             SACHA
      Phil, can I say something?  
        (off Phil’s look)
      We’re not going away.   

Robby looks over, a little surprised.  Sacha is emotional.

             SACHA
	(CONT’D)
      I have talked to dozens of 
      survivors, I’ve sat with them, in 
      their homes, met their families.  I 
      could never forget them.  We are 
      going to tell this story and we’re 
      going to tell it right.  We just 
      need a few more weeks, that’s all 
      we’re asking.  Please. 

Sacha connects with him.  Phil’s emotions overcome him and he 
breaks down crying.  As Sacha takes his hand...

INT. HOLIDAY INN, LOBBY, MIAMI, FL - DAY

A beautiful Florida morning, palm trees through glass 
doors... of the RUNDOWN LOBBY.  With a puny breakfast spread.

Mike loads danish onto a plate. 

INT. HOLIDAY INN, HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Mike pads down the hall.  A phone RINGS.  He recognizes it, 
starts hustling for his door, reaching for his key when--

             MIKE
      Shit.

His plate of danish falls on the floor.  Mike doesn’t have 
time, he pushes into -- 

INT. HOLIDAY INN, HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Duffel open, clothes everywhere.  He reaches for his cell. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Mike Rezendes.

INT. ROBBY’S CAR (MOVING) - SAME TIME

Robby drives.  

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Enjoying your vacation?

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Not at all. What’s up?  

INTERCUT THE SCENES

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Mitch Garabedian just called me. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Mitch?  Why’d he call you? 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Probably because he knew you’d yell 
      at him.  He refiled the docs.  

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
        (panicking)
      What?  That little chicken shit, 
      those docs are public, Robby, we 
      gotta get them before anybody...

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      I know, I just talked to Marty.  

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      We’re back?   

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      Courthouse doors open at ten.   

Mike starts throwing clothes into his suitcase. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Got it, I’ll get on the first-- Can 
      somebody book me a-- 

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      You’ve got a flight at noon.  

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Ah, that’s freakin’ great, that’s, 
      man that’s freakin’ great.  Wanna 
      meet me at the courthouse?  

             ROBBY
	(INTO PHONE)
      No, I’ve got something I have to 
      take care of. 

Robby snaps his phone shut as he parks the car in front of --

EXT. BROOKLINE HOUSE - DAY

The SUBURBAN HOUSE we saw Robby at before 9/11.  Robby gets 
out of the car, walks past the AUTUMN LEAVES, knocks on the 
door.  The WOMAN we saw earlier with three children answers.  

             ROBBY 
      Mrs. Lyons. 

             MRS. LYONS
      Yes? 

             ROBBY
      I’m Walter Robinson from the Boston 
      Globe.  I was a few years ahead of 
      your husband at BC High, we’re doing 
      a story about one of his teachers.  
      Do you have a minute?

Off Mrs. Lyons, her expression darkening --  

EXT. BC HIGH, DORCHESTER - DAY

The BC HIGH SIGN.  Teenagers play football in the foreground.  

             JACK DUNN
	(V.O.)
      We understand the nature of the 
      allegations, Robby...  

INT. BC HIGH, PRINCIPAL KEMEZA’S OFFICE - DAY

Robby and Sacha sit with PRINCIPAL BILL KEMEZA, 50s, and the 
mucks we saw at the Gala, Jack Dunn and Peter Conley.    


             JACK DUNN
      I’m just not sure what you want from  
      Principal Kemeza. 

             ROBBY
      Well, Talbot taught history and 
      economics from 1972 to 1980.  He 
      coached soccer and hockey. 

             JACK DUNN
      That was long before Principal 
      Kemeza took over.    

             ROBBY
      He knows how this place works.  We 
      want to know how it’s possible that 
      the faculty, the Principal, the 
      President... how no one knew what 
      was going on at the time. 

             JACK DUNN
      I graduated in 1979 and I had no 
      idea about any of this, so if you’re 
      suggesting that Brother Gibbons and 
      Brother Callahan -- 

             ROBBY
      Gibbons and Callahan ran this place 
      like the goddamn navy, you really 
      don’t think they knew?   

             PETER CONLEY
      It’s a big school, Robby, you know 
      that.  You’re talking about seven 
      alleged victims over eight years.     

             ROBBY
      Seven we know about, Pete.  

             JACK DUNN
      This is ridiculous.  

   		PRESIDENT KAMEZA
	Jack -- 

		JACK DUNN
      It’s a witch hunt. 

             PRESIDENT KAMEZA
      Jack.  If I had been President back 
      then, I would have known.  

Conley looks at him, sharp. 

             PETER CONLEY
      Bill, I don’t think you should -- 

             PRESIDENT KAMEZA
      Come on, why do you think they sent 
      him up to Cheverus?  You know they 
      wanted to get him out of town.  

             JACK DUNN
        (to Robby, direct)
      This is off the record.  This 
      conversation never happened.  

             ROBBY
      Of course not.  

Robby shakes his head and rises.  A beat, then he turns back.  

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      I went to see one of Talbot’s 
      victims in Brookline yesterday. The 
      guy was one of the better ones, he 
      had a wife, kids, good job. Never 
      told anyone. His wife learned about 
      it in his suicide note. 
        (beat, to Jack)
      He graduated in ‘79 too, Jack. For 
      the record.  

Robby slams out.  Off Sacha, watching him.  

INT. BC HIGH, HALLWAY - DAY

Robby and Sacha walk down the hall.  We hear kids in the 
classrooms.  Robby looks UPSET.    

             SACHA
      Why was Pete Conley there? 

             ROBBY
      Good question. 

Sacha glances over at Robby, reads him.  

             SACHA
      You alright? 

             ROBBY
      Not really. 

As he pushes out the high school doors, we --   

EXT. SUFFOLK COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY

Mike walks down the COURTHOUSE STEPS, starting to look 
through Garabedian’s refiled EXHIBITS.  


He gets about halfway down and PAUSES.  READING.  In the 
middle of the steps, engrossed. 

Suddenly he slams the binder shut and runs down the steps, 
screaming at a cab, which screeches to a halt. Mike jumps in. 

             MIKE
	(V.O.)
      Robby, I got the docs, it’s 
      incredible, you’re never gonna 
      believe what’s in here.  

The cab pulls out and into traffic. 

             MIKE
	(V.O)
      There’s a letter to Law from this 
      woman Margaret Gallant, she lived in 
      JP in the early 80’s when Geoghan 
      was there... listen to this...
        (Reading)
      “Our family is rooted in the Church, 
      our desire is to protect the holy 
      orders even in the midst of our 
      agony over the seven boys in our 
      family who have been violated.” 
      Seven, Robby.  There’s more...

EXT. BOSTON - DAY

The cab winds its way through Boston... past TRINITY CHURCH 
in COPLEY SQUARE... past ragged TRIPLE-DECKERS in ROXBURY...    

             MIKE
	(V.O.)
      “It was suggested we keep silent, 
      but Father Geoghan’s actions... We 
      did not question the Authority of 
      the Church two years ago, but since 
      he is still in his parish...” She 
      sent it to Law and Law did shit! You 
      gotta see the handwriting, pure 
      Palmer method, money down she went 
      to Catholic school...

Margaret Gallant’s words hang over the city...

EXT. DORCHESTER - DAY

The cab is stuck in a TRAFFIC CIRCLE.  We can see the Globe 
building down the road about a mile...  

             MIKE
	(V.O.)
      Here’s another one to Law, same 
      year, from an auxiliary bishop.  


EXT. BOSTON GLOBE - LATER

The cab pulls up. Mike jumps out, throws cash at the driver. 

             MIKE
	(V.O.)
      “A word on the recent assignment of 
      Father John Geoghan as an associate 
      at Saint Julia’s in Weston.  Father 
      Geoghan has a history of homosexual 
      involvement with young boys.”  

INT. GLOBE, LOBBY - DAY

The GUARD we saw earlier.  Mike races in, HOPS the turnstile 
and heads up the stairs.  

             MIKE
	(V.O.)
      “I understand his recent departure 
      from Saint Brendan's may be related 
      to this problem.”  This is from the 
      inside!  They knew.  They all knew. 

INT. GLOBE, BULLPEN - DAY

Mike races down the hall, jostling a couple of reporters on 
the way.  Kurkjian, at his desk, clocks this. 

             MIKE
	(V.O.)
      “I am concerned about further 
      scandal, I wonder if Father Geoghan 
      should not be reduced to weekend 
      work while receiving therapy.”  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

The whole team sits around as Mike finishes reading. 

             MIKE
      “Sincerely yours in our Lord, Most 
      Reverend John M. D'Arcy, Auxiliary 
      Bishop of Boston. December 7, 1984.”  

             MATTY
      An auxiliary bishop wrote that?  Are 
      you kidding me?  

We see the letters and two envelopes, both addressed to 
Cardinal Law.  The team is reeling. 

             SACHA
      It’s incredible.  He broke ranks.  
      When did Mrs. Gallant write her 
      letter? 

             MIKE
      She first wrote to Medeiros in 1982 
      and then she wrote to Law in ‘84.  

             MATTY
      And he freakin’ ignored her. How do  
      you ignore that letter?!   

Mike nods, turns to Robby.  

             MIKE
      We’ve got him.  You can’t read those 
      letters and think anything else. 

             ROBBY
      Yeah.  This is good work.  

             MIKE
      I’m good to write it up? 

             ROBBY
      No, not yet. 

             MIKE
      Why not? We got it.  

             ROBBY
      This is Law covering for one priest. 
      There’s another 90 out there.

             MIKE
      Sure and we can print that story 
      when we get it. These documents are 
      public, Robby. Anyone one can get 
      them now. 

       		ROBBY
	I know that, Mike.  

       		ROBBY
	So we write a cover piece, we 
	keep our eye on the Herald. 

		MIKE
	If we don’t run to press, the 
        Herald or somebody else is 
        gonna find these letters and 
        butcher the story. 

		MIKE
	A cover piece? What’s that 
        gonna do? 

             ROBBY
      If they run a story, we’re ready.

             MIKE
        (anger building)
      You’re gonna lose this fucking 
      story, we can not hesitate again --


             ROBBY
      I’m not hesitating, but I am not 
      gonna rush to press when there’s a 
      bigger story to --

             MIKE
      Dammit, Robby, I’ve been trailing 
      this guy for two months and he 
      finally...

             ROBBY
      This isn’t about you, Mike!  This is 
      about the story. 

             MIKE
        (losing it)
      I know exactly what this is about 
      and I’m telling you, Robby, I’m not 
      gonna let somebody else come in and 
      fuck this up!  I am going to nail 
      these scumbags, that’s what they 
      deserve, we need to print this and 
      show people that no one can get away 
      with it! Not a priest or a Bishop or 
      the fricking Pope! No one! No one!

Robby, Sacha, and Matty are still. Mike looks around the 
room, out of breath, adrenaline draining. Robby is pissed.  

             ROBBY
      Are you finished? 

             MIKE
      Yeah. I am. 

Mike storms out.   

INT. SACHA’S HOUSEE - NIGHT

Sacha and Hans are eating. Sacha is lost in thought.

             HANS
      Anybody home? 

             SACHA
      Oh. Sorry.  I was just...

             HANS
      Yeah, I know.  

The doorbell RINGS.  Hans gives her a look.  Expecting 
someone?  Sacha’s not.  Hans gets up, checks the peephole... 

He opens the door.  It’s Mike.  With a brown paper bag.  


             MIKE
      I found some good Belgian beer. 

EXT. SACHA’S HOUSE, BACK PORCH - LATER

Sacha walks onto the porch with two beers, hands one to Mike.  

             MIKE
      Thanks for letting me crash dinner. 

             SACHA
      I wasn’t the best date anyway.

Mike gets it, the case. 

             MIKE
      Kinda lost my shit today. 

             SACHA
      It’s a tough story, Mike. 

             MIKE
      Yeah. 
        (beat)
      You ever think of going back? 

             SACHA
      To the church?  No. I go for my 
      grandmother, but it’s not for me.  
      How about you? 

Mike considers this. 

             MIKE
      You grow up with something, it’s 
      hard to completely shut the door.  I 
      guess there was a part of me that 
      thought, one day, maybe...  
        (then)
      But when I read those letters today, 
      it was like something cracked.  
      Something I didn’t know was there.  

Mike stares out.  Emotional.

             SACHA
      It’s a shitty feeling. 

             MIKE
      Yeah.  Gonna be a shitty feeling for 
      a lot of people.  Pisses me off.
        (then)

             MIKE
	(CONT'D)
      I get what Robby’s trying to do, I 
      just... this is our job.  We need to 
      make this right.   

             SACHA
      We will.   

Off Mike, we -- 

INT. FAIRMONT HOTEL, OAK ROOM - NIGHT

The posh bar of one of Boston’s oldest hotels.  Robby is at 
the bar, a scotch in front of him.  

             PETER CONLEY
      Looks like a long day.   

Peter Conley walks up.  Nods to the barman.  

             PETER CONLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry to make it longer.  
        (to the barkeep)
      Same. 

             ROBBY
      Anyone ever say no to a drink with 
      you, Pete?     

             PETER CONLEY
      Sure.  Trick is to keep asking.  

The drink arrives. 

             PETER CONLEY
	(CONT’D)
      Health.

They drink. 

             ROBBY
      You here for the Cardinal?

             PETER CONLEY
      I wouldn’t pretend to speak for the 
      Cardinal. I leave that to Donna 
      Morrissey.     

Robby smiles.  Pete is smooth. 

             PETER CONLEY
	(CONT’D)
      This guy Baron, you like him? 

             ROBBY
      He’s growing on me. 


             PETER CONLEY
      I’m not sure he’s so good for the 
      paper.  

             ROBBY
      No? 

             PETER CONLEY
      Globe’s not what it used to be.  You 
      run a story like this, you will lose 
      subscribers.  You remember the calls 
      after Porter?  

             ROBBY
      That’s what the switchboard’s for. 

             PETER CONLEY
      You’ve had a good career, Robby.  
      Hell, a great one.  You want to end 
      it as the guy who brought down the 
      Globe?
        (then)
      We take care of our own.  It’s what 
      we do.  Baron’s not one of us.   

Robby looks at Conley.  A long beat.  He shakes his head.  

             ROBBY
      This is how it happens, a guy leans 
      on a guy and suddenly the whole 
      fucking town looks the other way.     

             PETER CONLEY
      Goodnight, Robby. 

Conley leaves.  Yeah, that’s exactly how it happens.  Off 
Robby, BROODING --  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - DAY

The whole team sits working. Robby’s phone RINGS, he answers. 

             ROBBY
      Robby.  What?  No shit.

The team looks towards Robby’s office. 

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      When?  Okay. Thanks. 

Robby hangs up.  

             MIKE
      What’s up? 

             ROBBY
      Sweeney ruled for us.  She ruled to 
      unseal the documents.  

             MIKE
      No shit. 

The group sits stunned.  PRELAP --

             ALBANO
	(PRELAP)
      The church already filed an appeal. 

INT. GLOBE, CONFERENCE ROOM - LATER

Marty, Ben, Albano, and Drohan (the Metro Editor we met 
earlier) sit with Robby and the rest of the Spotlight team.   

             ALBANO
      But the trial court’s ruling is 
      generally upheld in these matters.  

             MARTY
      So, uh, when would we get the docs?

             ALBANO
      Probably takes Cohn two weeks to 
      rule, then there’ll be a redaction 
      process... I’d say you’re looking at 
      mid-January?  Right around the start 
      of the Geoghan trial.  

             MARTY
      Okay.  Thanks, John and nice work.  

Albano exits.  

             BEN 
      Marty, this is a major first 
      amendment victory.  Metro should run 
      something --

             DROHAN
      Something?  A Catholic judge rules 
      against the church, that should be 
      on the front page.   

             ROBBY
      We run this big, the Herald’s gonna 
      be on it.   

             DROHAN
      They should be, this is big news.

             ROBBY
      We gotta bury this. 

             DROHAN
      I disagree. We’ll find a way to get 
      the docs a few days before everyone 
      else, who cares if they’re on the 
      story?

             ROBBY
      I do. 

             DROHAN
      Why?  Enlighten me.

             ROBBY
      I’d rather not.  

             BEN
      Alright, alright.  Marty?  

Marty considers, reads Robby. 

             MARTY
      Tom, get the story ready.  I’ll get 
      back to you on placement.  

Marching orders.  Drohan exits, not happy.  

             BEN
      What’s going on?

Mike just looks at Robby.  Robby comes clean.  

             ROBBY
      Some of the sealed documents are 
      already public.  

              MARTY
      Uh, excuse me? 

Robby looks to Mike.  Go ahead.  

             MIKE
      Garabedian slipped them into a 
      public motion, a parishioner and a 
      Bishop writing Law about Geoghan in 
      the eighties. 

             MARTY
      And these letters prove that Law...?

Mike doesn’t say anything.  Marty looks to Robby.


             ROBBY
      Yeah.  They nail him.  

             BEN
      So you had hard proof that Cardinal 
      Law was negligent and you didn’t 
      bother to tell us?  That’s the 
      goddamn story, Robby.    

Mike glances over at Sacha, keeps his mouth shut.  

             ROBBY
      Law isn’t the whole story.  

             MARTY
      Uh, he isn’t?  

             ROBBY
      This predates Law, it’s been going 
      on for decades, priest after bad 
      priest kept in circulation.  We’ve 
      talked to dozens of victims, they 
      were all steered away from the 
      courts, told to keep the quiet by 
      the church, by the laity, by lawyers 
      and teachers and cops. It’s what you 
      asked us for, it’s the whole story.  
      And we’re close, Marty.  Real close.  

Marty considers. He looks to Ben who shrugs. 

             MARTY
      You’ve got multiple sources on these 
      stories? 

             ROBBY
      On some of them. And we might be 
      able to get someone from the other 
      side of the aisle.    

             MARTY
      You have someone inside the church?  

             ROBBY
      A lawyer on that side.   

Marty considers.  

             MARTY
      There’s a lot riding on this.  If 
      the Herald finds those letters...


             ROBBY
      I know.  We’ve got a cover story 
      ready to go.  

Marty doesn’t like his answer. It’s tense. Ben turns to Mike.

             BEN
      How long to write up the letters? 

             MIKE
      If I’m pushing?  Two weeks.  

Mike glances over at Robby, makes an effort. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      But with everything this city went 
      through in September, I assume we’re 
      not gonna publish this at Christmas.  

Mike looks to Ben.  Ben hesitates, deciding whether to pick 
up the baton.  Then...  

             BEN
      We could give Robby six weeks.  Try 
      to run the whole thing just after 
      New Years.  Make it a curtain raiser 
      for the Geoghan Trial.  

Marty considers.  A beat, then turns to Ben -- 

             MARTY
      Tell Drohan to bury the verdict 
      inside metro.  
        (then, to Robby)
      You’ve got six weeks.  Uh, and for 
      future reference, if there’s a major 
      development in a story, I’d like to 
      be informed.   

             ROBBY
      Understood.

Marty exits.  Ben turns to Robby.  

             BEN
      Since when don’t you tell me about a 
      break?   

             ROBBY
      I wasn’t sure you’d back me on this, 
      Ben. 

Ben looks at him, refrains.  

             BEN
      I got you six weeks. Use it. 

Ben pushes out.  Robby turns to Mike.  

             ROBBY
      Thanks.  

             MIKE
      Let’s just get this.  

INVESTIGATION/WRITING MONTAGE

We hear a lone voice, not off key but not pretty, starting 
into SILENT NIGHT.  We see a SERIES OF SHOTS...   

Mike in SPOTLIGHT, pecking out the story on his laptop.

A SHITTY FOYER IN SOUTHIE.  A woman opens her front door.  We 
see Sacha in the door.  The woman lets her in. 

Late fall, trees bare outside a TRIPLE-DECKER IN ROXBURY.  A 
door opens, Robby shakes a midde aged man’s hand, walks out. 

Matty stands on CRAPPY CORNER IN DORCHESTER, writing 
something on a pad.  It starts to rain.  Matty keeps writing.  

Robby in SPOTLIGHT, reading Mike’s story, giving him notes.  
As we hear more voices join in Silent Night...   

Matty in a RUNDOWN LIVING ROOM IN HINGHAM, talking to an 
older couple.  

Robby in a MUCH NICER LIVING ROOM IN NEWTON, also talking to 
an older couple.  

A man with his kids, putting up Christmas lights on a NICE 
HOUSE IN BROOKLINE.  Sacha walks up, gets his attention.

In BEN’S OFFICE, Robby and Mike watch Ben read over the 
story.  More voices, a ragged chorus now sing Silent Night.   

Sacha sitting with Phil, Joe and another guy at a DINER, some 
Christmas decor.  Sacha takes a bite, writes on a pad. 

ANOTHER DINER.  Robby sitting across from a priest.  It 
starts snowing outside...   

JUDGE’S CHAMBERS.  Matty sitting with a judge in robes.

Mike in SPOTLIGHT.  Rewriting the story, the snow coming down 
outside as the chorus to Silent Night swells and... 

Sacha KNOCKS on a door of a ROW HOUSE IN ROXBURY.   


Matty KNOCKS on a door of a DOUBLE-DECKER IN CAMBRIDGE. 

Robby KNOCKS on a door of an OLD HOUSE BY THE CATHEDRAL.  The 
music takes us into -- 

EXT. GLOBE, NEWSROOM - LATE AFTERNOON 

A HOLIDAY GATHERING in full swing.  Christmas decor, eggnog, 
beer, fruitcake. Reporters finish the chorus to Silent Night.  

The glass offices are dark... save for Ben’s.  PUSH IN on 
Ben’s office, a few editors huddled, reading.  

             DROHAN
	(PRELAP)
      Jesus.  This is gonna be... Jesus.

INT. GLOBE, BEN’S OFFICE - SAME TIME

Ben, Robby and Mike look on as Drohan and a SENIOR FEMALE 
EDITOR read through the story. 

             SENIOR FEMALE EDITOR
      We get a response from Law?

             ROBBY
      Lake Street is stonewalling. 

             DROHAN
      Yeah, we need something from Law but 
      I think it’s ready.  

             BEN
      Get a quote from Lake Street. 

             MIKE
      Will do. 

             BEN
        (to Robby)
      Where are we on your end?

             ROBBY
      I got stories on seventy priests, 
      two sources on most of ‘em. 

             BEN
      You get confirmation from anyone on 
      the other side?  

             ROBBY
      No. Not yet.  

             BEN
      You want to run that story it needs 
      to be bulletproof.  You got a card 
      to play, now’s the time to play it.  

A beat.  Off Robby --  

INT. TIM O’NEILL’S OFFICE, RECEPTION - LATE AFTERNOON

Traditional law firm, dark wood, red leather.  A receptionist 
sits typing.  Robby rolls in.  

             RECEPTIONIST
      Can I help you? 

He blows right past her.  She follows, alarmed.  

INT. TIM O’NEILL’S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Tim sits reading over a file.  He looks up, sees Robby, 
walking into his office.  He closes the file and sits back. 

             TIM
      Didn’t see you on the books.  

The receptionist appears in the door, concerned.  

             ROBBY
      I’m out of time, Tim. 

Tim waves off the receptionist.  He motions for Robby to sit.  
But Robby pulls out a list.  Puts it on the desk.  

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      We’ve got cover up stories on 
      seventy-five priests.  We think 
      we’re good on about thirty of them, 
      we’ve got a plaintiff’s attorney and 
      victim interviews.  But the boss 
      isn’t gonna run this unless I’ve got 
      solid confirmation from your side. 

Tim looks at Robby.   

             TIM
      My side?  

             ROBBY
      Time to choose, Tim. 

             TIM
      You’re out of line, Robby. 

             ROBBY
      Come on, Timmy.  This whole city is 
      out of line. Lawyers, prosecutors, 
      politicians, cops.  The whole damn 
      city looked the other way.  Our 
      city, Timmy. And we need to put an 
      end to it.  You and me.  We can put 
      an end to it.       

Tim considers, torn.  He looks through the list.  

             TIM
      I gotta think about this, Robby. 

             ROBBY
      I need an answer now. You need to do 
      this, Tim.  

             TIM
      Don’t tell me what I need to do!  
      Yeah, I defended these scumbags, but 
      that’s my job.  You’re the one who’s 
      supposed to keep us honest, where 
      the fuck were you?   

Robby is silent. 

             TIM
	(CONT’D)
      Ninety priests, hundreds of victims 
      and no one at the Globe ever had a 
      clue?  Years and years and no one in 
      that newsroom ever thought to go 
      after this story? You guys looked 
      the other way along with the rest of 
      us.  

Robby reacts.  Then takes the list and walks out. 

INT. HALLWAY, OUTSIDE TIM O’NEILL’S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Robby walks to the elevator, shaken and angry.  He hits the 
button.  A beat, then -- 

             TIM
	(O.C.)
      Gimme the list. 

Robby turns, finds O’Neill. Robby hands it to him.  Tim takes 
out a pen.  He carefully looks over the first page... 

He flips to the second page, checks the names, pen poised.  
He gets the bottom without circling a single name.  

Then he flips back to the first page.  He looks at Robby. And 
he circles THE ENTIRE first page.  And then the second.  

He holds out the list. Robby takes it, nothing more to say. 
Tim just turns and walks away.  

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - NIGHT

Mike works the phones. Sacha and Matty work alongside him.

             MIKE
      Yes.. ah huh. And...
        (Mike fists pumps)
      Great, Jack, thanks.  I owe you.  
        (hangs up, to Matty)
      Jack Dunn just left residence, he 
      made some headway, Law wants to 
      comment. Donna Morrisey’s calling. 

             SACHA
      What’d you offer them? 

             MIKE
      Full page, unedited. 

             MATTY
      Jesus.  No wonder they went for it. 

             SACHA
      We ever offer that before? 

             MIKE
      Not that I know about, I think we--

The phone rings.  Mike grabs it.

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Mike Rezendez? 
        (playing for Matty, Sacha)
      Hi Donna,  thanks for calling.  So 
      how do you want to handle this? 
        (then)
      What? Are you kidding me? I just 
      hung up with Jack and...

He listens, then he grabs a pad and starts writing furiously. 

             MIKE
	(CONT’D)
      Okay. If that’s how you feel about 
      it. Uh huh. OK. Bye Donna. 

Mike hangs up. 

             MATTY
      You get a quote?  

             MIKE
      Nope, but I might’ve gotten 
      something better. 

Mike runs out.  

INT. GLOBE, MARTY’S OFFICE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a RED PEN.  Running through copy.   REVEAL Ben and 
Robby standing over Marty.  They trade a look.

             MARTY
      No adjectives.  

Mike rolls in. He looks to Robby who shrugs. After a moment, 
Marty finishes the article. 

             MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      Good work. 
        (to Mike)
      Did we get a quote from Lake Street?  

             MIKE
      Law turned down the interview.

             BEN
      When? 

             MIKE
      Ten minutes ago. Donna Morrissey 
      told me they didn’t even want to 
      know what the questions were. 

             ROBBY
      Is that what she said?  

             MIKE
      Yup.

Mike gives a slight smile.  Robby looks to Marty.    

             ROBBY
      There you go.  

             MARTY
        (writing)
      “The church had no interest in 
      knowing what the Globe’s questions 
      would be.”  
        (hands it to Mike)
      Work it in somewhere above the fold.  
      Good work, Mike.  

Mike nods.  


             BEN
      Those letters are gold, Mike.
        (then, to Marty)
      We need to talk about the phones. 

             ROBBY
      Matty and Sacha will be in Sunday 
      morning finishing Monday’s folo, 
      they’ll be able to cover our phones.

Marty looks confused.  Robby explains.

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      We run the Spotlight tip line with 
      the article in case people want to 
      reach out with more information.  

             BEN
      I’m more concerned about the phones 
      upstairs.  

             MARTY
      At reception? 

             BEN
      We’re gonna want extra staff to 
      handle blow back.  

             MARTY
      Uh, how bad do you think it’ll be?  

             BEN
      Switchboard had a helluva time when 
      we ran Porter.  

             MIKE
      It was tied up for weeks, we had 
      folks calling in who couldn’t get 
      through, it was a problem.  

             ROBBY
      Not to mention the letters and the 
      picketers. 

             BEN
      This is gonna be worse.

             MARTY
      Let’s talk to security.  And let’s 
      add people at the front desk.
        (to Robby)
      How’s it coming on your end? 

Robby pulls out O’Neill’s list, puts it on Marty’s desk.    


             MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      Uh, this is...

             ROBBY
      Tim O’Neill.  Repped the priests.

             BEN
      You got confirmation? On how many? 

             ROBBY
      All of them. 

             BEN
      Really? 

             MIKE
      That’s gonna be the nail. 

Mike is impressed.  But Robby shrugs. 

             MARTY
      Something the matter? 

             ROBBY
      When I was with Tim he asked me why 
      we didn’t catch it sooner.  Why it 
      took us so long. 

             BEN
      So? 

             ROBBY
      I didn’t have an answer.

Mike watches Ben, who reacts. 

             BEN
      The story needed Spotlight.  No one 
      reporter could have broken this... 

             ROBBY
      Spotlight’s been around since ‘72. 
        (then)
      We all saw Law react to Porter.  We 
      had a lot of the pieces.  We had 
      Burns, we had Geoghan, Saviano -- 

             BEN
      Ah, cut the crap, Robby.  We got 
      dozens of reporters going at a 
      hundred miles an hour, shit falls 
      through the cracks.  We got it now, 
      that’s what counts, we did our job.  


             ROBBY
      Sure, once Marty showed up.  But 
      what if he hadn’t?    

It’s a gut punch.  Mike reels a bit, taking it in.

             MARTY
      Uh, can I say something?  

Robby shrugs.  

             MARTY
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes it’s easy to forget that 
      we spend most of our time stumbling 
      around in the dark. Suddenly the 
      light’s turned on, and there’s fair 
      share of blame to go around. 
        (then)
      I can’t speak to what happened 
      before I arrived but your team has 
      done some very good work.  The kind 
      of reporting that makes a paper like 
      ours essential. But my guess?  
      Tomorrow’s story is just the 
      beginning.  Law’s going to come at 
      us with everything he has. And as 
      hard as you’ve worked over the last 
      six months, you’ll have to work 
      harder.  So if you need to take a 
      minute and contemplate your sins, 
      fine.  But I need everyone ready to 
      go Monday morning.

Off Mike, processing, troubled. 

INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - NIGHT

Mike’s on the phone.  Sacha and Matty pack up, download 
Robby, who’s still chewing on O’Neill’s question. 

             MATTY
      I put the last of the Shanley 
      interviews on your desk. 

             SACHA
      We’ll have the Monday piece to you 
      by noon.  And I’ll be in at nine 
      tomorrow in case we get any calls. 

             MATTY
      Me too. You need a ride? 


             SACHA
      No. I’m having dinner with my 
      grandmother, I wanna let her know. 

             ROBBY
      Good idea. 

Robby sees Mike hanging up the phone.  

             ROBBY
	(CONT’D)
      Mike?  

             MIKE
      Copy shipped.  It’s on the presses. 

They all look at Mike, the moment upon them. 

             MATTY
      I guess that’s that.  You know 
      tomorrow is Epiphany Sunday?

             SACHA
      Seems appropriate. 
        (exiting)
      I gotta go. Night guys.

             MATTY
      Night, Sacha.  Good work, Mike. 
      See you Monday. 

Matty leaves.  Mike puts on his coat, eyes still on the wall.  

             MIKE
      There’d be a lot fewer names on this 
      wall if we got this back in ‘92 when 
      we were working Porter. 

             ROBBY
      Or ‘82.  Or ‘72. 

Mike considers.  Or rather doesn’t want to.   

             MIKE
      This story is gonna make a 
      difference, Robby.  It’s gonna mean 
      a lot to a lot of people.  That’s 
      gotta count for something, right?  

             ROBBY
        (restrained)
      Yeah.  

Off Robby, still STRUGGLING -- 


INT. GARABEDIAN’S OFFICE = NIGHT

Mitch sits, working late.  A knock on the door.  He looks up.  
It’s Mike.  

             GARABEDIAN
      You have an appointment?  

             MIKE
      No, Mitch. I wanted you to see this. 

Mike hands the paper to Mitch, he starts to read.  

             GARABEDIAN
      Hmm.  

Mitch keeps reading.   

             GARABEDIAN
	(CONT’D)
      I see you used the letters. 

             MIKE
      Yeah, we did.  They make the story. 

Garabedian sets it down. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Thank you for bringing it by. 

             MIKE
      That’s it?   

             GARABEDIAN
      I have work to do, Mr. Rezendes. I 
      hope your story helps. 

Mitch goes back to work.  Same old Mitch. 

             MIKE
      It will, Mitch. 

Mike turns to leave, walks out into --

INT. GARABEDIAN OFFICE, HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS. 

Mike walks back towards the elevator, something catches his 
eye.  He pauses, peers into -- 

INT. GARABEDIAN OFFICE, SMALL WAITING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A MOTHER sits with TWO YOUNG CHILDREN, ten and eight, playing 
innocently.  The mother, distraught, fingers ROSARY BEADS.  

It’s reminiscent of our open in Hingham. 

             GARABEDIAN
      Both boys were abused.  

In the HALLWAY, Garabedian’s standing behind Mike. 

             GARABEDIAN
	(CONT’D)
      In Jamaica Plain.  Two weeks ago.  

Mike reacts.

             GARABEDIAN
	(CONT’D)
      Keep doing your work, Mr. Rezendes.  

Garabedian goes in.  He sits, talks softly to the mother.  

Mike just stands there.  STARING into the room.  His eyes 
drift to the two kids.  He watches them.  Gutted. 

             SIPE (PRELAP, OVER THE PHONE)
      Richard Sipe.  

INT. MIKE’S CAR (PARKED) - NIGHT

Mike sits in his car.  Holding his phone.  LOST. 

             MIKE
      Hey, it’s Mike. 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Did you finish?  

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Yeah. 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      I look forward to reading it.  

Mike doesn’t respond. 

             SIPE
	(CONT’D)
      Mike? You there? 

             MIKE
      You know, I tried to get the Globe 
      to hire me for years.  When I got 
      the job, everything else just fell 
      away.  Paper was all I cared about.  
      Cause I knew it was important work, 
      work that could change things.

             SIPE
      It sounds like a calling. 

Beat. 


             MIKE
      How do you do it?  How do you 
      continue to believe in something, 
      anything, when you...  

Mike trails off. 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      Faith.  That’s why I’m still 
      Catholic, Mike. I need my faith. 

             MIKE
      You never lost it? Knowing what you 
      know. 

             SIPE
      I haven’t been able to walk into a 
      church in years.  That was my 
      calling, Mike. That was my home. And 
      I can’t walk into one.  
        (then)
      But the church is an institution of 
      men, Mike.  And even well meaning 
      men will fail.  Are you familiar 
      with the passing? 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      The passing? No. 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      I’d like to think the failings of 
      the Church are passing.  And my 
      faith, well, my faith is in the 
      eternal.  
        (then)
      I try to separate the eternal from 
      the passing.   

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Is that easy? 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      No. It’s damn hard. 

Mike smiles. 

             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
	(CONT’D)
      There’s a poem that I like.  R.S. 
      Thomas.  He was an Anglican priest. 
      I think he got it. 

             MIKE
	(INTO PHONE)
      Try me. 


             SIPE
	(OVER THE PHONE)
      “I emerge from the mind’s cave into 
      the worse darkness outside...” 

BOSTON MONTAGE

Sipe’s voice takes us through a SERIES OF SHOTS...  

ROBBY’S CAR parked across the bay.  Robby sits behind the 
wheel, stares through the windshield at the sparkling Boston 
skyline, a worse darkness surrounding him. 

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “...where things pass and the Lord 
      is in none of them.”

Stacks of GLOBE NEWSPAPERS coming off THE PRESSES.  Men tying 
them up, tossing them into GREEN AND GOLD GLOBE TRUCKS. 

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “Ah, what balance is needed...” 

Sacha with her Grandmother in her GRANDMOTHER’S LIVING ROOM, 
tomorrow’s Globe on the coffee table.      

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “...at the edges of such an abyss.”

The GREEN AND GOLD GLOBE TRUCKS rolling out from the Globe.  

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “I am alone on the surface of a 
      turning planet.”

Matty with his wife and kids at the DINNER TABLE.  The family 
eats.  Matty just stares off. His wife looks at him, WORRIED. 

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “What to do but, like Michelangelo’s 
      Adam, put my hand out...”

Men dropping stacks of papers at NEWSSTANDS.  A kiosk owner 
reads the headline. Church Allowed Abuse by Priest for Years.

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “...into unknown space...”

Robby’s wife Barbara sits in THE STUDY.  She checks her watch 
then her phone.  CONCERNED, she walks to the front door.

             SIPE
	(V.O.)
      “...hoping for the reciprocating 
      touch?” 


She opens the door, looks outside. Surprised, she walks out --

EXT. ROBBY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Robby’s car is parked in the driveway.  As Barbara walks to 
it, we see Robby behind the wheel, staring into space.  

             BARBARA
      Robby? 

Robby, red eyed, doesn’t move.  Barbara approaches, opens the 
door, he gets out.  She hugs him. 

INT. GLOBE, GILMAN’S OFFICE - MORNING

Marty walks in.  Finds Gilman at the window.  A copy of the 
Globe on the coffee table.  

             MARTY
      Dick.  

             GILMAN
      Morning, Marty.  

Gilman doesn’t turn around.  Marty joins him at the window. 

             GILMAN
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a good article, Marty.  

             MARTY
      Uh, thanks.  

A beat.  Gilman nods towards the front of the building.  FROM 
HIS POV we see a few security guys.  No protestors.    

             GILMAN
      No protestors.  

             MARTY
      Maybe they’re still at church.  

Dick just looks at Marty. 

INT. MIKE’S CAR (PARKED)/EXT. GLOBE, PARKING LOT - MORNING

Mike sits in his car, the lone car in the empty Globe lot.  
He stares at the building.  Emotional.  Still a bit lost.  

Suddenly, someone raps on the window. It’s Robby.  Mike 
lowers his window. 

             ROBBY
      It’s your day off. 


             MIKE
      Yours too. 
        (then)
      No tee time?

Robby smiles.  

             ROBBY
      You wanna go in? 

             MIKE
      I’ve been thinking about that. 

             ROBBY
      Come on, phones should be ringing 
      off the hook about now. 

Mike gets out of his car.  The two men are spent.     

             MIKE
      Helluva story, huh? 

             ROBBY
      Yeah.  

The two men turn and approach the Globe.  

INT. GLOBE, NEWSROOM - CONTINUOUS

Robby and Mike walk in.  It’s QUIET.  Confused, Robby and 
Mike approach the front desk.  LINDA, the receptionist, and 
four others sit by the phones.  BORED.   

             MIKE
      Morning, Linda.  No calls? 

             LINDA
      Easiest overtime I ever made.  I 
      sent two of mine down to Spotlight 
      to help out Matty and Sacha. 

Mike and Robby share a look.  Help? 

INT. GLOBE, HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Robby and Mike enter from the stairwell. They walk down the 
corridor with a sense of purpose.  As they do, we hear... 

A MURMUR.  Buzzing.  And RINGING PHONES.  Mike and Robby 
trade a look, pick up the pace.  As they approach Spotlight, 
the murmur GROWS.  We hear more phones... and VOICES...

Mike and Robby get to the door.  We HOLD ON them for a second 
as they stand in the doorway, looking into -- 


INT. GLOBE, SPOTLIGHT OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Chaos.  Sacha and Matty and a few INTERNS answering phones.  
Overwhelmed.  An intern cups a phone, turns to Matty -- 

	       INTERN
	I got another Shanley victim.  

		SACHA
        I’ll take it. 

Sacha takes the call.  Matty talks into a phone as he marks 
up the board... it has tons of new names and phone numbers.  

 		MATT
	(INTO THE PHONE)
	Uh huh, yeah.  I know it’s 
	tough to talk about. Thanks 
	for calling, OK. Bye. 

		SACHA
	(INTO THE PHONE) 
	This is Sacha Pfeiffer.  Yes, 
	thank you for calling. Who am 
	I talking with? 

Robby and Mike walk in as Matty hangs up, jots down a note. 

             MATTY
      Hey, the phones have been ringing 
      all morning. We’ve got a dozen new 
      victims, all different priests.

             MIKE
      Holy shit.  

             MATTY
      Holy shit is right. 
        (picks up a phone)
      This is Matty Caroll. Yes, yes. 
      Thanks very much for calling. 
        (cups phone, to the guys)
      Are you guys gonna just stand there? 

Robby looks at Mike.  A phone rings.  Mike grabs it. 

             MIKE
	(INTO THE PHONE)
      This is Spotlight. 

Robby reaches for a pad, a hand on Mike’s shoulder.  Mike 
looks up about to say something... but Robby heads to his 
office.  Mike gets back to work, ringing phones take us to-- 

NEWSPAPER MONTAGE

A GLOBE TRUCK.  A man throws a stack of papers off the truck.  

Jan 10, 2002.  A ‘Grieving’ Law Apologizes.  

CUT TO ANOTHER GLOBE TRUCK, another stack of papers.  

Feb 25, 2002. MacLeish Files 550 Lawsuits by Alleged Victims.

CUT TO SPOTLIGHT.  The team keeps working.  Time passes. 

CUT TO A NEW YORK TIMES TRUCK. A man tosses a stack of Times.

Mar 14, 2002.  Bishop Accused of Ignoring Abuse in NYC.

CUT TO AN ARIZONA REPUBLIC NEWS TRUCK.  A man tosses a stack.  

Aug 20, 2002.  Arizona Abuse Case Names Bishop, Monsignor.

CUT TO A GLOBE TRUCK.  A stack of papers. 

Dec 14, 2002.  Pope Accepts Law’s resignation in Rome. 

CUT TO SPOTLIGHT.  The team keeps working amidst BOXES OF 
FILES.  Kurkjian and another reporter join in.  Time passes. 

CUT TO WARSAW, POLAND.  A stack of papers, The Warsaw Voice.  
Mar 3, 2004.  Clergy sex abuse scandal overwhelms POLAND.  

CUT TO DUBLIN, IRELAND.  A stack of papers, The Irish Times.

Nov 9, 2006.  Priest sex abuse scandal hits Ireland. 

CUT TO SPOTLIGHT.  The team keeps working.  Now with FOUR 
MORE REPORTERS, the room filled with boxes.  Time passes. 

CUT TO AN AIRPORT.  A stack of Business Insider Magazines.  

Jul 4, 2009.  105 Newspapers shuttered, 15,000 Jobs Lost.  

CUT TO ROME, ITALY.  A stack of papers, La Repubblica.   

Feb 21, 2013. Sex, Blackmail Behind Benedict XVI Resignation.

CUT TO A NEW YORK TIMES TRUCK. A man tosses a stack of Times.

May 20, 2013. Church Whistle-Blowers Join Forces on Abuse.

CUT TO SPOTLIGHT.  The team keeps working.  And we -- 

                                FADE OUT.

