               SUPERBRAT

               Written by

          Eric Slovin & Leo Allen

                7/25/13

TITLE: 

IF YOU CAN MEET WITH TRIUMPH AND DISASTER

AND TREAT THOSE TWO IMPOSTORS JUST THE SAME - 

         - RUDYARD KIPLING

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. CENTRE COURT PLAYERS’ ENTRANCE - WIMBLEDON

The famous engraving of this Kipling quote, which is 
inscribed over the players’ entranceway to Wimbledon’s Centre 
Court.

SFX: The MUTED ROAR of a capacity crowd.

EXT. CENTRE COURT - ALL ENGLAND LAWN TENNIS AND CROQUET CLUB, 
WIMBLEDON - DAY - CONTINUOUS

The roar of the crowd is explosive.

John McEnroe, 21, thin and pasty, with an unruly nest of 
curly rust-colored hair, breathes heavily.

There is terror in his eyes.

The courtside scoreboard shows this has been a marathon 
match, now tied 6-6 in the fifth and final set.

The capacity crowd is on its feet and screaming.

McEnroe breathes heavily as he takes in the contorted faces 
of the rabid crowd. From his perspective the crowd is a 
sinister mob completely against him. 

CERTAIN FACES in the crowd are particularly terrifying to 
McEnroe. He’s seen them before. They glare at him 
malevolently. 

In this moment, McEnroe has come to a DISTURBING REALIZATION.

Horrified, he turns to his opponent who is confidently 
approaching the service line. 

Finally, he summons the courage to turn and walk to the 
baseline.

                                      2.

He takes a breath, and gets into position to return serve. 
Across the net, his opponent tosses the ball in the air. The 
ball SLOWLY reaches its apex. His opponent’s body uncoils 
powerfully, and...

SFX: Violent sound of a racquet striking a ball, like a 
GUNSHOT.

McEnroe’s eyes widen in fear.

The screen goes BLACK.

MUSIC: The driving opening chords of “London Calling” by The 
Clash.

TITLE: TWO WEEKS EARLIER

“London Calling” continues under the following sequence:

INT. JOHN F. KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, NEW YORK CITY - 
TWA TERMINAL

McEnroe walks cockily through the terminal with his WILSON 
TENNIS BAG slung across his back, like Billy the Kid. He 
wears jeans, a T-shirt, a scuffed brown leather jacket, beat-
up tennis shoes, and the bulky foam headphones of the era. He 
looks more like a punk rocker than a world-class tennis 
player.

A few people recognize him and turn to look, but most don’t. 
He acknowledges no one.

He stands on an escalator. A woman carrying a baby struggles 
past him - he doesn’t move out of her way, or even notice.

He makes his way to the security line, where he has to wait 
with everyone else. The security is noticeably more lax than 
it is in our current era. There are a few people in front of 
him, including the lady with the baby. He puts his tennis bag 
on the conveyor belt. A security guard motions to him that he 
has to take his headphones off.

He pulls his clunky, 1980 Walkman out of his coat pocket, 
clicks a button, and “London Calling” stops abruptly mid-
song. He puts the Walkman on the conveyor belt, and walks 
through the metal detector. On the other side, he picks up 
his tennis bag and Walkman, returns it to his pocket and 
presses ‘Play’.

MUSIC: “London Calling” resumes right where it left off, and 
strolls casually toward his gate. He sees a Men’s bathroom, 
and enters.

                                      3.

INT. MEN’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe uses a urinal. Behind him a father and teenage son 
carrying luggage are exiting the bathroom. They recognize 
McEnroe, but don’t say anything.

McEnroe finishes and exits.

INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe continues on toward his gate. He notices a newsstand, 
thinks about it, and decides to check it out.

INT. NEWSSTAND - CONTINUOUS

He walks over to the magazine rack, browses a moment, and 
sees the famous Time magazine cover from 1980 which has a 
picture of Bjorn Borg and the headline, “The Incredible 
Tennis Machine”.

McEnroe shakes his head and smirks. He moves away from Borg, 
but the man is unavoidable. He’s on the cover of a number of 
magazines including Tennis magazine, which has the headline, 
“Can Borg Win Fifth Wimbledon?” 

McEnroe ignores all this, and grabs what he’s looking for: 
Rolling Stone, which has Pete Townsend on the cover.

He goes to the register, snatches a bag of potato chips, 
pays, and saunters out.

INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe ambles toward his gate and notices that the father 
and son from the bathroom are waiting for him. They approach, 
and the teenager holds up a piece of paper and a pen to ask 
for an autograph. McEnroe shakes his head ‘No’, and walks 
past. The kid is disappointed.

Finally, McEnroe gets to his gate - it’s empty, except for a 
couple of TWA ATTENDANTS. The door to the jetway is being 
closed. One of the attendants notices McEnroe and waves for 
him to hurry.

He doesn’t hurry. He lackadaisically walks past the annoyed 
crew.

                                      4.

INT. TWA FLIGHT 242 - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe enters the first class cabin. The other passengers, 
their take-off delayed, glower at him. McEnroe sees his 
friend Peter Fleming - 25, tall, blonde - looking at him, 
shaking his head and smiling. McEnroe pulls out the Walkman 
and presses ‘Stop’. “London Calling” abruptly comes to an 
end.

             FLEMING
      Nice of you to show up.

McEnroe carefully puts his tennis bag in the overhead 
compartment, and sits in the empty seat next to Fleming. He 
smiles.

FADE TO BLACK.

TITLE: BASED ON A TRUE STORY

INT. TWA FLIGHT 242 - 6:00AM THE NEXT MORNING 

The plane has just landed at HEATHROW AIRPORT. Passengers 
gather their things. McEnroe, disheveled, sleeps. Fleming 
shakes him awake.

The flight attendants open the cabin door, and before any of 
the passengers can deplane, VANESSA HANSON, a stout woman 
with salt and pepper hair, marches in. She’s wearing an 
official Wimbledon blazer and skirt - green with purple 
piping. She walks directly up to McEnroe.

             VANESSA
      So nice to see you again, Mr. 
      McEnroe, welcome back to London.

McEnroe looks confused.

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
      Oh, perhaps you don’t remember me -- 

             MCENROE
      I don’t.

             VANESSA
      -- Vanessa. 

This means nothing to him.

                                      5.

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
      Vanessa Hanson.
        (turning to Fleming)
      And Mr. Fleming. So nice to meet 
      you. Vanessa Hanson.

             FLEMING
      Nice to meet you, Vanessa.

             VANESSA
      Why don’t you gather your things, 
      and we’ll get you through customs 
      one-two-three. You must be simply 
      exhausted.

They grab their tennis bags, and follow her out ahead of all 
the other passengers.

INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT - HALLWAY

Vanessa leads McEnroe and Fleming through Heathrow Airport, 
tennis bags slung over their shoulders. People recognize 
McEnroe, but not Fleming.

The airport is filled with posters advertising events going 
on in London -- West End Theatre, special museum exhibitions, 
changing of the guard, etc... The most prevalent ads, 
however, are posters of Wimbledon. One poster is completely 
inescapable -- in the large hall approaching customs is a 
massive image of Borg kneeling in triumph, beneath the 
slogan: “The Championships”. 

McEnroe and Fleming stand MESMERIZED by the giant Borg photo. 
Their reverie is broken by a TWO ENGLISH BUSINESSMEN IN 
SUITS.

             BUSINESS MAN #1 
        (mocking)
      Johnnie Mac!

McEnroe looks at him.

             BUSINESS MAN #2
      You suck!

             MCENROE
      Huh?

             VANESSA
        (defusing, leading them 
         away)
      Very well, it’s just over here...

                                      6.

The men yell at McEnroe as he walks away.

             BUSINESS MAN #2
      I said you suck!

             MCENROE
      Why don’t you... go... sweep a 
      chimney, or something?!

             BUSINESS MAN #1
      Asshole.

             BUSINESS MAN #2
      Piss off.

They laugh. McEnroe is unnerved.

INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT - CUSTOMS HALL

Vanessa escorts them past several long lines of exhausted 
travellers holding their passports, leading them to an 
unattended booth.

             VANESSA
      Hmmm. So sorry. Someone should be 
      here. If you wait one moment...

She waddles off.

             MCENROE
      This blows.

             FLEMING
        (re: the long lines)
      At least we don’t have to wait in 
      one of those.

McEnroe grows more impatient. A MURMUR of excitement across 
the hall catches his attention. Everyone turns to look. 
Suddenly, a crowd of ATTRACTIVE BLONDE PEOPLE sweeps into the 
custom’s area. 

As the crowd gets closer, McEnroe and Fleming see the source 
of the excitement: an entourage with a police escort. At the 
center of the group is BJORN BORG - 25, long golden locks, 
handsome, perfect skin - a Swedish God. 

Borg’s DONNAY TENNIS BAG is slung over his shoulder. Next to 
him is a woman wearing the same official Wimbledon uniform as 
Vanessa’s. Unlike Vanessa, however, she is young and 
breathtakingly beautiful.

Everyone in Customs APPLAUDS Borg. He nods and smiles humbly.

Borg and his people stride past McEnroe and Fleming and blow 
through Customs without even having to pull out their 
passports.

                                      7.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      Should we say hello?

             MCENROE
      Nah, he doesn’t even notice us.

McEnroe glowers at Vanessa. She shrugs, embarrassed. They 
wait.

INT. CAR - 1978 TRIUMPH DOLOMITE SPRINT - TWO HOURS LATER

They are stuck in London morning rush-hour traffic. McEnroe 
and Fleming, in the back seat, are miserable. From the front 
passenger seat, Vanessa DRONES on.  

             VANESSA
      ...I’m sure you’re going to want to 
      get some rest when you check in, 
      but I’m afraid I will have to 
      pester you with some paperwork, 
      nothing too knotty... There is a 
      player’s breakfast at the Stanhope 
      Club at ten - that’s not important 
      if you’re still tired...

The car is at a standstill.

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
        (suddenly excited and 
         pointing)
      Oh, my... look over there! It’s 
      Ringo Starr!

McEnroe and Fleming get excited and look out the window, 
scanning the crowd.

             MCENROE
      Where?

             VANESSA
      Not really. I’m only having fun. 
      That’s my favorite prank.
        (then, thinking)
      I did see him once, though...

Fleming manages to nod politely. McEnroe just wishes she’d 
shut up. Unfortunately, the drone continues.

                                      8.

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
      But there is so much for you to do 
      while you’re here in London! You 
      have a few days before the 
      tournament starts, so I’m sure 
      you’ll want to see the changing of 
      the guard, visit Harrod’s, maybe ee 
      a play - I couldn’t recommend 
      Mousetrap with more enthusiasm - 
      it’s been playing for 28 years, so 
      you know it’s good! Of course, 
      there’s also the Tower of London, 
      Big Ben --

Vanessa notices they’re outside of the British Museum. 
There’s a long line of tourists waiting to go inside.

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
      Oh! And, of course, there’s the 
      British Museum! Right now, they 
      have the Cornet of Lugash on 
      display...

McEnroe and Fleming see a GIANT BANNER hanging from the 
facade of the museum. It says: “The Cornet of Lugash” with an 
illustration of what looks to be an ornate trumpet. At the 
bottom, it says, “The Treasures of Lugash.”

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
      It’s absolutely the most beautiful 
      thing! I’m sure you’ve read about 
      it - it’s become quite a 
      phenomenon. There are long lines, 
      so you need to go early...

McEnroe and Fleming are desperate for her to stop talking.

             VANESSA
	(CONT’D)
        (remembering)
      And the Duke’s banquet is going to 
      be held there this year. Of course, 
      you’ll be invited to that. I’m 
      soooo jealous! Oh, it’s going to be 
      magnificent - Prince Charles will 
      be there, your own Vice President 
      Mondale. Rod Stewart will be 
      singing, and --

             MCENROE
      I’m sorry if this is rude, but 
      we’re both really, really tired, 
      and if we could just have some 
      quiet...

                                      9.

             VANESSA
      Of course, quiet. I completely 
      understand. Transatlantic travel 
      really is exhausting. Yes. Yes. 
      Quiet.

Finally a few moments of peace. Outside the car, a THUGGISH 
MAN walks by with his EXTREMELY UGLY WIFE and PIMPLY TEENAGE 
SON. He notices McEnroe, and can’t believe it’s him. He 
slowly walks over to the car, and leans into the window.

             HOOLIGAN DAD
        (to his wife)
      No fucking way! It’s John bloody 
      McEnroe!
        (to McEnroe)
      Hey you, American brat! Someone 
      oughta shove a racket up your ass! 
      I hope you lose in the first round, 
      you cunt!!!

He makes a loud hocking noise, and spits a disgusting LUGEE 
against the window. Fleming grimaces. Vanessa contorts in 
horror. McEnroe knows he has a long two weeks ahead of him.

EXT. ST. JAMES HOTEL - ONE HOUR LATER

The Triumph pulls up to the entrance of the hotel. A white-
gloved valet opens their car door.

             VALET
      Welcome to the St. James.

McEnroe and Fleming, exhausted, get out of the car. Bellhops 
begin to unload the luggage, but when they reach for the 
TENNIS BAGS both players protectively grab their own.

INT. ST. JAMES HOTEL LOBBY

The lobby of the hotel is bustling, mainly with people 
connected to the tournament: players, fans, members of the 
media, etc.

             VANESSA
      Why don’t you two wait here, and 
      I’ll have you checked in.

She walks off. McEnroe and Fleming survey the lobby.

             MCENROE
      What a clusterfuck.

                                      10.

             FLEMING
      I hope this doesn’t take long.

Two American women walk up behind McEnroe and Fleming. One is 
MARY CARILLO, 23, extremely tall with short brown hair. 

             CARILLO
      Well, well, well...

McEnroe and Fleming turn and see their good friend.

             CARILLO
	(CONT’D)
      Wow! You two look like shit.

             MCENROE
      Thanks. You look good, too... for a 
      woman’s tennis player.

Carillo, McEnroe, and Fleming exchange hugs.

             CARILLO
        (re: the woman with her)
      Do you guys know Julie Clemons?

They don’t. JULIE is late 20s, cute, confident, and not short 
but looks it next to the six-foot-tall Carillo.

             CARILLO
	(CONT’D)
        (to Julie)
      This is John McEnroe and Peter 
      Fleming.

             JULIE
      Great to meet you. 

They all shake hands.

             CARILLO
      Be nice to her... she’s a reporter 
      for Sports Illustrated.
        (then)
      We’re going to the Player’s 
      Breakfast. Do you guys want to 
      come?

             FLEMING
      Yeah, I’ll go. Why not? Sounds like 
      fun.

             MCENROE
      ‘Sounds like fun’? Are you kidding 
      me? It sounds more like the most 
      boring thing in the entire world. 

                                      11.

             MCENROE
	(CONT'D)
      Why would anyone want to go to 
      that? I’m gonna go up to my room, 
      order room service, turn on my TV, 
      and go to sleep.

             CARILLO
        (mocking him)
      That sounds terrific. John McEnroe, 
      everybody. 

Fleming catches a glimpse of Vanessa pleading at the front 
desk. She’d never lose her temper, but her quivering lip 
betrays the frustration that lies beneath.

             FLEMING
        (to McEnroe, re: Vanessa)
      Tell Margaret Thatcher I’ll check 
      in later.

Carillo and Fleming turn to leave. Julie hangs back a moment.

             JULIE
      John, I know you don’t love being 
      interviewed, but I’d love to sit 
      down and talk --

             MCENROE
      Are you going to make me look like 
      an asshole?

             JULIE
      Are you going to act like an 
      asshole?

This surprises McEnroe and makes him chuckle.

             MCENROE
      Alright... Well, we’re staying at 
      the same hotel, right?

             JULIE
        (flirtatiously)
      Yes we are.

McEnroe, intrigued, watches her leave the hotel. 

             MCENROE
        (to himself)
      Yes. We are.

Vanessa approaches with a CONCIERGE in tow.

                                      12.

             VANESSA
      So, unfortunately, there’s been a 
      bit of a snafu. Due to our early 
      arrival, your rooms aren’t ready 
      yet.

             MCENROE
      What are you talking about? We 
      dealt with this in New York. They 
      knew I was getting here early, and 
      they told me my room would be 
      ready.

             CONCIERGE
      My apologies, Mr. McEnroe. There 
      clearly has been a mistake on our 
      end.

             MCENROE
      Mistake? What mistake? It’s not 
      complicated.

             CONCIERGE
      I can assure you, you are our top 
      priority... 

             MCENROE
      No, I’m not.

             CONCIERGE
      ...unfortunately, we were booked to 
      capacity last night, and we simply 
      can’t force people to leave their 
      rooms until check-out, at eleven.

             MCENROE
      That’s not fair! How does this 
      happen?!

The concierge doesn’t know what to say. Vanessa tries to calm 
things down.

             VANESSA
      John, every hotel in London is 
      absolutely besieged.

             MCENROE
        (to concierge, ignoring 
         Vanessa)
      I asked you a question!

The concierge is speechless.

                                      13.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Answer me! Don’t just stare at me, 
      jerk!

             CONCIERGE
      Mr. McEnroe, please stay calm.

             MCENROE
      Calm?! I’m exhausted. I’m here to 
      play a tournament. I need to get 
      some rest. I was promised a room, 
      and I don’t want to sit around for 
      three hours IN YOUR FUCKING 
      LOBBY!!!

Everything goes quiet -- the ENTIRE LOBBY is staring at 
McEnroe. 

INT. EIGHTH FLOOR - HALLWAY ELEVATOR BANK - TWO HOURS LATER

McEnroe, contorted uncomfortably, attempts to sleep in a 
leather chair, next to a bureau with a floral arrangement. He 
hugs his tennis bag like a teddy bear. Cleaning crews vacuum 
loudly down the hall. Finally, there’s quiet. 

After a beat, a baby begins to CRY, impossibly loudly, in a 
nearby room.

McEnroe grimaces and, with his eyes closed, pulls his 
trademark Tacchini warm-up jacket out of his tennis bag and 
covers his head with it.

The elevator doors open, and Fleming, looking well-fed and 
refreshed, exits carrying a gift bag from the Player’s 
Breakfast. He is followed by a bellhop pulling a luggage 
cart. Fleming shakes his head and kicks McEnroe in the foot. 

             FLEMING
      Did you just spend the past two 
      hours sitting here?

McEnroe pulls the warm-up jacket off his head and squints at 
Fleming.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      Pathetic.

Fleming leaves McEnroe there, and follows the bellhop to his 
room.

                                      14.

INT. MCENROE’S HOTEL ROOM - THAT EVENING

McEnroe’s room already a mess - room service trays and 
clothes are strewn around.  A few empty CANS OF BEER sit on 
his night table. He’s sitting cross-legged on the bed, eating 
a large BANANA SPLIT, and staring at the television. He puts 
the banana split on his lap, grabs another beer, and removes 
the PULL TAB.

He watches the 1958 film, The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad. It’s 
loud, and he looks bored. He puts his banana split down, gets 
up, walks over, and manually turns the TV DIAL. He flips past 
a few different stations before landing on the old British 
game show Mastermind. 

He gets back in the bed, takes a swig of beer, and digs back 
into the banana split. He’s quickly bored, and gets up again.

He turns the dial until he happens on BBC coverage of 
Wimbledon. He stands and watches. 

(NOTE: if possible, this is actual BBC ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE with 
the legendary commentators DAN MASKELL and MAX ROBERTSON, 
which expresses the following...)

             DAN MASKELL
      ...you’re absolutely right. If it 
      does rain, it could wreak havoc on 
      the tournament this week.

             MAX ROBERTSON
      I know you’re not one for 
      prognostication, but if you had to 
      make a pick, who would it be?

             DAN MASKELL
      It’s an especially strong field 
      this year. You have the hard-
      hitting Roscoe Tanner who made it 
      to the finals last year, the fleet-
      footed Vitas Gerulaitis, the two 
      fiery lefties - Jimmy Connors - who 
      has five grand slam victories under 
      his belt including one Wimbledon - 
      and John McEnroe, with incredible 
      natural talent, but who is perhaps 
      his own worst enemy... 

McEnroe furrows his brow and takes a swig of beer.

             DAN MASKELL
	(CONT’D)
      ...but if you’re going to force me 
      to pick... 

                                      15.

             DAN MASKELL
	(CONT’D)
      I’m going to have to go with the 
      man who has not only won the 
      tournament four years in a row, but 
      at 24 years of age is still at the 
      top of his game, and fresh off of 
      his third consecutive French Open 
      victory.

             MAX ROBERTSON
      I’ve never seen anyone more cool 
      under pressure than Bjorn Borg.

This is not what McEnroe wanted to see. He turns off the 
television, and sits on the bed, quietly finishing his beer 
and banana split.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER FOUR 

TITLE: JUNE 23, 1980 - FIRST ROUND

The middle of a point in progress between McEnroe and BUTCH 
WALTS, an American. Court Number 4 is considerably smaller 
than Centre Court, but it’s 1,000 seats are packed.

The rally continues for so long the crowd holds its 
collective breath. Finally, Walts makes his move and rushes 
the net, but McEnroe hits an amazing one-handed backhand shot 
down the line past him. It obviously lands ON THE LINE, chalk 
dust flying.

             LINE JUDGE
      Out!

McEnroe can’t believe this. He walks toward the net, looking 
at the line judge.

             MCENROE
      What? You’re calling that out? 
      That’s your call?

Walts stands at the net awkwardly.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (he turns to the umpire)
      That ball was on the line! Chalk 
      flew up! It was clearly in. How can 
      you possibly call that out!?
        (motioning to Walts)
      He’s walking in! Everyone knows it 
      in the whole stadium, and you call 
      it out!? You guys are the absolute 
      pits of the world, you know that?

                                      16.

             UMPIRE
      I’m going to award a point against 
      you, Mr. McEnroe.

The crowd CHEERS the umpire. McEnroe glares at him, and walks 
back to the service line. As he prepares to serve, we see 
that the score of the game is 40-15, he’s demolishing Walts 6-
3, 6-3, 5-0 -- and is one point away from victory.

McEnroe lobs up the ball, and SMASHES a serve straight up the 
middle and ACES Walts to win the match. McEnroe pumps his 
fist.

             UMPIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Game, Set, Match, Mr. McEnroe.

McEnroe approaches the net, and shakes hands with Walts. The 
crowd BOOS.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - MINUTES LATER

The locker room is abuzz with players and tournament staff.

McEnroe, freshly showered, changes back into his jeans and 
ratty T-shirt. Fleming sits on a bench and ties his shoes 
nearby.

             MCENROE
      I can’t believe it’s only the first 
      round and the umpires are already 
      out to get me. It’s like a 
      personality attack.

Fleming doesn’t respond.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      You know what I mean, Flemington 
      Fur Factory?

Fleming doesn’t know what he means and hates that nickname. 
Suddenly, A VOICE enters singing:

             VOICE
        (singing)
      “I was tired of my lady, we’d been 
      together too long / Like a worn-out 
      recording, of a favorite song.”

The VOICE rounds the corner - it belongs to JIMMY CONNORS, 
27, lanky, with a BOWL HAIRCUT. He’s singing into his WILSON 
T2000 RACQUET, pretending it’s a microphone. 

He swaggers with the confidence of someone who knows he’s a 
legend, and enjoys the attention and laughter of the players 
who look up to him. Fleming, unamused, smiles politely. 
McEnroe does not.

                                      17.

             CONNORS
        (louder now)
      “So while she lay there sleeping, I 
      read the paper in bed. / And in the 
      personals column, there was this 
      letter I read:”
        (really showing off for 
         the chorus)
      “If you like Pina Coladas, and 
      getting caught in the rain. / If 
      you’re not into yoga, if you have 
      half-a-brain. / If you like making 
      love at midnight, / In the dunes of 
      the cape. / I’m the lady you’ve 
      looked for, write to me, and 
      escape.

Everyone LAUGHS and encourages Connors. After the chorus, 
Connors flips his racquet slickly over and pretends its a 
guitar, and performs a GUITAR SOLO. The crowd loves this, but 
McEnroe finds him insufferable. Connors notices McEnroe’s 
annoyance, and flips the racquet back around and sings 
aggressively into McEnroe’s face. 

             CONNORS
	(CONT’D)
        (singing)
      “I didn’t think about my lady / I 
      know that sounds kind of mean. / 
      But me and my old lady -- 

             MCENROE
        (erupting)
      Shut the fuck up! Just shut the 
      fuck up!!!

             CONNORS
      Whoa! Look who’s testy!

Other players begin to gather, witnessing this confrontation. 
Fleming watches, concerned.

             MCENROE
      The thing about you is that, you 
      think you’re funny, but you’re a 
      joke.

                                      18.

             CONNORS
        (to McEnroe and the room)
      Correct me if I’m wrong, but it 
      seemed like everyone was enjoying 
      la musica.

             MCENROE
      No, they’re kissing your ass. 
      They’re polite to you because 
      you’re ‘Jimmy Connors’. But you’re 
      a moron, and you don’t realize 
      everyone thinks you’re a fucking 
      jerk. 

             CONNORS
      I might be a ‘fucking jerk’ as you 
      say, but I’m a fucking jerk who has 
      won this tournament. Something 
      you’ve never done, Fozzie Bear! And 
      you’re not going to do it this 
      year, because you’re on my side of 
      the draw - so if you make to the 
      semis, which I sincerely hope you 
      do - Jimbo is gonna kick your ass.

All of the other players notice something, and suddenly get 
quiet. Even Connors snaps to attention. McEnroe, however, is 
oblivious. 

             MCENROE
        (angrily)
      Go fuck yourself, Prince Valiant!

Connors doesn’t react. McEnroe is confused. Then he turns 
around and sees that Bjorn Borg, in all his majesty, has 
entered the locker room. Borg looks at them with a disarming 
smile. Connors and McEnroe realize he must have heard them 
shit-talking each other, and are embarrassed. 

Borg goes to his locker and begins to prepare for his match. 
Everyone awkwardly returns to what they were doing. After a 
few beats of SILENCE.

             CONNORS
        (sings quietly to himself)
      “If you like making love at 
      midnight, / In the dunes of the 
      cape. / I’m the lady you’ve looked 
      for, write to me, and escape...”

McEnroe grabs his tennis bag and exits, annoyed. 

                                      19.

INT. HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Fleming catches up to him.

             FLEMING
      Hey!

McEnroe keeps walking.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      What’s your problem?

             MCENROE
      What do you mean?

             FLEMING
      You’re spazzing out all over the 
      place.

             MCENROE
      Connors is a sack of shit!

             FLEMING
      It’s not just Connors. You’re 
      wiping the court with Walts, and 
      you start screaming at the umpire?

             MCENROE
      The ball was in!

             FLEMING
      Who fucking cares? It was five 
      games to love, you had two match 
      points! The guy had no chance 
      against you! And its the first 
      fucking round!

             MCENROE
      You play your kind of tennis, and 
      I’ll play my kind of tennis, and 
      let’s see where we end up.

             FLEMING
      You think it’s going to be so easy, 
      asshole? Guess what? There’s a lot 
      of people you need to beat. Me, for 
      one. Connors for two. Everybody 
      wants to beat you, and you make it 
      so easy to get into your head. 
      Tanner, Nastase, Mayer. And if you 
      get past all of us, then you have 
      to deal with Borg. 

McEnroe realizes his friend is trying to help and softens.

                                      20.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      And he’s calmly biding his time. 
      You can play your kind of tennis 
      all you want against the rest of 
      us, but if you want to beat Borg, 
      you better drop the bad-boy act, 
      and start putting your energy into 
      your tennis. Pick your fights.

             MCENROE
        (smiling)
      You know, you’ve got a lot of 
      wisdom for a guy who’s seeded 
      seventh.

             FLEMING
        (smiling)
      Fuck you.

             MCENROE
      Yeah. Fuck me.

They walk off together.

MONTAGE - EXT. LONDON - DAY

Carillo, Fleming, and McEnroe ride on a double decker bus 
through PICCADILLY CIRCUS.

The three friends watch the CHANGING OF THE GUARD at 
Buckingham Palace.

They watch four ASIAN TOURISTS walk across ABBEY ROAD, and 
pose for a picture like the Beatles. McEnroe shakes his head 
at their corniness.

They walk along the RIVER THAMES with BIG BEN in the 
background. Some PUNKS with mohawks walk by.

They exit HARRODS, Carillo and Fleming with shopping bags.

Fleming has a bunch of pigeons on his arms and head at 
TRAFALGAR SQUARE. Carillo takes his picture. Again, McEnroe 
shakes his head at their corniness.

They walk up the steps to THE BRITISH MUSEUM. 

END MONTAGE

INT. BRITISH MUSEUM 

McEnroe and Carillo wait on line to see The Cornet of Lugash 
exhibit. The two friends banter playfully.

                                      21.

             MCENROE
      Why are we waiting in line to see a 
      cornet? I don’t even know what a 
      fucking cornet is...

             CARILLO
      It’s like a trumpet.

             MCENROE
      Oh, okay, now I totally get why 
      we’re waiting on line. I’m so glad 
      you took me to the museum, Grandma. 
      It’s really interesting. And I 
      can’t wait to see Agatha Christie’s 
      ‘Mousetrap’, I mean, that’s gonna 
      be--

             CARILLO
        (interrupting)
      I’m sorry, could you help me with 
      something?

             MCENROE
      What?

             CARILLO
      Why do I hang out with you?

Fleming walks up to them.

             FLEMING
      Okay, it’s about a 45-minute 
      wait...
        (he points to a sign in 
         the distance)
      ...from that sign way up there.

             MCENROE
      No way. That’s it. I’m out of here.

ILIE NASTASE, 34, walks up to them. He has long, greasy black 
hair, a deep tan, and wears a silk shirt with the top buttons 
open exposing an impressively hairy chest. He looks like an 
adult compared to the three friends and speaks with a thick 
Romanian accent.

             NASTASE
      Oh, look who’s here, my little 
      American babies.

                                      22.

             FLEMING
      Hey Ilie.

             MCENROE
      How’s it going, Nasty?

Nastase’s attention quickly focuses on Carillo.

             NASTASE
      You. The tall one. I forget your 
      name.

             CARILLO
      Mary.

             NASTASE
      Like the Virgin?

             CARILLO
      Hm. Original.

             NASTASE
      I prefer virgins. But either way, 
      I’d like to offer my services.

             CARILLO
      Thank you, but I can’t tell you how 
      much I enjoy not having herpes.

McEnroe and Fleming LAUGH. Nastase is completely unfazed.

             NASTASE
      I respect that. But, if you change 
      your mind, you know where to find 
      me.

Nastase looks around.

             NASTASE
	(CONT’D)
      Where is this fruity nutcake?
      This basket of fruit from the 
      tournament is supposed to show me 
      around, and then he disappears...
      Oh, here he is...

LARS SIGURD, 23, walks up to them. He’s fair-skinned, blonde, 
and speaks with an indeterminate Nordic accent. He carries a 
CANON AE-1 around his neck.

             LARS
      Sorry, Ilie. I got some great 
      pictures. What an amazing exhibit!
        (he notices the Americans)
      Hey, you guys! 

                                      23.

             LARS
	(CONT'D)
      So great to be seeing you! It’s 
      been such a long time! Right on!

             NASTASE
        (to the Americans)
      You know this fruit cocktail?!

             MCENROE
      Of course we know Lars. We all 
      played juniors together.

             LARS
        (embarrassed)
      I’m working for the tournament as a 
      player liaison.

             NASTASE
      The only reason he’s here is so I 
      didn’t have to wait on this stupid 
      line. And to help with the pussy.

             CARILLO
      I can’t believe you’d need any 
      help.

             NASTASE
        (not understanding she’s 
         insulting him)
      He speeds up the process. I point, 
      and he brings it over.

             LARS
      Guys we should hang out and party! 
      There’s so much cool stuff going 
      on. Anything you want to go to, let   
      me know. I’ll get us in.

No one says anything. Carillo and Fleming obviously think 
Lars is bad news. It’s awkward. Lars addresses McEnroe 
directly.

             LARS
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, John! Let’s go see some 
      music. The Buzzcocks are playing at 
      the Vortex tonight. I can get you 
      backstage. Anything you want.

             MCENROE
      Ahh, I can’t. I have to play 
      Rocavert in the morning.

                                      24.

             LARS
      It’s going to be dynamite! If you 
      change your mind, you can get me at 
      the tournament office.

McEnroe, Carillo, and Fleming begin to walk away.

             NASTASE
        (to Carillo)
      And if you change your mind, little 
      bunny, I’m in room six fifteen.

             CARILLO
        (messing with him)
      Got it. Six sixteen.

             NASTASE
        (concerned)
      No! Six fifteen!!

INT. THE VORTEX - LATER THAT NIGHT

This smoky, dark, underground shithole is packed with punks, 
rastas, teenagers, college kids, etc... Onstage, THE 
BUZZCOCKS power away.

In the back of the enthusiastic crowd, McEnroe holds a beer 
and enjoys the music. Nobody recognizes him. Lars comes up to 
him with two BEAUTIFUL YOUNG GIRLS.

INT. THE VORTEX - LATER

McEnroe stands at the bar drinking with Lars and the two 
ladies. The Buzzcocks are still playing loudly. McEnroe is 
flirting with one of the girls in particular. She kisses him. 
He likes it. She says something to him. He can’t hear her. 
She says it again. He still can’t hear her. She laughs and 
grabs his hand.

INT. VORTEX - BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS 

McEnroe is led by the hand through the club by the sexy girl. 
She comes to a door, knocks on it. Someone opens the door, 
sizes them up, and let’s them in.

INT. VORTEX BACKROOM - LATER

You can still hear the Buzzcocks playing, but now it’s 
muffled. McEnroe is in a great mood, very animated. 

There are about EIGHT PEOPLE, including Lars, standing and 
seated on a couple of old couches and chairs. There’s a glass 
coffee table in the middle, with a bunch of COCAINE on it. 
Lars does a huge line.

                                      25.

             MCENROE
        (pacing)
      Ahhh... I just don’t get it. It’s 
      not serious. He should have more 
      edge, more grit. He’s just a pretty 
      boy... Connery was waaaaay better. 
      I can’t take Roger Moore seriously. 
      James Bond is supposed to be a 
      badass.

             PARTIER #1
      You didn’t like Moonraker? The 
      special effects were bloody 
      brilliant.

             MCENROE
      Moonraker!? It’s stupid! James Bond 
      is a spy, not an astronaut! It 
      didn’t even look real.

Lars gets up, and walks toward the bathroom.

             LARS
      I just don’t find those movies 
      believable. The villains are always 
      so ridiculous.

Lars enters the bathroom and closes the door. Someone snorts 
a line of cocaine.

             MCENROE
      He’s right.

The music jerkily comes to a stop. Some in the room notice, 
some don’t.

A COMMOTION begins to build outside. Suddenly, there’s a loud 
SLAM, as the door is KICKED IN. A swarm of POLICE rush in the 
door. Everyone SCREAMS, and scatters - some, including Lars, 
escape through other doors.

McEnroe FREEZES, a deer in the headlights.

INT. POLICE STATION - HOURS LATER

McEnroe is seated next to a desk in a police station. He 
looks strung out and miserable. A number of POLICEMEN walk by 
and take a look at the celebrity in their midst. 

In a far corner, a plainclothes DETECTIVE WITH A MUSTACHE 
stares at him and smokes. A FRIENDLY POLICEMAN, 50s, walks up 
and sits behind the desk.

                                      26.

             FRIENDLY POLICEMAN
      Oh, you’re still here? Sorry about 
      this, it doesn’t usually take so 
      long.
        (then)
      I’m sure you’ll be out of here any 
      minute now.

The policeman takes a moment to look through some folders.

             FRIENDLY POLICEMAN
	(CONT’D)
      I had a chance to see you play last 
      year.

             MCENROE
      Oh yeah?

             FRIENDLY POLICEMAN
      Yes. Fourth round. Gullikson. Guess 
      it wasn’t the ending you hoped for, 
      but still it was very good tennis.

             MCENROE
      He destroyed me.

A POLICEWOMAN enters.

             POLICEWOMAN
      Mr. McEnroe, if you’d come with me 
      please.

McEnroe gets up, and starts to leave.

             FRIENDLY POLICEMAN
      But my money’s on you this year to 
      win the whole tournament. I think 
      Borg has had enough. Don’t let me 
      down!

             MCENROE
      I’ll do my best.

INT. POLICE STATION HALLWAY

McEnroe follows the policewoman down the hallway. They make a 
number of turns, and come to a room. She holds the door open 
for McEnroe, and then turns and walks away.

                                      27.

INT. POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe enters the room, and sees two older men sitting on a 
sofa. TONY HEDGES, a gaunt, prematurely gray 40-year-old, is 
smoking a cigarette. Next to him is ROGER NEWQUIST, 50s, 
stocky, with the ruddy-complexion of someone who might be 
drunk. They stare at McEnroe for a moment.

             HEDGES
      Have a seat.

McEnroe sits down in an old rolling office chair, with torn 
vinyl upholstery.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      Interesting choice of friends, Mr. 
      McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      I didn’t know anybody there. I was 
      invited to see a band...

             HEDGES
      You don’t know Lars Sigurd?

             MCENROE
      I used to play juniors tennis with 
      him. We sort of hung out when I was 
      like 17. I haven’t even seen him 
      for two years.

             HEDGES
      But you do know he’s a drug dealer?

             MCENROE
      He told me he was working as a 
      player liaison for the tournament.

             NEWQUIST
      But you do know he’s a drug dealer?

             MCENROE
      No. I mean, I know he likes to 
      party. But I don’t know anything 
      about him being a drug dealer.

             HEDGES
      And you’ve enjoyed “partying” with 
      him.

             MCENROE
      Look, he invited me to see the 
      Buzzcocks, and I wanted to see 
      them, so I went. 

                                      28.

             MCENROE
	(CONT'D)
      I don’t know anything about what he 
      does. I barely know the guy.

They stare at him.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (exasperated)
      Come on. If you’re going to charge 
      me with something, then hurry up 
      and do it already. But, if not, I 
      have a match tomorrow, and I’d 
      really like to get some fucking 
      sleep.

Hedges is taken aback, surprised by McEnroe’s arrogance. He 
looks to Newquist, and they both begin to LAUGH. McEnroe is 
relieved that his display of confidence worked, and he starts 
to LAUGH ALONG. The three have a hearty laugh together.

             HEDGES
        (with sudden rage)
      Shut the fuck up!!! You were just 
      caught in a room full of known 
      criminals, Mr. McEnroe! With a pile 
      of cocaine! Aside from your 
      potential legal problems, I believe 
      it’s something that could get you 
      into a lot of trouble with our good 
      friends at the All England Lawn 
      Tennis and Croquet Club. So we will 
      continue at whatever bloody pace we 
      fucking want!

McEnroe hears this loud and clear.

             MCENROE
        (very politely)
      I’m sorry. You’re right. I’m just 
      tired. I had no idea about who I 
      was hanging out with tonight. I 
      don’t know anything, but I’ll tell 
      you whatever I know. I just don’t 
      want any trouble. I came to play 
      tennis, and that’s all I want to 
      do. I’m really, really sorry.

             HEDGES
      We appreciate that. That’s the kind 
      of attitude we can work with.

             NEWQUIST
      Much more pleasant.

                                      29.

             HEDGES
      So, tell us... what do you know 
      about Lars Sigurd?

             MCENROE
      Honestly, all I know is what I told 
      you. He used to be a pretty okay 
      tennis player - not great - and now 
      he says he works as a liaison for 
      the tournament.

             HEDGES
      He does work for the tournament. 
      But he also works for a man named 
      Philip Acheson. You’ve heard of 
      him?

             MCENROE
      No.

             HEDGES
      He’s a very successful businessman - 
      extremely social, and a generous 
      philanthropist. We know he’s dirty, 
      but it’s been impossible to link 
      him to anything. It’s completely 
      out of character for Philip Acheson 
      to be careless enough to associate 
      with a lowlife like Lars.

McEnroe shrugs.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      So we’d like you to spend some time 
      with Lars, find out what you can 
      about Philip Acheson, and relay 
      that information to us.

             MCENROE
      But... I don’t understand.

             HEDGES
      We just want you to spend time with 
      your friend Lars, and tell us what 
      he’s up to. It’s simple.

             MCENROE
      That’s ridiculous. I’m not a spy. 
      I’m a tennis player. I don’t 
      infiltrate crime rings. I don’t 
      know if you’ve noticed, but I don’t 
      even have particularly good social 
      skills.

Hedges and Newquist LAUGH.

                                      30.

             HEDGES
      We’re not asking you to infiltrate 
      a crime ring. We’re just asking you 
      to do what you did tonight - hang 
      out with Lars, and see what he 
      does, gain his trust, see what he 
      tells you, and then report back to 
      us.

             NEWQUIST
      No one’s asking you to jump off of 
      a building, or drive a car through 
      a burning warehouse.

             HEDGES
      You don’t even have to wear a 
      wiretap.

             MCENROE
      No way. I’m not going to do this.

             HEDGES
      That’s fine, if that’s your 
      choice... but then we’re going to 
      have to arrest you.
        (then)
      It’s not a major charge, just a 
      summary offence, surely no problem 
      for any decent lawyer. You’ll 
      definitely get through central 
      booking in no time and be on your 
      way in say...

He looks to Newquist.

             NEWQUIST
      Twenty hours?

             HEDGES
      Probably about twenty hours. What 
      time’s your match?

McEnroe knows he’s fucked.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER FOUR 

TITLE: JUNE 25, 1980 - SECOND ROUND

McEnroe stands at the baseline, waiting to return serve. It’s 
RAINY and grim out. He looks miserable: stubble, dark circles 
under his eyes. 

                                      31.

TERRY ROCAVERT of Australia, 25, serves -- McEnroe mishits 
his return, but it goes over. They rally back and forth for a 
few strokes, and Rocavert hits a perfect drop shot. McEnroe 
musters all of his strength, chases the ball to the net, 
dives and manages to pop it up weakly. Rocavert pounces and 
SLAMS the ball down, nailing McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      Guhhhhh!

             UMPIRE
      Set point, Mr. Rocavert. He leads 
      two sets to one.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER FOUR - IN THE CROWD

The crowd is thinner than usual because of the rain. Fleming 
and Carillo wear ponchos and hold umbrellas. They are shocked 
that McEnroe is having such a hard time with such an inferior 
player. 

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER FOUR - DAY - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe sits in his signature style, with his CHAIR TURNED 
SIDEWAYS. He SCOWLS. Like a pummelled boxer in his corner, he 
stands up slowly and staggers back to the court. The RAIN 
picks up a little - this is going to be a long day.

INT. CLUBHOUSE HALLWAY - LATER

McEnroe, SOAKING WET and MUDDY shuffles down the tunnel, a 
broken man. He passes a CLUBHOUSE ATTENDANT. 

             CLUBHOUSE ATTENDANT
      Good job, Mac.

             MCENROE
        (grunts)
      Grrrrr.

After a few seconds, a TENNIS PLAYER walks by him.

             TENNIS PLAYER
      Way to pull it out, Mac.

McEnroe makes a face, meaning ‘I sucked’.

He enters the locker room and hears Lars talking to a couple 
of TENNIS PLAYERS.

                                      32.

             LARS
        (to the players)
      Yeah, yeah. The horny one. She 
      wants to party with both of you... 
      I’m telling you, it’s big time, big 
      time!

Before Lars can see him, McEnroe exits quickly.

INT. ST. JAMES HOTEL LOBBY - LATER

McEnroe enters the lobby still wearing his mud-splattered 
tennis outfit, tennis bag slung over his shoulder. PEOPLE are 
surprised to see him wearing his dirty tennis clothes. He 
gets into the elevator.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

McEnroe enters his room, throws his bag down, and collapses 
on the bed, exhausted. He closes his eyes. After a beat he 
opens his eyes. He has an idea. He quickly walks to the desk 
and picks up a magazine. He flips it open, looking for 
something. He finds what he’s looking for and rips it out. He 
grabs some tape from the desk and tapes the page of the 
magazine to his mirror. It’s a PHOTO OF BJORN BORG.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT EVENING

A phone RINGS loudly. McEnroe, asleep in his dirty tennis 
outfit, stirs. He reaches for the phone but then thinks 
better of it. He sits up, and lets it continue to RING.

He pulls off his shirt, walks into the bathroom, and turns on 
the shower. After a long time, the phone finally STOPS 
RINGING.

INT. BATHROOM - LATER

McEnroe, towel around his waist, SHAVES in the mirror. Again, 
the phone begins to RING. He ignores it, quickly washes his 
face, gets dressed, and leaves the room. The phone RINGS and 
RINGS. 

INT. ELEVATOR - MOMENTS LATER

A refreshed McEnroe rides the elevator.

                                      33.

INT. ST. JAMES HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

The elevator doors open, revealing the bustling lobby full of 
people sitting, talking, having drinks. He heads for the 
door, but then spots Lars near the exit, talking on a HOUSE 
PHONE. McEnroe does an about face. 

He sees the elevator doors closing and walks quickly towards 
them. He realizes he won’t make it and doesn’t know what to 
do. Desperate, he DUCKS behind an ornate column. He takes a 
breath.

Carefully, he peeks around the column and sees Lars still 
talking on the phone, making it impossible for him to exit 
the lobby without Lars seeing him. 

McEnroe sees TWO BUSINESSMEN walk behind Lars, and notices 
one of them stealthily slip an ENVELOPE into Lars’ back 
pocket as they pass him. Nonchalantly, Lars reaches down, 
grabs the envelope, and pulls it out. He folds it, and puts 
it in his front pocket. This is exactly the kind of shit 
McEnroe didn’t want to see.

He hears the DING of the elevator opening, and quickly turns 
to go into it - but slams into a gigantic, six foot eight 
BEHEMOTH with curly dark hair, a mustache, and a camera 
around his neck. The man frowns at him.

             MCENROE
      Sorry.

The giant man doesn’t even bother to respond. McEnroe quickly 
steps around this monster, and just makes it into the 
elevator as the doors close.

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe presses himself into the side of the elevator, and 
desperately pushes the DOOR CLOSE button. Julie Clemons steps 
in and sees McEnroe strangely squeezed against the side of 
the elevator.

             JULIE
      Whoa... someone in the lobby you 
      don’t want to see?

             MCENROE
        (embarrassed)
      Ha. I guess.

The doors close, and the elevator starts to go up. McEnroe 
relaxes a little bit.

                                      34.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a long story.

             JULIE
      I’ll bet.
        (then, flirting)
      I’d tell you how great you looked 
      against Rocavert today, but... I 
      saw the match.

             MCENROE
      I won. 

             JULIE
      Yeah. I don’t know if Borg saw your 
      match today, but I’m sure if he did 
      he’s terrified.

             MCENROE
      Thanks.

The elevator stops, and the doors open.

             JULIE
      Well, this is me.

She steps out.

             MCENROE
      Hey! You can’t just insult me and 
      leave.

             JULIE
      This is my floor. Am I supposed to 
      stay on the elevator long enough 
      for you to think of a witty 
      comeback?

The elevator doors start to shut and McEnroe hits them open 
with his hand.

             MCENROE
      Ouch! Aren’t you supposed to be 
      kissing my ass, so that you can get 
      an interview with me?

             JULIE
      You don’t seem like the type who 
      responds to getting his ass kissed.

The elevator doors start to shut and McEnroe hits them open 
with his hand again.

                                      35.

             MCENROE
      I thought big magazine writers were 
      supposed to be busy all the time. 
      Shouldn’t you be interviewing 
      Billie Jean King or something?

             JULIE
      I’ve been running around so much 
      since I got here, all I want to do 
      is order some room service, watch 
      television, and call it a night.

             MCENROE
      Oh, really, you’re going to order 
      room service?

The elevator doors start to shut and McEnroe hits them open 
again with his hand. An awkward pause.

             JULIE
      Yes. Have you eaten?

McEnroe steps out of the elevator.

             MCENROE
      No, I was about to, but...

             JULIE
      Then why don’t you join me and 
      order some room service?

             MCENROE
      Ahhhh... sure.

They smile at each other.

INT. JULIE’S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Julie and McEnroe sit on the couch eating plates of spaghetti 
and meatballs. She drinks a glass of wine. He drinks coke 
through a straw from a can. On the room service tray are 
bowls of melting ice cream.

             MCENROE
      I don’t mind getting booed once in 
      a while, I mean, whatever. But it 
      does get tiring to have everyone 
      hate my guts everywhere I go. I’m 
      not trying to make anyone look bad 
      when I yell about a point... The 
      way I look at it is: people come 
      out to see me give it my best, and 
      I care about every point. 

                                      36.

             MCENROE
	(CONT'D)
      Isn’t that a good thing? What do 
      they want? To see someone who 
      doesn’t give a shit?

             JULIE
      I guess they just have an idea of 
      sportsmanship and how the game 
      should be played.

             MCENROE
      I’m not going to say that my 
      screaming at a line judge is good 
      sportsmanship. I understand the 
      rules of tennis. But then they have 
      these made up rules here that have 
      nothing to do with tennis - telling 
      you what kind of clothing you have 
      to wear, and you have to bow to the 
      royal box. Fuck the royal box. All 
      that shit has nothing to do with 
      tennis. Why does anybody have to 
      bow to anybody else? They’re just a 
      bunch of rich assholes who do 
      whatever they want. I mean, it’s 
      1980, why is there still a Queen? 
      These people are all hypocrites.

             JULIE
      You don’t have to show up.

             MCENROE
      Are you kidding? It’s the most 
      important tournament in the world.

             JULIE
      Well, I guess you must really love 
      winning a lot, if you’ll still show 
      up and play for these hypocrites.

             MCENROE
      No. I don’t love to win. I hate to 
      lose.

             JULIE
      That’s really interesting. Would 
      you mind if I write that down?

She scrambles quickly for her reporter’s pad and a pen.

             MCENROE
      Are you serious?

             JULIE
      Would that make you uncomfortable?

                                      37.

             MCENROE
        (frustrated)
      I thought we were having dinner, 
      hanging out, like we’re... I think 
      you’re nice, but then... I mean, I 
      knew you wanted an interview, but I 
      didn’t think this was it.

             JULIE
      Oh my God, no. No. I just thought 
      that was an interesting...

             MCENROE
      You know what? I think I should go.

             JULIE
      Come on! It’s not like that at all. 
      I honestly wasn’t thinking of this 
      as an interview. I would never 
      write anything down without your 
      permission.

McEnroe stands up and walks to the door.

             MCENROE
      Thank Sports Illustrated for the 
      meal.

He exits.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe storms down the hall, turns a corner, and walks up to 
the elevator. He pushes the UP button. He waits a moment, 
sees the ELEVATOR UP arrow illuminate, but remembers he 
doesn’t want to risk running into Lars, and quickly walks to 
the stairwell.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY 

McEnroe puts his key in his door and exhales a sigh of 
relief. 

INT. MCENROE’S HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe closes the door behind him and smells something 
strange. He walks down the short hallway and sees Tony Hedges 
sitting on his bed, smoking a cigarette, watching television.

                                      38.

             HEDGES
      Oh, what a pleasant surprise. I 
      didn’t think we’d see you for a few 
      hours...

             MCENROE
      You can’t just come into my room.

             HEDGES
      It’s so early. What’s a young lad 
      like you doing in his hotel room, 
      by himself, at half eight? 
      Shouldn’t you be out on the town... 
      chatting up tasty birds... shaking 
      your ass...

             MCENROE
      Get the fuck out of my room.

A toilet FLUSHES. McEnroe turns to see ROGER NEWQUIST exit 
his bathroom, still wiping his hand with the hand towel. He 
shoves some wrapped hotel soaps into his pocket.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Great.

             NEWQUIST
        (re: bathroom)
      I’d give it a minute.

             HEDGES
        (to McEnroe)
      What did you find out from Lars 
      today?

             MCENROE
      I didn’t see Lars today.

Hedges and Newquist look at each other.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Seriously, I didn’t talk to him.

             HEDGES
      Oh, come on, Mr. McEnroe. You were 
      arrested last night. And we let you 
      go. Which, all things considered, 
      seems like a pretty generous act on 
      our part. And yet, you don’t send a 
      thank you note, you don’t show any 
      gratitude whatsoever, and, worst of 
      all, you didn’t do the one thing we 
      asked of you - follow around Lars 
      Sigurd.

                                      39.

             MCENROE
      Jesus Christ, give me a break. I’ll 
      talk to him tomorrow. So why don’t 
      you two tough guys get the fuck out 
      of here.

NEWQUIST grabs McEnroe by the neck and SLAMS him hard against 
the wall. This is not funny. McEnroe’s face turns RED, and he 
gags, unable to speak. There is nothing he can do to resist 
this. Newquist tightens his grip. Hedges stands up, still 
smoking his cigarette.

             HEDGES
      Its become abundantly clear that in 
      our conversation last night we 
      failed to impress upon you the 
      gravity of your situation.

HEDGES hauls off and SMACKS McEnroe across the face. Its 
upsetting. NEWQUIST continues to choke him.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      Now listen to me, you ginger twat -- 
      You are going to hang out with your 
      friend Lars Sigurd. And if that 
      feels inconvenient I’m so very 
      sorry.

HEDGES leans in close to McEnroe and FLICKS him hard in the 
nose with his index finger.

             MCENROE
      Gaahhhhh!

             HEDGES
      But if you don’t, you will be 
      arrested for possession of cocaine. 
      And I don’t give a shite about 
      whether you get disqualified from 
      this tournament. Do you understand?

McEnroe can’t speak because he’s still being choked, but we 
can see that he is answering in the affirmative.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      But you said the same thing last 
      night. Why would we believe you 
      now?

Newquist continues to choke McEnroe so hard he can’t speak. 
Hedges exhales smoke in McEnroe’s face, and then walks over 
to McEnroe’s tennis bag, pulls out a racquet, and SMASHES and 
STEPS on it until it splinters into pieces. 

Newquist lets go of McEnroe, and he collapses to the ground, 
GASPING for air, terrified. 

                                      40.

             MCENROE
        (barely audible)
      I’ll follow him.

Hedges looks to Newquist.

             NEWQUIST
      I believe him.

They exit. The PHOTO OF BORG that McEnroe taped to the mirror 
eerily stares at him.

INT. NEIGHBORHOOD PUB - NEXT EVENING

McEnroe and Lars drink beer in the back of a quiet old pub. 

             LARS
      It was out of control. Crazy. 
      Right? Why so many police? I hid in 
      the trash for an hour.

Lars laughs hysterically. McEnroe does not.

             LARS
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks God you beat Rocavert. If 
      you lost I would have shot myself.

             MCENROE
      It’s fine. It all worked out. Don’t 
      worry about it.

             LARS
      I tried to track you down yesterday 
      to apologize, but I couldn’t find 
      you. I called your room on many 
      different occasions -- 

             MCENROE
        (interrupting)
      Lars, it’s fine.

             LARS
      I was terrified you were going to 
      get kicked out of the tournament, 
      and it was going to be my fault. 
      How long did they keep you?

             MCENROE
      A while. It was annoying. But it’s 
      over.

                                      41.

             LARS
      Did they ask you lots of questions?

             MCENROE
      No, they mostly just made me wait. 
      I think they were doing it to fuck 
      with me. Then this Scotland-Yardy 
      Sherlock Holmes higher-level 
      policeman comes in and starts to 
      talk to me about tennis, asks me 
      for an autograph, and they let me 
      go with a warning.

             LARS
        (raises his beer)
      Here’s to being famous. It gets you 
      out of problems and into pussy.

McEnroe and Lars drink to this.

             LARS
	(CONT’D)
      Speaking of pussy, we should really 
      get moving. You’re going to love 
      this party -- it’s going to be 
      impossible not to get laid.
        (Lars holds up a shot)
      Ready?

McEnroe doesn’t want to go. He looks around, and recognizes 
the DETECTIVE WITH A MUSTACHE that he saw at the police 
station, sitting at the bar, smoking and eavesdropping. 
McEnroe picks up his shot, clinks with Lars, shoots it and 
chases it with his beer.

             MCENROE
      Absolutely. Yes I am.

INT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT - LATER

Early 1980s opulence: Black leather couches, mirrored walls, 
white wall-to-wall carpeting, formica surfaces. An extremely 
attractive crowd mills about -- mostly sexy, young women. 
Mingling with a cluster of hotties is Ilie Nastase, wearing a 
white suit with a purple silk shirt, unbuttoned to his naval.

Blondie’s Heart of Glass blasts through the sound system.

McEnroe stands at a window overlooking all of London. He 
downs another shot. He’s clearly had a few, and he bounces to 
the music. Lars walks up to him. 

             LARS
      Party! Am I right or am I right?

                                      42.

             MCENROE
      I have to say, I was not in a good 
      mood earlier. I did not want to 
      come out. But you twisted my arm, 
      and I’d be lying if I didn’t say I 
      was having a great time right now.

A HANDSOME BRITISH MAN, 60s, wearing a sharp Savile Row power 
suit walks up behind Lars. This is PHILIP ACHESON. On 
Acheson’s arm is a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN with jet black hair 
and ONE BLUE EYE and ONE GRAY EYE. Behind them is another 
beautiful woman, slightly more conservatively dressed, with a 
BOBBED HAIRCUT.

             LARS
      John, I want you to meet someone. 
      This is Philip Acheson - this is 
      his place.

McEnroe recalls the name.

             MCENROE
      Oh, hey, wow, great. Thanks for 
      having me. Really nice place you 
      have.

             PHILIP
      Well, it’s a pleasure to meet you. 
      I’m a big fan. Think you can take 
      the trophy away from Mr. Borg this 
      year?

             MCENROE
      You know what? If I play my best, I 
      definitely think I can win.

             PHILIP
      I certainly admire a man who 
      believes in himself. I’m sure your 
      capable of achieving great things.

             MCENROE
      Thanks, I appreciate that.

             PHILIP
      Meanwhile, please make yourself 
      feel at home. Enjoy yourself, but 
      remember to save some energy for 
      the court, because there are a lot 
      of us who want to see you succeed.

             MCENROE
      I will not let you down.

                                      43.

They shake hands, and McEnroe walks away. Philip looks up 
into a corner to a hidden security camera.

REVERSE ANGLE: 1980-quality video camera surveillance, with 
the view of Philip Acheson making an expression commenting on 
McEnroe. 

INT. MYSTERIOUS ROOM

Over the shoulder of a SHADOWY FIGURE we see the surveillance 
video of Acheson.

INT. APARTMENT PARTY - LATER

The music on the stereo changes to Donna Summer’s Hot Stuff.

McEnroe starts to move to the beat. He gets more and more 
into it and then sashays into the middle of the dance floor 
and really starts to get down. He’s unselfconscious and 
having fun. His dance moves are unique to him, but somehow 
really work.

Other guests start to watch McEnroe dancing, and an 
especially gorgeous girl dances up to him. They do some great 
moves together.

The woman with the bobbed haircut observes McEnroe. She 
glances across the room at Acheson, who is also watching.

Nastase sits on a couch nearby. He watches McEnroe dance, 
impressed. His white suit jacket is now resting on his lap, 
and it becomes clear that he’s getting a HAND JOB from the 
woman sitting next to him.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

             MCENROE
      Uh. Uh. Uh.

             DANCE PARTNER
      Yes. Yes. Bloody hell!

McEnroe, naked, impales his dance partner from behind. After 
a few passionate thrusts, ANOTHER NAKED WOMAN rises up, and 
begins kissing McEnroe.

CLOSE ON: McEnroe’s face. He contorts in ORGASM.

             MCENROE
      Aaaaaaa...

                                      44.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER THREE - DAY

             MCENROE
      ...aaaaahhhhhhh!

McEnroe’s face contorts as he serves aggressively. He’s in 
the middle of his match against TOM OKKER of Holland. 

TITLE: JUNE 27, 1980 - THIRD ROUND

MONTAGE: McEnroe has found his groove and plays beautifully. 
A series of points -- McEnroe dominates OKKER.

McEnroe hits an overhead smash.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Yes!

             UMPIRE
      Game, set, match Mr. McEnroe.

INT. ST. JAMES HOTEL - LATER THAT AFTERNOON

McEnroe, jeans and a T-shirt, knocks on room #308. After a 
few moments, the door opens. It’s Julie, dressed nicely.

             JULIE
      Hey.

             MCENROE
      Hey.

             JULIE
      I didn’t expect to see you.

             MCENROE
      I wanted to say I’m sorry about the 
      other night. It was rude of me to 
      leave the way I did.

             JULIE
      No, I’m sorry. We were talking 
      casually as friends, and I made it 
      about my job. It was unprofessional 
      and uncool.

                                      45.

             MCENROE
      No, I over-reacted.

             JULIE
      Mutual apologies. I love it.

They smile at each other.

             MCENROE
      Yeah. You’re probably busy... but 
      do you want to go get something to 
      eat?

             JULIE
      I have to go to this annoying 
      Slazenger dinner - I’m sure you 
      were invited.

             MCENROE
      Oh, maybe... I don’t really go to 
      those things.

             JULIE
      You should come with me. I’m sure 
      it will be boring, but we’ll make 
      fun of it together. Free food!

             MCENROE
      Ahhh... I’m not even dressed.

             JULIE
      They’re not going to care... you’re 
      John McEnroe. They’re desperate for 
      people like you to show up at these 
      events.

             MCENROE
      Can we hang out later?

She steps out of her room, and shuts the door.

             JULIE
      I’d love to. I told Mary I was 
      going to meet her at the bar at 
      six, you should come meet us.

             MCENROE
      Ok, great. I will.

They walk down the hallway to the elevator. Julie presses the 
DOWN button, McEnroe presses UP. After a few moments, the 
elevator stops. It’s going down. The doors open, and she 
steps into her elevator, which has a couple of people in it.

                                      46.

             JULIE
      Are you sure you don’t want to 
      come?

McEnroe smiles and shrugs at her. The doors close and she’s 
gone. McEnroe stands there for a couple of moments, and his 
elevator arrives going up. He steps in. It’s empty.

INT. ELEVATOR

McEnroe is going up.

             MCENROE
        (to himself)
      Idiot!

He quickly presses LOBBY. First, though, the elevator needs 
to stop at his floor. 

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Damn it!

The trip down takes forever and he presses the Lobby button 
over and over.

INT. LOBBY

The elevator doors open and McEnroe bursts out. He runs 
across the crowded lobby and onto the street. In the 
distance, he sees Julie getting in a taxi and shutting the 
door. The cab pulls away quickly, and McEnroe knows he’s 
blown his chance to catch her. He stands there, defeated.

             MCENROE
      Fuck.

A crappy 1972 DATSUN STATION WAGON pulls up. The driver leans 
out the window...

             HEDGES
      Hello, Johnnie Mac. You have a 
      moment to chat?

McEnroe is not happy to see Hedges.

INT. CRAPPY DATSUN STATION WAGON - LATER

The car is parked on a busy street in Shoreditch. The sun 
shines bright. Hedges and Newquist sit in the front wearing 
sunglasses. McEnroe squints.

                                      47.

             HEDGES
      So you were actually in Philip 
      Acheson’s flat?

             MCENROE
      Yeah. 

             HEDGES
      Incredible!
        (turns to Newquist)
      It’s incredible, no?

             NEWQUIST
      Incredible.

             HEDGES
        (back to McEnroe)
      I have to say, well done you. Did 
      you talk to Acheson?

             MCENROE
      Yeah, I met the guy.

             HEDGES
        (to Newquist)
      Must be great to be a celebrity.

             NEWQUIST
      Enviable access...

             HEDGES
        (back to McEnroe)
      What was he like?

             MCENROE
      I don’t know... rich guy. Talked 
      about tennis - said he hoped I won 
      the tournament. Then he told me to 
      enjoy myself at the party, and that 
      was it. He seemed nice enough.

             HEDGES
      Yeah, nice guy... for someone who 
      buys orphanages in Southeast Asia, 
      so that he can sell virgins to 
      wealthy businessmen.

             MCENROE
        (disturbed)
      He didn’t mention that.

Hedges EXITS the car, and walks around to the back. McEnroe 
has no idea what’s going on. The trunk opens and there’s the 
sound of things being shuffled around.

                                      48.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      What’s he doing?

             NEWQUIST
      Sounds like he’s looking for 
      something in the boot.

They wait. Hedges opens the back door, and plops down next to 
McEnroe. He’s holding a messy, beat-up file, and hands it to 
McEnroe.

             HEDGES
      Take a look through these.

McEnroe opens up the file and finds a stack of surveillance 
photographs. He flips through them.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      Recognize anyone?

Eventually, McEnroe pauses on a photo of the woman with the 
BOBBED HAIRCUT from the party.

             MCENROE
      Her. She was definitely there.

Hedges and Newquist look at each other. They’re pleased. 

             HEDGES
      Interesting. Anyone else?

McEnroe goes back to looking through the stack. Some of the 
people in the photos do look vaguely familiar, but it’s hard 
to tell.

             MCENROE
      Mmmm...
        (he reaches the bottom)
      I don’t know, the pictures aren’t 
      so clear, but definitely her.

Hedges and Newquist are satisfied.

             HEDGES
      It’s a little hard to believe, but 
      you’ve actually been very helpful.

McEnroe is pleased with himself.

             MCENROE
      So am I done? Can I go back to 
      being a tennis player?

                                      49.

             HEDGES
      Of course you’re not done. You’re 
      not even close to done. You have a 
      personal relationship to Philip 
      Acheson. You’re the best connection 
      we have.

             MCENROE
      Great.

             HEDGES
      Keep up the good work. We will be 
      in touch.

Hedges reaches across McEnroe, and pushes the door open.

             MCENROE
      You’re not going to drive me back 
      to the hotel?

             HEDGES
      What do you think? I’m a fucking 
      taxi driver?

             NEWQUIST 
      The tube is right over there.

Annoyed, McEnroe gets out of the car. Hedges and Newquist 
drive away. McEnroe walks off toward the tube stop.

REVEAL: Across the street, the TWO BUSINESSMEN who slipped 
the envelope into Lars’ pocket in the lobby are sitting in a 
BLACK 1980 ASTON MARTIN. They’ve been watching McEnroe with 
Hedges and Newquist. They shake their heads.

INT. ST. JAMES HOTEL - FRONT DESK

McEnroe enters the hotel and walks up to the front desk.

             MCENROE
      Can I have my room key?

             CLERK
      My pleasure.

The clerk turns around, grabs the key from the cubbyhole, and 
then returns.

             CLERK
	(CONT’D)
      There’s also a message for you, Mr. 
      McEnroe.

                                      50.

The clerk hands him a folded slip of paper along with the 
room key. McEnroe reads it, and grimaces. He hands the key 
back to the clerk.

             MCENROE
      On second thought, keep this.

He staggers back out.

INT. HYDE PARK - SPEAKER’S CORNER - ONE HOUR LATER

A GAUNT OLD BRITISH MAN stands on a metal folding chair. His 
upper-class accent contrasts with his homeless appearance.

             SPEAKER
      ...and that’s why I say, Mrs. 
      Thatcher, your arrogance is as 
      pernicious as any one of your 
      predecessors. 

McEnroe listens along with several others.

             SPEAKER
	(CONT’D)
      How long will our nation continue 
      to perform this imperialist 
      symphony of looting, pillaging, and 
      rape? From the Tasmanian genocide 
      to the atrocities in Congo. From 
      the Batang Kali in Malaya to the 
      Hola camp in Kenya to the wanton 
      destruction of Mahdi's tomb at 
      Omdurman. The subjugation of other 
      is sport! Bahrain, the Maldives, 
      Palestine, Belize, The Falkland 
      Islands, Vanuatu, Zimbabwe, Kenya, 
      Cyprus, Suez, Lugash, Aden! The 
      British Empire is, to quote Mr. 
      Orwell, nothing but "a despotism 
      with theft as its final object!” 
        (screams)
      The theft continues!!

McEnroe listens. Behind him a BENTLEY LIMOUSINE with tinted 
windows pulls up. He doesn’t notice. Lars gets out of the 
back of the limo and walks up to McEnroe. He listens for a 
moment.

             LARS
      What a fucking idiot.

McEnroe realizes Lars is next to him.

             MCENROE
      I was kind of getting a kick out of 
      him.

Lars rolls his eyes, and they start to walk away.

                                      51.

             LARS
      Politics is stupid.

             MCENROE
      So what did you want to talk about?

             LARS
      Philip was very impressed by you.

             MCENROE
      Oh, really...

             LARS
      He wanted me to talk to you. About 
      a business proposition. There’s a 
      project he’s working on doing. He 
      thinks you’d be a great partner in 
      this, and he’d like to talk to you 
      about it.

This scares McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      Business deal? I’m not really a 
      businessman. What’s this deal?

             LARS
      Something we’ve been working on. 
      Probably better you hear it from 
      him. 

McEnroe knows he has to keep Hedges and Newquist happy.

             MCENROE
      Okay... sure. I’ll talk to him.

             LARS
      This is great news. How about now?

             MCENROE
      Now?

             LARS
      Yes. There is never any time like 
      the present time.

Lars motions to the Bentley limousine. McEnroe did not expect 
this.

                                      52.

             MCENROE
      Now now? Here? In that?

He follows Lars over to the door of the Bentley. A GIGANTIC 
THUG gets out. McEnroe, apprehensive, gets in.

INT. BENTLEY LIMOUSINE - MINUTES LATER

The Bentley is moving. McEnroe sits across from Lars and 
Philip Acheson, between TWO THUGS. 

             PHILIP
      Pleasure seeing you again, John.

             MCENROE
      Yeah... good to see you.

             PHILIP
      I hope you enjoyed yourself the 
      other night.

             MCENROE
      You really know how to throw a 
      party.

Philip smiles. A long silence. McEnroe is nervous.

             PHILIP
      You seem nervous.

             MCENROE
      I’m not nervous.

             PHILIP
      But you seem nervous.

             MCENROE
      I’m not.

             PHILIP
      Are you sure?

             MCENROE
      Should I be? Nervous?

             PHILIP
      Of course not.

Philip nods to the thugs on either side of McEnroe, and they 
begin to frisk him.

             MCENROE
      What the fuck!?

They frisk him a little bit more roughly, and then, 
satisfied, stop. Lars is extremely nervous and fidgety.

                                      53.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus Christ!

             PHILIP
      I’m sorry, for the lack of 
      delicacy, John, but I had to be 
      sure that your ears were the only 
      ones hearing this.

             MCENROE
      Who else’s ears would be hearing 
      this?

             PHILIP
      There are many people who would 
      like to learn about my current 
      projects. You know, business 
      competitors. I do apologize if 
      Gerald and Maurice startled you. 

Philip waits for McEnroe to say something. McEnroe stares 
back blankly.

             PHILIP
	(CONT’D)
      Do you accept my apology?

             MCENROE
      Okay...

             PHILIP
      That’s a relief. Thank you. Now, 
      the reason I asked Lars to set up 
      this meeting is because there’s a 
      project some associates and I are 
      putting together, and there’s a 
      role we all agree is perfectly 
      suited to your talents.

             MCENROE
      My talents? As a tennis player?

             PHILIP
      In a sense. But, it’s actually not 
      your tennis skills that interest us 
      as much as your status as a 
      celebrity.

             MCENROE
      Not really a talent.

                                      54.

             PHILIP
      You’ve been invited to the Duke’s 
      banquet, no?

             MCENROE
      Yeah, I think all the players were 
      invited...

             PHILIP
      Actually, only the elite.

             MCENROE
      Well, I usually don’t go to stuff 
      like that.

             PHILIP
      We’d like to ask that you do.

             MCENROE
      You want me to go to the Duke’s 
      banquet?

             PHILIP
      Yes.

             MCENROE
      And then what?

             PHILIP
      That’s it. Just go and enjoy 
      yourself.

             MCENROE
      And that helps you?

             PHILIP
      There’s a hundred thousand pounds 
      in it for you at the end of the 
      evening.

             MCENROE
      I don’t get it.

             PHILIP
        (laughs politely)
      You don’t need to.

The limousine pulls to a stop in front of McEnroe’s hotel.

             PHILIP
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll see you at the banquet?

             MCENROE
      Can I think about it?

                                      55.

             PHILIP
        (smiles)
      Of course, why wouldn’t you be able 
      to think about it?

             MCENROE
      I don’t know... 

McEnroe, scared, awkwardly smile back at Philip. McEnroe and 
Lars get out of the limousine, and watch it drive away. When 
it’s out of sight, McEnroe drags Lars down the street and 
into an alley.

EXT. ALLEY

             MCENROE
      God damnit! I can’t believe you got 
      me into this!

             LARS
      I thought you’d be excited. It’s a 
      chance to make a lot of money.

             MCENROE
      There’s no fucking way I do this!

Lars looks concerned.

             LARS
      Be careful what you say, John. When 
      Philip Acheson asks you to do a 
      job, he’s not really asking you.

McEnroe grabs Lars roughly and throws him hard up against a 
wall, knocking him down to the ground. It’s violent.

Lars stands up, and PULLS OUT A KNIFE. McEnroe can’t believe 
this.

             MCENROE
      What are you, fucking kidding me?

             LARS
      Take it easy, John.

McEnroe turns and walks away.

             MCENROE
      Go fuck yourself.

                                      56.

INT. ST. JAMES HOTEL 

McEnroe walks into the hotel’s REVOLVING DOOR very quickly. 

He gets about halfway through the revolving door, and sees 
Fleming, Carillo, and Julie Clemons walking across the lobby 
to the bar adjacent, which makes him remember the plan he 
made with Julie. 

             MCENROE
        (to himself)
      Shit!

Panicked, he continues to walk through the revolving doors 
and heads back out to the street.

Julie sees him avoiding her and is hurt.

EXT. ST. JAMES HOTEL

McEnroe runs directly into someone else he doesn’t want to 
see... Jimmy Connors, signing autographs for a group of 
tourists.

             CONNORS
        (mockingly)
      Ooooh, look, it’s John McEnroe! 
      He’s always angry!

They tourists laugh. McEnroe turns away, and begins to walk 
down the street as quickly as possible. His walk becomes a 
jog and then, eventually, an all out sprint. 

INT. BUILDING - LATER

McEnroe stands with his arms crossed. He’s disguised in a 
crappy ‘London’ hat and cheap sunglasses. He looks around 
nervously.

REVEAL: He stands next to ALBERT EINSTEIN. Hedges and 
Newquist walk by. They don’t recognize him.

             MCENROE
        (whispering)
      Over here. Over here.

They walk up to him.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      What took you so long? I’m losing 
      my mind over here.

                                      57.

             HEDGES
      Just calm down. Take a breath. 

             NEWQUIST
      Nice hat.

             HEDGES
      Let’s walk. 

INT. MADAME TUSSAUD’S WAX MUSEUM - MOMENTS LATER

They walk and talk quietly.

             HEDGES
      Now what happened?

             MCENROE
      They want me to take part in some 
      sort of plan.

             NEWQUIST
      Who?

             MCENROE
      Acheson.

As they walk, they pass different wax figures in Madame 
Tussaud’s. The collection is what it would be in 1980, e.g.: 
BURT REYNOLDS, ELTON JOHN, JOHN & YOKO, STEVE MARTIN in a 
white suit and an arrow through his head, ABBA, PELE, 
MUHAMMED ALI, JIMMY CARTER shaking hands with MENACHEM BEGIN 
AND ANWAR SADAT, etc...

             HEDGES
      Philip Acheson wants you to take 
      part in a plan. That’s brilliant.

             MCENROE
      It’s definitely not ‘brilliant’.

             HEDGES
      What’s the plan?

             MCENROE
      I have no fucking idea. They want 
      me to  go to the Duke’s banquet at 
      the British Museum. And they 
      offered me 100,000 pounds.

They wait for him finish explaining, but he doesn’t.

             HEDGES
      To do what?

                                      58.

             MCENROE
      I don’t know. They said there’s 
      nothing I have to do - they just 
      want me to be there.

             NEWQUIST
      Peculiar.

             HEDGES
      Obviously, they’re up to some sort 
      chicanery in the British Museum. 
      That place is a fucking fortress.

             NEWQUIST
      Impenetrable.

             HEDGES
      You’d have an easier time 
      infiltrating the bloody Tower of 
      London. 
        (then)
      You said you’d do it, right?

McEnroe stops walking.

             MCENROE
      Of course I didn’t say I’d do it! 
      It’s too much. You guys gotta get 
      me out of this. I’m going to get 
      killed or something. Look, you 
      wanted help and I helped you. I 
      hung out with Lars. I met Philip 
      Acheson. I found that something’s 
      going down at the British Museum on 
      the night of the Duke’s Banquet. 
      Isn’t that enough? Can’t you take 
      over from here? Can’t I go back to 
      my life?

             HEDGES
      He wants you to go to a banquet, 
      what’s the big deal? Weren’t you 
      going to go anyway? 

             MCENROE
      They want to give me 100,000 pounds 
      to do nothing! That can’t be a good 
      thing!

             HEDGES
      John, you’re doing great. We can’t 
      stop now, we don’t even know what’s 
      happening. You have my word, we’ll 
      protect you.

                                      59.

             MCENROE
      That’s so comforting.

             HEDGES
      Soon enough you’ll be back in the 
      states, and you can forget about 
      this whole business.

             MCENROE
      Yeah, if I’m still alive.

Suddenly, McEnroe is startled. He’s ended up next to the wax 
figure of BJORN BORG. 

INT. WIMBLEDON - LOCKER ROOM - NEXT DAY

McEnroe, focused, finishes getting dressed for tennis. After 
a few moments, we see Fleming getting ready a few feet away. 
Awkward silence.

             FLEMING
      How come you didn’t come to the bar 
      last night?

             MCENROE
      I couldn’t. I’ve got a lot going 
      on.

             FLEMING
      Hey guess what? You’re not the only 
      one trying to win a championship.

McEnroe would love to tell Fleming what’s going on. Silence.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      Aside from that its stupid to be a 
      dick to a Sports Illustrated 
      reporter, you also don’t have to be 
      mean to a nice person.

This bothers McEnroe, because he knows Fleming’s right.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      She saw you.

McEnroe feels bad he hurt Julie.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      You know, you have friends. What’s 
      going on with you?

                                      60.

             MCENROE
        (snapping)
      Nothing. Nothing’s going on. Can’t 
      you see I just want to be left 
      alone?

Fleming shakes his head. McEnroe picks up his tennis bag, and 
walks away from his friend. 

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER TWO

McEnroe exits the tunnel and walks onto the court. The crowd 
reacts, a lot of CHEERS and a few BOOS. As always, he turns 
his chair to the side, sits down, and starts organizing his 
things.

McEnroe hears the crowd react to his opponent’s entrance -- 
it’s not as loud as for McEnroe, but there’s no booing. 
Fleming sits in the chair opposite McEnroe.

TITLE: JULY 1, 1980 - QUARTER FINAL

The names MCENROE and FLEMING are on the scoreboard.

In the crowd, Carillo watches her two friends. She looks 
pained. 

MONTAGE: McEnroe completely decimates Fleming. It’s ugly, and 
difficult for Carillo to watch. Repeatedly, McEnroe hits 
powerful winners. Repeatedly, Fleming chases after balls he 
cannot reach, watches aces blaze by him, flails for perfect 
lobs that go over him. It’s brutal.

McEnroe wins. He and Fleming shake hands at the net.

             MCENROE
      I’m sorry I’ve been a dick lately.

             FLEMING
      I’m sorry you just kicked my ass.

McEnroe smiles.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      Just win the whole damn thing, 
      okay?

They shake hands with the UMPIRE, and sit down in their 
chairs, put their warm-up jackets on, and pack their gear 
into their tennis bags.

                                      61.

             FLEMING
	(CONT’D)
      The least you can do is buy me a 
      beer.

McEnroe wishes he could.

             MCENROE
      Peter, I’m really sorry, but I 
      can’t right now. I have to go meet 
      somebody.

Fleming finishes gathering up his stuff.

             FLEMING
      Yeah. All right, champ.

McEnroe watches Fleming walk away.

INT. TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe exits the stadium through the tunnel. Instead of 
going to the locker-room and changing his clothes, he exits 
through the player’s entrance. Still wearing his Tacchini 
warm-ups and carrying his tennis bag, he walks quickly 
through the crowd, trying to avoid contact with the fans. 

EXT. WIMBLEDON GROUNDS - MOMENTS LATER

McEnroe sees Julie hanging out with a group of journalists. 
He stops and looks at his watch. 

             MCENROE
        (mumbles to himself)
      God damnit.

He jogs up to her. The other journalists turn, impressed by 
Julie’s familiarity with the tennis star.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (awkward)
      Sorry... can I talk to you for a 
      second?

             JULIE
        (with attitude)
      Okay...

They walk a few steps away from the group.

             MCENROE
      I’m actually running somewhere, but 
      I saw you... 

                                      62.

             MCENROE
	(CONT'D)
      and I wanted to say I’m sorry I 
      didn’t - sorry I wasn’t able to 
      make it to the bar last night.

             JULIE
      Yeah, that was weird.

             MCENROE
      This tournament’s making me crazy.

             JULIE
        (sarcastic)
      I’m sure it’s hard being John 
      McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      Can I make it up to you?

             JULIE
      I’m guessing you’re busy tonight.

             MCENROE
      Yeah, tonight is definitely not 
      good.

             JULIE
      Well, the tournament’s over Sunday, 
      then Monday I’m back to LA, and 
      you’re back to New York...

             MCENROE
      Yeah...

McEnroe looks at his watch.

             JULIE
      Well, you clearly have some place 
      to go...

             MCENROE
        (panicked)
      Would you want to come with me to 
      the Duke’s banquet tomorrow night?

             JULIE
      Really?

             MCENROE
      Yeah, really. I would really love 
      for you to come with me. I know I 
      messed up yesterday, but please let 
      me make it up to you.

                                      63.

             JULIE
      I’m shocked.

             MCENROE
      So... that’s a yes?

             JULIE
      Yes. Definitely.

For once, McEnroe looks happy.

             MCENROE
      Great! That’s great. I really do 
      have to go. We’ll make a plan 
      later. It’s gonna be good.

He walks away from her. He moves through the grounds, and 
ducks out a side exit.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - OUTSIDE WIMBLEDON - LATER

McEnroe stands at the curb. Almost immediately, a London Taxi 
pulls up.

McEnroe gets into the backseat of the taxi. McEnroe doesn’t 
say an address, but the taxi pulls away. The driver takes a 
big drag of his cigarette. It’s the DETECTIVE WITH A MUSTACHE 
from the police station and the bar. Neither one speaks.

The taxi passes through many neighborhoods and eventually 
stops in front of KING’S CROSS STATION. 

EXT. KING’S CROSS STATION - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe gets out of the taxi without a word. The streets are 
loaded with pedestrians. McEnroe runs across the busy Euston 
Road, and stands on the opposite corner. 

A car pulls up in front of McEnroe. He gets in, and the car 
pulls away. Lars is driving.

EXT. LONDON STREETS - MOMENTS LATER

Another car turns a corner. It’s Hedges and Newquist’s CRAPPY 
1972 DATSUN STATION WAGON. It begins to follow Lars and 
McEnroe.

INT. LARS’ CAR

Lars drives. The sun is going down.

                                      64.

             LARS
      I heard you played pretty well 
      today.

             MCENROE
      Yeah, it was okay.

             LARS
      Sorry I didn’t get a chance to see 
      it.

             MCENROE
      No problem.

             LARS
      Always hard to play your best 
      friend.

             MCENROE
        (annoyed)
      Yeah, whatever.

EXT. STREETS

Lars and McEnroe drive through the outskirts of the city. 
Hedges and Newquist follow.

INT. LARS’ CAR

             LARS
      You don’t need to be nervous about 
      this meeting, John. We won’t be 
      there very long.

             MCENROE
      Okay.

McEnroe casually looks in his side view mirror and catches a 
glimpse of Hedges and Newquist’s crappy Datsun behind them. 
This puts McEnroe a little bit at ease.

INT. HEDGES AND NEWQUIST’S DATSUN

             HEDGES
      Where the hell is he going?

Newquist shrugs. Hedges glances in the rear-view mirror and 
sees a BLACK VAN behind them.

                                      65.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      It looks like Lars isn’t the only 
      one being followed.

             NEWQUIST
      Are you sure?

             HEDGES
      I don’t know.

             NEWQUIST
      Can you shake ‘em?

             HEDGES
      We’ve got to stay behind Lars.

INT. LARS’ CAR

Lars notices McEnroe glancing in his side view mirror, and 
takes a look in his rear view mirror. He suddenly makes a 
left turn, and sees that Hedges makes the turn after him.

             LARS
      Shit. Are we’re being followed?

             MCENROE
      What?

Lars turns right into a residential neighborhood to test the 
car behind him.

INT. HEDGES AND NEWQUIST’S DATSUN

Hedges makes the turn to follow.

             NEWQUIST
      Do you think he knows we’re 
      following him?

             HEDGES
      I’m not sure...

Hedges glances in the rear-view mirror and sees the black van 
still behind them.

             NEWQUIST
      Shouldn’t we peel off if he knows 
      he’s being followed?

             HEDGES
      I don’t know.

INT. LARS’ CAR

Lars makes another turn, and sees that the Datsun follows 
him. Lars glances at McEnroe suspiciously.

                                      66.

             LARS
        (re: Datsun)
      Who the fuck are these assholes?

INT. HEDGE’S AND NEWQUIST’S CAR

Hedges looks at the black van behind them.

             HEDGES
      Who the fuck are these assholes?

INT. BLACK VAN

             DRIVER
        (re: Hedges and Newquist)
      Who the fuck are these assholes?

Inside the black van are the TWO BUSINESSMEN who 
previously... A) put the envelope in Lars’ pocket in the 
hotel lobby, and B) spied on McEnroe, Hedges, and Newquist 
from their parked Black 1980 Aston Martin. The driver wears a 
BLUE SUIT, the passenger a GRAY SUIT.

INT. HEDGE’S AND NEWQUIST’S DATSUN

Hedges and Newquist are getting jumpy.

             NEWQUIST
      Let’s fuck off.

             HEDGES
        (flustered)
      Dammit...

INT. LARS’ CAR

             LARS
      Jesus Christ John. Is this you?

             MCENROE
      What? I don’t know what you’re 
      talking about.

                                      67.

INT. BLACK VAN

             BLUE SUIT
        (figuring it out)
      It’s those idiots who’ve been 
      following McEnroe.

             GRAY SUIT
      This ends now.

Blue Suit steps on the on the gas.

EXT. STREET

With incredible skill,
 the black van drives up onto the 
sidewalk and blows past both Hedges & Newquist and Lars’ car. 
It spins to a stop in front of Lars, forcing him to brake to 
a screeching halt just inches away from the van.

Hedges hits the breaks but can’t stop his car in time, and 
rear ends Lars, crashing Lars’ car into the side of the van.

INT. LARS’ CAR

McEnroe sees Blue Suit and Gray Suit leap out of the van, 
carrying GUNS. He is terrified, but they walk quickly past 
him and Lars. They go directly to Hedges & Newquist, who have 
gotten out of their car.

EXT. STREET

On one side of Lars’ car Hedges faces off with Blue Suit and 
on the other side Newquist faces off with Gray Suit.

             HEDGES
      Police!

             BLUE SUIT
      As if that’s not completely 
      obvious. We’re MI-5, moron. So 
      relax.

             HEDGES
      What’s going on here? What the hell 
      are you up to?

             GRAY SUIT
      A better question is... what are 
      you up to?

                                      68.

             HEDGES
      Why is that a better question?

GRAY SUIT doesn’t know exactly how to answer. A pause as they 
all look at each other.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      We’re building a case against 
      Philip Acheson. And John McEnroe 
      here is our inside guy.

INT. LARS’ CAR

Lars’ shoots a look at McEnroe. McEnroe looks away, guiltily.

EXT. STREET

Blue Suit and Black Suit finally understand what’s happening. 
They look at each other and roll their eyes. GRAY SUIT looks 
at his watch.

             GRAY SUIT
      I don’t have a lot of time to make 
      this point, so you two listen to me 
      closely. You’re building a case 
      against Philip Acheson. Good for 
      you. But Philip Acheson is nothing. 
      We’ve spent the past three years 
      building a case against Philip 
      Acheson’s boss...

He quickly flings open the car door, and violently pulls Lars 
out by the scruff of his collar.

             GRAY SUIT
	(CONT’D)
      ...and this is our informant.

McEnroe leans out of the car and looks angrily at Lars.

             MCENROE
      Oh, come on!

             NEWQUIST
      What do you mean, ‘Acheson’s boss’?

             GRAY SUIT
      Philip Acheson is an underling. He 
      works for the Red Snake.

Hedges and Newquist laugh.

                                      69.

             HEDGES
      The Red Snake? Don’t be ridiculous. 
      There is no Red Snake.

             GRAY SUIT
      We don’t have to explain this to 
      you.

             NEWQUIST
     Fuck you.

             BLUE SUIT
      Fuck you!

             LARS
      No, fuck you all! 

They all turn to Lars.

             LARS
	(CONT’D)
      Let me remind you that if we are 
      late for this meeting it is not 
      going to be pretty for us. Not 
      pretty at all. Because we will be 
      killed.

McEnroe does not like hearing the word “killed”.

             LARS
	(CONT’D)
      And none of you will ever get 
      Philip Acheson or the Red Snake, if 
      he exists, or anybody! We need to 
      go now. Big time.

EXT. HIGHWAY - MINUTES LATER

Lars’ car moves quickly. Following from a distance is the 
black van. 

INT. LARS’ CAR

Lars and McEnroe sit in silence, shaken.

INT. BLACK VAN

Blue Suit and Gray Suit drive in silence. Hedges and Newquist 
sit uncomfortably on the floor in the back. 

                                      70.

EXT. ABANDONED INDUSTRIAL AREA - LATER

Lars’ car pulls up to a large warehouse. Lars and McEnroe get 
out, approach the warehouse, and enter. It is now completely 
dark outside.

INT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The interior is cavernous. In the middle is a cluster of 
people... Philip Acheson sits behind a table, studying blue 
prints. To his right is a MAN WITH DARK GLASSES and a SEEING 
EYE DOG. To his left is the beautiful WOMAN WITH BOBBED 
HAIRCUT, who McEnroe recognizes from both Acheson’s party and 
the photo from Hedges and Newquist’s file. 

In front of them is an area set up like a practice area for a 
crime: tape on the floor demarcating the layout of rooms and 
doors; tables, chairs, and various props; a table with a 
DIORAMA OF THE BRITISH MUSEUM, a rolling corkboard with 
photos of various people and rooms. A group of people, 
including a BEAUTIFUL BALD BLACK WOMAN and an ALBINO, prepare 
the area. 

Lars attempts to adopt a casual tone.

             LARS
      Sorry we’re late, Philip. Johnny 
      Mac had to do some press after his 
      match.

McEnroe nods.

             PHILIP
        (ignoring Lars)
      John, we’re so glad you decided to 
      be a part of our team.

             MCENROE
      Uh huh.

             PHILIP
      I understand you’re attending the 
      Duke’s gala at the British Museum 
      tomorrow night?

             MCENROE
      That’s right.

             PHILIP
      And you’ll be coming from your 
      match, so you’ll have your tennis 
      bag.

                                      71.

             MCENROE
      Actually, I’ll probably be at the 
      hotel--

             PHILIP
        (interrupting)
      You’ll have your tennis bag with 
      you.

             MCENROE
        (getting it)
      Okay... I’ll have my tennis bag.

             PHILIP
      Leave it with the coat check, and 
      then - when we tell you it’s time 
      to go home - pick it up, and 
      deliver it to us at a location we 
      will tell you when the time comes. 
      That’s easy, right?

             MCENROE
      Doesn’t sound too complicated.

INT. BLACK VAN - CONTINUOUS

Blue Suit, Gray Suit, Hedges, and Newquist eavesdrop on this 
conversation through a speaker.

INT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Philip looks around at the rest of the people in the room, 
smiling. Everyone smiles back. McEnroe doesn’t smile. He’s 
disturbed.

             LARS
        (to McEnroe)
      I told you it would be easy.

             PHILIP
      One other thing... you will bring 
      Camilla as your escort. She will 
      meet you in your hotel room at 
      exactly...

Philip turns to the beautiful woman with the BOBBED HAIRCUT. 
This is CAMILLA.

             CAMILLA
      ...half-past seven.

McEnroe realizes this will fuck up his plan with Julie.

                                      72.

             MCENROE
      Ahhhhh, I’m not sure if I can bring-

             PHILIP
        (interrupting)
      Is there a problem?

             MCENROE
      Uhhhhh... no. No problem.

             LARS
        (to McEnroe)
      And I’ll be there the whole time, 
      so there’s nothing to worry about.

             PHILIP
      Actually Lars, we have an 
      assignment for you.
        (he looks off to the side)
      Walter?

From out of the shadows appears the BEHEMOTH WITH THE CAMERA 
who bumped into McEnroe in the hotel lobby. McEnroe 
recognizes him. Walter hands a manila folder to Philip.

Philip opens it, extracts some SURVEILLANCE PHOTOS and lays 
them out on the table.

             PHILIP
	(CONT’D)
      Perhaps you could help me with 
      this, Lars?

Lars looks at the photos, and sees they are of him talking to 
Blue Suit and Gray Suit in the hotel lobby.

             PHILIP
	(CONT’D)
      Because I’ve been studying them for 
      a long time, and I can’t come up 
      with a satisfactory explanation.

             LARS
      Yeah, that’s me in the hotel lobby 
      talking to --

Walter rips open Lars’ shirt, exposing a WIRE taped to his 
chest. Everyone stares at Lars. McEnroe is terrified for both 
of them.

             LARS
	(CONT’D)
        (afraid)
      But Philip, I ---

The albino rips McEnroe’s tennis shirt open, revealing his 
bare chest. No wire.

                                      73.

             PHILIP
      Well, that’s a relief, Mr. McEnroe.

             LARS
        (terrified)
      Philip, you don’t understand. I ---

A single GUNSHOT rings out. Lars’ face is blown off. Blood 
splatters all over McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      Ahhhhhh...

McEnroe’s world is shattered.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      You! Cannot! Be! Serious!!! 

McEnroe cowers, terrified that he’s going to be shot next.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (pleading)
      You cannot be serious!

INT. BLACK VAN

Blue Suit, Gray Suit, Hedges, and Newquist listen to McEnroe 
scream.

             MCENROE
        (through the wire)
      YOU CANNOT BE SERIOUS!

             NEWQUIST
      This isn’t good.

             HEDGES
      We need to go in.

             BLUE SUIT
      Hold tight.

We hear a SMASH, and the wire goes dead.

INT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Walter stands over Lars’ bloody corpse and holds the now-
smashed wire. McEnroe continues to freak out. He wails and 
cries.

             MCENROE
      You cannot... be... serious!

                                      74.

INT. WAREHOUSE - UPSTAIRS

From a dark platform overlooking the scene, a SHADOWY FIGURE 
lowers a RIFLE. We never see the shadowy figures face, but we 
do see a TATOO OF A RED SNAKE on the right side of his neck. 

             MCENROE
      You cannot be serious!!! Oh God...

Tears are streaming down McEnroe’s face. 

INT. WAREHOUSE - DOWNSTAIRS - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe puts his hand on his face and realizes that he’s 
holding bits of Lars’ BRAIN MATTER.

             MCENROE
        (even louder)
      YOU CANNOT BE SERIOUS!!!

             PHILIP
      Mr. McEnroe, I hope this impresses 
      upon you ---

McEnroe’s whimpering is so loud that Philip has to restart 
his sentence.

             PHILIP
	(CONT’D)
      I hope you understand ---

McEnroe’s continues whimpering.

             PHILIP
	(CONT’D)
      John, please pull yourself 
      together.

             MCENROE
        (still out of control)
      Oh, my God! Fuck me!!!

Another SHOT rings out. The bullet tears up the concrete at 
McEnroe’s feet. He is stunned into silence. Philip looks 
behind to the shadowy figure upstairs. He turns slowly back 
to McEnroe.

             PHILIP
      John, my employer - actually, our 
      employer - does not have a great 
      deal of patience for emotional 
      outbursts. Especially at work. 

                                      75.

             PHILIP
	(CONT'D)
      Now, I’m sure it’s been impressed 
      upon you that should the two men 
      that your friend Lars was working 
      with approach you, you will 
      politely decline their entreaties.

McEnroe nods, terrified.

             VOICE
        (echoes)
      You’re dead, McEnroe.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - COURT NUMBER ONE - DAY 

             VOICE
      Did you hear me?

McEnroe turns toward the voice... it’s Jimmy Connors. 

             CONNORS 
      I said you’re dead, McEnroe.

TITLE: JULY 4, 1980 - SEMI-FINAL

The match is already in progress. McEnroe and Connors are 
resting in their chairs during their changeover. The 
scoreboard shows that McEnroe won the first set 6-3 but has 
lost the second 3-6. He frowns at Connors.

             CONNORS
	(CONT’D)
      God, McEnroe, you’re such a baby!
        (then, with baby voice)
      Does little baby need his diaper 
      changed? 

McEnroe shrugs, grabs his water bottle.

             CONNORS
	(CONT’D)
      Oh wook, widdle baby wants his 
      bottle!

McEnroe shakes his head, but remains calm.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - NO. 1 COURT - LATER 

MONTAGE: Long, grueling points between Connors and McEnroe.

EXT. NO. 1 COURT - CHANGEOVER - LATER

In his chair, McEnroe wipes his sweat off with a towel.

                                      76.

             CONNORS
      Look, widdle baby has his bwankie! 
      It’s so cute! Is baby potty 
      twained?

McEnroe rolls his eyes at this.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - NO. 1 COURT - LATER

The rivals play a long, intense rally. Connors hits an 
incredible drop shot. McEnroe charges in, makes an amazing 
get, barely popping the ball back over. Connors SMASHES the 
ball as hard as he can right at McEnroe, almost killing him, 
and winning the point.

The UMPIRE, a 65-year-old man with a bald head with a white 
fluffy fringe, and a very pronounced big, angular nose, leans 
into his microphone.

             UMPIRE
      Game, Mr. Connors.

The crowd CHEERS. McEnroe looks angrily at Connors.

             CONNORS
      Wah! Wahhhhh! Wahhh! Goo goo gah 
      gah! I want my Mommy!!!

McEnroe takes a step away from Connors.

             CONNORS
	(CONT’D)
      I got scared by the fuzzy ball and 
      went poopie in my diaper!

McEnroe stops, turns around, and stares angrily at Connors. 
He struggles to restrain himself. Connors smiles at him, and 
walks away. McEnroe doesn’t move. The crowd gets restless.

             UMPIRE
      Mr. McEnroe, resume play.

Still at the net, McEnroe continues to stare hatefully at 
Connors, who smiles and waits to return serve. The crowd gets 
louder.

             UMPIRE
	(CONT’D)
      Mr. McEnroe, please resume play.

             MCENROE
      Shut up, you bald eagle!

The umpire is hurt, because he does resemble a bald eagle. 
The crowd is outraged and BOOS McEnroe.

                                      77.

             UMPIRE
      Warning, Mr. McEnroe.

The crowd goes crazy, and CHEERS. Connors, jokingly looks at 
his wrist, as if commenting on the time that is passing. The 
crowd laughs.

McEnroe is on the verge of losing it, but for once grits his 
teeth and walks back to the service line. A ballboy throws 
him a ball. He immediately - without going through his usual, 
involved pre-service routine, serves. SMACK! The ball goes by 
Connors before he can even react. Ace!

EXT. WIMBLEDON - NO. 1 COURT - LATER

MONTAGE: McEnroe annihilating Connors.

The montage ends with a beautiful backhand winner.

             UMPIRE
      Game, set, match McEnroe.

The crowd BOOS. McEnroe stands and takes in the crowd hating 
him.

EXT. ST. JAMES HOTEL - LATER

McEnroe walks into the lobby.

INT. ST. JAMES LOBBY

McEnroe walks through the lobby and sees Walter and the other 
thug who ripped his shirt open in the warehouse, eyeing him. 
He walks onto the elevator, followed by a BELLHOP with a 
luggage cart.

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe exhales, relieved. The elevator stops on a floor. 
It’s not his floor, so he doesn’t move. The bellhop exits, 
pulling the cart.

             BELLHOP
        (matter of fact)
      You need to follow me to room 402.

             MCENROE
      I do?

                                      78.

The bellhop holds the door open. McEnroe tries to decide 
whether this guy is a cop or one of Phillip Acheson’s men, 
and then realizes he has to follow him either way. 

INT. FOURTH FLOOR HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe, resigned, follows the bellhop. With every bend in 
the hallway McEnroe becomes more anxious. Finally, the 
bellhop knocks on the door of 402. It’s opened by a MAN 
McEnroe doesn’t recognize. The man steps aside, and the 
bellhop motions for McEnroe to enter.

INT. ROOM 402 - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe, followed by the bellhop, enters.

             HEDGES
      Johnny Mac! There’s our boy, ready 
      for his big night.

The room is packed with people, many who are smoking: COPS 
and MI-5 AGENTS, some dressed as bellhops, maids, and hotel 
chefs. Next to Hedges are Newquist, Blue Suit, and Gray Suit. 
A young ARISTOCRATIC-LOOKING MAN sits alone in the corner. 

A couple of agents begin to take bags off of the luggage cart 
and unpack them. They are full of surveillance equipment, 
weapons, etc.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      Come on in, don’t be shy, let me 
      introduce you to--

             BLUE SUIT
        (interrupts and motions to 
         a chair)
      Why don’t you have a seat, John?

Hedges shuts up, pissed. McEnroe sits down, and waves some 
smoke away from his face. He coughs. A 60-YEAR-OLD MAN in a 
pinstripe suit approaches McEnroe.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
      John, I can’t thank you enough for 
      coming. I’m Howard Smith, I’m the 
      Director General of the Security 
      Service, and we all greatly 
      appreciate the work you’re doing on 
      our behalf. I know you’ve already 
      met...
        (motions to Blue Suit and 
         Gray Suit)

                                      79.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
	(CONT'D)
      ...agents Lander and Evans, and...
        (motions to Hedges and 
         Newquist)
      ...those two. But I’d like you to 
      meet...

He turns dramatically to the aristocratic-looking man in the 
corner.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
	(CONT’D)
      ...Charles, the Prince of Wales.

A 31-year-old PRINCE CHARLES, wearing his signature blue 
blazer and tie, walks over to McEnroe, who is shocked.

             PRINCE CHARLES
      A pleasure to meet you, Mr. 
      McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      It’s a pleasure to meet you... 
      ahh...
        (McEnroe doesn’t know what 
         he should call him)
      ...your Royal... ah... sir. Prince.

The room winces at McEnroe’s awkwardness. Director Smith 
steps back in.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
      We have been tracking the Red Snake 
      for several years now. He’s 
      incredibly elusive, and we know 
      very little about him. This is as 
      close as we’ve ever been. We have 
      reason to suspect he has his eyes 
      on the Cornet of Lugash.

             PRINCE CHARLES
      For the better part of a decade, 
      the Red Snake has been pilfering 
      the treasures of Europe. I can’t 
      impress upon you how meaningful it 
      would be to my family, and the 
      entire United Kingdom, to put an 
      end to his plunder of what belongs 
      to us. And I can assure you, Mr. 
      McEnroe, that should you contribute 
      to his capture a nation would 
      remain forever in your debt. 

McEnroe looks around at all of these men in the room.

                                      80.

             MCENROE
      Okay, that’s great. But what’s on 
      my mind is that I’m playing in the 
      finals of Wimbledon tomorrow, and 
      I’d very much like not to be shot 
      in the face before that happens.

SILENCE as everyone waits to see how the Prince will take 
this. After a moment, Prince Charles begins to LAUGH. 
Director Smith follows Prince Charles’ lead, and then 
everyone else. McEnroe doesn’t find it funny at all.

             BLUE SUIT
      John, there’s no reason to worry. 
      The gala at the museum will be full 
      of with MI-5 and London Police. We 
      will have eyes on you constantly.
        (opens a briefcase)
      That said, we’d all feel better if 
      you’d wear this transmitter.

             MCENROE
      Are you out of your mind? There’s 
      no way I’m wearing that! That’s how 
      Lars got killed! What are you, 
      fucking retarded?

John looks around the room, finally locking eyes with Prince 
Charles.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
      No need. But... do we have any... 
      tracking devices?

The BELLHOP pulls a small piece of luggage off of the cart, 
and unzips it.

             BELLHOP
      We’ve got a few options... A tie 
      clip, a pocket watch, a billfold, 
      uh...
        (rummaging around)
      ...a cigarette case, a signet ring, 
      a cravat pin...

McEnroe doesn’t even know what half of this stuff is.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
        (interjects)
      Perhaps a wristwatch is best for 
      you.

He takes a ROLEX SUBMARINER from the bellhop’s case.

                                      81.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
	(CONT’D)
      Just a little added security.

He hands the Rolex to McEnroe.

             MCENROE
      Thanks.

McEnroe puts on the Rolex and looks at them nervously.

             DIRECTOR SMITH
      John, we know you’re nervous. But, 
      I promise you, you’re going to be 
      great. This will be over before you 
      know it, and you’ll be in bed nice 
      and early with plenty of time to 
      relax before tomorrow’s match. Why 
      don’t you go to your room now and 
      freshen up. We know you’re here to 
      play tennis, and we’re all rooting 
      for you. Right everybody?
        (the others make an 
         unconvincing effort to 
         agree)
      This is going to be easy, John. 
      You’re just going to a gala. 

McEnroe sees that he’s being stared at by the entire roomful 
of law enforcement agents. And Charles, Prince of Wales.

             PRINCE CHARLES
      Yes, just going to a gala.

INT. SAINT JAMES HOTEL HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

McEnroe, paranoid, walks quickly to his room. At the door, he 
glances both ways as he fumbles with the key.

INT. MCENROE’S HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe bolts the door and takes a deep breath, trying not to 
panic. He enjoys one second of peace before noticing the RED 
FLASHING light on the phone, indicating a message at the 
front desk. He ignores it, and goes into the bathroom to 
splash some water in his face. He sees the picture of Borg 
that he taped up on the mirror when he first arrived, and is 
reminded of the real reason he came here.

He exits the bathroom, and sees that the clock says 7:10. He 
knows he has 20 minutes before Camilla arrives, and lies down 
on the bed to try and rest for a couple of minutes. As soon 
as his head hits the pillow, there’s a KNOCK at the door.

He gets up, and cautiously goes to the door. He doesn’t know 
who he wants to see less: the police or Acheson’s people. 

                                      82.

             MCENROE
      Yeah?

             WOMAN’S VOICE
      Open the door!

He looks through the PEEPHOLE and sees Julie, dressed for the 
gala and looking beautiful.

             JULIE
      What, are you afraid of me, 
      asshole?

             MCENROE
        (quietly)
      Shit!

He braces himself and opens the door.

             JULIE
      I know that you’ve been busy, but 
      I’ve been trying to call you, and I 
      never heard back. I thought we were 
      going to the Duke’s gala, so I 
      threw something on, but maybe that 
      was a stupid assumption on my part.

             MCENROE
      I’m so sorry. I... I can’t take 
      you. I just can’t take you.
      I would like to, I really would. I 
      just can’t.

Julie stares at him and shakes her head.

             JULIE
      You’re not even going to tell me 
      why? Or at least make up some 
      story? And didn’t it occur to you 
      that maybe you should let me know?

             MCENROE
      I’m sorry... I don’t... really have 
      anything to say... 
        (trying)
      You look very beautiful in your 
      dress...

             JULIE
      I don’t believe this! Fuck you! 
      Unbelievable! 

                                      83.

             JULIE
	(CONT'D)
      You’re even worse than people say 
      you are. The whole world hates you, 
      and the whole world is right!

This really stings McEnroe, but he knows there’s nothing he 
can say. He impotently watches Julie storm off. 

INT. MCENROE’S HOTEL ROOM - TEN MINUTES LATER

McEnroe, freshly showered, is wearing his tuxedo pants. His 
tuxedo shirt is on and he clumsily tries to put the studs 
through the buttonholes. He drops one in the sink, and 
watches it GO DOWN THE DRAIN.

             MCENROE
      Fuck.

There’s a knock at the door. He looks at his Rolex and sees 
that it’s 7:27PM. Camilla is three minutes early.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (crosses room)
      Fuck... fuck.

He opens the door to see Fleming and Carillo in formal wear, 
glaring at him. 

             CARILLO
      You invite a girl to a huge, 
      incredible party, she buys a dress 
      and you just blow her off?

             FLEMING
      Just on a human level that’s a dick 
      move... but she’s also writing a 
      cover story about you for Sports 
      Illustrated, you fucking moron.

             CARILLO
      I don’t care whether you beat Borg 
      tomorrow or not - either way you’re 
      a loser.

She walks off down the hallway. Fleming shakes his head at 
McEnroe and follows Carillo.

INT. MCENROE’S HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe closes the door, and goes to the mirror. He attempts 
to tie his BOW TIE but has never done it before and quickly 
grows frustrated.  

                                      84.

             MCENROE
      Aaghhhhh!

As his frustration reaches a climax his attention is drawn to 
the photo of Borg taped to the mirror. He impulsively rips 
the photo off of the mirror, CRUMPLES it and throws it toward 
the trash, but he misses his shot and it lands on the floor. 

Another KNOCK on the door.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (yells)
      Just leave me alone!

McEnroe goes back to his bow tie. He gives up.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      I can’t take this.

             VOICE
        (O.C.)
      Of course you can.

McEnroe is startled to see Camilla -- stunning in her gown -- 
standing behind him. She reaches around his neck...

             CAMILLA
      You’re John McEnroe.

...and expertly ties his bow tie.

EXT. BRITISH MUSEUM - RED CARPET

Limousines are lined up around the block. LIGHT BULBS FLASH. 
British aristocracy, celebrities, international politicians, 
and tennis players walk the red carpet, all dressed in black 
tie and extravagant evening gowns. 

A town car pulls up and Camilla gets out, followed by John, 
carrying his tennis bag. She looks like a model and he looks 
like a teenager wearing a rented tuxedo. They make their way 
up the steps. Giant banners advertise the Cornet of Lugash.

A paparazzo calls out to McEnroe.

             PAPARAZZO
      What, can’t leave home without your 
      racquets, Johnnie?

             MCENROE
      Just hitting late... 

McEnroe and Camilla enter the museum.

                                      85.

INT. MUSEUM LOBBY - COAT CHECK

McEnroe hands his tennis bag over to the coat check girl, who 
hands him a ticket.

             CAMILLA
        (re: ticket)
      Put that somewhere safe.

They walk arm in arm up the grand staircase. McEnroe notices 
that all eyes are on him.

INT. MAIN ROOM - COCKTAIL AREA

The room is crowded with people holding drinks. We recognize 
ROD STEWART laughing with WALTER MONDALE. McEnroe stands 
still, nervous and not knowing what to do. He’s not good at 
pulling off the spy act.

             CAMILLA
      Could you try and relax, and look 
      like you’re at a party?

             MCENROE
      What do you want me to do?

             CAMILLA
      How about making the effort to 
      pretend you’re having a good time?

             MCENROE
      I don’t know how to do that.

             CAMILLA
      Why don’t you escort your date to 
      the bar and order her a cocktail?

             MCENROE
      Okay...

McEnroe turns to the bar. Camilla stops him and pointedly 
offers her hand. He takes it and leads her to the bar. As he 
leads Camilla through the crowd, and sees Jimmy Connors 
talking to a group of sycophants. He takes a sharp turn to 
avoid Connors but quickly realizes he’s heading straight 
towards Carillo and Fleming. He swerves again, confusing 
Camilla. Finally, they make it to the bar.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (to bartender)
      Can I have a Coke?

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
        (he turns around to 
         Camilla)
      What do you want?

Camilla’s displeased he didn’t ask what she wanted first.

                                      86.

             CAMILLA
      Campari and soda.

             MCENROE
        (to bartender)
      Campari and soda.

             BARTENDER
      Very good, sir.

McEnroe takes the drinks, and hands Camilla her Campari. She 
sees someone coming.

             CAMILLA
      I’m about to pretend you said 
      something charming.

             MCENROE
      What do you mean?

She LAUGHS as if he just said something charming. They clink 
glasses, and she kisses him on the cheek. McEnroe feels a 
hand on his shoulder, and tenses up. What now?! He turns 
around. It’s BJORN BORG.

             BORG
        (Swedish accent)
      Hello John. I saw you over here, 
      and I wanted to say hello.

             MCENROE
      Hi Bjorn.

             BORG
      I hate these parties. I never know 
      what to say to anybody.

             MCENROE
      I know what you mean. I feel the 
      same way.

             BORG
      I’m glad to see you here. I was 
      told I had to come, and I was 
      afraid you were going to be sitting 
      in your room, resting, getting 
      ready for tomorrow.

                                      87.

John laughs.

             MCENROE
      Trust me, there’s nowhere I’d 
      rather be than asleep in my hotel 
      room right now.

             BORG
      It’s ridiculous. They want us to 
      come here and play our best tennis, 
      but then they make us do all of 
      these things that distract us. We 
      should just be able to play tennis.

             MCENROE
      You said it, brother.

Borg notices Camilla standing there.

             BORG
      Hello, I’m Bjorn.

             MCENROE
        (embarrassed)
      Oh, I’m sorry. Camilla, this is 
      Bjorn. Bjorn, this is Camilla.

             CAMILLA
      Hello.

They shake hands.

             BORG
      Very nice to meet you.
        (re: McEnroe)
      That’s a good man you’ve got there. 

             CAMILLA
      I’m surprised to see rivals get 
      along so well the night before 
      their big match.

             BORG
      Why? We have so much in common. And 
      it’s just tennis.
        (to both of them)
      Well, I hope your evening won’t be 
      too boring.
        (then)
      Let’s see if I can make it through 
      this night without having to talk 
      to Connors.

McEnroe laughs. Borg smiles and walks off.

INT. ALCOVE - A FEW MINUTES LATER

McEnroe and Camilla look through a bunch of place cards on a 
table. McEnroe finds his card and picks it up. A PATRICIAN 
MAN approaches McEnroe.

                                      88.

             PATRICIAN MAN
      Mr. McEnroe! Mr. McEnroe! I’m 
      Raymond  Wilmott, the new President 
      of the All England Tennis Club! So 
      glad you’re here.
        (shaking his hand)
      Come with me, would you? I’d like 
      to introduce you to a very big fan 
      of tennis who wants to meet you.

McEnroe and Camilla follow him to... Prince Charles.

             RAYMOND WILMOTT
        (makes introductions)
      John McEnroe, I’d like you to meet 
      Charles, the Prince of Wales.

John is uncomfortable, but Prince Charles is adept at 
pretending he’s never met McEnroe before.

             PRINCE CHARLES
      A pleasure to meet you. I watched 
      you beat Connors this afternoon. I 
      admire your... passion.

             MCENROE
      Thanks.

An older man standing nearby turns around.

             PRINCE PHILIP
      My son may find you charming, but I 
      find your outbursts on the court 
      completely antithetical to the 
      spirit of sportsmanship. I can 
      assure that tomorrow, I’ll be 
      rooting for the Swede.

             PRINCE CHARLES
      Well, father, I see great potential 
      in this young man.

Prince Philip harumphs and walks away. Charles turns back to 
McEnroe.

             PRINCE CHARLES
	(CONT’D)
      And I’ll be rooting for him.

                                      89.

He gives McEnroe a wink.

INT. LARGE DINING HALL - MINUTES LATER

The dinner is being held in the gallery devoted to the Cornet 
(and other priceless treasures) of Lugash. Round tables have 
been spaced throughout this gigantic room, all tastefully 
decorated with beautiful floral arrangements and fine china.

Displayed prominently in the center of the hall is the 
centerpiece of the collection: the exquisite Cornet of 
Lugash. It sits on a pedestal. Golden rails keep people from 
getting too close. Guests admire it and move on. 

McEnroe and Camilla arrive at their table, and sit down. 
Seated next to McEnroe is an older, BRONZE-SKINNED MAN with a 
moustache and an accent that is hard to place, perhaps Middle 
Eastern, perhaps Balkan.

             BRONZE-SKINNED MAN
      Good evening.

McEnroe is not happy to be sitting next to this guy.

             MCENROE
      Hello.

McEnroe checks out the rest of his table: unlike the 
glamorous people that fill the rest of the hall, his table is 
populated with outcasts, weirdos, and undesirable eccentrics.

As McEnroe’s gaze travels around the table, each tablemate is 
odder than the last, until his eyes finally land on Ilie 
Nastase, who smiles at him.

Even in a formal outfit, Nastase is dressed garishly. Seated 
next to Nasty is Julie. She GLARES at McEnroe hatefully. 
McEnroe can’t believe how badly this is going.

INT. LARGE DINING HALL - LATER

Dinner has been served, and the gala is alive with 
conversation and laughter.

INT. MCENROE’S TABLE - CONTINUOUS

The guests at McEnroe’s table, however, are silent. It’s a 
miserable ghost town. McEnroe looks across the table to see 
Julie still glaring at him.

Nastase is the only one enjoying himself. He stuffs his face 
like a ravenous pig, and, with mouth full, turns to the woman 
next to him.

                                      90.

             NASTASE
        (re: Julie)
      She’s my date, not my girlfriend. 
      So really, there’s many ways this 
      could go.

Julie rolls her eyes. 

SFX: QUIET BEEPING SOUND

Camilla nonchalantly reaches into her purse, and stops the 
noise. She leans close to McEnroe.

             CAMILLA
      Don’t get up from this table until 
      I come back. Then we’ll leave.

She gives him a kiss on the lips. He sees Julie shake her 
head in disgust. He’s too anxious about what’s coming next to 
worry about Julie. He watches Camilla disappear into the 
crowd as a waiter places a disgusting dessert in front of 
him. He has no appetite for this quivering mound of goo.

             BRONZE-SKINNED MAN
        (to McEnroe)
      Khalamech. 

McEnroe doesn’t know what he’s talking about.

             BRONZE-SKINNED MAN
	(CONT’D)
      It’s a classic Lugashian dessert. 
      But like everything else, the 
      English take it and make it 
      horrible.

McEnroe musters a smile.

             BRONZE-SKINNED MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Like this horrid gala. The Cornet 
      of Lugash! What a desecration! In 
      Lugash, it was blown to herald the 
      birth of a new monarch. Over a 
      century ago it was plundered by 
      Queen Victoria’s hoodlums... and 
      now, they put it on display as if 
      they own it. As if we gave it to 
      them. Such arrogance. Then they 
      throw this “Evening in Lugash”... 

He gestures to the hall with all it’s Lugash decorations.

                                      91.

             BRONZE-SKINNED MAN
	(CONT’D)
      If your Disneyland had a Lugash 
      ride, it would be more authentic 
      than this.

He stops, realizing he’s being strident. 

             BRONZE-SKINNED MAN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry...
        (extends his hand)
      ...Ersan Golat, from the Lugashian 
      consulate.

McEnroe is surprised by how much he likes this guy, but 
becomes distracted by activity in the hall that only he 
notices... first, he sees the DETECTIVE WITH A MUSTACHE, from 
the police station and pub, seated at a table costumed as a 
high-ranking military officer...

             MCENROE
      John McEnroe.

             ERSAN GOLAT
      Of course. I know who you are, I’m 
      a huge fan. I love watching you 
      irritate these English pigs.

...then he sees TWO PEOPLE FROM ACHESON’S WAREHOUSE dressed 
as Museum Security Guards.

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
      You and I both understand 
      something, Mr. McEnroe - the 
      English write the rules to the 
      game, and the rest of us have to 
      play it their way. Tennis was 
      invented in Egypt, but the English 
      tell us we have to wear white and 
      play on grass. 

...then he sees THE BEAUTIFUL BALD BLACK WOMAN from the 
warehouse, walking quickly across the floor, in a beautiful 
blue gown.

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
      They don’t want you to win. You’re 
      their worst nightmare. A 
      disobedient insurrectionist. And an 
      American. Even worse -- an Irish-
      American! 


                                      92.

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
      They’d love it if an English player 
      could win, but obviously that’s not 
      going to happen - so they’re happy 
      to give it to the next best thing - 
      a white Anglo-Saxon Protestant Sun 
      God from Sweden with long, flowing 
      blonde hair. 

...then McEnroe sees the AGENT WHO WAS DRESSED AS A BELLHOP 
and ANOTHER AGENT who was in the hotel room, going from table 
to table taking pictures, disguised as a photographer and his 
assistant.

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
      They teach their children Rudyard 
      Kipling and engrave him on their 
      walls. An unapologetic racist! The 
      White Man’s burden my ass!

...then McEnroe sees WALTER, dressed as a waiter, pouring 
tea. At the same table, one of the MI-5 AGENTS from the hotel 
room clears away the dessert dishes. McEnroe can’t believe 
that operatives on both sides are unaware of each other. 

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
      The Wimbledon trophy is their 
      treasure, and the hypocrites can’t 
      bare to see their precious treasure 
      leave their shores.

...then, up in an ornate balcony, McEnroe sees the ALBINO MAN 
who ripped his shirt open in the warehouse, in a tuxedo, peek 
his head out to survey the floor, then disappear again.

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
      We’ll never get our Cornet back, 
      but please give me the pleasure of 
      winning that trophy, holding it 
      over your head, and telling the 
      British to go fuck themselves! 

Suddenly, the LIGHTS shift theatrically.

MUSIC: VAGUELY MIDDLE EASTERN, VAGUELY BALKAN

A performance is about to begin. The crowd turns with 
anticipation.

             ERSAN GOLAT
	(CONT’D)
        (re: the cheesy music)
      Oh God help us...

                                      93.

SIX SEXY WOMEN dance out in “traditional” Lugashian garb, 
veils cover their faces. The outfits are more Hollywood than 
Lugash.

Prince Charles and Prince Philip are turned on. The women 
dance for awhile, then the music shifts and... 

SIX MUSCULAR MEN, in Lugashian garb, dance out carrying exact 
replicas of the Cornet of Lugash. The men and women dance 
together. 

Ersan Golat shakes his head in disgust. Occasionally, the 
dancers freeze and pretend to blow their Cornets to the sound 
of pre-recorded cornet BLASTS from the sound system.

McEnroe begins to focus on one particularly sensuous female 
dancer. After a moment he realizes... it’s Camilla! 

THEATRICAL SMOKE begins to fill the room.

McEnroe looks to the back of the room and sees the men 
controlling the sound and light boards. He recognizes one of 
the men at the controls as an ACHESON HENCHMAN.  

The dance evolves into a courtship, with the women and men 
tumbling, jumping, dancing, and tossing the prop cornets to 
each other.

The music builds in intensity and the lighting shifts 
suddenly to an intense STROBE. The audience watches with 
amazement as the dancers move through a series of EXPLOSIONS 
from flashpots.

The dance culminates in A GIGANTIC EXPLOSION, obscuring the 
entire exhibit in smoke. The smoke dissipates to reveal the 
performers frozen in a dramatic poses, the women extending 
their REPLICA CORNETS to the heavens. The audience goes wild. 
Ersan Golat stares blankly. 

McEnroe notices that CAMILLA’S CORNET has more of a golden 
sheen than the other replicas. Then, he realizes Camilla is 
positioned next to the real Cornet, which now has slightly 
less luster.

After a beat, the dancers bow and run off.

INT. LARGE DINING HALL - TEN MINUTES LATER

The evening has come to an end, and the crowd begins to 
disperse. McEnroe, however, remains glued to his seat, 
waiting to be told what to do. Ersan Golat is still seated, 
finishing his coffee. 

                                      94.

             ERSAN GOLAT
      Good luck tomorrow, Mr. McEnroe. 
      They call you a brat, maybe that’s 
      what you are. You don’t have to 
      defy your nature. Just be the best.

Ersan Golat exits. Nastase and Julie walk over to McEnroe.

             NASTASE
      The English really know how to put 
      on a show! 

             JULIE
      Where’s your girlfriend, John?

McEnroe doesn’t have an answer to this. But just then Camilla 
walks up to the table.

             CAMILLA
        (to McEnroe)
      I’m sorry I was gone for so long, 
      darling. I feel absolutely 
      wretched. Can we go home now?

Awkward looks all around. McEnroe tentatively stands up. 
Camilla puts her arm in his, and they walk off.

INT. MUSEUM LOBBY - COAT CHECK - TWO MINUTES LATER

Their is a mass exodus in the crowded museum lobby. McEnroe 
holds his coat-check ticket and waits nervously. He sees that 
museum security is checking everyone’s bag before letting 
them exit. Camilla can tell that he’s nervous and squeezes 
his hand hard, implying ‘keep it together’. 

Finally, they reach the front the of line. He gives his 
ticket to the same coat-check girl he got it from at the 
beginning of the evening. She takes it and walks away. Sweat 
drips from his forehead. He’s desperate to get out.

Borg walks up accompanied by his fiancee, Mariana Simionescu.

             BORG
      Well, thank God that’s over.

             MCENROE
        (laughs)
      No kidding.

             BORG
      We’ve got room in the limo out 
      front. Can I offer you a ride back 
      to the hotel?

McEnroe looks toward coat check for his bag, which has yet to 
emerge, and then looks at Camilla.

                                      95.

             CAMILLA
      Oh, darling, we promised we’d meet 
      Terry and Devon.

             MCENROE
        (to Borg)
      Thanks, but... we’ve got to meet 
      Terry and Devon.

             BORG
      We’d be glad to drop you off 
      wherever you’re going...

McEnroe looks to Camilla again.

             CAMILLA
      Oh, we wouldn’t trouble you. Their 
      flat is right around the corner.

             BORG
      I understand.
        (then, to McEnroe)
      Don’t stay out too late. I’m going 
      to run you all over the court 
      tomorrow!

Just as Borg says this, McEnroe gets to the front of the 
line. His tennis bag is placed on the table.

             BORG
	(CONT’D)
      Good night.

             MCENROE
      Good night.

Borg walks off into the crowd.

McEnroe picks up the bag and looks at the coat check girl. 
It’s not the same one who took his ticket, but it is someone 
he’s seen before... the woman with jet black hair and ONE 
BLUE EYE and ONE GRAY EYE from the party at Philip Acheson’s 
penthouse. She stares at him, menacingly.

Camilla guides McEnroe towards the exit. He sees that he’s 
still being monitored by people from both the law enforcement 
and Acheson camps.

McEnroe tenses up as he approaches the security checkpoint 
where they’re inspecting bags. He’s surprised and relieved 
that no one stops him as he walks past the checkpoint. But 
then... 

                                      96.

             MUSEUM GUARD
      Mr. McEnroe!

He stops. The guard stares at his bag suspiciously. 

             MUSEUM GUARD
	(CONT’D)
      Off to practice at this hour?

Camilla tenses and turns to McEnroe to see how he responds.

             MCENROE
      Yeah, practice...

The guard smiles.

             MUSEUM GUARD
      Good luck, then. 

Camilla smiles and leads McEnroe out of the museum. 

EXT. BRITISH MUSEUM - RED CARPET - CONTINUOUS 

There’s a line of limos and town cars. In the distance, Borg 
gets into a large Rolls Royce limo.

Camilla guides McEnroe down the street and into the night.

EXT. DARK SIDE STREET - MOMENTS LATER

They walk quickly down a deserted residential street, the 
only sound their clicking heels.

             MCENROE
      Now what?

             CAMILLA
      Just be quiet and do what I say.

Halfway down the block, they walk into the entrance of a 
large apartment building, go down a few halls, make a few 
turns, and exit out the service entrance into a back alley.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

They exit the building and emerge from the alley onto another 
side street. Halfway down this street, Camilla stops, pulls 
out a key, and opens up a large iron gate.

                                      97.

EXT. PASSAGEWAY - CONTINUOUS

The gate leads to a dark, narrow passageway. McEnroe follows 
Camilla, clutching his tennis bag. At the end of the 
passageway, she uses another key and opens another iron gate.

EXT. SIDE STREET - CONTINUOUS

This gate leads to another side street, and McEnroe sees a 
large PARKING STRUCTURE looming in front of them.

They enter the parking structure. There’s no life, just a few 
parked cars.

INT. SIDE STAIRWAY - CONTINUOUS

They walk up a dark, creepy side stairway, their footsteps 
echoing loudly. After about six flights, they exit.

EXT. ROOF OF PARKING STRUCTURE - CONTINUOUS

They walk across the roof and approach two identical 1979 
MAROON FORD CORTINAS, which are parked side by side.

             CAMILLA
      It’s better if you go separately, 
      in case we’re being followed. You 
      take that one.

             MCENROE
      So... should I follow you?

             CAMILLA
        (annoyed)
      The point is, we go in separate 
      directions in case we’re being 
      followed. Instructions are 
      underneath the driver’s seat.
        (then)
      Now give me the bag.

             MCENROE
      No way, I’m giving this to Philip 
      myself.

             CAMILLA
      It’s safer with me.

                                      98.

             MCENROE
      He told me to bring it to him, and 
      I’d prefer not to get shot in the 
      face. So I’m going to give it to 
      him, and then I can be done with 
      this.

             CAMILLA
      Fine then. Don’t fuck up.

             MCENROE
      You know what, I’m not going to 
      fuck up.

McEnroe gets in the left side of the car, and closes the door 
behind him. Camilla stands there and stares. After a beat, he 
gets out of the car and walks around to the English driver’s 
side and gets back in. Camilla shakes her head.

INT. MCENROE’S FORD CANTINA - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe reaches under his seat and finds the instructions. He 
watches Camilla drive off in her Ford Cantina.

He checks to make sure his tennis bag is on the seat next to 
him. He starts the car and drives down the ramp. 

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

McEnroe drives through London, making many twists and turns. 
At one point, he accidentally drives on the American side of 
the road and HONKED by an oncoming TRUCK.

             MCENROE
      Jesus!

EXT. WHARF - NIGHT

McEnroe pulls the car onto a desolate wharf and shuts off the 
ignition. He consults his instructions one final time before 
crumpling them and shoving them in his pocket. He grabs his 
tennis bag and gets out of the car. He slings the bag over 
his shoulder, glances around nervously, and walks off toward 
a pier. 

EXT. PIER - NIGHT

McEnroe walks to the end of the pier. It’s foggy and creepy. 
He sees a metal ladder leading down to the water and climbs 
down it. At the bottom is a rowboat. 

                                      99.

He looks off in the distance, and through the fog sees a 
white light blinking about a hundred yards away. The fog 
clears a bit and he can see the light is coming from a large 
CARGO TANKER.

EXT. ROWBOAT - NIGHT

McEnroe unties the rowboat, and rows toward the cargo tanker. 
He has a hard time guiding the boat in the choppy water.

             MCENROE
      God damnit.

After a great struggle, McEnroe makes it to the tanker, but 
he has no idea what to do.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Hello??
        (he waits)
      Little help, please?

No one arrives to help him. He pulls out the crumpled 
directions. It’s too dark to read the instructions, so he 
puts them down on the rowboat’s seat and pulls out a lighter. 
He ignites the lighter, but a gust of wind sweeps up the 
instructions and carries them into the water.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Fuck!

He catches sight of a ladder twenty feet away. He rows to it, 
the violent wake throwing his tiny boat against the giant 
tanker. Finally, he maneuvers the rowboat as close as 
possible. He struggles to grab the ladder as his boat bobs up 
and down. He’s able to get one hand onto the ladder and holds 
a rope with the other. He attempts to tie the rowboat to the 
ladder, but a sudden surge lifts him twenty feet into the 
air, pulling the rope out of his hand. 

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Ahhhhh!!

He holds onto the ladder with all his might, and pulls his 
body onto it. He clings to the bobbing ladder and turns to 
watch the rowboat drift off to the sea.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Fuck.

McEnroe climbs up the ladder, finally dragging himself onto 
the deck. He collapses in exhaustion and lays there for a 
second to catch his breath. 

                                     100.

A light FLASHES from a cabin at the far end of the deck, 
fifty yards away. He makes his way to the light. A METAL DOOR 
swings on a hinge, SLAMMING against the wall.

He goes through the door, and enters the large cabin. It’s 
completely empty. He begins to hear a HUMMMMMM in the 
distance. The humming becomes louder and louder, and turns 
into a cacophony of motors and helicopters.

SPOTLIGHTS flash on the tanker. McEnroe goes back outside, 
and sees several boats, and helicopters streaming quickly 
toward the tanker. He’s terrified.

From a helicopter comes a voice through a megaphone:

             VOICE
        (over megaphone)
      London police! Place your hands on 
      your head and get on your knees!

McEnroe does what he’s told. Police boats reach the ship, men 
begin to climb up the sides, and a helicopter lands on the 
deck, feet away from McEnroe. Men stream onto the tanker. MI-
5 agents and London Police swarm the deck. 

             MCENROE
      What the fuck is going on?

Men with guns are running all over the ship, ignoring 
McEnroe. In the mass of law enforcement, he spots Blue Suit 
and Gray Suit along with Hedges and Newquist.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey! What the hell is happening!?

Men continue to run around the ship. There’s a lot of running 
and doors slamming, but no gunfire. A UNIFORMED OFFICER runs 
up to Blue Suit.

             UNIFORMED OFFICER
      There’s no one on board this ship, 
      sir.

             BLUE SUIT
      What?

             UNIFORMED OFFICER
      There’s no one on board. It’s 
      empty.

They all look perplexed. Gray Suit has a thought, and quickly 
walks the few feet over to McEnroe.

                                     101.

             GRAY SUIT
        (re: McEnroe’s tennis bag)
      Give me that bag.

McEnroe hands it over to him. Gray Suit quickly unzips it, 
and empties the contents: rapped in a tablecloth from the 
banquet is a WILSON TENNIS RACKET with the strings cut open 
in the middle. Taped the shaft of the racket are two hammers. 
The final thing Gray Suit pulls out is am embossed business 
card with nothing on it but the image of a RED SNAKE.

             GRAY SUIT
	(CONT’D)
        (realizes what’s happened)
      Oh, fuck!

He throws the racket down in anger.

             NEWQUIST
      Where the fuck’s the bleeding 
      bugle?

Blue Suit also realizes what going on. He grabs the Uniformed 
Officer’s radio and screams into it. 

             BLUE SUIT
      All units to the Tower of London!

This is the first Hedges and Newquist have heard of the Tower 
of London, and they can’t believe it.

             HEDGES
      No!

INT. TOWER OF LONDON - NIGHT

THREE THIEVES, dressed commando-style in black outfits with 
gas masks, move quickly in an underground vault. A vapor 
fills the air. Uniformed guards lie unconscious on the 
ground. The thieves’ movements are perfectly choreographed 
and intricate. 

One thief kneels by a safe and ignites a small explosion. He 
opens the safe and pulls out... the CORNET OF LUGASH!!! It’s 
beautiful. Another thief opens a metal briefcase and they 
place the Cornet inside. They pause for a second to look at 
their digital watches. The watches count down 4,3,2,1 and 
then reset at 30 seconds. One gives the thumbs up, and they 
all immediately run out of the vault. They make some turns 
and run down an old brick underground passageway. They make 
their way to a shaft, where they find three hanging cables. 
They hook themselves up to the cables and check their watches 
again: 13, 12, 11. When the watches hit 10 the cables 
immediately pull them up the shaft. 

                                     102.

EXT. DARK LONDON STREET - CONTINUOUS

A 1979 MAROON FORD CORTINA travels slowly down the street. 
The faint sound of sirens can be heard in the distance. 
They’re getting closer.

INT. FORD CORTINA - CONTINUOUS

Camilla sits behind the wheel. She has one eye on the road 
and one eye on a clock on the dashboard with a red LCD 
screen. It counts down 9, 8, 7, 6... When the clock reaches 
“1” the thieves emerge from a manhole right in front of the 
Camilla’s car. The thief with the briefcase gets into the 
front passenger seat.

The thieves quickly get in the car. As soon as they’re in, 
Camilla steps on the gas and speeds away. Once they’ve 
travelled a safe distance from the scene, Camilla turns and 
smiles at the thief holding the briefcase. He doesn’t take 
his mask off but nods in approval. We see that on the right 
side of his neck is a TATOO OF A RED SNAKE.

INT. BLUE SUIT AND GRAY SUIT’S VAN - LATER THAT NIGHT

Blue Suit drives with Gray Suit in the passenger seat. In the 
back are Hedges, Newquist, and a completely shell-shocked and 
defeated John McEnroe, clutching his empty Wilson tennis bag. 
They ride in dejected silence, until...

             MCENROE
      I don’t get it. What going on?

             BLUE SUIT
      What’s going on is your career with 
      British Law Enforcement is over.

             MCENROE
      You guys are still going to protect 
      me, right? I don’t want these 
      lunatics following me for the rest 
      of my life.

             GRAY SUIT
      They obviously knew you were 
      working with us all along. So you 
      did exactly what they wanted. I’m 
      sure they’re grateful for your 
      service.

             MCENROE
      But what the hell was all that 
      tonight?

                                     103.

             HEDGES
      You were a decoy, Johnny, a 
      distraction, a wild goose for the 
      geniuses at MI-5 to chase. All 
      their fancy tracking devices and 
      data, and where does half the 
      London Police Department end up? 

             NEWQUIST
      On a floating hunk of metal in 
      London Harbor. 

             HEDGES
      Dicks in their hands, on a bloody 
      hunk of metal!

             NEWQUIST
      With the Wimbledon number two seed 
      lying on the deck like a wee baby.

The van violently SWERVES AND SHRIEKS to a stop at the side 
of the road. Blue Suit, turns around.

             BLUE SUIT
      Ok, I’m sick of listening to this 
      shit. Get out.

             HEDGES
      Ha ha. Very funny.

             BLUE SUIT
      I’m not joking. Get the fuck out.

             HEDGES
      Fuck off. We’re not going anywhere.

             GRAY SUIT
      Get out and walk home!

             HEDGES
      Fuck you, you walk home.

             BLUE SUIT
      This is our van.

             HEDGES
      Well, we’re not getting out, so you 
      better physically remove us, or 
      drive your publicly subsidized van.

             NEWQUIST
      Belongs to the British People.

                                     104.

             BLUE SUIT
      You know what? If you’re not 
      getting out then we can all just 
      sit here.

             HEDGES
      Ok, we’ll sit here.

             GRAY SUIT
      Good, we’ll sit here.

Hedges and Newquist make a show of getting themselves 
comfortable. They all settle in. No one moves. Just silence. 
After a very long time...

             MCENROE
      What the fuck is going on here?! 
      We’re sitting in the middle of 
      nowhere, and I’m playing in the 
      Wimbledon Finals tomorrow!!

             NEWQUIST
      Today.

             MCENROE
      Fuck you! 
        (he refers to them all one 
         at a time)
      And fuck you. And fuck you. And 
      fuck you! Fuck all of you! You can 
      sit here all night long if you 
      want, but I’m out of here!

He squeezes past Hedges and Newquist and opens the door to 
the van. He gets out and SLAMS the door behind him. Hedges, 
Newquist, Blue Suit, and Gray Suit sit alone in silence.

EXT. DESERTED STREET

McEnroe walks away from the van into the night.

EXT. ST. JAMES HOTEL - LATER

McEnroe, completely exhausted in his rumpled tuxedo, stumbles 
up to the entrance of the St. James as the sun begins to 
rise. 

A delivery truck pulls up, a side door opens, and a guy 
tosses a bundle of newspapers to the curb. McEnroe sees the 
headline: “Can Borg Do It Again?”

                                     105.

EXT. WIMBLEDON GROUNDS - LATER THAT MORNING

The All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in all it’s 
glory. Sprinklers tend to the lawns, and grounds crews make 
their final preparations.

INT. WIMBLEDON - LOCKER ROOM

McEnroe arrives, wearing jeans, a leather jacket, and aviator 
sunglasses. His tennis bag is slung over his shoulder. He 
walks past a group of people who wish him luck.

He gets to his locker, sits down, and takes off his glasses 
revealing blood shot eyes. He drops his head in his hands. 

After a few deep breaths, McEnroe gets up and opens his 
locker and is surprised to see that it’s packed with giant, 
neat STACKS OF 50 POUND NOTES. An envelope sits on top the 
cash. McEnroe looks around and opens the envelope. Inside is 
another embossed card with the image of a RED SNAKE. Under 
the snake is a personal note written by hand: “Thank you for 
your services.”

McEnroe is so stunned he doesn’t notice that someone has 
walked up right behind him.

             HEDGES
      Now, what do we have here?

McEnroe turns around to find Hedges and Newquist.

             NEWQUIST
      Curious.

             HEDGES 
      Shocking, really. We come over, 
      feeling bad about not having a 
      proper goodbye, wanting to wish a 
      friend luck, but it seems like 
      maybe he’s luckier than we thought.

             MCENROE
      I have no idea how this got here.

             HEDGES
      You’ve put us in a very tricky 
      position.

             MCENROE
      Look, I don’t even know what this 
      is. 

                                     106.

             HEDGES
      A pile of cash and a personal note 
      from the Red Snake does give the 
      impression of a certain quid pro 
      quo. Almost as if you were in his 
      employ the entire time. 

             MCENROE
      I wasn’t. Someone is messing with 
      me.

Hedges and Newquist look at each other.

             HEDGES
      If only that made any sense, John.
        (then)
      You know, it was actually 
      Newquist’s idea to come by and wish 
      you well. I said we should just 
      fuck off and go home. But now I’m 
      glad we did.

Hedges picks up McEnroe’s tennis bag, takes out the racquets 
and hands them to McEnroe. He then opens the bag and looks at 
Newquist, who stuffs all the money into the bag.

             HEDGES
	(CONT’D)
      Well, good luck John!

             NEWQUIST
      Yes, a pleasure working together.

McEnroe watches them walk away.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - CENTRE COURT

Supplemented by ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE, we see the final 
preparations for the Championship: grounds crews put in last 
touches, ball boys get instructions, commentators Dan Maskell 
and Max Robertson address the BBC cameras, the stands begin 
to fill, the Royals enter their box, etc... 

The buzz of the crowd builds. 

INT. WIMBLEDON - LOCKER ROOM

McEnroe, now dressed in his classic Tacchini tennis whites, 
laces his shoes. He’s ready to go. He grabs his racquets and 
walks out of the locker room. 

                                     107.

INT. CENTRE COURT PLAYERS’ ENTRANCE - WIMBLEDON - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe is about to walk through the entrance to the court 
when his eye catches the famous Rudyard Kipling engraving:

“IF YOU CAN MEET WITH TRIUMPH AND DISASTER/ AND TREAT THOSE 
TWO IMPOSTORS JUST THE SAME - ” 

McEnroe takes in the words and is interrupted by Fleming.

             FLEMING
      Hey.

             MCENROE
      Hey.

             FLEMING
      Big match today.

             MCENROE
      Yeah.

It’s awkward.

             FLEMING
      You can beat this guy. Just don’t 
      let him --

             MCENROE
        (interrupting)
      I wish I could tell you there was 
      some big, crazy reason that I was a 
      dick. Like something was going on 
      in my life that made me act that 
      way. But the truth is... I was a 
      dick just because I was a dick. And 
      I have no one to blame but myself.

Fleming takes this in for a moment.

             FLEMING
      Don’t let Borg fuck with you. He’s 
      a manipulator. He’s been getting in 
      your head this whole tournament, 
      and you haven’t even played him 
      yet. 

McEnroe takes this in. They shake hands. Then, out of 
nowhere, Borg walks up to them. Fleming nods at Borg. Borg 
smiles at Fleming.

                                     108.

             BORG
        (to McEnroe)
      Let’s have a little fun.

McEnroe and Borg walk out to CENTRE COURT. The crowd is 
packed beyond capacity and explodes in a frenzy -- CHEERS for 
Borg, BOOS for McEnroe.

TITLE: JULY 5, 1980 - MEN’S FINAL

The two combatants bow to the Royal Box, where Prince Charles 
sits with Prince Philip and the Duke and Duchess of Kent. 
McEnroe hates this.

INT. BBC BROADCAST BOOTH

Dan Maskell and Max Robertson set up the match.

(NOTE: If possible, this is BBC ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE AND AUDIO, 
which conveys the following...)

             DAN MASKELL
      The 94th Wimbledon Men’s final is 
      certain to be an exciting match. We 
      really have a classic confrontation 
      here - the contrasts are 
      remarkable... John McEnroe, perhaps 
      the world’s best serve-and-volleyer 
      versus Bjorn Borg, who possesses 
      the game’s finest return of serve. 
      McEnroe attacks with an aggressive 
      net game while Borg’s groundstrokes 
      make him an impenetrable human 
      backboard. But, perhaps, the most 
      striking contrast of all is John 
      McEnroe, the volatile human powder 
      keg, versus Bjorn Borg, the 
      imperturbable chess master, whose 
      veins flow with ice from the North 
      Sea.   

EXT. WIMBLEDON - CENTRE COURT - CONTINUOUS

McEnroe stands on the baseline, preparing to serve. His 
nerves battle his exhaustion for dominance. He takes some 
deep breaths, and bounces the ball a few times.

                                     109.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Bjorn Borg, looking for his 5th 
      consecutive championship, has been 
      playing impeccably the entire 
      tournament, losing only two sets on 
      his way to this final.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe’s play has also been 
      excellent with the exception of a 
      tough five set match against Terry 
      Rocevert in the second round. 

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
        (joking)
      What was he doing the night before 
      that match?

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      The big question today is... does 
      McEnroe have the maturity and focus 
      to knock Borg off his perch?

Across the net, McEnroe sees Borg, waiting to return serve. 
His expression is impossible to read. He looks EXACTLY like 
the image in the photo McEnroe ripped off his bathroom 
mirror. 

Finally, McEnroe serves, and Borg hits a strong return, but 
McEnroe has approached the net and confidently volleys for a 
winner: a good start. The crowd applauds.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe certainly looks like he 
      came ready to play today.

MONTAGE: McEnroe plays extremely well and completely 
DOMINATES the first set. Shots of Borg being aced, and making 
unforced errors, and McEnroe wins the first set 6-1.

END MONTAGE.

EXT. WIMBLEDON - CENTRE COURT 

The crowd CHEERS. Fleming and Carillo are very excited for 
their friend. The players go their chairs after the first 
set. McEnroe, as always, sits with his chair facing sideways. 

             MCENROE
        (quietly, to himself)
      Holy shit, you can do this.

Borg, in his chair, tends to his business, unemotionally.

                                     110.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe is playing with tremendous 
      conviction.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Borg seems shockingly off balance. 
      He’s going to need to keep McEnroe 
      away from the net.

McEnroe scans the crowd and sees a distinguished gentleman 
smiling at him... it’s Philip Acheson. McEnroe is rattled.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Keep in mind that Borg has lost the 
      first set in this final before, and 
      still won the championship. In 1977 
      he lost the first set against 
      Connors, and just last year he lost 
      the first set against Roscoe 
      Tanner, but came back and won both 
      of those.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      I certainly wouldn’t count him out. 

Borg approaches the service line to start the second set, and 
McEnroe prepares to return. Borg’s first serve is a fault, 
and his racquet goes flying out of his hand. Has he lost it? 
He serves again. It’s powerful. He has definitely not lost 
it.

MONTAGE: SECOND SET - Borg is much more in the match now, 
they are trading winners, and the score reflects that the 
match has become a SLUGFEST.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Looks like it’s not going to be so 
      easy for McEnroe. A champion like 
      Borg doesn’t go down without a 
      fight.

END MONTAGE.

Borg is now up 6-5 in the second set. McEnroe prepares to 
serve.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Borg with a chance to break 
      McEnroe’s serve for the first time, 
      and win the set.

McEnroe serves. There are several powerful exchanges, but 
Borg wins the point and the set. McEnroe crouches at the 
baseline in frustration.

                                     111.

             UMPIRE
      Game, Mr. Borg. One set apiece.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      We’ve got a match here!

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe failed to capitalize on his 
      chance to take a two set lead. 

McEnroe makes his way to his chair and quickly takes a peak 
at Philip Acheson. Next to Acheson is the MAN WITH DARK 
GLASSES and a SEEING EYE DOG, who McEnroe recognizes from the 
warehouse. He is wearing a RED TIE. Could this be the Red 
Snake? McEnroe is disturbed.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      He certainly does not look at all 
      happy about the situation.

MONTAGE: THIRD SET - Borg dominates. His amazing passing 
shots blow by McEnroe at the net. 

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Another unbelievable passing shot 
      by Bjorn Borg. 

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      What a complete momentum shift. 
      It’s all Borg right now.

Borg SMASHES an overhead for a winner. The crowd goes wild. 

             UMPIRE
      Game, Mr. Borg. He leads two sets 
      to one.

McEnroe is flustered.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Borg can taste blood! He’s one set 
      away from championship number five.

MONTAGE: FOURTH SET - The action is intense. Both players 
have elevated their game. They make incredible shots, but 
Borg manages to break McEnroe’s serve. This is devastating to 
McEnroe.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Borg now has a chance to serve for 
      the championship.

                                     112.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe is going to have to dig 
      deep.

MONTAGE CONTINUES and ends with Borg serving 30-15. His serve 
is excellent and he approaches the net after a slice backhand 
return by McEnroe. McEnroe rushes over and backhands a bullet 
down the line, but its wide by a centimeter. The scoreboard 
tells us that Borg is ahead 5-4, 40-15. 

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      A gutsy shot by McEnroe, but just 
      out. Now Borg has two match points 
      to bring this match to an end.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Devastating.

McEnroe looks grim. His tournament is about to end in defeat. 
Borg serves. McEnroe returns, they rally, and Borg hits it 
into the net. 40-30. 

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe’s fighting for his life 
      here.

Borg serves, McEnroe slices a backhand return, Borg 
aggressively rushes the net, McEnroe attempts a passing shot, 
Borg volleys deep into the opposite corner, and McEnroe has 
to run as fast as he can and makes an incredible running 
forehand passing shot which blows by Borg and just catches 
the baseline. The crowd goes nuts.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      An amazing shot by McEnroe to save 
      another match point and bring this 
      game back to deuce!

Borg serves and, after a short rally, he hits the ball into 
the net.

             UMPIRE
      Advantage, Mr. McEnroe.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      McEnroe needs to capitalize on 
      this...

Borg’s first serve is a fault. He hits his second serve, and 
McEnroe hits a powerful return and rushes the net. Borg slams 
the ball right at him - McEnroe goes to volley, but at the 
last second pulls his racquet away and lets the ball go by. 
It lands just out. The crowd erupts.

                                     113.

             UMPIRE
      Game, Mr. McEnroe.

McEnroe is revitalized. Borg, as always, shows no emotion.

             MCENROE
        (celebrating)
      Come on!!

MONTAGE: Borg and McEnroe keep battling until they end up 
with the score at six games apiece.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Now, we’re going to the tiebreaker. 
      Since the tiebreaker was introduced 
      to Wimbledon in 1971, no one has 
      ever won the championship on one.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      If Borg is the first to reach seven 
      points, we’ll be witnessing 
      history.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Of course, you must win by two. 
      This is wonderful. Tennis nirvana.

NOTE: The following is an EXACT DESCRIPTION of this historic 
36-point tiebreaker as it actually transpired. It’s a MONTAGE 
which slows down at key moments.

1) McEnroe’s first serve is a fault. He rushes the net on his 
second serve, volleys a few times, and smashes a Borg lob for 
a winner. 1-0, McEnroe. 

2) Borg serves and McEnroe’s backhand return goes into net. 1-
1.

3) Borg’s second serve leads to a short rally. McEnroe 
backhands it into the net. 2-1, Borg.

4) McEnroe serves and volleys. Forehand stop-volley for a 
winner. 2-2.

5) Great McEnroe serve hard down the middle. Borg backhands 
into net. 3-2, McEnroe.

6) Borg serves and rushes the net. McEnroe ends up at the 
net, as well, and hits a backhand volley just wide. 3-3. They 
switch sides. 

7) Borg hits a great serve to McEnroe’s backhand. Chalk dust 
flies. McEnroe returns it way out. 4-3, Borg.

                                     114.

8) McEnroe slams a great serve to Borg’s backhand. Borg flubs 
it wide. 4-4.

9) McEnroe serves and rushes the net. Borg hits a perfect 
backhand passing shot. 5-4, Borg.

10) Borg serves, rushes the net. McEnroe hits a good return 
which forces Borg to pop it up. McEnroe rushes in and hits a 
running backhand crosscourt winner. 5-5.

11) McEnroe weakly returns Borg’s second serve. Borg rushes 
in and hits a strong backhand which McEnroe hits into the 
net. 6-5, Borg. 

It’s Championship Point, and the crowd erupts.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Borg can end it all right here.

12) On his second serve, McEnroe rushes net. Borg mishits his 
return, McEnroe lunges, hits a short forehand volley for 
winner. 6-6. They switch sides.

13) McEnroe serves and volleys. Borg blows a backhand by 
McEnroe. 7-6, Borg.

The crowd goes wild.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Borg with his fourth championship 
      point!

14) Borg serves and rushes the net. McEnroe hits a hard 
backhand low. Borg lunges for the ball, but hits a backhand 
volley into the net. 7-7.

McEnroe’s grit and courage begins to win the crowd the over. 
McEnroe gets a charge out of the crowd, while Borg stays 
calm.

             MAX ROBERTSON
      And four saves by McEnroe! 
      Unbelievable.

15) Borg serves. It’s a long rally. McEnroe passes Borg at 
the net with a beautiful backhand. 8-7, McEnroe.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Now it’s McEnroe’s chance to win 
      this set.

16) McEnroe serves and rushes net. Borg hits an amazing 
forehand passing shot. McEnroe dives for it and falls to the 
ground. He lies there, spread-eagle. 8-8.

                                     115.

17) McEnroe serves, rushes in, and hits a backhand volley for 
a winner. 9-8, McEnroe. He gets a big cheer from the crowd.

18) Borg serves, rushes, backhand volley for winner. 9-9. 
They switch sides. 

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Borg holds on! Remarkable!

19) Borg serves deep and McEnroe hits his backhand long. 10-
9, Borg.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Championship point number five.

20) Spectacular McEnroe serve. Borg defensive backhand wide. 
10-10.

21) McEnroe second serve. Short rally. Borg forehand passing 
shot. 11-10, Borg. 

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      And another championship point for 
      Borg!

22) Borg second serve. Short rally. McEnroe’s backhand hits 
the netcord and drops in for a lucky winner. 11-11.

The crowd loves it.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
        (laughing)
      Oh, I say!

23) Great Borg serve. Borg rushes net and drops McEnroe’s 
return, forcing McEnroe to scramble all the way in, only to 
hit a lunging forehand into the net. 12-11, Borg. 

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Championship point seven for Borg. 

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      I have no idea how McEnroe is 
      withstanding this pressure.

In the PRESS BOX the entire press corps has lost their minds 
with excitement. Julie, however, watches unemotionally.

24) McEnroe hits a great second serve, and amazing backhand 
volley for a winner. 12-12. They switch sides.

                                     116.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      They’ve both looked down the gun 
      barrel and they’re both still 
      alive.

25) McEnroe hits a second serve, rushes net, and hits a 
forehand volley down line for a winner. 13-12, McEnroe.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      Set point, McEnroe.

26) Borg serves deep to McEnroe’s backhand, and McEnroe hits 
it into the net. 13-13.

27) Borg serves hard and rushes, then hits a backhand volley 
into net. 14-13, McEnroe.

28) McEnroe serves for the set, rushes the net, and hits a 
forehand volley wide. Unforced error. 14-14.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Must wonder what demon is working 
      against him here.

29) McEnroe serves and it’s called out. Umpire overrules, 
first serve. McEnroe serves and rushes, hits forehand volley 
for a winner. 15-14, McEnroe.

30) Borg serves. McEnroe backhand return wide. 15-15. They 
switch sides.

31) Borg serves, rushes net - McEnroe hits a solid return. 
Borg miraculously recovers with a lunging backhand volley. 
McEnroe runs the entire court to thread the needle with a 
perfect down-the-line forehand winner. 16-15, McEnroe. He 
screams with delight.

32) McEnroe serves, rushes net, hits backhand volley way 
wide. 16-16. McEnroe is displeased. The crowd is in a frenzy. 
Borg is unmoved.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      Just look at Bjorn Borg. That’s the 
      calmest man in the place.

33) McEnroe serves and rushes. Borg’s forehand return goes 
just wide. 17-16, McEnroe.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      I don’t know how much more of this 
      I can take.

34) Borg serves and rushes, McEnroe hits backhand right at 
him, Borg hits forehand volley into net. MCENROE WINS!

                                     117.

             UMPIRE
      Set, Mr. McEnroe. Two sets apiece.

The crowd is in absolute ecstacy. Fleming and Carillo jump up 
and down.

             MCENROE
      Yeah! Yeah!

Borg’s eyes, for the first time, betray his fear and rage. 
It’s so subtle that no one notices.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      This final has become an absolute 
      classic!

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      What a showing by McEnroe, saving 
      five championship points in the 
      tiebreaker.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O)
      This is it. We’re down to the fifth 
      and final set. It’s do or die.

MONTAGE: FIFTH SET - It’s an even bout between two exhausted 
warriors. Finally, McEnroe is serving, down five games to 
six, 40-40. END MONTAGE.

McEnroe serves. Borg returns short, and McEnroe rushes the 
net. Borg slams a forehand down the line, and thinks he’s hit 
a winner.

             LINE JUDGE
      Out!

             UMPIRE
      Advantage, Mr. McEnroe.

McEnroe walks back to the service line. Borg doesn’t move. He 
stares icily at the umpire, letting him know he’s unhappy 
with the call.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      This is something you never see 
      from Bjorn Borg.

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      He does not like that call.

Borg stares for a few more seconds, and then gets in position 
for the next point.

                                     118.

McEnroe serves powerfully, and follows it to the net. Borg 
makes an amazing return crosscourt, and McEnroe lunges for 
it, miraculously getting his racquet on it and falling to his 
knees. It hits the tape and falls over. Borg rushes to get it 
from the baseline: no other player would even have a chance. 
Borg dives for it, gets his racquet on it, but it goes into 
the net. Point McEnroe!

The crowd goes insane.

             UMPIRE
      Game, Mr. McEnroe. Six games 
      apiece.

McEnroe uses his racquet to lift himself up and get back to 
work. Borg, however, remains on the ground. Borg’s face 
remains unchanged, but his eyes are now exploding with fear 
and rage. The two men are extremely close, maybe two feet 
across the net. McEnroe sees the turmoil in Borg’s eyes. Borg 
makes a decision, and slowly rises.  McEnroe turns to head 
for the service line, but Borg stops him.

             BORG
      John.

McEnroe stops and looks at Borg.

Borg stares into McEnroe’s eyes, then slowly pulls his long 
blonde hair off of his neck to reveal... A TATOO OF A RED 
SNAKE! 

McEnroe’s world is SHATTERED. Borg is the Red Snake!

He looks at Borg again, and sees the nefarious eyes of the 
Devil glaring back at him. McEnroe, terrified, is frozen in 
place. Borg confidently gets in position to serve.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      In the men’s championship, there is 
      no tiebreaker in the fifth set. 

             MAX ROBERTSON
	(V.O.)
      I think I can officially say, this 
      is the finest match I have ever 
      witnessed.

             DAN MASKELL
	(V.O.)
      The way these two are playing, this 
      could go on all night!

McEnroe, weak-kneed, makes his way back to the service line. 
There is terror in his eyes.

This is the exact moment from the OPENING OF THE FILM.

                                     119.

The capacity crowd is on its feet and screaming.

McEnroe breathes heavily as he takes in the contorted faces 
of the rabid crowd. He sees familiar faces and puts 
everything together: Philip Acheson is there, so are Camilla 
and the woman with ONE BLUE EYE and ONE GRAY EYE, as well as 
other villains from the world of the Red Snake. They are 
Borg’s entourage, and they stare at McEnroe from all corners, 
menacingly. Suddenly, the crowd is a sinister mob completely 
against him. 

Across the court, Borg waits confidently to serve. Finally, 
McEnroe summons the courage to approach the baseline.

He takes a breath, and gets into position to return serve. 
Across the net, Borg tosses the ball in the air. The ball 
SLOWLY reaches its apex. Borg’s body uncoils powerfully, 
and...

McEnroe’s eyes widen in fear.

MONTAGE: McEnroe has completely come undone, and Borg 
DESTROYS him. We see a cacophonous series of tennis mishaps 
(aces, mishits, stumbles, etc...) INTERCUT with the McEnroe’s 
MEMORIES of the last two weeks, putting everything together: 
Lars getting shot, the raid at the Vortex, images of bad guys 
stalking him in the lobby of the St. James, the women he had 
sex with at Philip Acheson’s party, the Lugashian dance at 
the Duke’s banquet with the flashpots exploding, the wax 
statue of Borg at Madame Tussaud’s, Borg’s “benevolently” 
offering him a ride home from the gala, etc...

Before he knows it...

             UMPIRE
      Game, set, match, Mr. Borg.

The crowd is on it’s feet, screaming. Fleming and Carillo 
feel bad for their friend. 

Borg gets down on his knees in his classic victory pose. 
McEnroe is completely empty.

EXT. CENTER COURT - TROPHY CEREMONY - MINUTES LATER

Borg and McEnroe receive their trophies from the Duke and 
Duchess of Kent.

             DAN MASKELL
      Ladies and Gentlemen, a round of 
      applause for today’s outstanding 
      runner-up, John McEnroe.

                                     120.

The crowd applauds and cheers.

             DAN MASKELL
	(CONT’D)
      And now, Wimbledon Champion... for 
      the fifth time in a row... the 
      incomparable Bjorn Borg!

The crowd goes wild. Borg steps up to the microphone.

             DAN MASKELL
	(CONT’D)
      Bjorn, five incredible sets of 
      tennis! A nail-biting fourth-set 
      tiebreaker that is sure to go down 
      in the history books. What are 
      feeling right now?

             BORG
      This championship means the most to 
      me of the five. John pushed me to 
      perform at my best, and I believe 
      we shared something out there - 
      something that only the two of us 
      will ever understand. 

Borg looks directly at McEnroe.

             BORG
	(CONT’D)
      And that something will remain 
      between the two of us, privately, 
      that no one else can ever know, and 
      we will take it with us to our 
      graves.

John knows exactly what Borg means. The crowd loves it.

             DAN MASKELL
      Bjorn Borg, a true hero.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - LATER

McEnroe sits alone, and finishes getting dressed in a t-shirt 
and jeans. Borg, in civilian clothes, finishes up with a 
group of reporters. 

McEnroe notices that one of Borg’s Donnay tennis bags is 
relatively close to him, unattended. He studies the tennis 
bag.

As Borg and the group begin to leave, he takes a couple of 
steps toward McEnroe.

                                     121.

             BORG
      John, I’ll see you later. I just 
      want you to know that I meant what 
      I said out there on the court. I 
      hope I was completely clear.

             JOHN
      Uh huh. Clear.

             BORG
        (extends hand)
      Well, it’s been an honor.

McEnroe accepts Borg’s hand, and they shake. Borg exits, 
followed by everyone else. The locker room clears, and 
McEnroe sits alone, defeated.

INT. MCENROE’S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

McEnroe sits on his bed in the gray light. He is completely 
alone.

His face turns red, and he begins to weep. It builds and 
builds until he’s sobbing uncontrollably.

EXT. HOTEL - NEXT MORNING

McEnroe, rumpled and wearing the same T-shirt and jeans, 
finishes loading the trunk of a cab. He closes the trunk to 
REVEAL Vanessa, his tournament greeter from his arrival.

             VANESSA
      Are you sure you won’t be needing 
      my assistance at the airport?

             MCENROE
      I’m fine, Vanessa. Thank you.

Vanessa clasps his hands.

             VANESSA
      Please have a safe trip home. 

             MCENROE
      Thank you.

She won’t let go. Suddenly tears fall from her eyes, and she 
gives him a hug. He returns it, but becomes distracted by 
Borg exiting the hotel along with his wife and entourage. 
McEnroe quickly gets out of the hug and into the cab.

                                     122.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Goodbye, Vanessa.

INT. CAB - CONTINUOUS

             CABBIE
      To Heathrow?

McEnroe, still looking at Borg, notices Borg’s DONNAY BAG 
slung over his shoulder. 

             CABBIE
	(CONT’D)
        (repeating)
      Heathrow??

McEnroe has a REALIZATION.

             MCENROE
        (absently)
      Yeah.

As the cab pulls away, McEnroe gets an idea.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Actually... are there any sporting 
      goods stores around here?

EXT. SPORTING GOODS STORE - MINUTES LATER

The cab waits outside of this store. A few moments later, 
McEnroe exits carrying a large plastic bag. He gets in, and 
the cab pulls away.

INT. AIRPORT - TICKET COUNTER

McEnroe stands at the counter, looks around, surveys the 
terminal. As always, a tennis bag is slung over his shoulder.

             TICKET LADY
      All right, Mr. McEnroe, you’re at 
      Gate 42 and will be boarding in 
      thirty minutes.

INT. AIRPORT - BANK OF TELEPHONE BOOTHS - 15 MINUTES LATER

McEnroe stands in a booth, with a phone to his ear, 
pretending to have a conversation as he scans the terminal.

                                     123.

             MCENROE
      Uh huh, yeah. That’s definitely 
      right. Yes. Blah blah blah...

After awhile, he spies what he was looking for: Borg and his 
entourage walking toward the security line. He quickly hangs 
up and runs to the security line before Borg’s group gets 
there.

There are a few people ahead of him on line. He knows Borg 
will be escorted through, and he hopes his line will move. 

             SECURITY PERSON
      Please put your bags on the 
      conveyor belt, and all metal 
      objects in the tray.

The line is taking forever - it’s a nightmare. He’s behind a 
young couple, helping an old man in a wheelchair and a 
mother, corralling four young children.

As McEnroe expected, Borg and his entourage walk up and are 
escorted through security WITHOUT GOING THROUGH THE METAL 
DETECTOR. Borg’s Donnay bag is slung over his shoulder.

Finally, it’s McEnroe’s turn to go through. He takes his 
tennis bag off of his shoulder, and puts it down on the 
conveyor belt. It’s not his usual Wilson bag, it’s a DONNAY 
BAG just like Borg’s.

McEnroe walks through security, and picks up his bag on the 
other side.

             SECURITY PERSON 2
      I won fifty quid yesterday. Thanks 
      for doing your part... and losing.

             MCENROE
      You’re welcome.

McEnroe makes a BEELINE for Borg, who is slow to notice. 
McEnroe begins to pick up some speed. Borg turns around, sees 
McEnroe, and smiles at him. McEnroe breaks into a FULL-ON RUN 
straight for Borg, TACKLES him.

Borg goes down hard. Pandemonium. They wrestle on the ground. 
Surprise gives McEnroe the early advantage but Borg is 
stronger and has the skills of a trained martial artist. He 
quickly and violently flips McEnroe on his back.

             MCENROE
	(CONT’D)
      Gahhhhhhhh!

Borg kneels on McEnroe’s chest.

                                     124.

             BORG
      Have you lost your mind?

McEnroe doesn’t know what to do. He sees Borg’s trademark 
hair dangling over him, and with the speed of a cobra grabs 
and pulls it as hard as he can. Borg’s head snaps back.

             BORG
	(CONT’D)
      Yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!

Borg punches McEnroe in the face, hard. Then another time. 
Then he punches him in the throat. McEnroe goes limp, 
coughing for air. Borg stands up, leaves McEnroe on the 
ground, and dusts himself off. Everyone in the terminal is 
frozen, mouths agape. Julie is among them.

             BORG
	(CONT’D)
      Have you no dignity? You have such 
      potential -- in tennis and in life -
      - but you squander it all. You’ve 
      lost this time. Accept it.

             MCENROE
      Fuck you, asshole.

Borg shakes his head, picks up his Donnay bag, and walks 
away. One of Borg’s people SPITS on McEnroe.

McEnroe stays on the ground until he sees the entourage is 
out of sight. He gets up and walks to his gate, blood 
dripping from his lip.

INT. AIRPLANE - MINUTES LATER

McEnroe limps down the long aisle of COACH. The rest of the 
passengers, already seated, stare at the battered tennis 
star. He collapses into his seat. 

The plane begins to slowly taxi. McEnroe looks to his right, 
and sees that the man in the seat next to him is reading 
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED. The cover is split diagonally: The top 
left portion is a photo of Borg, looking beautiful, about to 
hit a backhand - The other portion is of McEnroe at the net, 
grimacing horribly. In big letters under Borg it says 
“SUPERSTAR”. In big letters under McEnroe, it says 
“SUPERBRAT”.

A beautiful stewardess picks up an intercom.

             STEWARDESS
        (over intercom, with an 
         accent)

                                     125.

             STEWARDESS
	(CONT'D)
      Ladies and gentlemen, my name is 
      Latiya. On behalf of the entire 
      crew, I welcome you aboard. We 
      certainly hope you have a pleasant 
      flight with us on Air Lugash.

We see that the cabin is distinctively decorated in the 
colors of Lugash.

McEnroe smiles. At his feet... a DONNAY TENNIS BAG.

EXT. PLANE

The logo of Air Lugash. The plane takes off.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

INT. PALACE OF THE SHAH OF LUGASH - LATER

McEnroe wears a long white robe. Aside from his swollen lip, 
McEnroe looks much better. 

Across from him sits a wise-looking older man - this is the 
SHAH OF LUGASH. Standing next to him is Ersan Golat from the 
Duke’s gala. Ersan Golat also wears the same traditional garb 
as McEnroe. He smiles broadly.

The Shah holds the Donnay bag. He unzips it and smiles as he 
carefully pulls out the CORNET OF LUGASH. It looks more 
luminescent and beautiful than ever.

             SHAH OF LUGASH
        (to McEnroe)
      It has been over 600 years that our 
      country has been without its voice. 
      Sir, you have done a great thing. 
      The nation of Lugash is forever in 
      your debt.

McEnroe nods. They are in an extremely ornate palace room 
overlooking the beautiful Sea of Lugash.

Beautiful MALE and FEMALE ATTENDANTS stand by the door. All 
eyes are on the Shah, as he slowly raises the Cornet to his 
lips. He takes a deep breath and blows into it. No sound 
comes out. It’s awkward. The Shah, however, is unruffled.

             SHAH OF LUGASH
	(CONT’D)
      Legend holds that only the Cornet 
      can choose who will sing through 
      it. 


                                     126.

             SHAH OF LUGASH
	(CONT’D)
      And whoever brings forth its 
      beautiful tones, will be blessed 
      with incredible triumphs.

The Shah looks at McEnroe. McEnroe looks back at him, not 
sure what to do. Then the Shah presents the Cornet to 
McEnroe, who humbly accepts it.

McEnroe hesitates. The Shah nods at him, and McEnroe, to be 
polite, tentatively brings the Cornet to his lips. He BLOWS.

The Cornet produces a PERFECTLY PURE TONE. Everyone in the 
room smiles.

The sound rings out majestically across the entire land of 
Lugash, as we... 

FADE TO BLACK

The beautiful tone continues and morphs into a traditional 
Lugashian melody. 

THE END

As the credits roll...

TITLE: ONE YEAR LATER

John McEnroe and Bjorn Borg on Centre Court...

TITLE: 1981 WIMBLEDON MEN’S FINAL

... battling each other, again. This time, however, McEnroe 
emerges victorious.

