               SWEETHEART

               Written by

              Jack Stanley

Jewerl Keats Ross
SILENT R MANAGEMENT
8060 Melrose Avenue
Suite 205
Los Angeles, CA 90046
323-852-6830 Office
310-415-1380 Cell
jross@silentrlit.com

CAA
2000 Avenue of the Stars
Los Angeles, CA 90067
(424) 288-2000

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

A GUN -- a snubnose pistol, resting on the edge of a dresser.

Opposite, perched on the corner of the bed, A GIRL (9) -- 
thin as a wisp, eyes like saucers as she stares at the 
intriguing object.  She wears a dirty sundress; the room 
around her is disheveled, dark and unpleasant.

She reaches a tiny hand forward toward the dresser.

             MAN
	(O.S.)
      Nuh-uh, sweetheart.

The Girl freezes.

Leaning in the doorway, a MAN -- we see him only from the 
chest down, and he’s muscled, his rippling physique offset by 
a drinker’s gut.

The Girl stays silent, immobile.

The Man lumbers into the room -- the pistol slips off the 
dresser into his meaty fingers.

His other hand presses onto the top of the Girl’s head, 
slides down to her face, his palm rough against her soft skin 
-- she tries not to show her discomfort.

Then the hand SLAPS against her cheek, a brief, familiar 
reproach.

             MAN
	(CONT’D)
      You touch my things, you need 
      permission.  Understand?

The Girl stays silent, chastened.

The Man crouches down, and we finally get a look at his 
scruffy, hardened features.

He dumps out the pistol’s rounds into his hand.  Then holds 
the butt of the pistol under the Girl’s nose.

             MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Go ahead.

The Girl blinks, unsure.  The Man nods.

She reaches her tiny hand up.  Wraps her fingers around the 
handle.  Her heart beats like a hummingbird’s.

             MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Feel that?

                                      2.

They lock eyes.  The side of his mouth curls up in a knowing 
smile.

             MAN
	(CONT’D)
      That’s trouble.

The Girl looks back to the gun --

                              SMASH-CUT TO:

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Those same wide eyes.  They belong to DANI COLLINS (25) -- a 
pretty face, worn in.  A cheap, provocative ensemble hugging 
her petite frame.

She’s straddling a HAIRY MAN -- unconscious, sprawled on his 
back, barrel-chested.  Nude but for a dirty pair of briefs.  

A pillow obscures his face.

And Dani is pressing a snubnose pistol down into the pillow -- 
THE pistol, in fact.

Then, like lightening, she wraps the pillow tightly around 
the pistol and SQUEEZES -- 

TITLE CARD: SWEETHEART

ROLL CREDITS

PRE-LAP:

             DANI
	(O.S.)
      Hey.  All done.

                                  CUT TO:

                                RETURN TO:

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Dani sits curled in a decaying armchair, smoking a cigarette -
- her scant outfit now covered by a hooded sweatshirt.  

A cell phone is pressed to her ear; she picks with her 
fingers at the upholstery of the chair, listening to a voice 
on the other end.

                                      3.

             DANI
        (into the phone)
      Yup.

She hangs up abruptly, pocketing the phone.  She stares at 
the bed, gaze fixed on the dead man’s splayed form, studying 
its shape.

After a beat, she glances at the clock on the wall.  Takes 
one last puff of the cigarette, smoke rattling into her 
lungs.

Then she rises, swiftly, packing up her things into a 
shoulder bag, moving with the confidence and grace of a 
professional.

She opens the window and slips out into the night.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

A street lamp, from a distance, on a mostly deserted highway.  
A young man, MITCH RONSON (late 20s), is standing under the 
lamp, leaning against a parked car.  Mitch is slim but 
sturdy, pale, with closely trimmed hair.

A figure jogs from the darkness toward him -- Dani.  Mitch 
notes her presence, mutedly.

             MITCH
      The guys got inside the room.  No 
      problems.

             DANI
      So we’re good?

             MITCH
      We’re good.

Dani nods.  A beat.

             DANI
      Are we waiting for something?

             MITCH
      Yeah.

Dani raises her eyebrows, waiting for an explanation.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      For me to finish my cigarette.

Dani gives him a look, unamused, and gets inside the car.

                                      4.

Mitch grins, takes a long drag, then flicks the cigarette 
away.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Dani sits alone in the passenger seat, looking tired.  The 
car is parked on some darkened street.

A manila envelope drops into her lap.  She looks up to see 
Mitch sliding into the driver’s seat.  He starts the engine.

             DANI
      Thought I was talking to Eddie?

             MITCH
      Not tonight.

             DANI
      He doesn’t have five minutes--?

             MITCH
      Not tonight, he doesn’t.

Dani knows better than to argue.  She opens the envelope.

INSIDE -- A thick stack of TWENTIES.  She reaches for her 
bag, slipping the envelope inside.

Mitch lights up another cigarette.  He looks up and down 
Dani’s frame.  His hand finds its way to her thigh.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Feel like going somewhere?

Dani looks up at him.  Smirks.  She reaches for his 
cigarette, plucks it from his fingers.

             DANI
      Yeah.  Home.

She takes a drag of the cigarette, shifts her leg, and he 
removes his hand.

He rolls his eyes and guns the engine.

INT. DANI’S APARTMENT - NIGHT

SLAM.  Dani closes the door behind her and stands, alone in 
her studio apartment.

The room around her is cramped, messy, littered with clothes, 
drug paraphernalia, other unsavory possessions.

                                      5.

Lonely.

She drops her bag on the floor.

A SERIES OF SHOTS:

- Dani, now wearing old sweats, stands over the toilet, 
ripping up a BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPH of a MAN -- we’re not 
sure, but we think it’s the unfortunate gentleman from 
earlier.

She dumps the remains in the toilet bowl and watches them 
swirl...

- Dani, cross-legged on the tile, methodically cleaning her 
snubnose...

- Dani, hunched over on the floor of her bedroom, rooting 
through a hefty pile of papers.  Finds the one she’s looking 
for -- something that looks like a BANK STATEMENT.  Her eyes 
scan the page...

- Dani, finding her checkbook.  Scribbling, then tearing out 
a check...

- Dani, sitting on her couch, bowl of Honeycombs propped on 
her knees, mindlessly watching late-night television...

- Dani, lying in bed, just a mattress on the floor.  Her eyes 
are wide-open, boring into the cracked ceiling.  A familiar 
look of blankness on her face, maybe boredom.

MORNING SUNLIGHT worms its way through her blinds.

After a long beat, she rolls off the bed to her feet.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Dani, alone among the tombstones, squinting in the sunshine.  
A lackluster bouquet of carnations hangs from her arm.

JASON COLLINS (21), a moppy-headed young man, appears at her 
side, backpack slung over his shoulder.  The family 
resemblance is clear -- a shared stoicism, even if he doesn’t 
exude the same casual confidence of his sister.

             JASON
      Hey, sorry.  The bus...

                                      6.

             DANI
      Don’t worry about it.

Jason reaches in his bag, pulls out a brightly colored 
greeting card envelope.  Hands it to Dani.

             JASON
      I never know whether to get a funny 
      one or not.

Dani pulls the card from the envelope -- it’s goofy looking 
(with an awful pun, probably involving a dog).

Dani smirks.

             DANI
      Gotta pen?

Jason scrounges around in his bag, digs one out.

Dani scribbles on the card, then slips it back in the 
envelope and unceremoniously drops it, along with the 
carnations, on the ground.

They land in front of a TOMBSTONE -- DANIEL COLLINS ingrained 
on its face.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Happy birthday, Dan.

Jason and Dani wait a semi-respectful moment.

             JASON
      Well.  I should get back...

             DANI
      I’ll give you a ride.

INT. DANI’S CAR - DAY

Jason surveys the well-worn interior of Dani’s car while she 
drives.

             JASON
      You should get a new car.  This 
      thing’s beat to shit.

             DANI
      Hey, if you trip over an enormous 
      pile of money, by all means, let me 
      know.

Jason grins.

                                      7.

             JASON
      What makes you think I wouldn’t 
      just keep it for myself?

             DANI
      Because.  I asked nicely, dipshit.  
      Besides, you’re gonna have yourself 
      a career pretty soon, you’ll be 
      able to afford your own car.

Jason’s smile fades.  Something on his mind.

             JASON
      How’s the restaurant?

Dani shrugs.

             DANI
      I’m still serving food to people, 
      if that’s what you’re wondering.

Jason nods, vaguely.

             JASON
      Ever thought about...

He trails off, uncertain if he should continue.  Dani studies 
him.

             DANI
      What, doing something else?  Since 
      when does it bother you that I’m a 
      waitress?

             JASON
      No, no, it doesn’t...

Dani waits for the other shoe to drop.

             DANI
      Come on.  Spit it out.

             JASON
        (sighs)
      Just, sometimes I think...you know, 
      what if Dad had...

He’s still struggling with how to phrase it, so Dani beats 
him to the punch.

             DANI
      Jason, you needed the money than I 
      did.  And if I had wanted to go to 
      school, I would have gone.  

                                      8.

             DANI
	(CONT'D)
      I tried a few classes, remember?  
      Didn’t stick.  It wasn’t for me, 
      Dad knew that.

Jason nods, still unsure.

             JASON
      Doesn’t seem fair, is all...

             DANI
      Hey, don’t you dare feel guilty.  
      Growing up with that man...you 
      deserved every cent he had.

             JASON
      ...You grew up with him too.

Dani thinks about this.

             DANI
      He was always harder on you than he 
      was on me.

She pulls the car into park.  Jason looks up, and notices 
that they’re back at his college campus.  He opens the door 
and steps out.

             JASON
      Thanks for the ride.

             DANI
      Hey.

Jason stops.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t worry.  I’m doing fine, 
      alright?  You know me.

Jason smiles, briefly.  Not all that convinced.

             JASON
      See ya.

He SLAMS the door and disappears.

Dani watches him go.

INT. DANI’S CAR - EVENING

Dani, still behind the wheel, sitting in a parking lot.

                                 FADE TO:

                                      9.

THROUGH THE FRONT WINDOW -- an OLIVE GARDEN.  A glowing 
bastion of suburban living, sitting alone off the edge of a 
highway.

Dani stares for a moment.

INT. OLIVE GARDEN - MOMENTS LATER

Dani swings open the double doors.  She slips past a 
GRUMBLING FAMILY, haggling with the HOSTESS.  Moves down the 
aisles, unnoticed, weaving past booth after booth, sliding 
around WAITERS balancing towering plates of gooey pasta.

She turns a corner, knowing exactly where she’s going.  
Through the entire cavernous dining room, until she reaches 
her destination -- a tiny corner booth in the back.

Sitting at the table by himself, staring down at his menu, 
beer in hand, is EDDIE RONSON (early 50s) -- imposing, well 
groomed but not flashy.  A good face.

Dani drops herself into the booth across from him.

For a second he doesn’t notice she’s there.  Then he looks 
up.  Blinks.

             EDDIE
      Danielle.

             DANI
      Eddie.

             EDDIE
      Did Mitch send you over here?

             DANI
      Nope.

             EDDIE
      ...Mitch didn’t send you over here?

             DANI
      Nope.

             EDDIE
      So you’re telling me you just 
      walked in and sat down?

             DANI
      Yeah.

             EDDIE
      Without anyone stopping you?

                                      10.

             DANI
      Yeah, Eddie, I did.

His eyes move to a nearby table -- Mitch and FRANKIE (30s), 
your typical meathead goon, are laughing over drinks, not 
paying attention.

Eddie sighs.  Looks back to Dani.

             EDDIE
      You have to wonder what I keep them 
      around for...

             DANI
      I wanna talk.

             EDDIE
      Go figure.  How’d you know I was 
      here?

             DANI
        (impatient)
      Because.  This is always where you 
      eat dinner.

             EDDIE
      No, it’s not.

             DANI
      It is Wednesdays.  Eight o’clock.

Eddie blinks.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Four years, Eddie, it pays to keep 
      track of some things.

Eddie shakes his head.

             EDDIE
      Routine.  It’ll kill ya.  You 
      hungry?

             DANI
      Not really...

             EDDIE
      Have a breadstick.

He points to the basket on the table.  Reaches for one 
himself, starts chomping away.

                                      11.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      This about last night?   Mitch said 
      it was smooth.

             DANI
      Yeah, ‘course it was.

Eddie nods, satisfied.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Seems like there’ve been a lot more 
      of those recently.

Eddie stops chewing.

             EDDIE
      We’ve had a string of hard cases.  
      You have to come down somewhere.

             DANI
      I wasn’t criticizing, Eddie...

             EDDIE
      Then work on your delivery.

             DANI
      What I meant was, seems like a lot 
      of these jobs I’ve been doing.

Eddie raises his eyebrows.  Motions her to continue.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      All I used to do was run 
      deliveries.  Then you ask me to do 
      one of these jobs, every once in a 
      while.  Now though...seems like 
      there’s a new guy every month.

             EDDIE
      So what?  You do good work.  You’re 
      my ace in the deck, does that 
      bother you?

Dani, flattered, can’t help herself from smiling.  She shakes 
her head.

Eddie ruminates.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      Will you please eat a fucking 
      breadstick?  You’re too damn 
      skinny.

Dani reluctantly grabs one, picks at it.

                                      12.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      So how can I help?

             DANI
      Jason graduates in May.

             EDDIE
      Good for him.  What’s he studying?

             DANI
      Economics, I think.  Something 
      business-y.

             EDDIE
      Smart kid.

             DANI
      The last tuition payment is next 
      month.

Eddie tenses.

             EDDIE
      If this is about money, Dani...

             DANI
      It’s not.  It’s all squared away.

             EDDIE
      Then what is it?

She takes a breath.

             DANI
      No more payments...I’m thinking of 
      taking a break, is all.

A beat.

             EDDIE
      What kind of break?

Dani shrugs.

             DANI
      Just...travel or something.  Maybe 
      start on some classes.

             EDDIE
      Classes for what?

             DANI
      I don’t know yet, I just wanted you 
      to know I’m thinking about it.

                                      13.

Eddie sighs, leans back in his seat.

             EDDIE
      The timing ain’t great.  We’re at 
      an all-hands-on-deck kind of 
      moment...I’m closing down the 
      restaurant.

Dani looks up, surprised.  She glances around the dining 
room.

             DANI
      Plenty of customers.

             EDDIE
      There’s the problem.  It’s a 
      distraction.  Too much scrutiny.  
      Stupid to open a franchise...

He rubs his forehead, weary.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      Narcotics, it’s...you can’t take 
      your eye off the ball in this 
      business.  You work for years and 
      years at something, and the moment 
      you think you can finally 
      relax...ah, I won’t trouble you 
      with the details.

Dani rolls her eyes and picks off another piece of 
breadstick.

             DANI
      How kind of you.

Eddie smiles.

             EDDIE
      Dani.  Dani, Dani, Dani.  You know 
      your old man named you after 
      himself?

             DANI
      Yeah, Eddie, of course I know...

             EDDIE
      Couldn’ta just waited for a boy.  A 
      hasty, hasty man.
        (a chuckle)
      I remember you walking up to me.  
      Dan’s in the ground not two 
      minutes, and you march right up and 
      ask for work.  

                                      14.

             EDDIE
	(CONT'D)
      Never said two words to me in my 
      life.  I didn’t have the heart to 
      say no.  This scrawny little 
      teenager...

             DANI
      I was twenty-one, Eddie...

             EDDIE
      Not sure if Dan’d be proud or 
      pissed.  He probably figured you’d 
      be good at it, but still...his 
      little girl...

Dani clenches her jaw.

             DANI
      He drove his drunk ass into a tree.  
      How valuable is his opinion?

A tense beat.

             EDDIE
      I’m thinking we should let this 
      whole conversation slide, because I 
      can tell you’re having an emotional 
      episode or whatever.  I’m also 
      choosing to overlook the fact that 
      you approached me in public, even 
      though that’s rule number one on my 
      list...

             DANI
      Yeah, write those down for me 
      sometime.

             EDDIE
      ...And the reason I’m being so 
      fucking gracious, is so you 
      understand how valuable I think you 
      are.  Not just to my business.  To 
      me, personally.  So if you still 
      feel this way in a few months, 
      we’ll revisit it at that time.  
      Mitchell?

Dani blinks, and realizes that Mitch is standing at her 
shoulder.  She rises, not one to ignore a hint, and blows out 
of the restaurant without another word.

Mitch and Eddie exchange weary looks.  Mitch turns to follow 
Dani.

                                      15.

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Dani moves quickly through the parking lot, heading for the 
road, not her car.

Mitch catches up quickly, walking a few paces behind her.

             MITCH
      It was a dumb of you to come here.

             DANI
      So I’ve heard.

             MITCH
      He’s lookin’ out for you.

             DANI
      He’s looking out for himself.

             MITCH
      Well, if word gets around what you 
      do for him, you’re not much value, 
      you know?

Dani keeps walking, not responding to this comment.  Mitch 
jogs to catch up.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Where you going?

             DANI
      For a walk.

             MITCH
      It’s a twenty minute drive into 
      town.

             DANI
      It’s a nice night.

             MITCH
      Come on.  Let me give you a ride...

He reaches for her, and she spins, wickedly fast, and has his 
arm twisted in her grasp, a SWITCHBLADE pressed against his 
bare wrist.

A beat.  Mitch takes this in stride.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      You pull a switch on me?

             DANI
      I pull one on anybody.

                                      16.

She lets go of his arm, backing away and pocketing the knife.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      What I said to Eddie.  I mean it.  
      I need a break from this.

Mitch stands and watches her go, a condescending smirk 
planted on his face.

             MITCH
      Well, do me a favor, will you?  
      Stop trying so hard to act like you 
      don’t enjoy it.

Dani turns and disappears into darkness.

Mitch laughs, spits, and strolls back inside.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Dani wanders along the roadside, feet crunching gravel.  In 
the distance we SEE dim light.

She moves toward the light, following the curve of the road.

EXT. RECEPTION HALL - CONTINUOUS

Dani slows as she approaches a large building, sheltered by 
trees.  Ivy and wooden fencing feign a sort of pastoral 
scene, but it doesn’t quite add up.  Inside, we HEAR dance 
music and dull tones of chatty conversation.

Dani moves a bit closer -- sees a banner hanging over the 
doorway: WELCOME CENTER VALLEY CLASS OF 2004 10-YEAR REUNION!

Dani smirks, then moves toward the back of the building.

EXT. RECEPTION HALL BACKYARD - LATER

Dani sits at a gazebo, smoking a cigarette, party sounds 
still faint in the background from the top of the hill.  She 
watches geese make lazy circles in the nearby pond.

             YOUNG MAN
	(O.S.)
      You like swans?

Dani looks up.  A YOUNG MAN (28) leans over the wooden 
railing, grinning.  He’s flush, tie hanging loose around his 
neck.

Dani smiles.

                                      17.

             DANI
      Sure.  But these are geese.

The Young Man frowns and climbs the steps to the gazebo.

             YOUNG MAN
      Really?  That’s a rip-off.

He sits himself down next to her, offers his beer.

             YOUNG MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Drink?

She accepts readily.  He points proudly to a sticker on his 
chest.

             YOUNG MAN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m Charlie.

             DANI
      Hiya Charlie.

He stares at her chest -- no attempt to be discreet.

             CHARLIE
      You’re not wearing a name-tag.

             DANI
      Nope.

             CHARLIE
      Why don’t you have a name-tag?

             DANI
      Because, Charlie, I’m trying to 
      stick it to the establishment.  
      Also, I wasn’t invited.

             CHARLIE
      A rebel, huh?

             DANI
      You bet.

A beat.  Charlie watches as she takes another swig of beer.

             CHARLIE
        (not a question)
      But you went to Center Valley.

Dani nods, coy.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Did we know each other?

                                      18.

Dani smiles, knowingly.

             DANI
      We danced together once.

             CHARLIE
      ...We did?

             DANI
      You don’t remember.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Guys and Dolls.

Nope.

Charlie squints, trying to decipher what this means.

             CHARLIE
      Guys and Dolls?

             DANI
      High school.  You were Sky.

             CHARLIE
      I was?  I was!  Who were you?

             DANI
      One of the dolls.

             CHARLIE
      Ah...

             DANI
      I had a dance solo.  “Luck Be a 
      Lady.”  We were paired up.

Charlie finally puts things together, snaps his fingers.

             CHARLIE
      Dani!

             DANI
      Yup.

             CHARLIE
      Dani Collins.

             DANI
      Bingo.

             CHARLIE
        (laughs)
      Holy shit.

Charlie shakes his head, grabs the bottle and gulps beer.

                                      19.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      You were a great dancer.

             DANI
      Yup.

             CHARLIE
      I was terrible...

             DANI
      Yup.

Charlie cracks up.  Dani smiles.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      But you were charming.  I was 
      charmed, anyway.  I was just a 
      freshman, you were big man on 
      campus...

Charlie sits back, reminiscing.

             CHARLIE
      I remember, I came back the next 
      year, after I graduated.  What was 
      the show?

             DANI
        (bad Cockney accent)
      Ol-i-var.

             CHARLIE
      Right!  My sister was one of the 
      orphans, I think.  Who were you?

             DANI
      Wasn’t in it.

             CHARLIE
      What!  Why not?

             DANI
      I had to pick up a job, after 
      school.

             CHARLIE
      Bullshit.

             DANI
      No bullshit.

                                      20.

             CHARLIE
      Why would you do that?  You were so 
      talented...

             DANI
        (shrugs)
      My dad got arrested.

The air deflates from Charlie’s drunken balloon.

             CHARLIE
      Oh.

             DANI
      We needed some extra money to pay 
      off the fine, so I quit the show.

             CHARLIE
      That’s...that sucks.  What about 
      your mom, didn’t she work?

             DANI
        (shakes her head)
      She died when I was a little girl.

A somber beat.

             CHARLIE
      Shit.

             DANI
      Yup.

             CHARLIE
      I’m...really sorry about that.

             DANI
      Don’t be.  You didn’t kill her, did 
      you?

Charlie smiles, uncomfortable.

             CHARLIE
      Guess not.

Another beat, as Charlie looks back up the hill.  He thinks 
about leaving.  But doesn’t.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      So.  If you weren’t invited.  How’d 
      you end up here tonight, Dani 
      Collins?

                                      21.

             DANI
      Promise not to tell on me?

             CHARLIE
      Promise.

             DANI
      I walked.

Charlie laughs, finding the joke funnier than it actually is.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      How did you end up here, Charlie 
      James?

             CHARLIE
      I drove.

             DANI
      Ah.

             CHARLIE
      From New York.

             DANI
      Very impressive.

             CHARLIE
      In a...in a Buick.

Suddenly, he cracks up.  Dani is lost.

             DANI
      What’s so funny?

             CHARLIE
      A Buick?  I mean...

She still doesn’t get it.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s just, I don’t own a car, I had 
      to rent one, and I was...I was 
      worried what people would think.  
      So I went for the luxury upgrade.  
      And then I get to the rental place, 
      and this guy pulls up with this 
      fucking Buick.  I mean my grandma 
      drove a Buick.  Accountants drive 
      Buicks.  Not young, successful, 
      attractive people.

             DANI
      People like you.

                                      22.

             CHARLIE
      Well, that was the idea.
        (he looks at her)
      I sound like a jackass, don’t I?  
      After your whole dead mom story...

             DANI
      Kind of.

             CHARLIE
      Well...I learned my lesson, if it 
      makes you feel better.

             DANI
      And what lesson was that?

He looks back up the hill.

             CHARLIE
      I mean, all those people in there.  
      Trying so fucking hard.  Everyone’s 
      too worried about themselves to 
      notice other people’s problems.

He swigs back his beer.  Looks to Dani.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      You think, you and me, if we sit 
      here talking long enough, we could 
      actually get to know each other?

Dani smiles.  Leans toward him, nestling into his shoulder.

             DANI
      Maybe.  But probably not.

Charlie gently places his arm around her, feeling the moment.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I gotta say, though...

Charlie raises his eyebrows.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I’ve never been in a Buick before.

Charlie grins and takes a final swig of beer.

PRE-LAP: The ROAR of a car engine...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      23.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

...And we SEE the BUICK, barrelling through the night, 
slicing around tight corners, its headlights weaving in a 
dizzying dance, giving us glimpses of a winding back road.  

INT. BUICK - CONTINUOUS

Dani’s hands are glued to the wheel, expertly navigating, a 
look of empowerment on her face as she guides the car through 
slopes and valleys and breakneck turns.

Charlie braces himself in the passenger seat, laughing 
nervously, watching branches WHIZ by the window, certain that 
every twist of the car is going to be its last.

The radio BLARES, a POUNDING rhythm, accenting the mania of 
their flight.

             CHARLIE
        (yelling over the radio)
      You, ah...do this often?

Dani flashes a grin his way.  REVS the engine even louder.

Suddenly, a T appears in the road in front of them -- a STOP 
SIGN rapidly mushrooms in size.

Charlie’s anxious smile drops, replaced by all-out terror.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Dani!

Her foot SLAMS the brake, and the car SKIDS, SKIDS -- then 
LURCHES to a stop, perfectly in front of the stop sign.

Dani and Charlie look at each other.

And then, simultaneously, they lunge for each other -- 
passionate kissing fueled by adrenaline.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

The door BUSTS open, and Charlie and Dani tumble through, 
already wrapped in each other’s embrace.  They fall onto the 
bed, violent animals, Dani straddling atop Charlie.

She looks up for a breather, taking in the room -- clean, 
generic, totally removed from her world of seedy motels.  She 
blinks, suddenly lost.

                                      24.

He reaches for her face, and she flinches, skittish.

His grin fades, turning to concern.

             CHARLIE
      Something wrong?

Dani returns to herself.  Her fingers intertwine with his, 
and she leans down, smiling.

             DANI
      No.  Just different.

They kiss again, roll across the bed, off the bed, 
impassioned.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Dawn sunlight gently leaks through blinds.

Dani slips into her clothes, silent as a ghost.  She turns to 
look at the bed.  Charlie lies facedown, naked, still fast 
asleep.

Her eyes trace their way to the floor.  She spots a WALLET.  
His wallet.

After a second of hesitation, she picks it up.  Fishes out a 
handful of twenties, shoves them in her pocket.

She notices a few business cards.  She pulls one out, studies 
it: CHARLES JAMES.  Some junk about FINANCING.  Contact Info.  
Pretty official looking.

She raises her eyebrows, slips it into her jeans pocket.  
Delicately drops the wallet back on the floor.  Then steals 
out into the hallway, gone.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. APARTMENT - MORNING

SLAM.  Dani, alone in her dim mess of a room.

She falls onto her bed.  Closes her eyes.

Opens them again, almost immediately.  Gets back up.

We WATCH as she:

                                      25.

- Pulls open a dresser drawer -- a GLASS SMOKING PIPE inside.

- Rifles through a book shelf, housing basically everything 
but books.  She finds what she’s looking for -- a DVD CASE...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. APARTMENT - MORNING

A grainy VIDEO-RECORDING, on Dani’s small television.  The 
focus is off, the camera work unsteady, but we can make out a 
stage, and TEENAGERS dancing -- we’re watching Dani’s high 
school production of Guys and Dolls.

The video ZOOMS in on a pair of dancers, and we know we’re 
watching young Dani and Charlie; even through the grainy 
footage, we can tell that Dani’s pretty good.

As she performs, we HEAR whoops and hollers -- from Dani’s 
FATHER, holding the video camera.

ON THE COUCH, Dani watches, expression blank -- the glass 
pipe resting in her palm, smoldering.

BACK ON THE SCREEN, the footage has cut to after the 
performance, and we’re outside the auditorium, a MOB of 
parents and kids.  The camera SCANS the crowd, searching out 
Dani.

             DANI’S FATHER
	(O.S.)
        (a little slurred)
      Hey.  Hey!  There she is.

The camera focuses in on one girl in the crowd -- Dani (15) 
glances at the camera briefly, and we see a faint look of 
concern.  She turns back to talk to a group of GIRLS, all 
smiles.

             DANI’S FATHER
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Dani!  Danielle, over here!

             BOY
	(O.S.)
      Dad...you’re yelling...

             DANI’S FATHER
	(O.S.)
      Why isn’t she coming over here?

             BOY
	(O.S.)
      She’s talking to her friends.

             DANI’S FATHER
      Ah...

                                      26.

The camera PANS down and over to a BOY (11) -- young Jason, 
fresh-faced.

             DANI’S FATHER
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      So whattayou think, Jason, you like 
      musicals?

An eye roll and a shake of his head.

             DANI’S FATHER 
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Me neither.  But you think your 
      sister did good?

A broad smile.

             JASON
      Yeah, she did.

             DANI’S FATHER
	(O.S.)
      She did, right?  You proud of her?

             JASON
      Yeah, I am.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. MOTEL BATHROOM - NIGHT

Dani, crouching over a bathtub, muscles straining -- we can’t 
quite see inside the tub, but we can HEAR that there’s 
SOMEONE in there, struggling vainly.  SOUNDS of choking.

The deed slowly gets finished, Dani’s hands twisting tightly, 
her face a mask.

When it’s finally done, she slides out of the tub onto the 
floor, sits cross-legged, sweaty, disgusting, exhausted.

She reaches for a cell phone on the tile floor, leans her 
head back against the tub.

             DANI
        (into phone)
      Hey...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      27.

INT. MITCH’S CAR - NIGHT

Dani, in the passenger seat once more.  The driver’s side 
door opens and an envelope drops into her lap.  She looks 
inside without interest.

Mitch lights up a cigarette.

             MITCH
      Eddie says one more.

Dani looks up, curious.  Mitch avoids eye contact.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      You’ll make the deliveries with me 
      this weekend.  And then there’s one 
      more job coming up, sometime in the 
      next couple weeks.  After 
      that...Eddie says take as much time 
      as you need.

Dani isn’t sure how to feel.

             DANI
      When’s the guy?

             MITCH
        (snapping)
      If I knew that, I would’ve told 
      you, wouldn’t I?

Dani says nothing.  Mitch looks immediately guilty.  He 
starts the engine.

             DANI
      Mitch...

             MITCH
      You don’t need to explain anything.  
      I get it.

But she wants to explain anyway -- she considers how to 
phrase it.

             DANI
      When you said I was trying to 
      pretend like I didn’t enjoy it...

             MITCH
      I shouldn’t have said any of that 
      stuff...

                                      28.

             DANI
      No, it’s not that, it’s 
      just...that’s something I should be 
      worried about, don’t you think?

He looks at her, puzzled.

A beat.  Mitch shrugs, then puts the car into gear.

             MITCH
      Let me buy you a drink?

Now Dani smiles.

             DANI
      Sure.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - DAY

Dani sits along a brick wall, sucking on a cigarette.  She 
studies the faces of students as they pass.

From a distance, she spots her target -- Jason.  He’s in the 
midst of chatting with FRIENDS, between classes.

Dani watches him walk, waiting for him to notice her.

Eventually he happens to look her way.  Recognition, but not 
a smile.  He says a few quick words to his friends, then 
slinks over toward Dani.

She hops off the wall as he approaches, grins broadly.

             DANI
      Hey bud.  Long time no see.

             JASON
      What’s up?

             DANI
      Got a few extra bucks, thought I 
      could take you to lunch.

             JASON
      ...Right now?

             DANI
      Yeah.

                                      29.

             JASON
      I haven’t seen you in months.  You 
      didn’t think you should call first?

Dani shrugs, stung by his tone.

             DANI
      You know me and phones.  I’m at one 
      of my in-between phases...

             JASON
      Well I’ve got a thing now, I can’t 
      just...

             DANI
      Come on, just a quick bite.

Jason glances at his group of friends, then back to Dani.

             JASON
      Just call next time, before showing 
      up, ok?

Dani notices the friends, hanging back, eyes averted.

             DANI
      Right.  Sure.

Jason nods.  An uncomfortable beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Listen, I’m taking some time off 
      from work at the restaurant.

Jason raises his eyebrows, surprised.

             JASON
      Everything ok?

             DANI
      Yeah, I’m just thinking of maybe 
      going on a trip or something.  You 
      got a break coming up?  I got some 
      money saved, I could spring for it.

Jason winces.

             JASON
      Yeah, fall break, but...I’m going 
      with some guys to this place in the 
      Poconos.

Dani tries not to show her disappointment.

                                      30.

             JASON
	(CONT’D)
      I already told them I’d go, so I 
      can’t just...you know?

             DANI
      I gotcha.

             JASON
      When I get back, though.  We’ll do 
      something, I promise.
        (smiling)
      Just...get a cell phone, ok?  It’d 
      make it a lot easier.

Dani reluctantly smiles back.

             DANI
      I’m gonna work on it.

He nods.

             JASON
      Anyway, I gotta get going...

             DANI
      Yeah.  Take it easy, bud.

Dani watches him return to his gang of friends.  She gazes 
around the campus, feeling very out of place. 

She quickly turns and walks.

                                 FADE TO:

INT. APARTMENT - MORNING

Dani lies on her side in bed, staring at an old, beat-up 
laptop screen.

ON THE SCREEN: A website for some Community College.  Images 
of diverse STUDENTS, grinning from ear-to-ear, almost 
painfully so.

Dani scrolls down some more, scanning the page, then loses 
interest.  She closes the computer and rolls onto her back.  
Eyes fixed to that familiar spot on the ceiling.

A faint KNOCK on the door.

                                      31.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Dani opens the door to find a NEWSPAPER waiting for her on 
her doormat.  She scoops the paper up and shuts the door.

INT. APARTMENT - MORNING

Dani sits at the kitchen table, munching Honeycombs and 
flipping through the newspaper.

A BLACK-AND-WHITE PHOTOGRAPH falls from between the pages -- 
a cross-looking MIDDLE-AGED MAN.  She flips it over, reads 
the scrawl on the back: “Name’s Gerald.  Leather Post 
tonight, 7 or 8. - M.”

Dani drops the photograph on the table and goes back to 
eating cereal.

Suddenly, she stops eating, her spoon hovering in mid-bite.  
A look of concern crossing her features.

Then, out of nowhere -- she vomits.  Right into her cereal.

Dani sits still for a minute, completely stunned, staring at 
her now-murky cereal bowl.

             DANI
      Huh.

She puts down her spoon.  Then rises in a daze to clean up.

INT. LEATHER POST BAR - NIGHT

Dani sits alone at the divey bar, chewing on a straw, all 
dolled up.

She notices, down the length of the bar, a sweaty man -- 
GERALD GAMBI (50s).  In animated conversation with a pair of 
disinterested GREASEBALLS.

Dani plays it cool, half-watching.  Eventually, the 
conversation between the three men ends, with Gerald clapping 
the Greaseballs on the back as they turn to leave.

Gerald sits himself down on a bar stool, looking like he’s 
had a long day.  He tries to flag down the BARTENDER.

             GERALD
      Can I get a drink?

The bartender is still busy with others at the far end of the 
bar.

                                      32.

             GERALD
	(CONT’D)
      Hey!  A drink please.

Nothing from the bartender.  Gerald harrumphs, pissed off.

             GERALD
	(CONT’D)
      How hard is it to get a fucking...

Suddenly, a half-empty cocktail SLIDES across the bar, 
landing in front of him.  Puzzled, Gerald looks back to where 
it came from -- and sees Dani, smiling his way.

Gerald grins back, toothy.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Dim and cramped, the SOUNDS of muffled lovemaking oozing from 
the walls.

Dani appears from around a corner, laughing, scampering, 
playful.  Gerald huffs behind, no spring chicken.  He bumbles 
down the narrow hallway, his weight cracking the floorboards.

INT. BACK ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dani busts into a bedroom, little more than a closet.  She 
whirls around and plants a kiss on the perspiring Gerald as 
he appears in the doorway.  Amazed at his good fortune, he 
leans into her, shutting the door behind him.

She spins him around, pinning his back against the wall.  
Sloppy frenching ensues.

Then we see her reach behind her back, seemingly undoing her 
black corset -- but instead, closing her hand around the 
handle of a SLIM BLADE...

Her face pressed against his, Dani opens her eyes.  We see 
something in her expression...something not right...

And then she vomits again.  Dribbling out her mouth onto 
Gerald’s chest.

Dani steps back.

A beat of stunned silence.

Then Gerald’s pudgy features contort with rage.

                                      33.

             GERALD
      What...the FUCK?

He shoves her away, catching her by surprise.

Something CLATTERS to the floor.  Puzzled, Gerald looks 
toward the sound.

The KNIFE, escaped from Dani’s corset, lying on the 
floorboards.

Heavy silence.

And then Gerald’s face twists into a snarl.  He reaches 
behind his back --

And Dani kicks him, firm in the stomach, knocking the air out 
of him.  She turns and bolts from the room.

             GERALD
	(CONT’D)
        (wheezing)
      Hey!

He pulls out his gun and hustles after her.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Dani’s feet pound the creaky floor, Gerald banging behind.

             GERALD
      Get back here, you little bitch!

Hearing the ruckus, a few HOOKERS poke their heads out into 
the hallway, watching the chase transpire with mild interest.

Dani rounds the corner of the hallway, reaching the stairs.  
She takes them quickly, jumping when she gets to the last 
few, landing catlike on her hands, crouching.

Gerald makes the turn for the stairs, teetering on the edge, 
out of control -- and suddenly topples down, banging, 
BANGING, body bouncing off walls, before he lands with a THUD 
at the bottom.

Dani, at the doorway, stops and turns back.  She sees Gerald, 
a crumpled pile.  Maybe alive, maybe not.  She hesitates.

A HOOKER appears at the top of the stairs.  Eyes wide, taking 
in the scene.  She gets a glance at Dani.

             HOOKER
      Hey!

                                      34.

Past thinking, Dani is out the door, sprinting into the 
night.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Dani stands alone in the narrow alleyway, doubled over, 
releasing another wave of vomit.

Soon the nausea passes and she straightens.  Collecting 
herself.  It takes a bit.

She steps out of the alley into the street.  Looking around 
her, paranoid.  Starts moving toward a bus stop on the street 
corner.

As she nears it, she notices, across the street, a PHARMACY, 
brightly lit against the dark night.

She stares inside.  Her stomach flips.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

Dani blows into her room, locks the door behind her, hands 
shaking.  Throws down a plastic bag on the dresser, stripping 
off her vomit-stained clothes in a fury.

Down to her undergarments, she reaches into the bag, pulls 
out a box of PREGNANCY TESTS, rips it apart, flies into the 
bathroom, SLAMMING the door behind her.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Dani sits on the tiled floor, still undressed, legs curled to 
her chest.

Next to her, perched on the edge of the tub -- the PREGNANCY 
TEST.  Still blank.

A small CLOCK RADIO sits in her lap.  Ticking away.  She 
checks it.  Not time yet.  She tries to breathe normally.

Suddenly, A RATTLING SOUND.  From the bedroom.

Dani’s heart stops in her throat.  She listens.

The RATTLING again, and Dani springs to her feet, slipping 
out through the bathroom door.

                                      35.

The pregnancy test lies alone, expectant...

INT. APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Dani pads soundlessly across the floor to the front door.  
Staring at the knob.  Waiting.

And then it comes again -- the RATTLE of the doorknob.  
Someone trying to open the door.  But this time accompanied 
by a metallic SCRAPING -- the lock being picked.

Dani’s hand flies to her dresser --

-- the door CLICKS.  She grabs her purse from the top of her 
dresser and slips behind the door -- 

-- just as the DOOR OPENS.  A GREASY-LOOKING THUG (30s) pokes 
his head through; slicked-back hair, gold chain, the works.  
A nasty looking HANDGUN hangs from his stupidly muscled arm.

He smacks gum.  Takes in the room.  Unimpressed.

Dani is pressed into the corner behind the door, not 
breathing, out of sight.

The Greasy Thug steps forward, letting the door close behind 
him --

And Dani springs into action, JAMMING her heel into his 
ankle.  He cries out and drops to his knees.

In one fluid motion, she brings the strap of her purse over 
his head, around his neck, twisting it tight -- then she 
yanks him sideways, and his temple SLAMS against the corner 
of the dresser.

He bounces off and slumps against the front door, out cold.

Dani breathes heavily, in action mode now.  She pries the gun 
from his hand, and then she’s flinging on a pair of jeans, a 
t-shirt, a hoodie, tossing clothes into her bag, scanning, 
looking, trying to assess what she needs.

Her eyes stop on the bathroom doorway.  The pregnancy test 
inside.

But then there’s a POUNDING at the door -- she flies to her 
bedroom window, pulling it open.

Someone is SLAMMING themselves against the front door, but 
the Greasy Thug’s body blocks the entrance.  An arm reaches 
through the opening, a GUN in hand -- the CRACK of a bullet --

                                      36.

Dani leaps through the window --

EXT. ROW HOME - CONTINUOUS

Dani slides out onto the ledge.  She expertly grips the rain 
gutter, shimmies down into the narrow alley below.

She hits the ground and glances back toward the front of the 
house -- sees the bumper of an unknown CAR out front.  

She turns to the backyard.  Runs for it.

And just as she clears the alleyway -- 

A HAND catches her neck, the butt of a gun SLAMS against the 
back of her head, and then she’s FALLING, FALLING, and as she 
HITS THE GROUND --

                              SMASH CUT TO:

INT. BAR - NIGHT

A ROAR of cheers -- ravenous football FANS reacting to a 
momentous touchdown, screaming their heads off, clobbering 
each other with high fives.

We’re in a neighborhood dive, a friendly one, its run-down 
appearance an intentional aesthetic.

Our attention floats to a table in the back, where Eddie and 
his CREW sit, chatting playfully, swigging beer.  Bar PATRONS 
pass back and forth, giving occasional warm handshakes to 
Eddie, all smiles.

A diminutive, MIDDLE-AGED MAN (50s) stops in front of Eddie’s 
table, wearing a dimpled smile and heavy peacoat -- MORRIS 
BIJOUX.  He’s shadowed by an enormously large BODYGUARD (30s) 
with an unfortunate goatee.

Eddie looks up, recognizes Morris, and breaks into a wide, 
genuine smile, jumping up and giving him a hug.

INT. BACK ROOM - NIGHT

Same bar, but a back room, quieter.  We see a skeeball 
machine, an antique.

Beer in hand, Eddie jubilantly hoists up one of the wooden 
balls, then inexpertly chucks it up the ramp.  Morris 
watches, all smiles.

                                      37.

             EDDIE
      Whattaya think?

             MORRIS
      Very nice, Ed.

             EDDIE
      I make sure it’s always open for 
      when I have guests.  You wanna try?

             MORRIS
      Oh, no, I’m fine thanks.

Eddie frowns, disappointed.

             EDDIE
      Too plebeian, huh?  I’d think on a 
      night like this you’d be at the 
      philharmonic or some crap.

             MORRIS
      I had to give away my tickets.

This gets a laugh from both of them.

             EDDIE
      What brings you to town?

Morris’s smile slips away.

             MORRIS
      Well, Eddie, it’s kind of a, ah, 
      somber business, I’m sorry to say.  
      You remember Gerry Gambi, right?

Eddie nods, swigging his beer and chucking another ball up 
the ramp.

             EDDIE
      ‘Course I do, he’s another Philly 
      guy.  Kind of a prick, right?

             MORRIS
      Oh, sure, sure.

             EDDIE
      What happened?

             MORRIS
      Well, he, ah, he passed away.

Eddie’s surprise is pretty convincing.

                                      38.

             EDDIE
      No shit.

             MORRIS
      Yeah, I’m afraid so.

             EDDIE
      How’d it happen?

             MORRIS
      Well, it was a hell of a thing.  He 
      was chasing a hooker down some 
      stairs, and he fell.  Next thing 
      you know he’s in the hospital, and 
      then, ah...you know, he just kind 
      of passed on.

             EDDIE
      When?  Tonight?

             MORRIS
      Right here in town.

             EDDIE
      Jesus.  That’s one hell of a story.
        (chuckles)
      How are his brothers taking it?

             MORRIS
      Oh, Tino and Michael, they’re 
      pretty broken up, as you might 
      expect.  But they don’t know about 
      you yet, if that’s what you’re 
      wondering.

Eddie chucks another skeeball, missing badly.

             EDDIE
      Come again?

He looks over, and is surprised at the serious look on 
Morris’s face.

             MORRIS
        (quiet)
      Eddie.  Come on now.

A beat.  Eddie wrinkles his brow, trying to work through the 
drunken haze.

             EDDIE
      What’re you talkin’ about?

Morris sighs.

             MORRIS
      You should invite me to sit down.

                                      39.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BACK ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Eddie and Morris sit in a booth, Eddie dulling his senses 
with beer, Morris cheerfully plowing through a brownie 
sundae.

             MORRIS
      ...I’m not gonna be pulling any 
      fingernails, if that’s what you’re 
      worried about.  The Philly family 
      doesn’t even know I’m here.  This 
      is strictly between you and me.

             EDDIE
      If you’re tryin’ to say something, 
      just say it.

Morris smiles, leans forward, earnest and kind.

             MORRIS
      Look Eddie, everyone knows that 
      Gerry Gambi was a little shit, and 
      that he wouldn’t last two minutes 
      in this business if it weren’t for 
      his brothers.  So when a schmuck 
      starts moving in on your territory, 
      small as it may be, I think you got 
      a right to bite back.

Morris’s voice drops a little.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      But sending a hooker...that’s nasty 
      business, Eddie, there’s no way 
      around it.  Looks desperate.  The 
      Gambi boys are gonna want a body, 
      and rightly so.  What I’m 
      proposing: we come to an agreement, 
      they get the girl, and the trail 
      ends there.  A nice little bow on 
      it.  You were never involved.

Eddie wavers, sloppy, still trying to come up with a way out 
of this.

             EDDIE
      You got any proof?  Or is this just 
      a shake down?

                                      40.

             MORRIS
        (insulted)
      Ed, come on, would I come all this 
      way if I didn’t...There were 
      witnesses, for chrissakes.  This 
      girl’s been seen all over with your 
      nephew Mitchell.  It’s gonna come 
      back to you eventually, you know it 
      is, or I wouldn’t be here.

Eddie contemplates, rubs his forehead.  Starting to accept 
the inevitable.

             EDDIE
      So.  You want me to hand over the 
      girl.

Morris shakes his head, takes another bite of brownie.

             MORRIS
      I already have the girl.

Eddie tries not to react.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      What I want.  Is for you to see the 
      value of the Gambis only getting 
      the girl after she expires, you 
      follow?

Morris studies Eddie, making sure he understands.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Everyone wins this way.  You get to 
      keep your business, the Gambis have 
      retribution or whatever, and I do 
      both parties a favor.  Everyone 
      looks good.

Eddie still looks reluctant, so Morris moves in for the hard 
sell.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      You’ve been working your whole life 
      to keep your hands on this town, 
      Ed.  You shouldn’t throw it away 
      over small potatoes.

Eddie keeps his eyes glued to the table top, unresponsive. 
Morris gives a “what-can-you-do” shrug, and takes a last bite 
of sundae.

                                      41.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Of course, you can always take your 
      chances, and hope the hooker stays 
      quiet.  But--

             EDDIE
      She’s not a hooker.

Morris blinks.

             MORRIS
      Huh?

             EDDIE
      The girl, she’s not...don’t call 
      her a hooker, she’s not a hooker.

Morris cocks his head, perplexed.

             MORRIS
      Eddie, I’ll call her whatever you 
      want.  So long as we’re clear that 
      it’s gonna be her and not you.

Eddie nods, vaguely, the wind knocked out of him.

             EDDIE
      How much?

Morris smiles and stands.

             MORRIS
      Nothing that’ll put you out of 
      business.

He claps Eddie on the back and stands.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Details to come -- I gotta go make 
      the call.  Good seeing you, Ed.

He shuffles off, leaving Eddie staring down at the table.

Eddie downs the rest of his beer.  Belches.

                                 FADE TO:

INT. TRUNK - UNKNOWN TIME

DARKNESS.  The steady RUMBLING of a car traversing an uneven 
roadway.  The muffled, jangling melodies of some classic rock 
radio station can be HEARD in the background.

                                      42.

A rustling in the dark.  We HEAR movement for a few moments, 
THUMPING and labored breathing.

Eventually, the glow of a FLASHLIGHT -- and we see Dani, 
trapped inside the trunk of a car.

Her mouth is wrapped with duct tape; a light trail of blood 
dries on the side of her temple.  Her hands are bound in 
front of her, legs too.

She uses the flashlight to survey her cramped surroundings.  
The beam of the light traces across gray felt.

The light lands on a small hatch, a 1 x 2 foot rectangle 
outlined against the wall of the back seat.

Dani wedges the flashlight between her legs, raises her hands 
to the outlined rectangle, fingers searching for a latch, 
finding a small black handle, pulling, carefully, gently.

The hatch opens, revealing a space, maybe a few inches deep, 
and a soft red wall behind -- the cushion of the back seat.

Dani gently pushes the felt rectangle forward, and a thin 
outline of sunlight creeps around the edge...

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

...We SEE the back seat of the car, from inside, and the 
incremental movement of the middle cushion, nudging forward.

We PAN to the front seats, where two THUGS sit, paying no 
mind to the faint movement behind them.  Our friend, Greasy 
Thug, sits in the passenger seat, singing along to the radio.  

Next to him, a MEATY THUG (40s) with a short, cropped crew 
cut -- we’ll call him ZHUKOV -- silently guides the car.

The Greasy Thug points out the window.

             GREASY THUG
      Over there.

Zhukov turns the wheel.

EXT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

The car -- Dani’s Taurus -- rolls to a halt on the gravel 
roadway, alone in the woods, dead late-autumn leaves 
blanketing the forest floor.

                                      43.

In front of the car is an old, dilapidated COVERED BRIDGE, 
crossing a swiftly-moving stream.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

The car lurches to a stop.  The two men stare at the bridge 
for a minute.

             GREASY THUG
      Pretty, right?

Zhukov has no response.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      Me and my little brother used to 
      come here all the time when we were 
      kids, playing gangster, war games, 
      all that crap.  Can’t believe it’s 
      still standing...

             ZHUKOV
        (thick Russian accent)
      Why are we here?

Greasy shifts in his seat, a little miffed.

             GREASY THUG
      ‘Cause.  Now that I’m...ya, know, a 
      real gangster or whatever, it’s 
      kind of a...ya know, it’s just 
      nice.  It’s like, symmetry, or 
      whatever you call it.

Zhukov doesn’t get it.

             ZHUKOV
      This is not good spot.  Other cars, 
      maybe come.

             GREASY THUG
      No one’s ever out here, I promise.  
      We’ll just...pop her, drain her, 
      wrap her up and be on our way.

             ZHUKOV
      Is too visible.

             GREASY THUG
      It’s not too visible!  We’ll be 
      under the fucking bridge.  Why are 
      you bein’ pissy about this?

             ZHUKOV
        (sighs)
      I hate farmer country bullshit.

Greasy looks him in the eye.

                                      44.

             GREASY THUG
      Fuck you.  This isn’t the fucking 
      country.  You see any fucking farms 
      around here?  This is a great place 
      to grow up, plenty’a fresh air.

             ZHUKOV
      There is no good food.

             GREASY THUG
      There’s plenty of good food around 
      here!  After we ditch this car, 
      we’re going to Yocco’s.  Best hot 
      dogs ya ever tasted.

             ZHUKOV
      Hot dog is a hot dog.  I can get 
      hot dog in Philly.

             GREASY THUG
      Not like this hot dog!  You’ll see.

Greasy pulls on the door handle.  Zhukov starts to open his 
door as well.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      Hang on a sec, I gotta take a leak.  
      Back the car up to the water.

He steps out, and Zhukov patiently pulls the car into 
reverse.

INT. TRUNK - CONTINUOUS

Dani hears the SLAM of the car door.  She grabs the 
flashlight from between her knees, searching the trunk around 
her, trying to form a plan.

The flashlight beam traces over blankets, a medical kit, 
stray coffee cups and soda bottles.  Nothing approaching a 
weapon.

Frustrated, Dani rolls onto her belly, craning her neck to 
look at the small space above her head.

Just more junk -- but then, her eyes land on a small, thin 
tube of BUG SPRAY.

                                      45.

She reaches for it.

EXT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Greasy Thug stands on the bank of the stream, urinating down 
into it, enjoying the scenery.  He finishes and zips up.  He 
turns back to the car, wincing, his leg still sore from where 
Dani kicked him.

He knocks on the car window.

             GREASY THUG
      Alright, come on.

Zhukov steps out, glancing around the forest.  He opens the 
door to the back seat and pulls out a pillow.

Greasy notices with amusement.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      What the fuck’s that for, ya going 
      to a sleepover?

             ZHUKOV
      Is silencer.

             GREASY THUG
      What, you didn’t bring one?

             ZHUKOV
      No.  You?

Greasy looks sheepish.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      This will work fine.

They move around to the trunk.  Zhukov wedges the pillow 
under his armpit and grabs his keys to open the trunk.  
Greasy nudges his arm.

             GREASY THUG
      You sure she’s still out?

             ZHUKOV
      I hit her, very hard.

             GREASY THUG
      Well what if she’s awake and tries 
      to run or something?

             ZHUKOV
      She is tied up.

                                      46.

             GREASY THUG
      Yeah, but what if she like, worked 
      loose or something?  She was in 
      that trunk for a long time, she 
      could’a--

Zhukov pops the trunk.  The door lifts open.

No movement.

The Russian flashes a condescending smile.

             ZHUKOV
      See?  You do not trust me.

He reaches inside for Dani’s shoulders.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      Grab legs.

Greasy looks pissed, but follows orders.

Just as they lift her from the trunk, however, Dani’s arms 
twist up, hands pointed toward Zhukov’s face -- revealing the 
BUG SPRAY, hidden in her shirt sleeve.

She presses the nozzle, and spray UNLOADS into Zhukov’s eyes.  
He SCREAMS, in agonizing pain, and falls backward, his hands 
clawing at his eyes.  Dani’s upper body drops to the ground.

Greasy stares, dopey, still holding Dani’s legs.  Then he 
realizes the situation, drops her, reaches behind his back --

Dani winds back and KICKS Greasy -- right in the same ankle 
she hit earlier.

Greasy bellows and crumples, clutching his leg.  Dani rolls 
toward the water, splashes through the shallow bank on hands 
and knees, trying to get into the stronger current.

Greasy sees this, pulls himself up, favoring his gimpy leg.

             GREASY THUG
      Shit!  Give me the fucking pillow.

He yanks the pillow away from the still-whimpering Zhukov, 
pulls out his own gun.  He points the gun into the pillow, 
clearly not an expert at this technique.  He FIRES in the 
direction of Dani, but misses badly.

Dani, meanwhile, makes it to the center of the stream, her 
body picking up speed in the current.

Greasy FIRES one more muffled shot, misses even more broadly.

                                      47.

Dani ducks underwater, trying to disappear from sight.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      Fucking...

He tosses aside the pillow, empties the rest of his gun in 
Dani’s direction, the gun ROARING in the empty forest -- but 
at this point she is too far downstream.

Greasy growls with frustration, tries to follow after her, 
but he can barely manage a trot with his damaged leg.

Dani disappears from sight around a bend in the river.

Greasy pants, stunned.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
        (under his breath)
      Shit.
        (to Zhukov)
      Come on.  We gotta go.

He moves to help his companion up.

EXT. STREAM - DAY

Downstream, Dani fights to tear off the tape covering her 
mouth.  With a furious yank she succeeds, brings her head 
above water, gulps air.

But the current has picked up speed, and Dani is thrust back 
under, helpless with her hands and legs bound.  She struggles 
toward the surface, but her body whiplashes, she sees the 
rushing form of a jutting rock, and then --

                              CUT TO BLACK

                               FADE UP ON:

INT. ROOM - DAY

The CEILING.  Like the one in Dani’s apartment.  But not.

Dani blinks.  Tries to sit up.  A wave of discomfort.

She’s in a HOSPITAL BED, head wrapped in bandages, bruises 
smudged across her arms and face.

             CHARLIE
	(O.S.)
      You’re awake.

                                      48.

Dani looks up and sees Charlie, of all people, standing 
against the wall, looking anxious.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      I should probably get the nurse, 
      right?

He starts to move toward the door.

             DANI
      Wait.

He freezes.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Where am I?

Charlie hesitates, clearly wanting to leave.

             CHARLIE
      The hospital.

             DANI
      Which hospital.

             CHARLIE
      ...St. Francis?

Dani puts her hand to her forehead.

             DANI
      Where’s...?

             CHARLIE
      It’s 30 miles away from town.  They 
      pulled you out of the river.

             DANI
      The river?  How did I...?

             CHARLIE
      I think they were gonna ask you the 
      same thing, actually.

Dani starts to remember.  But isn’t sure how much to share.

             DANI
      I...I’m not sure I...why, uh...why 
      are you here?

Charlie smiles, wane, and takes a seat.

                                      49.

             CHARLIE
      When they found you, you didn’t 
      have any I.D. -- no wallet or phone 
      or anything.  But you still had my, 
      ah, my business card in your 
      pocket.  So they called me; I 
      wasn’t sure it was you, but it 
      sounded like it.  They said I could 
      wait, see if a name would pop up as 
      missing, but I offered to drive out 
      and I.D...

             DANI
      How long was I out?

             CHARLIE
      I guess a couple days?  I just got 
      here this morning.

Dani shuts her eyes tightly, trying to remember, to think, to 
process.

             DANI
      Did they call my brother...?

             CHARLIE
      Yeah, but they haven’t been able to 
      get ahold of him...

A look of panic crosses Dani’s features.

             DANI
      What?

             CHARLIE
      Woah, he’s ok, he’s fine.  It’s 
      just -- they said they called his 
      school, but I think he’s on a 
      skiing trip or something...are you 
      ok?  You don’t look so good.

Dani, breathing pretty heavily, tries to calm herself down.  
She fakes a smile.

             DANI
      Yeah, just...

             CHARLIE
      Maybe I should get the nurse now.

             DANI
      No, stay here another minute.

Charlie nods.

                                      50.

             CHARLIE
      Sure, sure.

He pulls his chair a bit closer to her.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
        (softly)
      Listen, I ah...I’m sorry to do 
      this, but I feel like I gotta...you 
      know...

             DANI
      Huh?

             CHARLIE
      Well, I just gotta ask...It’s not, 
      ah...it’s not mine, right?

Dani blinks.

             DANI
      What’s not...?

Charlie looks at her, wondering -- she has to already know, 
right?

             CHARLIE
      The, um...you know, the baby.

A beat.

             DANI
        (quiet)
      Shit.

She brings her hand to her face, covering her eyes.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Ohhhhh shit.

Charlie wonders what just happened.

             CHARLIE
      ...Dani?

                                  CUT TO:

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

BANG -- Mitch swings the front door of Dani’s apartment open.  
He peers through, with Frankie right behind him.

Frankie moves to enter, but Mitch stops him.

                                      51.

             MITCH
      Go wait out front.

Frankie gives Mitch a look, then shrugs and disappears.

Once he’s gone, Mitch wanders through the living room, taking 
in the mess around him.

He wanders over to the dresser.  Yanks open some drawers.  
Picks out an undergarment, dangles it, mildly interested.

He opens another drawer -- INSIDE, Dani’s snubnose pistol.

Mitch pulls it out, flips it over in his hand, then pockets 
it.

Done with the dresser, his eyes scan the rest of the room.

His gaze lands -- on the open bathroom door...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CAR - DAY

Charlie and Dani ride in Charlie’s rental car.  Charlie 
drives; Dani, back in her street clothes, looks out the 
window, mind elsewhere.

Charlie drums his fingers on the steering wheel.

             CHARLIE
      We left that hospital pretty 
      quickly, huh?

Silence from Dani.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Sure seemed pretty quick...

             DANI
      They said I could go.

             CHARLIE
      They said they couldn’t force you 
      to stay.

             DANI
      Same thing.

             CHARLIE
      I’d say there’s a pretty big 
      difference, actually.  

                                      52.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT'D)
      And I think, if I found myself 
      dragged out of a river, three 
      months pregnant, I might want to 
      try and take it easy for a few 
      days.  Especially if I couldn’t 
      remember how I got into the river 
      in the first place...

             DANI
      It’s only been 11 weeks.

             CHARLIE
      What?

             DANI
      I’m only 11 weeks pregnant, 
      Charlie, not 3 months.

             CHARLIE
      Oh.  Then, never mind.  Glad you’re 
      on top of things.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Where am I driving you?

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Dani?  Where are we going?

             DANI
      I don’t know.

             CHARLIE
      Ok.  Well.  Where do you live?

             DANI
      I can’t tell you.

             CHARLIE
      You can’t tell me.

             DANI
      No.

             CHARLIE
      And you can’t tell me...because...?

A beat.

Silence.

A beat.

A beat.

                                      53.

             DANI
      Because we can’t go there.

             CHARLIE
      Right.

             DANI
      I can see how this might be 
      frustrating...

             CHARLIE
      Very astute.

             DANI
      I think you should know that I’m in 
      a somewhat serious situation right 
      now.

This shuts Charlie up for a second.

             CHARLIE
      What kind of a situation?

             DANI
      I’m in trouble with a few people.

             CHARLIE
      ...What, like you owe people money 
      or something?

             DANI
      Something like that.  I can’t 
      really talk about it.

             CHARLIE
      There’s a surprise...

             DANI
      I promise, it’s nothing you should 
      worry about.

             CHARLIE
      Well, should we go to the police?

             DANI
      We can’t--

             CHARLIE
      Right, of course.  Jesus fucking 
      Christ...And if I decide to go the 
      police anyway?

                                      54.

             DANI
        (quiet)
      I don’t think you would do that.

Charlie fumes.  Dani finally looks his way.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry about this.  Really, I 
      am.

A beat.

             CHARLIE
      Alright.  So what am I supposed to 
      do?

             DANI
      Well, if you promise to help me out 
      for just a couple days.  I promise 
      that I’ll deal with the pregnancy.

Charlie watches her.

             CHARLIE
      What does that mean, “deal with the 
      pregnancy”?

             DANI
      It means I’ll take care of it.

             CHARLIE
      Take care of it, like...what, get 
      rid of it?  ‘Cause I never said you 
      had to do that, I never said 
      that...

             DANI
      Charlie...

             CHARLIE
      I also think we should keep in 
      mind, just because it’s 
      mathematically possible, doesn’t 
      mean it’s definitely...

             DANI
      Charlie!  When I say that I’ll take 
      care of it, that means I’ll figure 
      it out.  It means you don’t have to 
      worry about it.  At all.  It’s my 
      responsibility.  Ok?  You won’t 
      hear from me about it ever again.

                                      55.

Charlie nods, his finger drumming reaching a more frenetic 
pace against the wheel.

             CHARLIE
      I’m trying to do the right thing 
      here...

             DANI
      I know you are.

A beat.  Charlie sighs out deeply.

             CHARLIE
      So what do we do?

             DANI
      I gotta get in touch with my 
      brother.  If we can find a pay 
      phone, at a motel or something.

             CHARLIE
      Ok.

             DANI
      I’m also kind of hungry.

             CHARLIE
      Yeah.
        (suddenly remembering)
      Shit.  What time is it?

             DANI
      Why?

             CHARLIE
      I, ah...I just remembered, I...sort 
      of have dinner plans.

Dani raises her eyebrows.

             DANI
      Really?

INT. DINING ROOM - EVENING

Dani and Charlie sit opposite each other at a cozy dining 
room table.

                                  CUT TO:

A WOMAN bustles around them, a tornado of activity -- 
CHARLIE’S MOTHER (late 50s), dropping off food dishes on the 
table, moving back and forth from kitchen to dining room with 
laser-like precision throughout the following.

                                      56.

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      ...hope there’s enough, I think we 
      should be fine with the chicken, 
      but I only had the half-bag of 
      potatoes...

             DANI
      I really am sorry to be dropping in 
      like this...

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      No, stop it, it’s no trouble, I’m 
      glad that Charlie keeps in touch 
      with old friends.  And after the 
      week you’ve been having -- 
      fumigation and a car accident, that 
      just sounds like a nightmare, so a 
      home-cooked meal is the least I can 
      do...

             DANI
      Can I help with anything?  With the 
      food?

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      No, shut up and stay seated.  So 
      you’ll be staying here tonight, 
      then?

Dani raises here eyebrows, looks over to Charlie.

             DANI
      Ah...

             CHARLIE
      Mom, I was gonna find her a 
      hotel...

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      Well, that’s a dumb idea, we have 
      plenty of room here.

             DANI
      I couldn’t...

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      You’d be doing me the favor, I 
      promise.  


             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
	(CONT'D)
      I could use the company, and I’m 
      sure Charles won’t mind, right 
      Charlie?  Just stay the night.

                                      57.

Dani struggles to raise an objection, but a look from Charlie 
makes her think twice -- not worth the battle.

             DANI
      Ok.  Yes.  Thank you.

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      Wonderful.

             DANI
      I really do love the house.

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      Oh, well thank you.
        (to Charlie)
      See that Charles, she likes the 
      house.

             CHARLIE
      Mom...

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      Charlie wants me to sell it.

             DANI
      Oh?  Why?

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      I don’t know, Charles, why?

Charlie’s face tightens with frustration, but he knows better 
than to encourage her.

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
	(CONT’D)
      Something about all the space...But 
      I think mostly he’s afraid that 
      I’ll go nuts and start knitting 
      sweaters out of dead cats or 
      something...

             CHARLIE
      Mom...

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      But Danielle, home is home, no 
      matter how broken down it might be.  
      Am I right?

             DANI
      ...Yes.  Definitely.

Charlie’s Mother smiles, then finally sets herself down at 
the head of the table, everything settled.

                                      58.

             CHARLIE’S MOTHER
      Good answer.  Eat.

They plunge into their meals on command.

We HEAR, in PRE-LAP:

             JASON
	(O.S.)
      Hey, it’s Jason, just leave me a 
      message.

EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

Dani stands at pay phone, alone, listening intently with the 
receiver to her ear, chewing her lip.

                                  CUT TO:

The BEEP.

             DANI
      Hi, it’s...
        (she thinks better of it)
      I’ll call back.

She hangs up.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Charlie and his Mother sit in the living room, Charlie half-
watching some prime-time programming, his Mother fast asleep 
in an arm chair.

Behind them, we SEE Dani enter and flit up the stairs.  
Charlie turns his head, but she’s already gone.

INT. BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Dani lies on a bed -- the room around her is aggressively 
decorated in the way only a teenage girl’s can be, an 
explosion of bright colors and outdated posters.

She stares at this strange world around her, feeling 
untethered.  Her hand finds its way to her stomach, and she 
leaves it there, as if testing its roundness.

Charlie appears in the doorway, knocks gently, stirring her.

                                      59.

             CHARLIE
      Hey.  You get in touch with your 
      brother?

             DANI
      Not yet.
        (a beat)
      I like your room.

Charlie smiles.  Dani laughs.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      How old is your sister?

Charlie shifts his feet.

             CHARLIE
      Ah...she would have been about a 
      year younger than you, I guess.

Dani blinks, thinking she might have misheard him.  She sits 
up.

A beat.

             DANI
      Charlie...I didn’t...

             CHARLIE
        (shakes his head)
      You couldn’t have known, don’t 
      worry about it...

             DANI
      I wouldn’t have just walked in here 
      if...why didn’t you say anything?

             CHARLIE
        (shrugs)
      I ah...well, I guess I just don’t 
      talk about it much.

Another beat.  Dani waits to see if he’ll go on.  He does.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      She was at some party, after 
      graduation.  The kid’s dad had a 
      gun in a shoebox or something...And 
      you know, she was stressed out 
      about a lot of things, she was 
      high, she...was alone in the room, 
      I guess, and...

                                      60.

He trails off, then clears his throat.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Anyway, now you know why mom 
      doesn’t want to sell the house.

Dani looks around the room, seeing it for what it is -- a 
snapshot, preserved in time.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Want to see my room?

Dani blinks, brought back, and quickly rises.

INT. CHARLIE’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The two of them stand in the middle of a room -- a double bed 
and shabby desk the only furnishings.  A lot of bare walls 
and floors, stripped of memories.

             CHARLIE
      Charming, right?

Dani gives a tepid smile.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      It didn’t always look like this.  I 
      guess this is my sort of...silent 
      protest against my mother, for 
      holding onto the place.

             DANI
      Has it helped?

             CHARLIE
      ...Helped my mother?

             DANI
      No, I mean, for you.  Does it feel 
      better?  To just move on like that.

His brow furrows -- he’s never thought about it.

             CHARLIE
      I, ah...I can’t really tell, I 
      guess.  Maybe not.  I just know I 
      needed to do it.
        (a beat)
      I think she hates me for it though.  
      My mom.  She wishes I was stuck 
      here with her.

Dani shakes her head, looks back at him.

             DANI
      She doesn’t.

Charlie studies her, surprised by her certainty.  He 
chuckles, anxious.

                                      61.

             CHARLIE
      Anyway, it’s not as if I didn’t 
      have a reason to leave.  I got a 
      career, you know?

             DANI
      You like it, your job?

             CHARLIE
      Oh, sure.  Financial advising may 
      sound stuffy, but there’s stability 
      in it, and I help people make 
      important decisions that impact how 
      they...

Suddenly, Dani doubles over with nausea -- she rushes to the 
bathroom door across the room.

Charlie watches her go.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, it’s not that bad.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dani kneels on the floor over the toilet -- Charlie appears 
and stands hesitantly, unsure of what to do.

             CHARLIE
      Do you need...?

             DANI
      No, no, I’m fine.

She flushes and stands, wiping off her mouth.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      It happens every now and again.  
      Don’t tell your mom, I don’t want 
      her to think it’s her cooking’s 
      fault.

             CHARLIE
      Ah, I don’t think you need to worry 
      about me telling her any of this.

A little too honest.  An uncomfortable beat.

                                      62.

             DANI
      You have an extra toothbrush?

             CHARLIE
      Uh...

He rifles through drawers and pulls out the necessaries.  She 
takes them from his hand.

             DANI
      Thanks.

She rips the toothbrush package open and starts vigorously 
brushing.  Charlie stands, a bit awkward.  Building up the 
courage for something.

             CHARLIE
      Listen, I want to tell you...you 
      should know that, when we met at 
      the reunion, I had just gotten out 
      of a serious relationship...

             DANI
        (through toothpaste)
      Chahlie...

             CHARLIE
      So I wasn’t trying to take 
      advantage of you, but I was going 
      through...

             DANI
      Chahlie!
        (She spits)
      It’s ok, really.  I promise, I know 
      you’re not an asshole.

             CHARLIE
      No, that’s not...that’s not what 
      I’m saying.  I was trying to 
      explain...we were living together, 
      this girl and me, and now that 
      she’s gone, I have all this...I 
      have extra room in my apartment.  
      So if you need a place to stay, out 
      of town, while you...figure out 
      whatever it is you’re figuring out.  
      I wouldn’t mind.

Dani assesses him, truly surprised.

             DANI
      Really?

                                      63.

             CHARLIE
      Yeah.

             DANI
      Why?

He shrugs.

             CHARLIE
      I just...I think I like you, I 
      guess.

She cocks her head.  He laughs at himself.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t know, I guess that’s a 
      little bit fast to...

And then she leans forward toward him, kisses him full on the 
mouth.  A tender, honest kiss.  A long one.

She pulls back.  They look at each other.  He wipes his 
mouth.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      You might want to, ah...spit again.

She laughs, turns and spits out the rest of her toothpaste 
into the sink.

She turns back, and he’s already leaning into her, lifting 
her up onto the counter.  She wraps her legs around his 
waist, and he works to pull her shirt over head...

                                 FADE TO:

EXT. MOUNTAINS - NIGHT

A PAIR OF HEADLIGHTS trace a path of light across a winding 
mountain road, illuminating looming trees.

After a series of turns, the lights settle on a sprawling 
MOUNTAIN HOUSE, nestled into the woods.  LIGHTS are on 
inside, and we HEAR pounding MUSIC.

The headlights FLICK OFF.

The music SWELLS as we enter --

                                      64.

INT. MOUNTAIN HOUSE LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jason sits, sunken into a couch cushion, staring emptily at 
the label of his beer.

Around him his WASTED FRIENDS (20ish) laugh and pass around a 
joint -- there are maybe a half-dozen kids in all, and 
they’ve clearly done nothing but indulge themselves since 
they arrived.

A SCRAWNY KID wanders around the spacious living room, 
holding aloft a cell phone.

             SCRAWNY KID
      Chris, this house’s cell service is 
      being a dick.

The Scrawny Kid turns back toward the couch -- CHRIS is all 
but passed out, his face smushed into the armrest.  Scrawny 
Kid kicks him.

             SCRAWNY KID
	(CONT’D)
      Chris, I said your cell service 
      sucks.

Chris half-awakes, enough to flash a middle finger before 
face-planting back into the couch.

Jason watches, a sullen drunk.

             JASON
      Jus’ go outside.

             SCRAWNY KID
      I’m not going outside, it’s dark 
      out there.

             JASON
      Then shuttup.

             SCRAWNY KID
      I’m trying to text Sarah good 
      night...

Jason lazily pantomimes jerking off.  Snickers from around 
the room.  Scrawny Kid reddens and stumbles toward the front 
door.

             SCRAWNY KID
	(CONT’D)
        (muttering)
      Alright, I get it, don’t need to be 
      a dick...

He yanks open the front door -- 

And is surprised to find two hefty figures standing on the 
front step.  Mitch and Zhukov, looking pretty grim.

                                      65.

Scrawny stares for a second, goldfish eyes.

Mitch clears his throat.

             MITCH
      This is the Bannon’s place?

Scrawny blinks, turns back to the living room.

             SCRAWNY KID
      Uhhh...guys...?

             MITCH
      Is Jason Collins here?

Scrawny swallows.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Jason Collins, is he here?

             SCRAWNY KID
      Are you...ah...law enforcement...I 
      mean...how can I help you?

             MITCH
      Mind if we come in?

             SCRAWNY KID
      Do you have, a...ah, warrant, sir?

Mitch smirks at Zhukov and steps into the room past the 
helpless Scrawny.

Everyone stares with stuporous surprise at the new guests.

Mitch’s eyes scan the room, finally landing on Jason.

             MITCH
      Jason Collins?

Jason wrinkles his brow, hearing his name through the drunken 
haze.

             JASON
      Whatta you want?

Mitch smiles grimly...

                                  CUT TO:

                                      66.

INT. CHARLIE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dani and Charlie, curled up, spoons, on Charlie’s bed -- 
Charlie, small spoon, is fast asleep, snoring gently.  Dani 
stares at the back of his head, her eyes wide open.

She slowly reaches a hand forward, presses it against the 
small of Charlie’s back.  Holds it there.  He doesn’t wake 
up.

             DANI
        (quiet)
      I kill people, Charlie.

She lets that settle.  Charlie stays asleep.  So she keeps 
going.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I kill people, for money.

A beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      They’re bad men.  Or at least they 
      seem like...I don’t know, I never 
      know who they are.  I’ll make up 
      stories about them, sometimes, 
      before I...

Another beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Am I good at it?

A moment to consider.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Yes.  I’m very good at it.

She contemplates it some more.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Sometimes...the way they look at 
      me...that moment, when they know, 
      and they can’t stop it...there’s a 
      feeling.  This feeling I get...

She shudders, almost imperceptibly.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      That worries me, a little...

A beat.

                                      67.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Jason doesn’t know.  He’ll never 
      know.

Another beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I did the right thing, though.  It 
      was for him, it was the right 
      thing, I know it was the right 
      thing...

She trails off.  Just staring at the back of Charlie’s head.  
She nods.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah.  You’re probably right.

She rolls over, turning away from him.

Then she notices.  Sitting on Charlie’s desk -- a TELEPHONE.

Her eyes, glued open, staring.  Unable to think about 
anything else.

She makes a decision.  Slips from the covers, crosses the 
room, pulls up the receiver and dials.  Holds it to her ear.

After a moment:

             JASON
	(O.S.)
      Hey, it’s Jason, just leave me a 
      message.

Straight to voicemail again.  Dani breathes out, eyes 
watering.

Then the BEEP.

             DANI
        (very quiet)
      Jason.  I’m...I want you to know...

Suddenly, a thought occurs to her -- this might be a very bad 
idea.

She hangs up quickly.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
        (under her breath)
      Shit...

She rubs her temple.  Watches Charlie’s sleeping form.

                                      68.

And then makes another decision.

A SERIES OF IMAGES:

- Dani, picking Charlie’s discarded pants off the bathroom 
floor, fishing through pockets to retrieve his CAR KEYS...

- Dani in CHARLIE’S SISTER’S ROOM.  She stands, hesitant, 
wondering if she should...but she has to.  She pulls open the 
drawers, rifling through stacks of clothes, until she finds 
what she’s looking for -- a BLACK HOODIE...

- Dani in the KITCHEN, moving slowly, wearing the black 
hoodie, along with black leggings and an old pair of black 
gym shorts.  Her eyes scan the room.  

Her gaze lands on a kitchen chair.  She crouches, examining 
its structure.  She flips it over and begins carefully 
unscrewing one of the legs...

- Dani, methodically wrapping the detached chair leg in 
electrical tape...

- Dani, hood up, a gym bag slung over her shoulder, moving to 
the front door.  She stops.

Sees, through the LIVING ROOM -- Charlie’s mother, still 
asleep in her recliner.  A spent woman.

Dani takes a deep breath, flicks OFF the lights in the front 
hall, and steps out into the night.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. EDDIE’S OFFICE - NIGHT

Eddie sits, hunched over his stately war-room desk, looking 
more like a weary professor than a crook.

His desk phone JANGLES to life.  He grabs it.

             EDDIE
        (into the phone)
      Yeah...Alright...Has he said 
      anything yet?...What about his 
      phone?...Where are you calling 
      from, then?

Frankie enters, laden with a stack of papers.  He drops them 
off on the desk, lazily, and the pile spills forward into 
Eddie’s lap.  Eddie glares.

                                      69.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
        (into the phone)
      Alright, get to Tommy’s, call me 
      back with some actual fucking news.

He hangs up.  Frankie is already headed back for the door.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
        (to Frankie)
      Hey!  These are stacked for a 
      reason, you animal.

             FRANKIE
      Sorry, Eddie.

Frankie turns to leave again.

             EDDIE
      Where you going?

             FRANKIE
      Home.  It’s late.

             EDDIE
      No, you’re staying here tonight.

             FRANKIE
      I am?

             EDDIE
      Yeah.

             FRANKIE
      Why?

             EDDIE
      Because.  I desire your company.  
      Go sit in the parlor, watch some 
      TV.

             FRANKIE
      Boss, I’m meetin’ with this girl...

             EDDIE
      There’s beer and cookies in the 
      kitchen.  Console yourself.

Frankie pouts, reluctantly exits.  Eddie sighs and rearranges 
the mess of papers on his desk.

                                      70.

INT. PARLOR ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Frankie shuffles into the cozy parlor, grabs the remote off 
the coffee table.  Stares at its daunting array of buttons.

He points the remote at the enormous flat-screen across the 
room.  Presses a button.

Nothing.  Frankie wrinkles his nose.  Tries another one.  
Then another.

             FRANKIE
        (under his breath)
      Come on...you fucking...

He tries a few more buttons, but nothing seems to work.  He 
loses patience and chucks the remote on the couch.  Moves to 
the door...

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Frankie strolls through the expansive kitchen.  On an island 
in the center sits a large metal tin, all by its lonesome.

Frankie opens the fridge and grabs a beer.  Brew in hand, he 
walks to the island, pries the tin open with his meaty paws.  

INSIDE -- an impressive array of cookies, running the full 
gamut.

             FRANKIE
      Woah...


He eagerly grabs a handful.  Stares at the beer in his other 
hand.  Realizes this won’t do the trick.

He tosses the cookies back into the tin, picks up the whole 
shebang, tucked under one arm, grabs his beer, and then he’s 
turning back to the parlor --

And freezes.  Something is pressed against the base of his 
neck.  Something hard.

Behind him -- Dani, holding the end of the chair leg.

A beat.

             DANI
      Hey Frankie.

             FRANKIE
      Dani.  Hi.

                                      71.

             DANI
      Do me a favor.  Put the cookies and 
      beer back on the counter.

             FRANKIE
      ...What for?

             DANI
      Just do it, please.

Frankie cautiously follows orders, first cookie tin, then 
beer.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks.

She winds back, and WHAM -- swings the table leg with full 
force against Frankie’s head.

Frankie sprawls to the floor, crumpling with a THUD.  Dani 
places the now-broken table leg onto the counter next to the 
beer and cookies, grabs Frankie’s GUN from the back of his 
pants, and starts moving toward the parlor.

INT. EDDIE’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Eddie runs his fingers through his hair, face turned down 
toward his desk.

Suddenly, a BARRAGE of noise -- the TELEVISION, volume turned 
on at full blast from the other room.

Eddie growls with frustration.

             EDDIE
      Frankie!  Turn that shit down, 
      Frankie!

The noise continues unabated, blaring some high school 
football game.

Irked, Eddie rises -- on his way out, he picks up a single 
barrel SHOTGUN leaning against the wall.  He slings it over 
his shoulder.

We FOLLOW HIM through THE HALLWAY, into --

INT. PARLOR ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The television is deafening now as Eddie enters the room.

                                      72.

             EDDIE
      Damnit, Frank!

He looks around, sees the light from the kitchen, moves to 
the television.

He reaches his hand out to shut off the television.  But then 
stops.  Thinking.

He spins, bringing up his shotgun --

PFFT -- a shot, muffled by the sound of the television, and a 
bullet SNAPS into his shooting arm.  He cries out, surprised, 
and sits back against the entertainment system, his gun 
falling harmlessly to the carpet.

Dani stands behind the couch, holding Frankie’s pistol.  She 
raises the remote and the sound of the TV cuts OFF.

Silence.  They appraise each other a moment.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      Nice outfit.  You look like a 
      professional back-up dancer.

             DANI
      Fuck you.

             EDDIE
      Where’s Frankie?

             DANI
      He’s napping.  I’d worry about 
      yourself.

Eddie shifts his weight, clutching his arm, wincing.

             EDDIE
      I imagine you’re pretty pissed off 
      right about now?

             DANI
      Wouldn’t you be?

Eddie shrugs.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I’ve got questions.

             EDDIE
      So do I.  We can take turns.

                                      73.

             DANI
      Alright.  The assholes that tried 
      to kill me are from Philly?

             EDDIE
      Yeah.

             DANI
      What are they doing here?

Eddie sighs, leaning his head back against the still glowing 
television.

             EDDIE
      Your last guy, Gerald Gambi.  He 
      was the brother of a couple big 
      shots in the Philly family.  Making 
      a lot of noise here in town, so I 
      wanted him taken care of...

             DANI
      These guys work for him?

             EDDIE
      No.  Gerald’s dead.  They work for 
      Morris.

             DANI
      Morris...?

             EDDIE
      Morris Bijoux...he’s a...an 
      opportunist, a headhunter.  Used to 
      be a friend...

             DANI
      He’s looking for me?

             EDDIE
      Now, yeah.

             DANI
      I could have used a warning.

             EDDIE
      You think I knew about this?  
      Besides, if you hadn’t fucked up 
      the hit...

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      Speaking of which.  Care to fill me 
      in?

He coughs.

             DANI
      ...You’re not gonna believe me.

                                      74.

             EDDIE
      Try me.

             DANI
      I threw up on him.

             EDDIE
      You what?

A beat.

             DANI
      I blew chunks.  Vomited.  All over 
      the guy.

Another beat.  Then Eddie chuckles, despite himself.

             EDDIE
      Well.  That’s unique.  What was it, 
      the flu?

             DANI
      No, I...

She shifts her feet, anxious.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Eddie, I’m pregnant.

Another long beat.

             EDDIE
      That so.

             DANI
      Yeah.

             EDDIE
      How long?

             DANI
      Almost 3 months.  I just found out.

             EDDIE
      Who’s the father?

             DANI
        (shakes her head)
      You don’t know him.

             EDDIE
      Good.

Another beat.

                                      75.

A beat.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      So should I say congratulations, 
      or...?

             DANI
      I don’t really know, Eddie.  To 
      tell you the truth...I’m scared.

             EDDIE
      Yeah.  I can imagine.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      Ok.  What now?

             DANI
      I want out.

             EDDIE
      ...Out of what?

             DANI
      Just...out, you know.  Our business 
      is done.

             EDDIE
      Well, if wishes were fishes, 
      sweetheart...

             DANI
      It’s over, Eddie.  I mean it.

             EDDIE
      And you think I don’t?  There’s no 
      reset button on this thing.

             DANI
      Damnit, Eddie...

             EDDIE
      What the fuck’s your plan, anyway?  
      You’re gonna what, ride off into 
      the sunset, start a new, glamorous 
      life working at some mall in 
      Pittsburgh?  Grow up.  This is the 
      job you’re built for, and you know 
      it.  I mean, look at you...

                                      76.

             DANI
      I don’t need the money any more.  
      Neither does Jason.

Eddie’s jaw tightens at the name.  Dani recognizes something 
in Eddie’s expression, and a wave of fear hits her.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
        (quiet)
      ...Where is he?

             EDDIE
      Don’t act all surprised...

             DANI
      Where is he, Eddie?

             EDDIE
      Mitch and one of Morris’s crew 
      picked him up tonight.

Dani trembles with anger.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      They haven’t done anything yet...

             DANI
      I should blow your fucking head 
      off.

             EDDIE
        (losing patience)
      Alright, sure Danielle, blow me 
      away.  But do me a favor and cut 
      the self-righteous bullshit.  
      Remember, you came to me looking 
      for help, and I gave it to you the 
      way I knew how.  Just like I did 
      for Dan when your mom died.  Did 
      you see anyone else in this town 
      willing to go to bat for him?  Or 
      pay your brother’s way through 
      school?

             DANI
      Yeah, you’re a real charity case, 
      Eddie.

             EDDIE
      Tell me something.  Who do you 
      think Jason’s gonna blame for all 
      this?  You or me?

A beat.

                                      77.

             DANI
      Just tell me where he is.

             EDDIE
      And why would I do that?

             DANI
      Because I don’t feel like killing 
      you tonight, Eddie.  And it’s 
      really the least you can do.

Another beat.

             EDDIE
      I suppose that’s so.

Eddie sits up, grimacing with pain.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      There’s an old ice skating rink up 
      in the mountains, right off of the 
      interstate...

             DANI
      Tommy’s?

             EDDIE
      You know it?

             DANI
      When I was a kid.  It’s a dump, I 
      didn’t know it was still around.

             EDDIE
      It’s not, closed down years ago.  
      But Tommy is a buddy of mine.

             EDDIE
	(CONT’D)
      You’re only gonna make this worse.

             DANI
      We’ll see.

Dani nods.

She starts moving her way toward the front door, gun trained 
on Eddie the entire time.

             EDDIE
      I’m sorry, by the way.  That this 
      happened like this.  And sorry 
      about all the yelling, my arm just 
      fucking hurts...

                                      78.

             DANI
      I’m leaving now, Eddie.

             EDDIE
        (holding up his arm)
      Wait.  Just...how did you know...

             DANI
      It’s Thursday, right?

             EDDIE
      ...Yeah?

             DANI
      Thursday night.  Frankie drops off 
      the receipts at your house.

Eddie smirks, wanly.

             EDDIE
      Routine, huh?

             DANI
      Bye, Eddie.

She slowly backs herself out of the room.

Eddie stares down at the small pool of blood collecting below 
him on the carpet.

                                 FADE TO:

INT. ICE SKATING RINK - NIGHT

An expansive, dark lobby, with an off-putting woodsy decor -- 
taxidermy juxtaposed with vending machines.  All collecting 
dust.

The front door swings open; a bell CHIMES.  Mitch reaches up 
and wraps his hand around the bell to silence it.  Then taps 
the light switch on the wall.  Ancient fluorescents flicker 
wearily to life.

He looks behind him.

             MITCH
      Come on.

Zhukov follows, supporting over his shoulder a bleary, still-
out-of-it Jason.

Zhukov surveys the room.  Sniffs.

                                      79.

             ZHUKOV
      Fucking country bullshit.

             MITCH
      Through here.

They move behind the front counter, past rows and rows of 
rental skates, open up a back door --

INT. BACK ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Mitch FLICKS another light switch, illuminating a cramped 
office -- and a rotund, BEARDED MAN (late 50s) slumped in the 
corner, an open bottle of whiskey on his desk and a trucker 
hat pulled over his eyes.

Mitch points to an empty chair.

             MITCH
      Put him down there.

Zhukov sets Jason down, while Mitch walks over to the Bearded 
Man.  He leans over.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
        (yelling)
      Tommy!

The man, TOMMY, doesn’t jump at the noise -- just pops open 
one bloodshot eye.

Mitch drops a plastic baggie filled with CRYSTAL METH in 
Tommy’s lap.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      For you.

Tommy raises his eyebrows.  He MUMBLES something expressing 
gratitude and drops the bag on his desk, next to the bottle 
of whiskey.  Then lowers his eyelids again.

Mitch is already turning back to Zhukov.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Anything from his cell phone?

Zhukov reaches into Jason’s pockets.  Jason rouses slightly 
and offers a vague struggle.

             JASON
      Hey...hey!  Getthe fuck off...

Zhukov finds the phone, pulls it out, passes it off to Mitch.  
Jason tries to rise, but Zhukov easily pushes him back down.

Mitch looks at the phone.

                                      80.

             MITCH
        (under his breath)
      Ah, shit.
        (looking up to Zhukov)
      Alright.  I’m gonna take a trip, 
      try to find some service.  You 
      handle him?

             ZHUKOV
      Sure.

Mitch moves toward the door.

Jason watches, his unease increasing as he sobers up.

             JASON
      Hey.  Hey!

Mitch stops at the door, looks back.

             JASON
	(CONT’D)
      What’s going on?  What did I do?

Mitch shares a smirk with Zhukov.

             MITCH
      Nothing yet.  Make sure it stays 
      that way.

He turns to leave.

INT. PARLOR ROOM - NIGHT

Morris paces around the room, hair disheveled, still wearing 
his peacoat.  His bodyguard stands stoically in the corner, a 
silent monolith.

Eddie is slouched into the couch, pale, his injured arm now 
bandaged.  Frankie leans back in a nearby recliner, a frozen 
package of carrots planted to the side of his head.

Morris rubs his chin.

             MORRIS
      She’s on her way there now?

             EDDIE
      I think it’s safe to assume so.

                                      81.

             MORRIS
      Does Mitch know?  

             EDDIE
      No, I called you first.

             MORRIS
      Why would you tell her where the 
      brother is?

             EDDIE
      Because she had a gun on me and she 
      asked.  What does it matter?  If we 
      know where she’s going, we’ll be 
      ready when she--

             MORRIS
      Because we’re not in the 
      philanthropy business, Eddie.  Do I 
      really have to explain this?  
      Because things have not exactly 
      been running smoothly up to this 
      point.

He sighs, sits down dramatically in a rocking chair across 
the room.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      What else did you tell her?

             EDDIE
      Morris.  I don’t see why you’re 
      being so pissy about this, I’m the 
      one who got shot in the fucking--

             MORRIS
      Did you mention the Gambi brothers?

Eddie blinks.

             EDDIE
      It might’a come up.

Morris nods.

             MORRIS
      Did you tell her my name?

             EDDIE
      ...Huh?

             MORRIS
      Did you mention my name to this 
      girl?

                                      82.

             EDDIE
      ...No.  No, I didn’t.

Morris nods again.  Then laughs nervously.

             MORRIS
      Sorry, I’m just a little on edge, I 
      guess.

             EDDIE
      That’s alright.  It’s late.

             MORRIS
      No, it’s early.

             EDDIE
      Sure, sure.

Morris rubs his eyes.

             MORRIS
      Alright.  And you said you hadn’t 
      talked to Mitch yet?

             EDDIE
      Yeah, Morry, I told you, I haven’t 
      been able to--

Morris pulls a HANDGUN with a silencer from his peacoat and 
stands, firing THREE QUICK SHOTS into Eddie.  Eddie’s head 
falls back, a blank look of surprise on his face.

On the nearby recliner, Frankie sits up, stunned, still 
holding the frozen vegetables to his head.

Morris regards him for a moment.  Shares a look with his 
bodyguard.

Morris turns back to Frankie.

             MORRIS
      Boy, are you useless.

He fires TWO MORE SHOTS, and Frankie slumps back into the 
recliner, glassy eyed.

Morris surveys the room.  Reaches inside his pocket for a 
cell phone.

                                  CUT TO:

                                      83.

INT. BACK ROOM, ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

The phone on Tommy’s desk RINGS.  Tommy, his legs propped up 
against the desk, doesn’t move.

Jason is now bound to his chair, hands tied behind his back, 
mouth gagged.  Zhukov leans against the wall, chewing tobacco 
in his lip, a coffee cup in his hand.

He stares at the ringing phone.  Shares a look with Jason, 
who’s looking increasingly sober and terrified.

Zhukov saunters over to the desk and lifts the phone.

             ZHUKOV
      Ya.

CROSS-CUT WITH PARLOR ROOM:

             MORRIS
      Is Mitch there?

             ZHUKOV
      No.

             MORRIS
      Well I just stopped by Ronson’s, 
      looks like the girl beat me here.  
      She popped Eddie and his body man.  
      She may be headed your way next.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CAR - DAWN

Mitch sits behind the front wheel of his car, driving along a 
highway.  His cell phone is to his ear.  His face a blank 
mask.

             MITCH
        (into phone.)
      Yeah, I understand.  Thanks, 
      Morris.

He hangs up.  Stares outside the window for a minute, tightly 
gripping the wheel.

Then he starts relentlessly PUNCHING the car’s sun visor, his 
face a mask of fury.  The visor keeps flipping back, avoiding 
his blows.  Eventually the whole visor SNAPS off, and he 
tosses it to the floor of the car.

He stares out the window, fuming.

                                      84.

An electronic TONE.  Mitch’s head snaps toward the sound.

Jason’s cell phone, sitting on the passenger seat, has 
finally regained service -- the screen glows: NEW VOICEMAILS.

Mitch reaches for it...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BACK ROOM, ICE SKATING RINK - DAWN

Zhukov, Tommy, and Jason, in the same positions we last left 
them.  Zhukov is taking apart and cleaning his gun, to keep 
himself occupied.

As he performs this chore, Zhukov eyes Jason occasionally, 
who watches him, fearfully.

             ZHUKOV
      So.  This girl.  She is sister?

Jason (obviously) says nothing.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      She is real bitch, you know that?  
      Huge, giant, super bitch.

He starts carefully re-assembling the gun.  Jason tenses with 
each mechanic CLICK.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      When she comes here.  I kill her.  
      You will watch.

He lazily rises, gun in hand.  He leans over Jason, who 
writhes in terror.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      But first?  I think I fuck her.  
      You know?

He smiles, leering.  He pantomimes fucking.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      You know what I mean, ya?  Before, 
      boss said no fucking, but then, she 
      spray in my eye, so now...now I 
      spray her, you know?  I do it in 
      front of you.  Put on show for you.  
      You like that?  You enjoy watching 
      fucking?  I will do good job for 
      you...

                                      85.

His thoughts trail off -- he hears a SOUND from outside, an 
approaching car.

His smile disappears.  He points his gun at Jason.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      No talk.

He glances at Tommy, glazed in his chair.  Then turns to the 
door and exits.

INT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Zhukov swiftly edges his way toward the front counter, 
keeping his eye on the front door.

He slides up beside the front window, peering out.

OUTSIDE, a black car, parked diagonally in the middle of the 
empty lot, idling.  The driver is unseen.

Zhukov sets his jaw, then opens the front door, gun drawn.

EXT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Zhukov steps out into the morning sun and FIRES his gun at 
the car.

The bullet PINGS against the hood.  Greasy Thug scrambles out 
of the front seat, waving his hands in the air.

             GREASY THUG
      Jesus!  It’s me!  Put the fucking 
      gun away!

Zhukov lowers his gun.  Greasy starts limping in his 
direction, incensed.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      Why the fuck you walking out here 
      firing your piece off like that?  
      What if I was a cop?

Zhukov cocks his head, looking like an enormous pug.

             ZHUKOV
      Why you here?

             GREASY THUG
      Why the fuck you think?  Morris 
      called me.  He didn’t tell you I 
      was coming?

                                      86.

             ZHUKOV
      No.  I thought you might be girl.

             GREASY THUG
      If I was the girl, you think I’d 
      just ride up and park my fucking 
      car in the fucking parking lot?  
      Huh?

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      Next time, think before you try to 
      pop someone in the fucking...

A shrug.

He notices that Zhukov’s attention has drifted -- he’s 
staring at something over Greasy’s shoulder.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      What are you...?

He turns to see what Zhukov is looking at.

IN THE DISTANCE, a dark square approaches -- a CAR, moving 
very quickly up the long, straight roadway leading past the 
ice skating rink.

Greasy squints, putting his hand over brow to shield the sun.

Zhukov raises his gun.  Greasy looks at him.

             GREASY THUG
	(CONT’D)
      Hold on a sec, could just be 
      someone driving by...

He turns back to the horizon.  The car is steadily gaining, 
seeming to pick up speed as it moves down the road.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Dani, behind the wheel of Charlie’s Buick rental, Frankie’s 
pistol in her lap -- her eyes are trained on the ice skating 
rink, growing in size, two small figures standing alone in 
the parking lot.

She FLOORS the accelerator.

EXT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Zhukov shares a glance with Greasy.

Greasy sighs.

                                      87.

             GREASY THUG
      Shit.  Ok.

Greasy reaches for his sidearm.  Together they move toward 
Greasy’s car, standing behind it for cover, guns pointed 
toward the onrushing Buick, now maybe a hundred yards away.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Dani sees the two figures, their guns drawn.

She takes a deep breath, makes sure the car is on-target, 
moves her left hand down, yanks the recliner on the seat, 
leans the seat back just as --

EXT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Zhukov and Greasy UNLOAD their weapons at the Buick -- 
bullets glancing off the hood, SHATTERING the front window.

To their surprise, the car doesn’t slow.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Dani, lying flat in her seat, one hand on the bottom of the 
steering wheel, one hand clutching the gun to her chest.

She counts off seconds in her head.

Clamps her eyes shut.

EXT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Zhukov backpeddles, then dives out of the way; Greasy, 
dumbfounded and hobbled, just ducks.

The nose of the Buick SLAMS into the side of the parked car -- 
metal tears, tires skid, and the whole twisted hunk of 
machinery rolls forward -- right over top of Greasy.

The vehicles lurch to a stop.  Stillness.

Zhukov pulls himself up off the pavement.  He blinks, looking 
around. 

He sees Greasy, crushed and lifeless, wedged underneath his 
own car.

Zhukov reaches for his gun on the pavement.

                                      88.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Dani opens her eyes, shaken but unhurt.  She scrambles to 
unclasp her seat belt, fighting against the deflating air bag 
in front of her.

The CRACK of gunshots, riddling the passenger side of the 
car.  She claws open the door, rolling out of the car onto 
the concrete.

EXT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Firing his gun, Zhukov backs his way toward the entrance of 
the skating rink.  Reaches for the handle.

The SNAP of bullets, cracking the glass of the front door -- 
Dani, crouching behind her car, fires his way.

Zhukov slips inside.  Dani rips off a couple more shots, 
SHATTERING the rest of the glass of the door.

Her gun CLICKS empty.

             DANI
      Shit.

She squints -- inside the building, Zhukov is crouching, 
fumbling with his gun, reloading.

Dani takes a deep breath, then rises, sprints straight for 
the front door --

INT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Zhukov wipes sweat from his forehead, shoves another clip 
into his pistol, turns to rise --

And Dani is there, SLAMMING the open door into him.  

He falls back, surprised more than anything else.  He lifts 
his shooting arm, but she falls on him, twists his hand, and 
bullets ROAR harmlessly into the plaster ceiling.

Enraged, Zhukov swings his arm away from her, losing his 
handle on the gun in the process -- it skitters across the 
tiled floor.

Dani dives for it, but Zhukov rolls over onto her, pinning 
her down.  She writhes, but his animal strength overpowers 
her, and he PUMMELS her with heavy fists.

                                      89.

She uses her legs to keep him at bay -- frustrated, Zhukov 
rises and grabs hold of one of her legs, twisting and 
flinging her across the room -- she slides over broken glass, 
COLLIDING with the reception desk.

Zhukov pants for a moment, then moves to retrieve his pistol.

Dani sees this and wills herself to her feet -- she scrambles 
over the reception desk, falling behind it --

-- just as Zhukov scoops up his weapon and turns, EMPTYING 
the rest of his clip at the reception desk hiding Dani.  The 
gunshots ECHO through the lobby until his gun CLICKS empty.

Silence.  Zhukov sniffs, reaches to his pocket for another 
clip.

BEHIND THE DESK, Dani is curled up, unharmed -- she hears 
Zhukov reloading, and her eyes scan for some sort of weapon.

She SEES the rows of ice skates.

Then something BRIGHT RED catches her eye -- hidden under the 
desk, an old FIRE EXTINGUISHER.

She grabs it, turns, flings it out into the lobby.

Zhukov sees movement and instinctively FIRES --

And the room EXPLODES in white, powdery dust.

Zhukov coughs, pissed off, waving through the fog as the 
powder settles over him.  He staggers forward, kicking the 
sputtering extinguisher tank in the process.

He rounds the desk, bringing up his gun -- and Dani lunges 
toward him, holding an ice skate, SWINGING it down.

Zhukov cries out, a broad gash etched in his hand, and drops 
the weapon.  She swings again, but he blocks this time, the 
blade grazing against his arm.

Pain turns to anger, and he bulls forward into Dani as she 
tries to raise the blade again.

They COLLIDE with the shelf of old ice skates, and the whole 
structure cascades backwards, crashing to the floor.

Zhukov kneels on top of Dani, pinning her down.  His bloodied 
hand presses against her mouth.  With his other arm, he 
slowly twists the ice skate gripped in her hand so that the 
blade points toward her face.

                                      90.

             ZHUKOV
      Come on.  Come on, you can do it, 
      come, I know you can, I know...

She struggles, and he laughs, guttural.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      Good, that’s good, here we go...

He HEAVES, swinging the blade down -- but Dani KICKS up at 
the same time, and he’s off balance, and she twists the 
blade, just enough -- and the skate lands, angled, into 
Zhukov’s thigh.

He grunts, surprised.  He slides off Dani and wrests out the 
blade -- and is stunned to see blood flow, pumping freely 
from his femoral artery.

He blinks, already woozy, falling back.

             ZHUKOV
	(CONT’D)
      Ohhh..no, no, no...

He turns, trying to find his gun on the floor, clawing 
through his rapidly pooling blood, hands slipping on the 
tile.

Dani gulps for air, freed at last.  She rolls to her knees, 
weak.

Zhukov, pale, reaches with trembling fingers for his gun...

                                  CUT TO:

INT. BACK ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jason, still bound in his chair, stares at the closed door, 
wide-eyed and sweaty.  He HEARS a faint struggle on the other 
side.

Then silence.

He waits, breathing anxiously through his nose.

Then the door BUSTS open and Dani staggers through, Zhukov’s 
gun in her hand.  A look of relief washes over her face at 
the sight of Jason.

             DANI
      Jason...

She takes another step forward, then stops. 

                                      91.

Tommy sits very still in the corner, his bushy nostrils 
flared, his eyes wide open for the first time.

A moment as they assess one another.

Tommy’s eyes drift to his desk -- LOW ANGLE, and we see a 
shotgun strapped underneath.

A tense beat.

Tommy makes his move -- and bullets TEAR into him, knocking 
him back.  He slumps in his chair.

Dani drops the gun and rushes to Jason’s side, fumbling with 
his bonds.

No sooner is he free, however, then Jason is scrambling away 
from Dani, that look of terror still present in his face.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Jason...

             JASON
      Don’t -- don’t --

Dani freezes, puzzled.  She moves toward him again.  He 
recoils.

She notices, as if for the first time, the blood all over her 
arms.

She takes a deep breath, trying to appear calm.

             DANI
      It’s alright.  We’re safe now.

Jason’s eyes dart up and down over his sister.  He glances 
over her shoulder -- sees the heaped, bloodied form of Zhukov 
lying alone in the hallway.

             JASON
      You killed them.

Dani blinks, unsure how to respond.

             DANI
      Yes.

             JASON
      Why?

             DANI
      Because.  They were going to kill 
      us.

Jason tries to process.

                                      92.

             JASON
      Why?  Why would they want to do 
      that?

             DANI
      It’s...it’s complicated...

             JASON
      Because of Dad?  Did these guys 
      work with Dad?

             DANI
      No -- I mean, maybe, but it’s not 
      because of him.

             JASON
      It’s because of you?

             DANI
      ...Yes.

             JASON
      You knew I was kidnapped.

             DANI
      Yes.

             JASON
      Why didn’t you call the police?

A heavy beat.

             JASON
	(CONT’D)
      Dani, why didn’t you call the 
      police?

Dan tries to think of a suitable response.  Fails.

             DANI
        (quiet)
      I can explain...

             JASON
      This is crazy.

He moves toward the desk, and Dani instinctively steps in 
front of him, grabs him.

             JASON
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t...

                                      93.

             DANI
      Jason, please, listen to me.  You 
      have to understand...

             JASON
      I don’t care!  Please, Dani, it 
      doesn’t matter.  I just want to 
      call the police.

Dani runs out of things to say.  He slips from her limp 
grasp, moves to the desk.  Picks up the receiver.

             DANI
      I love you, Jason.

He stops.  Looks back at her.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I love you...the most.  You know 
      that?

A beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Please don’t call.

Another long beat.  Jason wavers.  Lowers the receiver for a 
moment.

             JASON
      This isn’t the first time 
      you’ve...done something like this?

Dani furrows her brow, confused.

             DANI
        (quiet)
      What do you mean?

             JASON
      Killed people.

             DANI
      ...No.  It’s not.

             JASON
      ...How many times?

Dani blinks.  Realizes she doesn’t really know the answer.

Jason stares, frightened.  Then turns back to the desk and 
punches 9-1-1 into the phone.

                                      94.

Dani watches as he puts the receiver to his ear.  In a daze, 
she leaves the room.

Jason watches her go.  Then hears a voice in his ear.

             JASON
	(CONT’D)
        (into phone)
      Hello...?

INT. ICE SKATING RINK - CONTINUOUS

Dani stumbles out through the lobby, past the slumped form of 
Zhukov.  Her feet crunch the glass as she pushes the front 
door out into --

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Where she staggers toward the cars.  She pauses, noticing the 
bloodied body of Greasy, still wedged beneath the vehicles.

She continues forward to the Buick.

INT. BUICK - CONTINUOUS

Dani slides into the front seat, pushing aside the deflated 
airbag.  She twists the ignition.

Nothing, of course, happens.  She tries again anyway.  Still 
nothing.

She sits for a second.

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Dani pulls out her bag from the back of the car, slings it 
over her shoulder, then starts trotting/limping to the nearby 
woods.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Tall, dying trees in late-autumn decline, so wooden as to be 
almost grey.  From a distance, we SEE a small, dark figure 
weaving through these trees, moving downhill -- Dani.

We MOVE closer, and see she is approaching a small pond.

With workman-like efficiency, she begins removing her 
bloodied clothes and dropping them into the water.  She looks 
exhausted, zombie-like.

                                      95.

As she starts to pull off her leggings, she suddenly is 
overcome by a sharp pain in her abdomen.  She doubles over, 
waiting for it to subside.

It doesn’t.  It just gets worse.

Now she is on her hands and knees, crawling into the cold 
water of the pond, her face contorted by agony.  She immerses 
herself in the water...

A cloud of blood, drifting...

                                  CUT TO:

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. WOODS - LATER

Dani, down to her wet undergarments, is curled up against the 
trunk of a tree -- pale, bedraggled, completely exhausted.  
Her soaked hair clings limply to her face; dead leaves dot 
her bare legs.

She pulls herself closer to the tree trunk, hugging it, 
gripping it as if searching for warmth.

After what feels like a long time, she drags her wet and 
dirty body back to her bag.  With an enormous amount of 
effort, she begins the process of dressing herself in clean 
clothes.

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Dani walks along a mountain road, looking a little better, 
but not much.  With every step she might topple to the 
ground.

The growling rumble of a CAR -- Dani turns around and sticks 
out her thumb as it WHIZZES past, not stopping.  She resumes 
walking.

Another car approaches -- Dani turns around again.  The car 
slows down -- and with creeping realization, Dani recognizes 
the car, and the driver.

She turns, limping for the woods on the side of the road.

The car comes to a stop -- and Mitch jumps out.

                                      96.

             MITCH
      Dani!

She’s into the bramble now, but it’s tough going, a steep 
incline, and she’s losing steam, fleeing from Mitch more out 
of principle than any possibility of escape.

Mitch stands at the edge of the road, hands on his hips.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, Dani, don’t do this.

She loses her footing and slips, landing with a thud.  She 
sits, panting.

She looks back at him.  He almost looks pitying.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Just get in the car, please.

She doesn’t move.  He sighs, spits into the dirt, looks back 
up at her.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Where would you even go?

Her expression says it all -- she doesn’t know.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CAR - DAY

Dani sits in the back seat of Mitch’s car, staring at the 
highway flashing by the window.

Next to her, crammed into the tight confines of the back 
seat, sits Morris’s bodyguard.  Mitch guides the wheel in 
front.

Dani stays silent, her forehead pressed against the cool 
glass of the window.

On the horizon -- the hazy outline of the city.  Her city.

Mitch sees it as well.

             MITCH
      Home sweet home.

                                      97.

EXT. OLIVE GARDEN - DAY

Under the overcast sky, Mitch’s car pulls into the parking 
lot of a familiar Olive Garden.  The parking lot is empty, 
the windows boarded up.

Mitch’s car rounds the back of the building and disappears 
from sight.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Mitch, Dani, and the bodyguard walk single-file down a narrow 
gray hallway, the cool concrete pressing in around them.

Eventually the hallway opens up INTO:

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Stainless steel surfaces remain, even if the kitchenware has 
been removed.  The space is cold and septic.

A handful of GOONS mill around the empty kitchen, leaning 
against walls, sitting on counters.  They wordlessly notice 
the new visitors.

Mitch, meanwhile, doesn’t break stride, leading Dani and the 
bodyguard through the cavernous space to a solitary steel 
door.  He KNOCKS on the outside.

As they wait for the door to open, Mitch looks back to Dani.  
He roughly grabs her arm and wrests her toward him, spinning 
her, pressing her back into the wall.

His face is inches from hers, his eyes brimming with fire -- 
her expression is blank in return.  He grabs her cheeks with 
his hand, fingers digging in to her flesh, trembling from 
anger.

             MITCH
      You deserve this.  Remember that.

The door opens, and Mitch releases his grip.  Dani returns 
her eyes to the floor.

Morris appears in the doorway.  He pats Mitch on the 
shoulder.

             MORRIS
      Thank you, Mitchell.
        (motioning Dani inside)
      Right this way, please.

                                      98.

INT. FREEZER - CONTINUOUS

An emptied walk-in freezer; a bare table and a pair of chairs 
are the only furnishings.

Mitch pulls Dani to the far side of the room and pushes her 
down into an empty chair.  He exits, SLAMMING the door closed 
behind him.

Morris stands in the corner of the room, arms crossed, head 
cocked, watching her.

             MORRIS
      Well.  You look positively mortal.

Slumped, hands folded in her lap, Dani doesn’t offer a 
response.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      It’s quite hard to believe you 
      could have caused me this much 
      trouble.

Dani raises her head, looks him in the eye.

             DANI
      You’re Morris?

Morris grimaces, disappointed.

             MORRIS
      So.  Ed did tell you about me.

             DANI
      Where is he?

Morris gives a quick glance to the door behind him.

             MORRIS
      He’s gone, I’m afraid.  Couldn’t be 
      helped.

Dani absorbs this news, seemingly without emotion.  Morris 
strolls closer to the table.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      If you’re wondering why you haven’t 
      joined him yet, I promise, we’ll 
      get there.  But we have a few 
      details to clear up first.  A post-
      mortem, pre-mortem, so to speak.

A quick smile.  He unbuckles his belt.  Dani’s stiffens the 
slightest bit.  Morris notices.

                                      99.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Ah, now, don’t get too excited.

He folds the belt over in his hand.  Then carefully removes a 
thin, wicked-looking RAZOR from his jacket pocket.  He begins 
methodically sharpening the razor against his belt throughout 
the following.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks to your efforts this 
      morning, your brother is safely in 
      police custody.  As a result, you 
      may be under the mistaken 
      impression that I have nothing left 
      to threaten you with.

He places the belt down on the table.  Then he reaches into 
his pocket once again, this time pulling out a cell phone -- 
Jason’s cell phone.  He holds it up.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Your brother Jason received four 
      voicemails while you were missing: 
      two from St. Francis hospital, one 
      from a pay phone number, and a 
      fourth message, which is, in my 
      opinion, the most interesting.  The 
      message itself is definitely from 
      you, but the number seems to be a 
      local landline, a house number.  It 
      is not your house number, which 
      leads me to believe, logically, 
      that it is someone else’s.  
      Normally I would think a relative 
      of some sort, but since Mitchell 
      assures me you have none besides 
      your brother, I have to ask...

He places the phone down onto the table, next to the belt, 
and looks Dani directly in the eye.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Who does the number belong to?

She says nothing.  He leans forward, an earnest school 
teacher.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      The mistakes you make, they affect 
      many people, Miss Collins.  Not 
      least of all me.  I’ve been stuck 
      here in this shitty town for days 
      because of you.  I had to eat at an 
      Applebees, for fuck’s sake.  

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      So I would greatly appreciate it if 
      you answered my questions.

                                     100.

Dani stares back at him.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Who does the phone number belong 
      to?

Dani keeps her face blank.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Did you talk to anyone after you 
      saw Eddie last night?

Nothing.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Did you talk to Tino and Michael 
      Gambi?

Still nothing.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Did you tell Tino and Michael 
      anything?  About why I was here?

Nada.

             MORRIS
	(CONT’D)
      Who does the phone number belong--?

             DANI
        (cutting him off)
      Have you tried calling it?

Morris blinks, a bit surprised.  Then he smiles.

             MORRIS
      You know what.  That’s not a bad 
      idea.

He puts the razor down and sits in the other empty chair.  He 
pulls his HANDGUN and points it casually at Dani, leaning 
forward.

Then he pushes Jason’s phone to the very center of the table 
and presses its face.

On SPEAKERPHONE, a METALLIC RING echoes through the room.

The two of them sit, waiting.

                            CROSS-CUT WITH:

                                     101.

INT. CHARLIE’S BEDROOM - DAY

The phone RINGS in Charlie’s empty room.  It sits alone -- 
the room is dark.

BACK IN THE FREEZER --

Morris and Dani sit very still.  The phone rings again.  And 
again.

IN CHARLIE’S ROOM --

The phone rings once more.  We wonder if no one will pick 
up...

But then, we HEAR the bedroom door open, and someone moves to 
the phone.

IN THE FREEZER -- 

A CLICK.  And then:

             CHARLIE
	(O.S.)
      Hello?

Dani opens her mouth slightly, but doesn’t speak.  She looks 
at Morris.  He raises his eyebrows expectantly.

             DANI
      Hi Charlie.

IN CHARLIE’S ROOM -- 

Charlie sits down on his desk, eyes darting to the hallway 
outside his room.

             CHARLIE
        (quietly, fervently)
      Jesus, Dani...

IN THE FREEZER --

Morris listens, curious.

             CHARLIE
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Dani?  Are you ok?  Where are you?

Dani looks on the verge of tears.

             DANI
      I’m fine.

                                     102.

             CHARLIE
	(O.S.)
      You want to tell me what’s going 
      on?

A beat.

             DANI
      Yes.  I would.  But I can’t.

IN CHARLIE’S ROOM --

Charlie blinks, completely baffled.

Silence.

             CHARLIE
      You sound strange, did something 
      happen?

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Where are you Dani?  I’ll come get 
      you.

IN THE FREEZER -- 

Dani tries to hold it together.

             DANI
      I’m sorry about the car.

             CHARLIE
	(O.S.)
      The car?  What happened?  Where is 
      it?

             DANI
      ...You’ll find out soon.

             CHARLIE
	(O.S.)
      I don’t understand any of this.

Dani looks back up at Morris.

             DANI
      I know.  But I just...when you do 
      find out...just know, it was a job.  
      Just a job.

IN HIS ROOM --

Charlie has stopped knowing what to say.

             DANI
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      You’re a good guy Charlie...Please 
      hang up now.

                                     103.

             CHARLIE
      Dani...

             DANI
	(O.S.)
      Hang up Charlie.

He waits another beat.  Shakes his head with confusion.

             CHARLIE
      I don’t...

             DANI
	(O.S.)
      Good-bye, Charlie.

             CHARLIE
      ...Good-bye.

He slowly puts the phone back down on the receiver.  Sits 
still for a moment.

We HEAR -- the CRACK of a GUNSHOT --

IN THE FREEZER -- 

We SEE Morris’s face, perplexed.

A WIDER SHOT, and then, BLAM, BLAM, BLAM -- bullets rocket 
into Morris’s stomach, and he falls back, disappearing from 
view.

Dani places the small snubnose pistol, wrapped in tape, onto 
the desk in front of her.  She sits very still, staring at 
the door.

It slowly swings open -- IN THE DOORWAY, lying sprawled on 
the floor, the massive form of Morris’s bodyguard.  Mitch 
stands over him.

Mitch looks down at the two bodies.  Turns back to his 
waiting group of button men.  He nods, and they wordlessly 
step forward and begin dragging off Morris and his bodyguard.

Mitch looks through the doorway to Dani, still sitting in her 
chair.  They lock eyes.

EXT. OLIVE GARDEN PARKING LOT - DAY

Dani stands alone, leaning against Mitch’s car, staring out 
at an overcast view of nothing in particular.

In her hand, the snubnose pistol.  She unconsciously rubs its 
butt with her thumb.

Mitch appears from a back door and walks across the deserted 
parking lot toward her.

When he gets there, he leans against the car.  She hands him 
a small slip of paper.

                                     104.

             DANI
      Thanks.

Mitch looks down at the slip.

WE SEE, written in Mitch’s familiar scrawl: “The table.  
Right hand.”

                                 A FLASH:

INT. HALLWAY - EARLIER

Mitch, pressing Dani back against the wall, fury in his eyes.

UNSEEN BEFORE, he presses the small slip of paper into her 
hand.

                                RETURN TO:

EXT. OLIVE GARDEN PARKING LOT - DAY

Mitch crumples up the paper and chucks it.

             MITCH
      Eddie called me last night, after 
      you stopped by to see him.  He 
      must’ve told Morris something else 
      though, cause Morris played it off 
      that you were the one killed him.  
      I knew something was up -- I just 
      needed to get you in the room with 
      him to hear it for myself.

A beat.

             DANI
      What happens now?

             MITCH
      Well, I try to patch things up with 
      Philly -- there’s still a chance 
      this could all blow over, 
      especially now that Eddie’s out of 
      the picture.  

                                     105.

             MITCH
	(CONT'D)
      Everyone’s had their share of shit 
      stuck to them, think we can all use 
      a chance to clean off.

             DANI
      ...I meant with me.

Mitch looks at her, then away again.

             MITCH
      Right.  You’ll leave town.  Maybe 
      for a little while, maybe for good.  
      I got a guy working on some new 
      papers for you; short term, there’s 
      a place for you up in Rochester.  
      Nothing fancy, but clean, under the 
      radar.

             DANI
      Rochester, huh?

             MITCH
      The bus leaves tonight.

He sees her reaction.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
        (sympathetic)
      Hey, you wanted to get away.

Dani smiles wanly.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      And I’ve got a doctor’s visit 
      scheduled for this afternoon.

Dani wrinkles her brow.  Mitch reaches into his pocket, pulls 
out a plastic bag, hands it to her.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Found this in your apartment.

Dani looks down -- the PREGNANCY TEST.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      I looked it up.  The little cross 
      means “positive.”

Dani stares down at the test.  Trying to hold it together.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      You could’ve told me.

                                     106.

             DANI
      ...Well, it’s too late for that.

Mitch looks up.

             MITCH
      Gone?

Dani’s expression says it all.

He pulls her in.  She leans against his shoulder.  They stay 
like that.

             MITCH
	(CONT’D)
      Shit...

             DANI
      Yeah.  Shit.

             MITCH
      Should we talk about it?

             DANI
      Nah.

A beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      You think I could’ve...if things 
      were different...you think I 
      could’ve done a good job at that?

Mitch tries to wrap his head around the concept.

             MITCH
      Sure.  Sure, definitely.

Dani appreciates his weak enthusiasm.

             DANI
      If wishes were fishes, right?

Mitch blinks.

             MITCH
      Huh?

Dani shakes her head.

             DANI
      Forget it.

Another beat.

                                     107.

             MITCH
      We should go.

Dani nods.  Opens the passenger door, slides in.

Mitch spits, then walks around to the front seat of the car.

FROM ABOVE, we watch the car rumble off and slowly pull away -
- it gets tinier and tinier as we...

                              LONG FADE TO:

EXT. NEW YORK APARTMENT - DAY

A lovely brownstone apartment, somewhere in Manhattan, likely 
Gramercy.  We WATCH, as if standing on the opposite side of 
the street.  A few PEDESTRIANS pass by.

Eventually one man catches our attention -- Charlie.  He’s 
got a grocery bag slung in his arm, and looks a bit weary.  
He stops in front of the apartment.

As he fumbles for his keys, his gaze drifts across the 
street, and he notices something.  He blinks, then turns back 
toward the door, raising his key to the lock.

He pauses, seeming to have second thoughts.  He takes a deep 
breath.  Then pockets his keys and turns to cross the street.

Waiting for him, on the other side -- Dani.  She looks 
infinitely better than last we saw her.  Her hair has been 
died, darker, and her clothes look new, fashionable.  Her 
skin is unblemished.  Healthy.

The two of them stand looking at each other a moment.

             CHARLIE
      Did you follow me here?

Dani twists her feet, thinking of a response.

             DANI
      No.

        (a beat)
      I mean...I looked you up.

             CHARLIE
      I should call the cops.

Dani shrugs, truly ambivalent.  Charlie is immediately 
remorseful.

                                     108.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      I guess that’s the wrong thing to 
      say.

             DANI
      No, it’s fair...

             CHARLIE
      It’s just...you stole my car.

             DANI
      It was a rental.

             CHARLIE
      Dani...

             DANI
      You’re right.

             CHARLIE
      And then the car turns up, empty, 
      at some shoot out at a...an ice-
      skating rink?  I mean, it was all 
      over the news.

             DANI
      Well, I’m sorry about that...

             CHARLIE
      Don’t say it like...it’s not an 
      inconvenience.  I was fucking 
      worried.  About you.  And 
      the...your baby.

Dani tenses at the mention.

             DANI
      Charlie...

Charlie reads her face.

             CHARLIE
      Something happened?

She nods.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      I guess I could have done the math.  
      Was it...planned?
        (shakes his head)
      That’s a stupid question, I’m sorry 
      either way...

                                     109.

             DANI
      It’s ok.  Like I told you, my 
      responsibility.

A beat.

             CHARLIE
      You should know, I never told the 
      police about anything you said.  I 
      mean, I told them how we met, the 
      hospital, how that all happened, 
      but I never told them...about the 
      other stuff.  Or the phone call.

             DANI
      Thanks.
        (a beat)
      Have they...said anything...?

Charlie shakes his head.

             CHARLIE
      No, they stopped calling a couple 
      months ago.  I don’t know what that 
      means...

             DANI
      Don’t worry about it.  Look, I just 
      came here to apologize.  And to 
      tell you...I’m doing better now.

Charlie blinks, a bit surprised.

             CHARLIE
      Sure.  Of course.
        (meaning it)
      I mean, you look better.  A lot 
      better.

             DANI
      Thank you.  I wanted you to know.

A beat.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      Anyway, I’m just in town to meet up 
      with a friend...

             CHARLIE
      Right...

Another beat.

                                     110.

             CHARLIE
	(CONT’D)
      Hey look, I feel like I should...do 
      you want to get a drink tonight?

Dani raises her eyebrows, surprised.

             DANI
      You can’t be serious.

             CHARLIE
      Well...I was just thinking, I still 
      don’t know that much about you.  Or 
      anything about you, really.

A hint of a smile from Dani.

             DANI
      Do you really want to?

Charlie grins, shrugs.

             CHARLIE
      Yeah.  Sure I do.

             DANI
      Well...I don’t know if I can, I’ve 
      got this...

             CHARLIE
      Just the one drink.  I swear.

Dani cocks her head.  A moment of possibility.

             DANI
      What time?

             CHARLIE
      Ten?  There’s a bar called Molly’s, 
      right on the corner here.

Dani looks down the street, thinking.

             DANI
      I’ll try.

Charlie smiles.

             CHARLIE
      Ok.  I’ll be there waiting.

Dani smiles back, cryptic.

             DANI
      Alright.

                                     111.

She ducks in to plant a peck on his cheek, then turns and 
walks off.

Charlie watches her go.

PRE-LAP: We HEAR the tinkling of jazz piano, which leads us 
to...

INT. CLASSY BAR - NIGHT

Dani sits alone, looking elegant in a cocktail dress, 
stirring her drink.

Her gaze is fixed on a CELL PHONE, sitting on the counter.

A moment of decision, and she picks it up, presses a number, 
puts the phone to her ear.

                            CROSS-CUT WITH:

INT. DORM ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jason is sitting in his small, cluttered bedroom, littered 
with moving boxes.  A GRADUATION GOWN is laid out on his bed.

He’s surprised to hear his phone ring.  Answers it 
tentatively.

             JASON
      Hello?

BACK AT THE BAR, Dani stares into her drink, unsure where to 
begin.  So she doesn’t.

Jason waits.

             JASON
	(CONT’D)
      Dani?

             DANI
      ...Hey.

A beat.

             JASON
      You finally got a cell phone?

She smiles, thinly.

             DANI
      I did.  We’ll see how long it 
      lasts...

                                     112.

             JASON
      I’m supposed to tell the police if 
      you call, you know.

             DANI
      ...Yeah, I figured that.

A beat.  But he doesn’t hang up.

             DANI
	(CONT’D)
      I just wanted to say, I’m proud of 
      you Jason.  And I’m sorry.  That 
      I’m not there.

Jason lets this sit.

             JASON
      ‘S alright.
        (a beat)
      You doing ok?

             DANI
      Yeah.  I am.

             JASON
      I do worry sometimes, you know?

Dani’s heart drops in her chest.

             DANI
      Thank you.  I’m fine.  You know me, 
      I always am.

             JASON
      Yeah, I know you.

An uncomfortable beat.

             DANI
      How about you?  Anything...?

             JASON
      I should really go, Dani.

Dani nods, unable to argue.

             DANI
      Yeah.  Sure thing.  Love you bud.

             JASON
      Bye.

He hangs up.

                                     113.

BACK IN THE BAR, Dani places the phone down.  She stares at 
it, her expression opaque.

Eventually, her gaze drifts to the end of the bar.  She 
smiles, dry.

A GOOD-LOOKING MAN (late 30s) -- well-dressed, touch of grey 
to the temple -- is sitting in the corner, looking her way, 
interested.

She lifts her drink.  Toasts to him, deadpan.  Tosses her 
head back, downing the rest of her cocktail.

The man laughs.  His eyes linger on her.

Dani sets her empty glass back down.  Then places her hand on 
the cell phone.  She opens her purse in her lap, slides the 
cell phone in.

And we SEE inside the purse, just barely -- and catch a 
glimpse of a PHOTOGRAPH -- a fuzzy, black-and-white picture.

Of the Good-Looking Man.

And nestled next to the photo -- the butt of a snubnose 
pistol.

Dani SNAPS the purse shut.  She looks back up across the bar.

Lets slip a genuine smile...

                              CUT TO BLACK

                                 END FILM

