               THE FIXER

               Written by

              Bill Kennedy

                4.19.13

Kaplan/Perrone
310.285.0116

WME
310.285.9000

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

JOE (50), salt and pepper hair, dark, fuck you demeanor walks 
through an ultra-hip Waikiki resort.  He’s not wearing a lei.  
This guy doesn’t get a fucking lei at the airport. 

             JOE
	(V.O.)
      The thing people need to realize 
      about Madoff is that he was enabled 
      by crooks. 

Joe pushes the button and waits for the elevator.

             JOE
	(V.O.)
      Whether it was the fact he was a 
      market maker and could time massive 
      trades to benefit his fund, or just 
      a straight crook, everybody knew 
      that something wasn’t kosher at 
      that shop. 

Ding.  The elevator arrives.  Joe boards.  

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Joe punches a number.

             JOE
	(V.O.)
      I don’t know the guy.  Never met 
      him.  But he fucked me and put me 
      in this position.  It’s my fault.  
      I got lazy.  I didn’t ask any 
      questions, I didn’t want to know.  
      I knew it was too good to be true, 
      but I figured, at worst, it’s 
      insider trading and that sure as 
      hell doesn’t bother me.  

He pulls a Glock out of his belt, checks the clip and the 
chamber, holsters it, then pulls a second Glock, clip, 
chamber, check, holster.  

Ding.  The elevator doors pop open.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT, HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY

Joe walks down the hallway.  

             JOE
	(V.O.)
      My mistake was assuming I was 
      dealing with a smart but greedy 
      person.  

                                      2.

             JOE
	(V.O.)
	(CONT'D)
      Greed I can live with, greed is 
      predictable.  Madoff wasn’t just 
      greedy.  He was a goddamn Grade A 
      fucking moron.  I’d kill the 
      cockfuck if I could.  But I can’t, 
      and I need money to run away, to 
      start over.  So I’m going to have 
      to kill these guys, who happen to 
      be friends of mine.

SKINNY SAMOAN GUY, spikey hair, tattoos, hangs out outside 
the door, sitting in a chair in the hall.  He nods at Joe.  
Joe knocks at the door.  

Silence.  

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Terrance get your ass out here.  
      Come in Joe, it’s open.

Joe walks into the room.

                              CUT TO BLACK:

INSERT TITLE CARD: THE FIXER

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - MORNING

Joe’s alarm sounds.  He groggily smacks it and sits up in 
bed.  His wife, MICHELLE (45) sleeps soundly next to him.  

             JOE
      Are you having breakfast this 
      morning?

             MICHELLE
      I have a terrible headache.  

             JOE
      Alright.  

             MICHELLE
      I think I’ll stay in bed awhile.  

             JOE
      Do you need anything?  

             MICHELLE
      Can you get me my pills?

                                      3.

             JOE
      Sure.  Think you’ll come to Nick’s 
      meeting?

             MICHELLE
      We’ll see how I feel.

             JOE
      Okay honey.  

Joe slowly stands, stretches and walks to the bathroom.  

INT. GUIDANCE COUNSELOR’S OFFICE - DAY

Joe sits with son NICK (19) with a bearded touchey feely 
GUIDANCE COUNSELOR (45) in a cramped office.  The walls are 
covered in college pennants and full color campus 
photographs.  The room is cramped, and the men sit in chairs 
in an awkward circle, knees touching.  

             GUIDANCE COUNSELOR
      To be honest, if you want to 
      transfer to a four year college, 
      you’re going to have to get these 
      grades up.   

             NICK
      I don’t really think college is for 
      me. 

             GUIDANCE COUNSELOR
      Okay, well college is just one 
      option.  We can talk about some 
      alternatives.  

             NICK
      Like what?

             JOE
      I’m going to stop you right there.  
      Nick.  You’re finishing the year 
      here and then you’re applying for a 
      transfer.  You’re going to college. 
      We are sticking with the plan.

             NICK
      It’s my life Dad. 

             JOE
      Tell me what you want to do.  
      Seriously.  Tell me.  I can help 
      you do anything you want.  You want 
      to work in movies?  
                                      4.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      You know how many movie people I 
      have for clients?  Politics?  
      Business?  Tell me what you want to 
      do, and I’ll tell you how you’re 
      going to do it.  But it starts with 
      college.

             NICK
      I don’t know what I want to do.  

             GUIDANCE COUNSELOR
      Honestly, I meet kids all the time 
      who aren’t exactly sure what they 
      want.  Nick is just a late bloomer.  

             JOE
      Well you fucking bloom Nicky, you 
      bloom or you’re going to have to 
      start paying rent.  

INT. MCDONALD’S - MORNING

TERRANCE ROCAMOURA (26) stands in line with his son, JAVAN 
(5).  Terrance wears a doorag, oversize basketball jersey, 
and baggie jeans.

It’s mid morning and McDonald’s is mostly empty, save a few 
people eating Egg McMuffins, looking like they can’t even 
taste what they’re eating, staring into the middle space 
directly in front of them, an expression native to every 
McDonald’s at 9:45 am on a week day morning.  

But Javan couldn’t be more excited to be here.  He jumps up 
and down.  He tugs on his father’s hand.  Terrance picks him 
up.  

They arrive at the front of the line.  A Cashier looks at 
them, tired and apathetic about the number of smiles per day 
that he’ll serve.

             TERRANCE
      Can I get like a pancake happy meal 
      for my boy here?

             CASHIER
      We don’t do happy meals for 
      breakfast.  

             JAVAN
      I want a happy meal!

                                      5.

             TERRANCE
      Alright well can I just get one of 
      them toys in the box?  I’ll pay 
      extra.  

             CASHIER
      I’m sorry, I can only give you the 
      toy with a happy meal.  

             TERRANCE
      So let me just get a happy meal.  

             CASHIER
      We don’t serve happy meals until 
      10:30 am.  

             TERRANCE
      Look.  I’ll give you twenty bucks 
      just for the toy.  

Little Javan starts to cry.  

             JAVAN
      I want a happy meal!

Someone tugs on Terrance’s sleeve.  Terrance turns.  A 
toothless CRACKHEAD has joined the lined behind them.  He’s 
jumpy, and trying to be a kiss ass.  

             CRACKHEAD
      Is that your son T?

Terrance ignores him.

             CASHIER
      What do you want to order?

             TERRANCE
      A mother fucking happy meal, I told 
      you.  

             CASHIER
      I’m getting my manager.

The Cashier stalks off.  

The Crackhead waves at little Javan.  

             TERRANCE
      Stop waving at my child.  

             CRACKHEAD
      What’s his name?

                                      6.

             TERRANCE
      Fuck you that’s his name.  Get the 
      fuck out of here.  

The Crackhead tugs on Javan’s finger.  

Terrance sets Javan down and draws a gun.  

             CRACKHEAD
      Whoa.  Sorry man, I-

             TERRANCE
      Get the fuck out of here.  Right 
      now.  

The MANAGER (32) has appeared behind the register.  Terrance 
turns and sees him.  The Manager notices the gun.  He backs 
away from the register.  Terrance lifts the gun and points it 
at him. 

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      Get me a motherfucking happy meal.  

The Manager nods and reaches for a happy meal.  

EXT. GOLF COURSE - DAY

MICHAEL LAMAR (45), a well dressed, poised African American 
man watches as Joe lines up a shot in the rough.  

             MICHAEL
      So you been retired a month right?

             JOE
      Yeah.  

             MICHAEL
      And you still terrible at this 
      game.  

             JOE
      I’m not terrible.

             MICHAEL
      We been in the weeds all day.  

             JOE
      I like it that way.

             MICHAEL
      You like pushing balls around tall 
      grass.  Alright.  I’ll believe 
      that.  

                                      7.

             JOE
      I know you’re going for some double 
      entendre shit with that but it 
      didn’t work.

             MICHAEL
      Well fuck you too.  How’s the wife?

             JOE
      She’s good.

             MICHAEL
      That’s good.  Anything new to 
      report?

             JOE
      Same old.  But she’s getting 
      better.  It’s good that I’m home to 
      look out for her.  She needs me 
      around.  

They walk down the course toward their balls.

             MICHAEL
      I got an idea for you.  A hobby.  
      Side project.  

Joe smiles and shakes his head.

             JOE
      How did I know this golf game 
      wasn’t about golf?

             MICHAEL
      I got this little shit nephew.  

             JOE
      Okay.  

             MICHAEL
      Walks around all day like his shit 
      smells like cotton candy.  Now, 
      this kid, he’s not stupid.  In fact 
      he’s a pretty smart kid, you know 
      what I’m saying?

             JOE
      Sure.  I know the type.

             MICHAEL
      I mean, aside from the fact that he 
      knocked up his girlfriend, but 
      shit, whatcha going to do you know?  

                                      8.

             JOE
      It happens.

             MICHAEL
      You’re goddamn straight.  Can’t be 
      mad about that.  I mean that shit 
      is standard operating procedure in 
      the hood. 

             JOE
      Point taken.  

             MICHAEL
      So my nephew, his mother is Samoan.  
      Beautiful woman, big.  Buxom.  Got 
      hips that could knock down a door.  
      And my nephew got all these fat 
      fucking Polynesia people all over 
      Samoa, Borra Borra, Tahiti, but 
      biggest, Hawaii.  Now I know what 
      you thinking - who the fuck cares 
      about this little hot shot half 
      Samoan’s people all over these shit 
      little beach islands.  

             JOE
      I am thinking that right now.  

             MICHAEL
      Thing is, this is a captive market.  
      There’s no real muscle in these 
      places.  The margins are as wide as 
      that Samoan bitch’s hips.  

             JOE
      So where do I come in?

             MICHAEL
      I need you to help me free up some 
      capital to get him started.  People 
      need to be paid off, friends 
      acquired.  

             JOE
      No problem, that’s a phone call.    

             MICHAEL
      Well, one other thing. Contrary to 
      what many people think, not every 
      black person from Inglewood knows 
      shit about the drug trade.  I.e. I 
      don’t know shit about the drug 
      trade.  

                                      9.

             MICHAEL
	(CONT'D)
      This kid- he been running a few 
      corners and he thinks he’s fucking 
      Tony Montana, but he don’t know 
      shit.  But if you could teach him 
      about what’s what, introduce him to 
      the right people, you know.

             JOE
      That’s gonna be a big time 
      commitment.  Right now, I gotta -

             MICHAEL
      I know baby, I know about you being 
      retired, you wanting to play golf 
      and braid your wife’s hair all day.  
      But I also know that you love it.  
      Think of it as a hobby you can 
      pursue in your golden years.

Michael hands him a business card.  

             MICHAEL
	(CONT’D)
      Terrance Rocamoura is the kid’s 
      name.  Number is on the back.  Just 
      call him, for fun.  See what he’s 
      about, you know?  

INT. CONDO - DAY

A modest, new construction condominium.  Javan clings to 
Terrance’s leg as Terrance talks to SHANIA (23) in nurse 
scrubs, fresh faced, beautiful.

             TERRANCE
      I like spending time with him.  I’d 
      like to spend time with you too.  

             SHANIA
      I don’t think that’s a good idea.

             TERRANCE
      Why?

             SHANIA
      You want to see him now and then, 
      okay.  But I’m not letting him get 
      his hopes up on us.  

             TERRANCE
      I’m a changed man.  I’m starting a 
      business.  I’m-

                                      10.

             SHANIA
      I appreciate that you’re trying 
      Terrance, I do.  But you and me 
      aren’t something that could have 
      been and isn’t.  We just weren’t 
      gonna work.  

Terrance tries to play off his disappointment, smiling.  

             TERRANCE
      Alright.  Well I’ll be back around 
      some time for the little guy.  

             SHANIA
      Alright then.  

INT. ANDERSON, HARDING INVESTMENTS - DAY

HARRY ANDERSON (55) is thin, tan, wears suspenders, and has 
that master of the universe aura that all investment bankers 
have, because WALL STREET is their favorite movie and they 
missed the part about Gordon Gecko going to jail.  Joe sits 
across from him, comfortable, the perfect chameleon.  

             JOE
      Just wanted to go over the last 
      statement.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Absolutely.  Problem?

             JOE
      No problem.  I guess I’m just 
      curious.  What’s the secret sauce 
      here?

Harry smiles and gives him a quizzical look.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      I’m sorry?

             JOE
      The S&P was down.  All the indexes 
      were down.  Everybody got killed or 
      at least maimed.  But not us.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Not us.  That’s why you pay me the 
      big bucks.  

             JOE
      But you said you run a split strike 
      conversion.

                                      11.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      We do.  

             JOE
      Even that rolls with the markets a 
      little.  

Harry shrugs.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      We got lucky.  

             JOE
      You’re always lucky.  And I’m just 
      curious about it is all.  All the 
      years I was managing my clients’ 
      money, we had good quarters and bad 
      quarters.  And as a colleague, I’m 
      saying, I’m impressed.

Harry nods, smiling.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      We invest through a major market 
      maker.  He has a massive database 
      of trading history; we put that 
      data to work.

             JOE
      Is that a nice way of saying you’re 
      front running?

Harry stops smiling.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      No.  No it’s not Joe, and to be 
      frank the implication is more than 
      a little insulting.  

Joe smiles, raises his hands.

             JOE
      I’m not trying to tell you that 
      we’re not happy.  We’re very happy.  
      I just like to know my business.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      There’s nothing more to know.  
      We’re very good at what we do - and 
      I think we’ve proven that to you.  

                                      12.

             JOE
      Look, I’m a guy who’s having 
      trouble giving up the steering 
      wheel.  I’m retired, yeah, but I 
      still think about this shit all day 
      every day.  And now that you’ve got 
      my entire portfolio, all my 
      clients, I just can’t help but 
      obnoxiously check in.  I’m anxious, 
      I’m jumpy, I’m on fuckin’ yahoo 
      finance every ten minutes looking 
      up Cisco Systems.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      I love it Joe.  Keep on checking 
      in.  Please.  But relax!  Have fun!  
      You’re done with the buy and sell 
      of it all.  Do what you love now.  

INT. CHURCH OFFICE - MORNING

PASTOR HANK TAGGERT (40S), good looking in a delicate way, 
sits in a luxurious office behind his desk.  He is strangely 
calm - almost serene - and a smile is plastered on his face.  
A BALD MAN (45) sits across from him, nervous, fidgety.

The man sighs heavily.  

             BALD MAN
      Sexual things.  

             PASTOR HANK
      What things?

The Bald Man shifts uncomfortably in his chair.  

             BALD MAN
      I think about being with them.  
      I’m sorry, this is very hard for me 
      to talk about.  

             PASTOR HANK
      What men?

             BALD MAN
      What?

             PASTOR HANK
      What men do you think about having 
      sex with?  

             BALD MAN
      I don’t know.  

                                      13.

             PASTOR HANK
      You must know.  You think about it.  

             BALD MAN
      Men at work.  Men I see out at 
      bars.  I’ve been to a gay bar 
      before.   

Pastor Hank gives him a nod.  He starts to dig in his desk 
for a pamphlet.

             PASTOR HANK
      Look in your heart.  There’s good 
      there.  I’m going to give you the 
      information for a ministry.  They 
      have a program there, to help 
      people like you.  

The Bald Man has begun to weep.  

             BALD MAN
      Thank you.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Okay.  

Pastor Hank gets up and walks around the desk, pamphlet in 
hand.  He presses it into the Bald Man’s hands.  The Bald Man 
stands, crying.  Pastor Hank wraps him up in a long embrace.  
He kisses his cheek.  

             PASTOR HANK
	(CONT’D)
      You’ll be okay.  

They slowly pull out of their embrace.  Their faces are close 
now.  There’s a sudden tension between the two of them.  

CHRISTIE TAGGERT (40s), Pastor Hank’s viciously bland and 
savagely asexual wife walks in.  

             CHRISTIE
      Oh hi!  Hope I’m not interrupting.   

Pastor Hank drops his arms and circles back around the desk.

             PASTOR HANK
      No no.  We’re done here I think, 
      right?

             BALD MAN
      Yes.  Thank you.  

             PASTOR HANK
      We’ll see you out there.  

                                      14.

The Bald Man exits.  

             CHRISTIE
      What the hell was that?

             PASTOR HANK
      Nothing.

             CHRISTIE
      It didn’t look like nothing. 

Pastor Hank pulls out a small baggie with COCAINE in it, 
picks up his set of keys and scoops out a small bump.  

             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      You need to lay off that stuff.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Anything else?

             CHRISTIE
      They’re ready for us.  

INT. MEGA-CHURCH PULPIT - MORNING

Pastor Hank walks out into his congregation, Christie at his 
side, a white bread Jesus rock star couple, as a light show 
blares and a rock band sings about the Lord.  Pastor Hank 
kisses Christie and she crosses to a seat right by stage.  

Pastor Hank stands center stage. All the swagger of a cult 
leader or high school football coach.  Broad smiles.  Wide 
waves.

The room quiets instantly when he raises his arms.  He wears 
a microphone headset a la Britney Spears in concert.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Good morning.  Is everyone ready to 
      praise Jesus this morning?

             CONGREGATION
      Yeah!!

             PASTOR HANK
      I know I’m ready.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE, HALLWAY - MORNING

Joe knocks on a door.  No answer.  He pushes it open slowly.  

                                      15.

             JOE
      Nick?

Joe looks around the room - no Nick.  

He walks downstairs.  

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Joe pours himself a cup of coffee and sits down at a small 
breakfast table to read the newspaper.  The house is quiet.  

The back door opens - Nick walks in, a bright tank top and 
jeans, looking like he’s been partying for three days 
straight.  And he probably has.  

             JOE
      Hey Nick.  You just coming home?

He heads to the fridge and pulls it open, staring into it.  

             NICK
      Yeah.  

             JOE
      Nice.  You have a big night last 
      night, crash with some girl?

             NICK
      Just at a friend’s.  

             JOE
      Cool.  

Nick shuts the refrigerator door empty handed, then walks 
past Joe and toward the stairs.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - NICK’S ROOM - SAME  

Joe stands at the doorway.  Nick rummages through the closet, 
looking for something.  

             JOE
      I was thinking we could hit the 
      driving range today, whack some 
      balls around like we used to.  

Nick keeps rummaging, ignoring Joe.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      It’s been so long.  You been 
      keeping your game up?

                                      16.

             NICK
      Not really.  

             JOE
      Well, it’s like riding a bike, 
      you’ll pick it up again quick.  And 
      you’ve got those great clubs -

Nick finds what he’s looking for - a small duffel bag.  He 
throws it on the bed and starts to load it up with clothes.

             NICK
      I’m kind of busy today.  Sorry.  

Joe nods, trying to maintain a good mood, slowly getting 
angrier.  

             JOE
      Maybe we can spend some more time 
      together, now that I’m not working.

             NICK
      Yeah, maybe.

             JOE
      I’d like to anyway.  What’s with 
      the bag?

             NICK
      I’m moving out.  

             JOE
      Oh?  Who are you living with?

             NICK
      None of your business.

             JOE
      How are you paying for it?

             NICK
      I got a job, okay?

             JOE
      A job doing what? 

             NICK
      What’s with all the questions?  I’m 
      an adult, and I’m living my life.

             JOE
      You’re not just a fucking adult 
      living your life.  
                                      17.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      You’re a community college student 
      who still takes money from his 
      parents, so you have to sit here 
      and answer my fucking questions.  

             NICK
      I need to get out of this house.

             JOE
      I want you here.  Your mother needs 
      you here.  And I’m not paying you 
      to go off and live in an apartment 
      when you’re failing out of fucking 
      community college.  

             NICK
      You can stop repeating that I go to 
      community college.  I get that I’m 
      a big disappointment.  

Nick zips up his bag.  Joe doesn’t know what to say.  Nick 
walks towards the door.  Joe stands in his way.

             JOE
      Nicky, you’re not a disappointment -

             NICK
      Are you going to let me leave or 
      not?  

A stand off.  

             JOE
      Write your address down so I can 
      find you.  

Nick stares him down.  Then relents and walks over to a small 
desk and scrawls his address out on an old desk calendar.

             NICK
      Can I leave now?

Joe steps aside.  

             JOE
      Say hello to your mother.

             NICK
      Why?  She won’t remember it.  

             JOE
      Don’t talk about her that way.  

Nick walks out of the room.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

The shades are drawn.  Joe sits on the foot of the bed.  
Michelle lays in bed, an indiscernible lump of comforters and 
blankets.   

                                      18.

             JOE
      Hey Michelle - you awake?

             MICHELLE
      Yes.  

             JOE
      I was thinking, let’s go out to 
      brunch maybe.  At the club.  

             MICHELLE
      I’m really tired Joe.  I think it’d 
      be best if I slept a little more.  

Joe pats her feet.  

             JOE
      Alright then.  Rest up.  

Michelle says nothing.  Joe gets up.  

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

Joe sits at the breakfast table, reading over the paper, 
drinking his coffee.  He looks at his watch and sighs.  

EXT. O’HARA HOUSE - BACKYARD - SAME

Joe walks into the backyard with a cup of coffee.  He looks 
around, puts one hand on his hip.  Tries to soak it in, enjoy 
the calm of the moment.  Walks deeper into the backyard and 
looks at his house - his family’s house.  

He walks up to the pool and dips his foot in it.  It’s cold.  
He goes to the pool heater, tastefully covered by a large 
wicker box.  He lifts the box and tries tinkering with the 
heater.  It’s unclear if anything is working.  

He walks back along the lawn, and spots the beginnings of a 
weed.  He bends down and plucks it out, then tosses the weed 
into the bushes.  

He walks the rest of the lawn, looking for weeds, taking sips 
of his coffee.  

                                      19.

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - NICK’S ROOM - SAME

Joe goes back into Nick’s room.  He spots Nick’s golf clubs 
in the corner of the room.  Walks up to the golf bag and 
pulls out a DRIVER.  He holds it up, sights it to see that 
it’s straight.  He puts it back in the golf bag.

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - SAME

Joe cracks the door to the bedroom and looks in.  Darkness, 
silence.  He thinks about saying something, but decides 
against it.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - KITCHEN - SAME

Joe sits back at the kitchen table.  He glances over the 
newspaper, then sets it down, sighing heavily.  He’s starting 
to feel like a caged animal.  This domesticity - it just 
doesn’t fire enough synapses.  

He reaches into his pocket and pulls out his wallet and his 
cell phone.  He finds a business card in the wallet and dials 
the number on the back.

INT. BILLINGSLEY’S - AFTERNOON

A dumpy old steak joint frequented by frumpy old people who 
like chopped steak and martinis.  The restaurant is nearly 
empty - it’s 3pm.  Joe sits in a back booth.  

In walks Terrance, all swagger, with DESHAWN (25) at his 
side.  Joe rises out of the booth and extends his hand.  

             JOE
      Joe O’Hara.  

Terrance ignores him and sits in the booth.  

             TERRANCE
      So you Joe.

Joe accepts the slight and sits across from Terrance and 
DeShawn.  

             JOE
      That’s right.  And you’re Terrance 
      Rocamoura?

             TERRANCE
      Friends call me T-Murder.  

                                      20.

             JOE
      T-Murder?  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  

TRACY (65), the waitress, a diminutive older woman who looks 
like she hasn’t been excited by something in 20 years 
approaches.  

             TRACY
      Drinks?

             JOE
      I’m alright.  Gentlemen?

Terrance and DeShawn wave her off.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Looks like we’re good on drinks, 
      thanks Tracy.  
        (Joe turns back to the 
         table)
      Didn’t catch the name of your 
      associate here.

             TERRANCE
      That’s DeShawn.  Don’t worry about 
      him.  

             JOE
      Well Mr. Rocamoura, we have some 
      business to discuss and I’d prefer 
      we discuss it in private.  

             TERRANCE
      He’s good.  

             JOE
      Perhaps I’m being unclear.  I’m 
      here to discuss business with you.  
      Which means this gentleman-
        (gesturing to DeShawn)
      Needs to give us a moment.

Terrance slowly draws a gun from his belt and sets it on the 
table.  

             TERRANCE
      He’s good.  

Joe stands.  

                                      21.

             JOE
      Well this isn’t the way I work.  
      Give my best to your uncle.  

             TERRANCE
      Sit your bitch ass the fuck down.  

Joe smiles at him.  He moves to sit down, but in a flash, 
grabs the pistol on the table and pistol whips DeShawn in the 
face, repeatedly.  

DeShawn, caught off guard, tries to draw a gun from his waist 
but Joe grabs him by the wrist, yanks Deshawn’s arm straight 
and smashes the butt of his own gun into DeShawn’s elbow, 
shattering it.  DeShawn’s grip on the pistol loosens, Joe 
pries it from his hand.  He tucks it into the small of his 
back, then, as he sits down, smashes Deshawn’s face into the 
table.  Now sitting, Joe keeps the other gun pointed in 
Terrance’s face.

             JOE
      Excuse your bitch from the table.  
      Tell him to wait outside.  

             TERRANCE
      Wait outside Deshawn.  

Tracy the Waitress shuffles up to the booth.  

             TRACY
      Everything okay here?

             JOE
      Yes, we’re fine, thanks Tracy.  
      I’ll have a diet coke.  

DeShawn gets up and staggers out of the booth.  

             TERRANCE
      Listen I-

Joe puts his finger to his lips.

             JOE
      Shhhhhh.  

Terrance shushes.  Joe regards him in silence for a moment, 
then reaches across the table and slaps Terrance in the face, 
hard.  

                                      22.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      You ever draw on me again I’ll have 
      you and anyone you’ve ever known 
      killed.   Regarding your pal - what 
      was his name?

             TERRANCE
      DeShawn.  

             JOE
      Right.  Don’t bring your idiot 
      friend Deshawn to our meetings.  My 
      business is with you, it’s you your 
      uncle vouched for.  

Terrance rubs his face. 

             TERRANCE
      Alright.  I didn’t mean no 
      disrespect, I-

             JOE
      You didn’t mean any disrespect when 
      you told me to sit my bitch ass 
      down?  Shut up and listen, I’m not 
      done yet.  

             TERRANCE
      Alright.  

             JOE
      I’m not calling you T-Murder, 
      you’re not a fucking rapper, you’re 
      a businessman.  And stop dressing 
      like that, you look like an 
      asshole.  That’s just a personal 
      taste thing.  

Tracy shuffles back with a diet coke, then shuffles off.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Thanks Tracy.

             TERRANCE
      What should I wear?

             JOE
      I don’t give a shit, just stop 
      dressing and acting like you’re 
      about to participate in a drive by 
      shooting.  

             TERRANCE
      Fine, yeah, right.  

                                      23.

             JOE
      Alright.  Let’s start over.  
      Pleasure to meet you Mr. Rocamoura.  
      What questions about my practice do 
      you have?

Terrance rubs his face, takes a sip of water.  Thinks for a 
second.

             TERRANCE
      So, you the money man?

             JOE
      Right now Terrance, I’m retired.  
      You are my hobby.  I’m a fixer; I 
      put people together who should be 
      doing business.  In return, they 
      allow me to run their books, invest 
      their legitimate income, etcetera.  
      So yes, I am a money man.  But I 
      will do many more things for you 
      than simply give you money.  

             TERRANCE
      So how do we get this started?

             JOE
      Tell me about your business.  Who’s 
      your supplier?

             TERRANCE
      Big Richie.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      You know him?

             JOE
      Heard his name around.  He’s a 
      middle man.  I’m going to introduce 
      you to a friend, so you’ll be 
      getting wholesale.  

             TERRANCE
      What about big Richie?

             JOE
      Everyone has a price.  My guess is 
      Big Richie comes pretty cheap.  

             TERRANCE
      Alright.  

Joe nods.

                                      24.

             JOE
      But before we go there, I need to 
      see your books; cash in, cash out, 
      basic accounting.  Understand that 
      I’m investing in you as a person, 
      Mr. Rockamoura.  We’re going to 
      make a lot of money together. 

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - DAY

Cigarette butts in the creases of the couch.  Smelly.  NICK 
and MARK line up two rails of blow on a glass coffee table.  

             MARK
      To freedom!

They snort and come up for air.  

             MARK
	(CONT’D)
      Come here.  

Mark kisses Nick, long and hard.   

             MARK
	(CONT’D)
      Are you happy now?

Nick smiles.

             NICK
      I think so. 

             MARK
      Why do you think so?  You’re 
      freeeeee.  

             NICK
      I am happy.  

             MARK
      Let’s hit one more.

             NICK
      Don’t we have to sell some of this?

             MARK
      Stop worrying!  We’re going to a 
      party tonight.  We’ll sell some 
      there.

INT. MONTAGE HOTEL BALLROOM - NIGHT

An RNC fundraiser.  A who’s who of Southern California 
conservatives.  Joe works the room, glad-handing with the 
best of them.  

                                      25.

             JOE
      Senator!  

A tall GRAY HAIRED SENATOR turns.  

             SENATOR
      Joe O’Hara.  Look at your fucking 
      face.  

The Senator brings him in for a hug.

             SENATOR
	(CONT’D)
      What’s this about you retiring?

             JOE
      Still consulting a little, but 
      yeah.  I’m relaxing.  

             SENATOR
      Working that shitty golf game?

             JOE
      You know it.  

             SENATOR
      Who’s going to do my FEC filings?  

             JOE
      You and I both know a monkey could 
      do your FEC filings.

             SENATOR
      I love you kid.  

ACROSS THE ROOM-

Pastor Hank moves through the crowd, towed along by Christie.  

A stately, good looking Latino man catches Hank’s eye and 
approaches- STATE REPRESENTATIVE ANTONIO MORA (35).  

             REPRESENTATIVE MORA
      Hi there.  Antonio Mora, State 
      Representative for Fullerton 
      district.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Hi there.  Pastor Hank Taggert.  

             REPRESENTATIVE MORA
      I know who you are.  

Rep. Mora smiles.  

                                      26.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CADILLAC ESCALADE - NIGHT

Tension in the car as Christie and Hank are chauffeured home. 

             CHRISTIE
      That was an important event for the 
      church.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I know.  

             CHRISTIE
      And you disappeared for two hours 
      talking to some irrelevant state 
      representative.  

             PASTOR HANK
      He was a smart man.  We had a great 
      conversation. 

             CHRISTIE
      I know what you were doing.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I wasn’t doing anything.  

INT. TAGGERT MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Christie gets ready for bed in a frumpy nightgown.  

             CHRISTIE
      Where are you going?

             PASTOR HANK
      I have a meeting.  

             CHRISTIE
      Do you have to?

             PASTOR HANK
      Yes.  I have to.  

             CHRISTIE
      Fine.  Let’s pray before you go.  

They kneel together next to the bed, looking at a crucifix.  

                                      27.

             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      Jesus help Hank overcome his 
      demons.  Jesus forgive Hank for 
      what he’ll do tonight.  

Silence for a moment.  

             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      Amen.  

Christie stands.  


             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      Did you call the service?

             PASTOR HANK
      There’s a party that I got invited 
      to. 

             CHRISTIE
      Hank, I shouldn’t even be letting 
      you, but if you go you have to use 
      the service.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Alright.  Fine.  I’ll call them on 
      the way.  

INT. WEHO LOFT - NIGHT

A private party in a loft in the heart of West Hollywood.  
Pastor Hank winds his way through- it’s a mix of very young, 
in shape gay men and older, obviously wealthy gay men.  He 
spots REPRESENTATIVE MORA, who greets him with a hug and a 
kiss on the cheek.  

             REPRESENTATIVE MORA
      Have a drink.  We’re all friends 
      here.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. WEHO LOFT - SAME

Nick and Mark thread through the crowd at the loft.  An OLDER 
GAY MAN recognizes Mark, smiles and approaches.  He whispers 
something in Mark’s ear and then palms him some cash.  Nick 
digs in his pocket for a baggie and hands it to the OLDER GAY 
MAN.   

                                      28.

INT. WEHO LOFT, BAR - SAME

Mark and Nick hang at the bar.  Mark points out a man 
standing nearby- PASTOR HANK.  

             MARK
      That guy has been staring at you 
      all night.  

Nick looks at Pastor Hank.  Pastor Hank beckons him over.  
Nick approaches him.  

             NICK
      Do you need anything?

             PASTOR HANK
      How much?

             NICK
      90 a gram.  200 for an eightball.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I’ll take an eight.  

Pastor Hank tucks the money into the front pocket of Nick’s 
jeans.  Nick smiles and tucks a baggie into Pastor Hank’s 
chinos.  

             PASTOR HANK
	(CONT’D)
      Have one with me?

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Joe sits on a chair, untying his black oxfords.  Michelle 
sits in the breakfast nook across from him, a glass of wine 
in front of her.  She wears a bathrobe.  

             JOE
      I had a new client today.  Really 
      smart kid.  A little cocky, but 
      when you get past the bullshit, a 
      really smart, driven kid.  

             MICHELLE
      We should get flowers.  For the 
      front.  

Joe stands and walks to the freezer.  He pulls out a 
microwaveable dinner.

             JOE
      Alright.  What kind?

                                      29.

             MICHELLE
      Snap dragons.  

             JOE
      Hmmm.  Don’t know what those look 
      like.  

             MICHELLE
      They’re Nick’s favorite.  

Joe tosses the dinner in the microwave and starts it.  

             JOE
      Oh?

             MICHELLE
      When you squeeze them at a certain 
      part of the stem, they look like 
      little dragons opening and closing 
      their mouths.  

Joe nods.  

             MICHELLE
	(CONT’D)
      Where is he living right now?

             JOE
      He said somewhere in West 
      Hollywood.  

She says nothing, just stares straight ahead.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      He’s fine Michelle.  The way he’s 
      acting, it’s normal for his age.  

She continues staring into space.  It’s unclear if she’s 
hearing him.

             MICHELLE
      I’m going to bed.  

INT. WEHO LOFT - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Nick and Pastor Hank take turns taking bumps off his key.  

             PASTOR HANK
      This is good shit.  

Nick hands him a card.  

                                      30.

             NICK
      Here.  Now you know how to reach me 
      if you need some more.  

             PASTOR HANK
      What if I want to call you for 
      something else?

Nick smiles and looks down, tries to think of what to say.  

Pastor Hank leans in and tries to kiss him.  

Nick pulls back.  

             NICK
      No - sorry - I’m with someone.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Okay.  Not even for a little 
      spending money?

             NICK
      I don’t really do that.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Alright.  Well here’s my card.  In 
      case you change your mind.  

Pastor Hank walks out of the bathroom.  

INT. CRACK DEN APARTMENT - DAY

Terrance is in a dingy, dirty apartment, filled with used pie 
tins, heat lamps, etc.  It’s a mess.  A DEADBEAT WHITE 
CRACKHEAD cuts coke and boils crack.  Deshawn sits nearby, 
smoking a joint, his arm in a cast and a bandage on his 
forehead.

             TERRANCE
      Yo.  How you doing?

             DESHAWN
      Been better.  

Terrance nods.

             DESHAWN
	(CONT’D)
      We gonna do business with that 
      jack?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  I need to see the books.  

                                      31.

             DESHAWN
      The books?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  The ins and outs.

Deshawn hands him a notebook.

Terrance takes it and starts to flip through it.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      What about this month?  This shit 
      stops in March.

             DESHAWN
      Man I know what comes in.  We cook 
      some, we sell it. Why I gotta keep 
      a book?

Terrance sets the notebook down.  Gestures for the joint.

             TERRANCE
      I don’t know man.  

Terrance takes a hit.  

             DESHAWN
      This jack comes in, thinks he can 
      tell you how to run your business.  
      Fuck him.  

Terrance nods.

INT. MEXICAN RESTAURANT - DAY

Joe walks into a poor lit Mexican Restaurant.  IGNACIO LOPEZ 
(40), going over some paperwork, waves him down from a booth.  

             IGNACIO LOPEZ
      Mr. Country Club retired here.  I 
      like this!  Special occasion.  

Joe sits across from him.

             JOE
      Yeah you know.  I missed the 
      guacamole.  

             IGNACIO LOPEZ
      Hey, fuck you.  I don’t even know 
      we make guacamole here. 

Joe laughs.

                                      32.

             IGNACIO LOPEZ
	(CONT’D)
      So what?  You miss me? 

             JOE
      I have someone I’d like to connect 
      you with.  A new friend.   

             IGNACIO LOPEZ
      Oh?  I like friends.  Where does he 
      work?

             JOE
      He’s been working Inglewood for 
      awhile, but he’s connected in 
      Hawaii.  We’re setting him up there- 
      it will be all his operation.  

             IGNACIO LOPEZ
      Interesting.  

             JOE
      Captive market.  He’ll be moving 
      weight.

             IGNACIO LOPEZ
      I’d like to meet him.  

INT. BILLINGSLEY’S - DAY

Joe sits with Terrance, who now wears jeans and a button down 
shirt.  Still has some style and swagger, but not the 
gangbanger we first met.  

             TERRANCE
      What you think?  New threads.

             JOE
      Yeah it’s good.  

             TERRANCE
      That it?  I look fresh man.  

             JOE
      I’m your business partner not your 
      stylist.

             TERRANCE
      Alright.  That’s cool.

             JOE
      I’m fucking with you, you look 
      good. 

                                      33.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      Here’s a pat on the back for not 
      looking like a dickhead any more.   

Joe pats his back.

             TERRANCE
      Man, fuck.  

             JOE
      I’m kidding around. Lighten up. 

Terrance shrugs him off.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s talk about these books.  
      There hasn’t been an entry in a 
      month.  

             TERRANCE
      Look, I buy the shit, then I cut 
      the shit, then I sell the shit. Who 
      gives a fuck what the numbers are?  

             JOE
      Yeah?  So how do you know people 
      aren’t ripping you off?

             TERRANCE
      Naw.  People that work for me are 
      straight.  I’ve known them from 
      when we was kids, we grew up 
      together.  

             JOE
      Fine.  Let me ask you a question.  
      What kind of car you gonna get once 
      all this shit gets going?  

             TERRANCE
      I don’t know.  A Range Rover.  

             JOE
      So you’re rolling around in a Range 
      Rover.  And your brothers, love you 
      though they may, are looking at you 
      and thinking, why the fuck does 
      this guy have so much more than me?  
      And then they scoop a little bit 
      off the top from you.  And you’re 
      not noticing, because you’re just 
      buying the shit, then selling the 
      shit.  

                                      34.

             TERRANCE
      They wouldn’t do that.  

             JOE
      They can and they will.  To them 
      it’s not ripping you off, it’s just 
      getting what they deserve.  But the 
      real problem is that now, you look 
      weak.  You look like anybody can 
      rip you off.  Somebody starts 
      looking at you thinking, I can do 
      what he does.  And then you get 
      fucking clipped.  All this because 
      everybody loves you, because you 
      like being loved and you hate doing 
      math.  So here’s an accounting 
      workbook.  

Joe pulls an ACCOUNTING WORKBOOK out of his briefcase.  It 
has astronauts on the cover or some such nonsense.  

             TERRANCE
      You giving me homework?

             JOE
      No, I’m not giving you homework.  
      But until you get these books 
      together, I can’t vouch for you.  
      Which means you can’t meet the 
      wholesale connect and your whole 
      operation is going to get killed by 
      razor thin margins.  So get it 
      together, and then let’s talk.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

DeShawn sits on the couch, feet up on the coffee table, arm 
still in a cast.  Terrance sits at a small kitchen table 
nearby, doing work with a calculator and notebook.  Mark 
walks in, Nick at his side.  

             DESHAWN
      Who the fuck is this?

             MARK
      This is Nick, my boyfriend.  

             DESHAWN
      What the fuck you bringing your 
      boyfriend around here for?

             MARK
      He’s helping out.  

             DESHAWN
      Whatever.  You got your envelope?

Mark hands him an envelope.  DeShawn eyeballs it quickly.

                                      35.

             DESHAWN
	(CONT’D)
      This is short.  

             MARK
      We had a tough week.  

             DESHAWN
      A tough week?  You’ve had a couple 
      of those in a row now.

             MARK
      It’s just been tough out there. 

             DESHAWN
      Enough about tough.  This is a 
      problem.  

Nick speaks up.

             NICK
      Look it was really weak this round.  
      What’d you cut it with, exlax?  All 
      our people were complaining about 
      the shits.  

Deshawn eyes him coldly.

             DESHAWN
      Look at this.  Junky white boy fag, 
      regular connoisseur.  Well I’m 
      sorry you feel that way.  What you 
      think T?

Terrance gets up from the table and sits down next to DeShawn 
on the couch.

             TERRANCE
      Look at me mother fucker.  What 
      color is my skin?

             NICK
      Um... black.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  That’s right.  It’s black.  
      Are we in the suburbs?  Is this a 
      dorm room?  No.  I ain’t no fucking 
      wise college boy.  
                                      36.

             TERRANCE
	(CONT'D)
      I am a fucking nigger in the 
      projects selling you cocaine.  You 
      buy and sell this product at my 
      motherfucking pleasure.  You don’t 
      like it, fuck you.  I find out 
      you’re buying somewhere else, I 
      will fucking kill you.  

             MARK
      Listen, sorry guys, he didn’t mean 
      any disrespect.  

Terrance hands Mark a paper bag.  

             TERRANCE
      We going to be generous and cut you 
      a break.  But that envelope better 
      be fat next week.  

Mark grabs the blow, but Terrance doesn’t let go.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      Just remember.  We ain’t in a dorm 
      room.

INT. TATTOO PARLOR - DAY

Nick chats with a heavily tattooed, bearded gay man, CHUCK 
(30).  

             CHUCK
      We’ll probably hit up Eagle.  

             NICK
      I don’t know how you do those 
      places.  

             CHUCK
      I don’t like your pussy gym rat 
      shit.  

             NICK
      I get that, but the leather thing 
      is gross.  How do you clean it?

             CHUCK
      It doesn’t really get dirty.  

             NICK
      It doesn’t get dirty?  Yes it does.  
      It gets dirty if you even set foot 
      in that bar.

Nick hands Chuck a paper bag. 

                                      37.

             CHUCK
      Thanks buddy.  I’m going to need 
      some time to pay you for this.  

             NICK
      I need the money now Chuck.  

             CHUCK
      I don’t have the money now.  

             NICK
      What’d you do with the cash from 
      the last round?  

             CHUCK
      It will be fine, calm down.  

             NICK
      Give me back the fucking blow.  

             CHUCK
      What?

             NICK
      You don’t pay, you don’t get the 
      yay.  

             CHUCK
      I don’t think you understand.  I’m 
      behind, I need this to catch up, 
      I’ll pay you next time.  

             NICK
      There may not be another batch if 
      you don’t fucking pay me today.

             CHUCK
      There better be.  

             NICK
      Excuse me?  You owe me money.  

Chuck stands.  He’s enormous.  

             CHUCK
      You’re excused.  Now get the fuck 
      out of my store.  I’ll see you in a 
      week.  

EXT. VENICE BEACH BOARDWALK - DAY

Shania, Terrance and Javan walk the boardwalk on a crowded 
summer day, finishing off ice cream cones.  Javan holds 
Terrance’s hand.  The sun warms their faces.  

                                      38.

             TERRANCE
      This is nice, right?

             SHANIA
      Yeah, it is nice.  

Terrance pops the last bit of ice cream cone in his mouth.  
Javan continues to lick his.  

They walk past a HAT STORE where MICHAEL JACKSON’S THRILLER 
blares.  

             TERRANCE
      Come on.  It’s time we got you a 
      hat.  

             SHANIA
      What?

             TERRANCE
      Come on now lady.  You need a hat.   

INT. HAT STORE - MOMENTS LATER

Terrance pulls a hat off the rack.  A GAUDY GOLD FEDORA.  He 
hands it to Shania.  

She shakes her head no.  

             TERRANCE
      Oh come on now.  Don’t you think 
      mama would look good in that hat 
      Javan?

             JAVAN
      Yes!  Hat please!  Put on the hat!

Shania rolls her eyes and takes the hat.  She puts it on.  

             TERRANCE
      You look like a movie star.

             JAVAN
      I like that hat!  You’re pretty.  

Shania starts to take off the hat.

                                      39.

             TERRANCE
      Do a dance.  

             SHANIA
      What?  

             TERRANCE
      Dance a little with the hat on.  
      You look good.  I want to see you 
      being all pop star.  

             JAVAN
      Let’s dance!  

Little Javan starts dancing.  So does Terrance.  Terrance 
grabs two more fedoras and puts them on Javan and himself.  
All three of them are dancing to THRILLER.  Javan starts 
singing into his ice cream cone like it’s a microphone.  

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. VENICE BEACH PIER - SUNSET

The sun sets on the beach.  Little Javan sits on a bench with 
his parents, dangling his feet, playing with a little fedora 
on his head.  

             SHANIA
      So we’re celebrating what exactly?  
      You won’t tell me?

             TERRANCE
      I’m starting a new business, in 
      Hawaii, with some of my cousins out 
      there.  It’s a big step for me.  

Shania nods.  

             SHANIA
      Alright then.  

Terrance grabs her hand and holds it.  

             TERRANCE
      It’s gonna be good.  

She lets him hold it for a second. Then she lets go. 

             SHANIA
      I’m happy for you.  

                                      40.

             TERRANCE
      Maybe once I get settled, you and 
      Javan can -

A LOUD, BOISTEROUS VOICE INTERRUPTS THE MOMENT - 

             DESHAWN
      AWWWWW SHIT.  

Deshawn walks up with a few buddies.  He’s a little bit 
drunk, a little bit high, generally jovial.  

Terrance stands immediately and hugs him.  

             DESHAWN
	(CONT’D)
      How we doing tonight?

Shania is reluctant.  She doesn’t stand.  

             DESHAWN
	(CONT’D)
      Shania - come on now, you ain’t 
      gonna say hello?

             SHANIA
      Hi Deshawn.

She stands half-heartedly and hugs him.  

             DESHAWN
      Little man!

Javan stands on the bench, arms up.

             JAVAN
      Uncle Deshawn!  

Deshawn picks him up and hugs him.  

             DESHAWN
      Yo T - you remember Bites, Little J 
      and Derek right?

Deshawn’s three buddies shake Terrance’s hand.  

Deshawn bounces Javan on his hip - 

And as he does, the GUN he has tucked in his waistband gets 
knocked loose and clatters to the sidewalk, then goes off 
with a BANG.

People SCREAM and scatter.  Shania gives Terrance a cold 
look, grabs little Javan and quickly walks away, as Deshawn 
scrambles on the ground for his gun and tucks it back into 
his pants.

                                      41.

INT. PSYCHIATRIST’S OFFICE - DAY

A small, pleasant waiting room.  Nondescript modern art in 
soft colors adorns the walls.  Joe sits, waiting.  He idly 
flips through a magazine, checks his blackberry.  

The door opens.  Michelle emerges.  DR. TRISH (50), a tall, 
wispy, bespectacled woman, is behind her.  

             MICHELLE
        (turning to Dr. Trish)
      Thank you Doctor.  

Dr. Trish waves to Joe.  He stands.  

             JOE
      Can I have a word?

             DR. TRISH
      Is that alright with you Michelle?

             MICHELLE
        (nodding)
      Of course!  Whatever you want Joe.  

Dr. Trish nods.  Joe follows her into the office.  

INT. INNER OFFICE - SAME

Dr. Trish leans against her desk.  Joe stands, hands folded 
behind his back.  

             JOE
      I really appreciate all your help.  

             DR. TRISH
      Of course.  

Silence for a moment.  Joe stares at the ground.  

             JOE
      I’ve been at home a lot these days. 
      I’m retired now you know.

             DR. TRISH
      That’s good. She needs you around.

             JOE
      Any idea why this - the whole 
      breakdown -

Dr. Trish looks at him, quizzically, waiting for him to 
finish.

                                      42.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Why did this happen?

             DR. TRISH
      I don’t know, honestly.  Depression 
      is a tricky thing.  

             JOE
      I didn’t do anything.  

             DR. TRISH
      I’m not saying you did anything 
      wrong.  

             JOE
      I’m just saying -  I think it’s 
      relevant that you know, that I 
      didn’t do anything.  

             DR. TRISH
      I understand.  

             JOE
      I mean no fucking around on my end.  
      I don’t do that shit.  

             DR. TRISH
      I never thought you did.  

             JOE
      I’m sure you get plenty of women 
      whose husbands have been fucking 
      around, and it’s driving them nuts, 
      and the husbands just want the 
      wives on drugs so they shut up.  

             DR. TRISH
      Mr. O’Hara that’s not the sort of 
      thing that happens in this office.  

             JOE
      Right, sorry, sorry... Is there any 
      sort of time table?  For when she 
      gets better?

             DR. TRISH
      The medication, the therapy, it’s 
      all a gradual process.  I wish I 
      could tell you, but it’s not a 
      simple thing.  

                                      43.

             JOE
      I’m asking because Michelle has 
      been different, since she started 
      seeing you.  And not in all good 
      ways. 

             DR. TRISH
      This is painful.  We’re dredging up 
      a lot of -  

             JOE
      Sure.  I understand that.  Listen, 
      I don’t want to sound like I’m not 
      a believer.  Because I am.  I’m a 
      big supporter.

             DR. TRISH
      Support from loved ones is the most 
      important part of getting through 
      something like this.

             JOE
      Look, my wife seems doped up, okay?  
      She walks around like a zombie.  We 
      barely talk.  She sleeps 16 hours a 
      day.  

             DR. TRISH
      If she seems distant, that isn’t 
      necessarily a sign that our 
      sessions aren’t working.  

             JOE
      What the hell is that supposed to 
      mean?

             DR. TRISH
      It means that your wife is going 
      through an important 
      transformation.  She’s getting some 
      perspective.  The end results may 
      not be what you want or hope but-

             JOE
      What the fuck are you talking 
      about?  Did you hear anything I 
      just said?  She sleeps all day.  
      She doesn’t seem distant, she seems 
      fucking asleep.

             DR. TRISH
      I don’t appreciate the way you’re 
      speaking to me and I’d like you to 
      leave.  

                                      44.

Joe walks out the door, slamming it on his way out. 

INT. BILLINGSLEY’S - DAY

Joe and Terrance sit in front of Terrance’s ledger.  The 
columns are neat now, orderly.  

Tracy stands in front of them.

             TRACY
      Anything today guys?

             JOE
      Diet coke please.

             TERRANCE
      I’m good.  

Tracy shuffles off.  

             JOE
      Alright, so you’re saying that you 
      sell an eight for around $60.  

             TERRANCE
      That’s right.  

             JOE
      And when you’re getting it in, 
      you’re cutting it 50%.  

             TERRANCE
      Well, about half the shit we get we 
      cook.  

             JOE
      Right.  But there’s still a pretty 
      big discrepancy here.  You’re 
      making about 20% less than you 
      should be.  

In the BACKGROUND, we see Tracy dragging a small step stool 
over to the rear of the bar, stepping up on it, and grabbing 
some high glasses.  She’s short enough that when she steps 
off the stool she almost disappears behind the bar.

             TERRANCE
      Yeah, I see that. I thought my math 
      was bad. 

             JOE
      No, your math is good.  Who’s 
      managing your supply chain?  
                                      45.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      Who takes it in and puts out your 
      final product?

             TERRANCE
      DeShawn.  

Tracy drops off a diet coke for Joe and walks away.  

             JOE
      And you run the dealers?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.

             JOE
      And the dealers aren’t skimming?

             TERRANCE
      I’m all over their asses.

             JOE
      You know what I’m going to say.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  But he wouldn’t do something 
      like this.

             JOE
      But he is.

             TERRANCE
      But-

             JOE
      The math speaks for itself 
      Terrance.  You’re getting ripped 
      off.

             TERRANCE
      I’ll talk to him.

             JOE
      I don’t think a talk is going to 
      cut it.

             TERRANCE
      He’s my guy.  I want to talk to him 
      first.

EXT. WEST HOLLYWOOD STREET - DAY 

Deshawn and Terrance walk down the street.  

                                      46.

             DESHAWN
      We haven’t been keeping books.  So 
      I guess I don’t really understand 
      what the problem is.

             TERRANCE
      We’re missing money.  That’s the 
      problem.  Books or no books, I know 
      what we get and I know what we 
      sold.  Somewhere between those two 
      numbers, there’s a discrepancy.

             DESHAWN
      Okay.  So what?

             TERRANCE
      So someone’s skimming.  

             DESHAWN
      You sure?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah, I’m sure.  And I gotta put a 
      lid on this.  I go out to Hawaii, 
      I’m a fresh face there, people 
      don’t know me yet.  I can’t look 
      weak.  So you know who could be?

Deshawn is silent.  

             DESHAWN
      One of the dealers maybe?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  Maybe.  Seems unlikely, 
      because I watch their shit.  But 
      maybe my math is wrong.  

             DESHAWN
      I think that fucker Joe is in your 
      head man.  Dude comes in here, he 
      thinks he knows what’s good -

             TERRANCE
      I’m just gonna keep the books 
      straight from now on.  Better to 
      just know, right?

             DESHAWN
      Yeah.  

             TERRANCE
      You ready?  

                                      47.

             DESHAWN
      Let’s do it.

They walk into an apartment building.

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - DAY

Nick walks into his apartment to find Mark at the coffee 
table blowing a rail, while a very young looking GAY DUDE 
(19) and his GIRLFRIEND (19) jump on the couch to BLARING 
MUSIC.  Nick kills the music.  

             NICK
      What are you doing?

             MARK
      Relax Nicky.  

             NICK
      Mark we need that shit to sell.  

             GAY DUDE
      Should we go?

             NICK
      Do you realize how much fucking 
      money we owe those guys now?  How 
      are we going to get it?  

             MARK
      We’ll get it.  Stop worrying.  
      We’ll just cut what we’ve got left.  

Nick opens a tin in the center of the table and starts 
counting out baggies.  

             NICK
      There’s barely anything left.  

Mark says nothing.  Just stares into space.

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      Didn’t you get re-upped yesterday?

             MARK
      We don’t have the money right now, 
      I couldn’t.  I don’t know what they 
      would have done.  We’ll just -

They’re interrupted by a KNOCK at the door. They’re quiet.

                                      48.

             DESHAWN
	(O.S.)
      Hey!  We hear you in there.  Open 
      this fucking door.  

Nick stares at Mark.  

             NICK
      I’ll get it.  

Nick walks to the door and opens it.  

DeShawn and Terrance burst in and shove Nick across the room, 
onto the floor.  The GAY DUDE and his GIRLFRIEND start 
panicking.  

             DESHAWN
      Get the fuck out of here.

They rush out the door.  

Terrance walks over to Mark on the couch and grabs him by the 
hair.  He drags him into the bathroom.  Nick and Deshawn 
follow.  

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

Terrance throws Mark into the bathtub.  DeShawn holds Nick 
back.  

             TERRANCE
      Are you familiar with the concept 
      of accounts receivable, Mark?

             MARK
      What are you talking about?

             TERRANCE
      Answer my question.  Didn’t anybody 
      ever teach you accounting?

             MARK
      No.  

             TERRANCE
      Accounts receivable is the area of 
      my balance sheet where cash for 
      goods or services, in this case, 
      cocaine, is tallied.  

             MARK
      Alright.  Listen, I’m going to get 
      you the cash very soon, I just-

                                      49.

             TERRANCE
      Shut the fuck up.  We have a 
      problem Mark.  See I’m about to 
      turn your account over to our 
      collections agency.  DeShawn, 
      introduce Marky Mark to our 
      collections agency.  

DeShawn pulls out a pistol.  

             MARK
      Listen.  I did not mean for shit to 
      get so fucked up.  

             TERRANCE
      Well shit is fucked up Mark.  Shit 
      is royally fucked up.  And now you 
      have the two of us in your house 
      with a gun wondering, when the fuck 
      am I going to get to close this 
      value in my accounts receivable 
      column?

             NICK
      By the first.  I swear to God.  
      we’ll have it.  

             DESHAWN
      Oh.  Loverboy talks.  Okay.  Well, 
      now Marky Mark’s debt is yours.  
      How you like that?   

             NICK
      Fine, whatever you want.

             TERRANCE
      Open your mouth.  

             NICK
      What?

             TERRANCE
      OPEN YOUR MOUTH.  

Nick opens his mouth.  DeShawn jams the Beretta down his 
throat.

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      You’ll get me the money, or this 
      will be the last thing you ever 
      taste.  Not a cupcake, not your 
      boyfriend’s dick, not nothing but 
      this.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
        (he pulls the gun out of 
         Nick’s mouth, taps him on 
         the cheek with it)
      By the first.  Thanks kiddie. 

                                      50.

Terrance turns and starts to walk out the door.  

Deshawn pauses, then SHOOTS MARK IN THE ARM.  Mark starts to 
scream.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      Shit!  What the fuck was that?

DeShawn tucks the gun in his waistband.  

             DESHAWN
      Had to show him we were serious.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Terrance and DeShawn walk quickly down the hallway.

             TERRANCE
      Dude.  That shit was not necessary.  

             DESHAWN
      I did what I had to do.  

             TERRANCE
      That’s not what we talked about.  

             DESHAWN
      Will you get off my ass?  What do 
      you care?

             TERRANCE
      I care about getting sloppy.  
      That’s what.  

             DESHAWN
      I don’t give a -

             TERRANCE
      Stop.  I’m telling you right now 
      you fucked up.  If that’s a 
      problem, then you and I have a 
      problem, okay?  I can’t have my 
      people shooting off guns, putting 
      slugs in mother fucker’s arms for 
      no reason.  

DeShawn nods.

                                      51.

             DESHAWN
      Fine.  Whatever you want. Boss.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Nick sits next to Mark, in a hospital bed.  Mark is drugged 
up and asleep.  

A nurse comes in.  

             NICK
      Hey - if he wakes up - will you 
      tell him I’ll be right back?

             NURSE
      Of course.  

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Nick sits in his car in the hospital parking garage.  He 
looks over at the seat next to him.  There’s a blood stain 
from where Mark sat.  He starts to cry, pounds the steering 
wheel.  He digs in his pocket and finds a baggie.  Dips a key 
into it and takes a hit.  Shakes his head.  Turns on the car 
and pulls out of the space.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Joe sits at the kitchen table, eating a microwave dinner with 
a beer.  

Nick comes in.  High.  

             NICK
      Hi Dad.  

Joe doesn’t stand, just keeps eating.

             JOE
      You want anything for dinner Nick?

             NICK
      No... no... I’m okay.  I’m not here 
      for long, I can’t really stay, I’ve 
      got to - well -  My friend is 
      really sick.  In the hospital.

             JOE
      I’m sorry about that Nick.  

                                      52.

             NICK
      I need some help.  

             JOE
      What kind of help?

Joe looks up from his dinner at Nick.  Nick averts eye 
contact.

             NICK
      I need some money dad.  

             JOE
      What for?  For your friend’s 
      treatment?

             NICK
      No.  No, not for that.

             JOE
      Pull up a chair.  I’ll microwave 
      you something.  Let’s talk about 
      it.  

Nick shakes his head.  

             NICK
      I just need to know if you’re going 
      to help me.  

             JOE
      You never come by the house any 
      more.  

Nick rubs his nose and sniffs twice.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Nick are you high right now?

             NICK
      No!  No I’m not high.  I’m just.  
      I’m stressed out dad.  I’m really 
      anxious.  

             JOE
      You’re fucking high right now.  
      What do you want Nick?  You want 
      money?  For what?  For drugs?

             NICK
      No.  No Dad.  

                                      53.

             JOE
      What then?  I thought you said you 
      have a job.  

             NICK
      I do have a job.  But I owe some 
      money.  

             JOE
      Nick, you don’t get to disappear 
      for weeks, then show up at the 
      house high, and get money.  That’s 
      not how it works.  

             NICK
      If you can’t give it to me, then 
      fine.  I understand.  I just wanted 
      to come and ask.  

             JOE
      The answer is no.  

             NICK
      Fuck you.  

             JOE
      Excuse me?

             NICK
      I said fuck you.  Everything isn’t 
      just going to be okay just because 
      you’re around now.  Mom isn’t going 
      to just get better.  

             JOE
      I had to earn a living, Nick.  I 
      had to earn money for you to go to 
      college, to be able to do anything 
      that -

             NICK
      Bullshit.  Do you know why she had 
      a mental breakdown?  Do you?  Have 
      you even asked?

             JOE
      People have them all the time, for 
      all kinds of reasons.  She’s 
      getting help now -

             NICK
      Tell yourself that.  She needed you 
      a year ago.  
                                      54.

             NICK
	(CONT'D)
      But you weren’t around, you were 
      off doing I don’t know what, so 
      fuck you -  

Joe stands.

             JOE
      You better stop right there -

             NICK
      Or what?

Nick shoves Joe.  Hard.  Joe is speechless.  

He stares at Nick for a second, and then slaps him, so hard 
Nick hits the floor.  

Nick scrambles up.  

             JOE
      Get the fuck out of here.  Now.  
      And don’t come back until you’re 
      ready to apologize.

Nick rushes out the door.

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - MORNING

Mark is on the couch, arm bandaged, zonked on painkillers.  
Nick brings him a glass of water.  The TV blares in the 
background.  A familiar voice comes on-

             PASTOR HANK
	(O.S.)
        (on the television)
      With this DVD, you’ll have the very 
      best of our sermons, whenever you 
      need them.  When moments of 
      weakness or temptation come to you, 
      you’ll have them there- ready to 
      reassure you that God loves you.   

Nick watches, dumbstruck.   

INT. RUN DOWN DINER - DAY

Joe and Terrance walk into a run down Chinese restaurant.  
Basically empty at lunch time.  A thin but intense looking 
Chinese man, PAI (28), walks up to them.  Terrance opens his 
arms wide and gives him a big hug.  

                                      55.

             TERRANCE
      Yo Joe, this is Pai.  He’s my guy 
      here.

Joe shakes his hand.

             JOE
      Pleasure.  

             TERRANCE
      We grab a table?

             PAI
      Anywhere you want bro.

Pai heads to the back of the restaurant.  Terrance and Joe 
walk to a table.  

Joe looks around.  

             JOE
      This is good.  Public, but still 
      private. What’s up with Pai?

             TERRANCE
      Solid dude.  Family owns the place.  
      He runs some shit for me now and 
      then.  

             JOE
      He can handle a piece?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  He on it.

             JOE
      And he’s hard?

             TERRANCE
      Ice.  I know what you thinking, but 
      these Chinese are a lot fucking 
      hard.

             JOE
      No doubting, just want to be sure.

Joe looks around.  He points to a booth behind them, towards 
the back.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      So we should be sitting there when 
      the meet happens.  Facing the door.  

Terrance nods.  

Joe ducks under the table and looks underneath the booth 
they’re sitting in.  

He straightens up.  

                                      56.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      You come in the day before with a 
      razor.  Cut a whole in the bottom 
      of the booth, put a piece in there.  
      Nothing big or crazy, just 
      something that’s enough.  A 9, no 
      bigger.  We sit, facing the door.  

             TERRANCE
      Word.  

             JOE
      And you give Pai a piece, tell him 
      to be cool, we don’t want him to 
      use it.  Something small, keep back 
      there.  If trouble happens, he’s 
      your ace in the hole.  

Terrance nods.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Now, Big Richie comes in, with his 
      people.  DeShawn is here with us.  
      DeShawn frisks Big Richie, his 
      people frisk us.  Then the goons 
      wait outside while we do business 
      in here.  

             TERRANCE
      What do we do if he don’t take the 
      money?

             JOE
      You’re nervous.

             TERRANCE
      Naw man, not nervous.

             JOE
      You don’t need to be worried about 
      Big Richie.

             TERRANCE
      I’m just saying man.  This guy got 
      a reputation.

             JOE
      Relax Terrance.  This is the fun 
      part.  

                                      57.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      This is the shit I’ve been looking 
      forward to, I haven’t gotten to do 
      this in years.  We’re about to tell 
      a major drug dealer to shove it.  
      That shit is fun.  I hope the money 
      doesn’t work, because then I get to 
      talk to him, and I want to talk to 
      him.  

INT.  DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - DAY

Nick sifts through his duffel bag.  Pulls out a small video 
camera.  

                                  CUT TO:

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - BEDROOM - LATER

Nick sets a shoe box on the dresser across from the bed.  A 
hole is cut in one end of it.  He sets a video camera in the 
box and tinkers with it.  

INT. DINING ROOM - TAGGERT RESIDENCE - DAY

Pastor Hank sits across from Christie at dinner with their 
two children, SARAH (5) and TEDDY (8).

             PASTOR HANK
      I have a meeting with someone.  
      I’ll be back late.

             CHRISTIE
      You just had a meeting.  You don’t 
      need another one.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Don’t tell me what to do.  

             CHRISTIE
      Kids go upstairs.  

Sarah and Teddy leave the table, used to this routine.  After 
they leave-

             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      Stop being a baby.

             PASTOR HANK
      I’m not.  

                                      58.

             CHRISTIE
      Stop this Hank.  Stop acting like a 
      baby.  

             PASTOR HANK
      It’s my church Christie.  

             CHRISTIE
      It’s not your church.  It’s our 
      church.  We made it.  Before me you 
      were preaching in an old big box 
      store at strip mall.  You’re 
      nothing without me, and you need to 
      stay here and stop putting 
      everything at risk because you 
      can’t control yourself.  So just 
      shut up.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I hate you.

             CHRISTIE
      Fine, hate me.  But you go to the 
      office and you relax there.  

Pastor Hank gets up.  

INT. PASTOR HANK’S HOME OFFICE - NIGHT

Pastor Hank moves around a cramped “home office”, setting a 
box of tissues and moisturizer next to an arm chair, then 
grabs a laptop and sits down in the arm chair.  He opens the 
laptop and starts looking through his hard drive, all porn.  
Nothing is grabbing his attention.  

His phone goes off.  Text message.  He picks up the phone and 
reads it.  He closes the computer, gets up, and walks out of 
the room.  

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - NIGHT

Nick double checks the camera in the box.  Turns it on.  
Piles a few books on top of it.  

Nick tidies up the living room.  He empties the ash tray.  He 
sits down on the couch and pulls out a crack pipe.  He takes 
a long hit.  

A knock sounds at the door.  He opens it.  Pastor Hank stands 
in the hallway.  

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - NIGHT

Hank and Nick sit up in bed together, naked, after the fact.  
Nick takes a long pull on a crack pipe. They’re both high as 
hell.

                                      59.

             PASTOR HANK
      That was nice.  Right?  

             NICK
      Yeah.  It was.

             PASTOR HANK
      Are we sinning right now?  I don’t 
      know what this is.  I don’t think 
      it’s a sin to feel happy.  Pass me 
      the pipe.  I want the pipe now.  
      God gave us this pipe and this 
      stuff.  

             NICK
      God gave us cocaine and crack 
      pipes?

             PASTOR HANK
      Fine sure.  But it’s allowing us to 
      experience each other and 
      experience happiness.  There’s 
      nothing wrong with that.  We will 
      suffer too, but it is okay now.  

             NICK
      Whatever you say.  

Nick packs up the pipe.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I thought that I had a calling and 
      I don’t know what it is anymore.  

             NICK
      What was your calling?  

He holds out the pipe to Pastor Hank.

             PASTOR HANK
      I don’t know.  Nevermind.  I need 
      to go home.  

             NICK
      Can I have some money?  For 
      groceries?

Pastor Hank pulls out a wad of hundreds and peels off five.  

                                      60.

             PASTOR HANK
      Here.  

             NICK
      My groceries cost more money than 
      this. 

             PASTOR HANK
      Well take that now, and I’ll give 
      you more next time I see you.  

             NICK
      I need more money now.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I’ll see you again soon.  Don’t 
      worry.  

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - MORNING

The Chinese restaurant is empty.  Pai stands behind the 
counter, pretending to work.

DeShawn is patting down BIG RICHIE (35), who is, in fact, 
big, and one of his cohorts, MIKEY J.  

Two of Big Richie’s goons pat down Terrance and Joe.  

The goons and DeShawn excuse themselves.  Big Richie, Mikey 
J, Terrance and Joe sit down in the booth.  

Terrance glances to Joe, who nods.  

             TERRANCE
      Asked you to come here out of 
      respect for you, for your business, 
      and the business relationship we’ve 
      had all these years.  

Big Richie nods.

Terrance produces an envelope and slides it across the table.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      That’s $50 large.  I’m offering it 
      to you as a gesture of respect.  
      I’m shifting my operation out of 
      LA, and I’m not going to be in on 
      your package any longer.  

Big Richie nods.  

                                      61.

             BIG RICHIE
      I appreciate your gesture.  But... 
      I think I let you off too easy I 
      take this.  I heard about this new 
      game you got going in Hawaii.  And 
      if I ain’t a part of it on the 
      supply side, then I need some 
      points on your operation.  For 
      general peace keeping purposes.

             TERRANCE
      No man.  It’s the cash that I gave 
      you, that’s what you get.  Not 
      trying to negotiate here.  

             BIG RICHIE
      I need five points or your shit, 
      your people’s shit, it ain’t going 
      to be safe.  And that’s the story 
      brother.  

Big Richie starts to get up and walk out with Mikey J.  
Terrance looks to Joe - what the fuck now?

             JOE
      That’s not the deal Rich.  

Big Richie turns back to the table.

             BIG RICHIE
      Who’s your whitey friend here?

             JOE
      You don’t need to know my name, 
      friend.  All you need to know, is 
      the money on the table is the deal, 
      and if you don’t take it, there’s 
      not going to be another one.  

             BIG RICHIE
      You know what war looks like big 
      guy?

             JOE
      The people I work with, Rich, 
      they’re at the top of the food 
      chain.  And by the food chain I 
      mean they eat everything underneath 
      them.  Everything.  Except eat 
      isn’t really the right metaphor 
      because the people that I deal 
      with, it’s not like they’re 
      cannibals.  
                                      62.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      What they do do is chop you up and 
      stuff you into a barrel  filled 
      with acid, but in your case, being 
      as you’re Big Richie and all, they 
      might need two barrels.  Either 
      way, when someone finds you, 
      putting your remains in an urn 
      won’t even be a fucking option.  
      They’ll need a ladle and a bucket 
      to scoop your shit out.

             BIG RICHIE
      That’s cute.  But nobody steps to 
      me in LA.

             JOE
      You get your product from Bobby 
      Lomax in Watts.  

Big Richie stops.  He’s intrigued now.  

             BIG RICHIE
      What you know about that?

             JOE
      What I know is that you get it from 
      Bobby Lomax, who has a deal with 
      Giancarlo Plati.  Carlo gets it 
      from the Gulf Cartel.  If you don’t 
      know them, google them, you’ll see 
      a lot of pictures of heads on 
      spikes.  The Gulf Cartel guys, 
      they’re clients of mine.  Which 
      makes you middle management.  And 
      if you’re middle management and 
      you’re a problem, well then Rich, 
      you’re the first to go.  So think 
      on that.  Run those names past your 
      boy Lomax.  See if they ring a 
      bell.  But while you think on it, 
      why don’t you keep the money.  As a 
      sign of good faith, so I don’t have 
      to tell my guys that you offended 
      me.  

Big Richie doesn’t know what to think.  But he picks up the 
money anyway, and walks out without a word. 

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - DAY

Joe marches up the stairs, and finds Michelle laying in bed, 
half asleep.  

                                      63.

             JOE
      Hey honey.

Michelle is barely audible.  

             MICHELLE
      Hi Joe.

             JOE
      Had a good day today.  Let’s go sit 
      out by the pool.  I’ll make us a 
      margarita.  

             MICHELLE
      Where’s Nick?

             JOE
      Nick moved out, remember?

             MICHELLE
      I know Nick moved out but he never 
      comes by.  

             JOE
      I know honey.  I think he’s just 
      figuring out life right now.  

             MICHELLE
      I want to see him.  Tell him to 
      come by the house.

             JOE
      He came by a week ago.  

             MICHELLE
      Why didn’t I see him?

             JOE
      He just wanted money.

             MICHELLE
      Did you give it to him?

             JOE
      No I didn’t.  He’s gotta learn -

Michelle sits up in bed suddenly.

             MICHELLE
      He’s our son.  If he needs 
      something you give it to him.  

             JOE
      Michelle -

                                      64.

             MICHELLE
      Stop it Joe.  You give it to him.  
      If he needs something you give it 
      to him because he’s all we’ve got.  

She starts to cry.  

Joe comes over to the bed and puts his arms around her.  

             JOE
      I’m sorry.

             MICHELLE
      He’s all we’ve got Joe.  He’s our 
      family.  And I want to see him.

             JOE
      Alright Michelle.  Alright.

INT.  TAGGERT HOME - FRONT HALL - DAY

Pastor Hank opens the front door to find mail on the ground.  
There’s an envelope - about the size of a DVD.  It has his 
name on it.  

INT. HANK TAGGERT’S HOME OFFICE - DAY

Hank sits in his easy chair.  He opens the envelope.  A DVD 
is inside.  Written on it in permanent marker “$10 GRAND OR I 
WILL POST THIS FOR EVERYONE TO SEE.”  

He stares at the DVD.

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - HALLWAY - DAY

Joe stands outside Nick’s door, knocking.  Nick doesn’t 
answer.  Joe keeps knocking.  

Finally, Nick opens the door.  

He sees Joe, and registers surprise.  He says nothing.

             JOE
      You going to let me in?

Nick takes a step back from the door and leaves it ajar.  

INT. HANK TAGGERT’S HOME OFFICE - LATER

Pastor Hank is sitting at his desk, head in his hands, 
crying.  The laptop sits in front of him.  The DVD is out on 
the desk.  

                                      65.

             CHRISTIE
      Why are you crying?

             PASTOR HANK
      He wants money.  

             CHRISTIE
      What?

             PASTOR HANK
      Someone has a video.

             CHRISTIE
      What’s on the video?

             PASTOR HANK
      It’s the two of us.  

Christie nods.  She walks behind Pastor Hank and puts her 
hands on his shoulders, softly.  

             CHRISTIE
      I want to see it.  Show it to me.  

             PASTOR HANK
      No. 

             CHRISTIE
      Put it on Hank.  I want to know 
      what you’ve gotten yourself into.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Please don’t do this - I - I’m 
      sorry, I didn’t...

             CHRISTIE
      Put it on.  

Pastor Hank complies, sliding the DVD into the computer.  

Christie watches it, her face stone.  

             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      Why isn’t there any volume?

             PASTOR HANK
      You want to hear?

                                      66.

             CHRISTIE
      Well yes, Hank.  I want to hear how 
      bad it is.  I can see, but I want 
      to hear.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Fuck you.  I hate you.

             CHRISTIE
      Don’t say that to me.  This is your 
      fault.  Now turn on the volume you 
      baby.  

Hank turns on the volume on the computer speakers, low.  
Hank’s soft moaning can be heard.  

             CHRISTIE
	(CONT’D)
      Oh Hank.  What did you do?

             PASTOR HANK
      I’m sorry.  

             CHRISTIE
      How did you let him do that to you?  

             PASTOR HANK
      I wanted it.  

             CHRISTIE
      It’s disgusting, the person you 
      are.  I pray for you Hank.  

Hank really starts bawling.  

             PASTOR HANK
      You were so right.  I don’t know 
      why I didn’t listen to you.  You 
      were right.  

Christie touches Hank’s cheek.  

             CHRISTIE
      You were wrong.  What are we going 
      to do with you?

             PASTOR HANK
      I don’t know.  I was wrong.  

Hank hugs her.  Christie pats his head softly.  

             CHRISTIE
      It’s all going to be okay.  Talk to 
      Joe.   

                                      67.

             PASTOR HANK
      What’s Joe going to do?

             CHRISTIE
      He’ll help us figure it out.  But 
      you go talk to him now.  

INT. DUMPY WEHO APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Joe walks into Nick’s apartment.  It’s gotten more 
disgusting.  

A crack pipe is on the coffee table.  Mark lays nearby, 
stoned out of his mind.  

Nick plops down on the couch and cracks open a beer.  He 
looks like hell.  

             JOE
      You okay Nick?

             NICK
      I’m fine.

             JOE
      How much money you need?

             NICK
      I don’t need any money any more.  

             JOE
      Nick I’ll give you the money, but 
      you gotta come back home.  

             NICK
      I’m fine Dad.  

             JOE
      It’s okay to not be fine, you know?  
      Just cause you’re 19, you don’t 
      have to have the whole fucking 
      world figured out.

             NICK
      Okay.  

             JOE
      I’m just saying.  When I was your 
      age, I wasn’t doing so good.  But I 
      worked it out, and you’ll work it 
      out.  And I’m here for you.

                                      68.

             NICK
      Are you?

             JOE
      Well yeah, I’m here, aren’t I?

             NICK
      I guess so.  

             JOE
      Nick I’m trying here.  

             NICK
      I think you should go.

             JOE
      I think maybe we should get you 
      some help.

             NICK
      I don’t want any fucking help.

             JOE
      I’m not here to fight with you 
      Nicky.

             NICK
      Then get the fuck out, okay?  Get 
      the fuck out.  You’re here because 
      you feel guilty, you feel guilty 
      that I’m a fuck up, that mom’s a 
      fuck up, that we’re all fucked up, 
      but feeling guilty isn’t the same 
      thing as caring.  It’s not.  

Joe’s phone goes off.

Joe ignores it.

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      You can pick it up.  

             JOE
      I’m good.  

             NICK
      Well I’m not leaving.

             JOE
      Come with me.

             NICK
      No.  

                                      69.

A stand off.  Silence but for the buzzing of Joe’s phone.   

             JOE
      You know what?  Fine.  If you need 
      us you know where to call.  

Joe answers the phone as he walks out the door.

INT. CHURCH OFFICE - DAY

Joe sits.  Pastor Hank paces, coked out of his gourd.   

             PASTOR HANK
      Do you want to see it?

             JOE
      No, I don’t need to see it.  Who is 
      he?

             PASTOR HANK
      Just someone I met at a party.  I’m 
      sorry Joe.  I’m so fucking sorry.  

             JOE
      Hank.  Do you really think that I 
      didn’t suspect you were into 
      something like this?

             PASTOR HANK
      What?

             JOE
      It’s fine.  I don’t care where you 
      stick your dick.  I’m just happy 
      that he’s not 13.  Not that it 
      would be a problem.  It wouldn’t.  
      But it makes it a little easier to 
      deal with it.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I am not gay.  

             JOE
      Alright Hank.  I get it.  Straight 
      as an arrow.  

Pastor Hank has a line of coke tee’d up on his desk, and 
blows it, then continues pacing around the room. 

             PASTOR HANK
      I am not gay.  I made a mistake, I 
      was misled.  And now someone is 
      exploiting me.  

                                      70.

             JOE
      Calm down.  You’re not listening to 
      me.  I can take care of this for 
      you.  

Pastor Hank abruptly sits back down behind his desk and puts 
his head in his hands.   

             PASTOR HANK
      How?

             JOE
      Hank, say you wanted a glass of 
      lemonade.  

             PASTOR HANK
      What are you talking about?

             JOE
      Listen, this metaphor is limited, 
      but just go along with me for a 
      second.

             PASTOR HANK
      Okay.

             JOE
      I have another client that happens 
      to make a very good glass of 
      lemonade.  It’s really no trouble 
      for me to ask him to whip up a 
      glass for you.  

             PASTOR HANK
      So what you’re saying is-

             JOE
      This lemonade will wash out your 
      problem.   

             PASTOR HANK
      What will it cost me?

             JOE
      No cost.  We did a lot of business 
      together, and this is a sort of 
      ancillary perk of being one of my 
      clients.  A glass of lemonade now 
      and then when you need it.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Can I think about it?

                                      71.

             JOE
      We need to act now Hank.  We can’t 
      wait on this.  

Hank paces around the room, rubbing his face.

             PASTOR HANK
      Okay.  What’s the plan?  

EXT. COFFEE SHOP PATIO - DAY

Pastor Hank sits with Nick in a bustling outdoor patio. 

             NICK
      That’s not the deal.

             PASTOR HANK
      If I’m going to pay you that much, 
      I should get something.  I want to 
      make a trip of it.  I’ll pay you 
      extra, and we can spend the week 
      together.  

             NICK
      Why Hawaii?

             PASTOR HANK
      I have a lot of money in offshore 
      accounts - the Philippines, 
      Thailand.  I have someone 
      withdrawing the cash there where it 
      won’t raise any eyebrows.  

             NICK
      If we’re going to Hawaii to get it, 
      that’s going to cost a lot more.

             PASTOR HANK
      Sure, of course.  It’s whatever you 
      want.  

             NICK
      Alright.

INT. BILLINGSLEY’S - DAY

Joe and Terrance sit in their usual spot.  

             TERRANCE
      It’s 2k to each TSA dude.  

                                      72.

             JOE
      And you need all of them?

             TERRANCE
      I gotta buy a whole shift.  

             JOE
      What’s the connect?

             TERRANCE
      DeShawn’s cousin.

             JOE
      DeShawn!  How’s that guy doing?

             TERRANCE
      He’s good.  

             JOE
      Should we bring him over?  I’d like 
      to hear him break it down.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah I think that’d be good.  I 
      want to bring him in on more stuff.  
      He’s outside.

Terrance gets up and walks outside, comes back a moment later 
with DeShawn.

             JOE
      Have a seat my man.

DeShawn just stares at him.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Don’t take business personally.  I 
      want to hear about this TSA 
      connect.  

DeShawn sits.  And he starts acting fidgety.  A little bit 
nervous.  

             DESHAWN
      Nothing to know.  Just my cousin is 
      all.  

As Joe talks, DeShawn looks over his shoulder.  There’s 
definitely something weird about him.  

             JOE
      That’s cool.  Can we boil them down 
      a little bit on this $2k a pop?  
             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      What if we give your cousin $3k, 
      and he convinces the rest of the 
      crew to take 1k?  That’s pretty 
      generous.  

                                      73.

DeShawn shrugs.  He looks over his shoulder again.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Can you tell DeShawn here to chill 
      the fuck out?  I’m not going to...

Joe trails off - because he sees BIG RICHIE, QUICKLY STRIDING 
INTO BILLINGSLEY’S, TWO GOONS BEHIND HIM, HANDS HELD LOW AT 
THEIR SIDES LIKE THEY’RE HIDING SOMETHING-

WHICH BECOMES OBVIOUS WHEN THEY LIFT THEIR ARMS AND START TO 
UNLOAD AT JOE, TERRANCE AND DESHAWN.  

DeShawn ducks down and tries to run to the back of the 
restaurant, but he catches a slug in the thigh.  He falls to 
the ground and pulls himself to the booth behind Joe and 
Terrance.  Joe and Terrance are on the floor.  

Joe reaches under the booth he was sitting on to find a GLOCK 
TAPED TO THE UNDERSIDE.  

Bullets continue shredding the bar.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Keep your head down and roll up 
      onto the seat behind you.  

Terrance gives him a quizzical look.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Right fucking now!

Terrance climbs onto the seat and we instantly see, from 
JOE’S POV, all the booths have about 6 INCHES OF SPACE 
BETWEEN THEM AND THE FLOOR - 

AND JOE, STILL LAYING ON THE FLOOR, SIGHTS THE THREE SETS OF 
FEET WALKING TOWARDS THEM.  

AND HE FUCKING UNLOADS ON THOSE FEET.  

DROPPING BIG RICHIE AND HIS TWO GOONS TO THE GROUND.  

TRACY THE WAITRESS, DECREPIT AS SHE IS, STEPS UP ON HER STEP 
STOOL BEHIND THE BAR WITH A SHOT GUN, AT THE PERFECT ANGLE, 
AND PUMPS 10 ROUNDS OF SHOT INTO THEIR NOW PRONE BODIES.  

She runs out of shells and ducks behind the bar.  

Joe stands up, walks over and puts a bullet in each of their 
heads, just to be safe.

Terrance edges up in his seat.  

                                      74.

             TRACY
      You guys all right?

             JOE
      Yeah Trace.  We’re good.  

Terrance looks bewildered.  He peaks out of the booth at 
Tracy, who surveys the bodies from her perch on the step 
stool.  

             TERRANCE
      Jesus.  

             JOE
      Tracy’s my ace in the hole.  

Tracy looks over at him and winks.  

Terrance gets out of the booth and walks over to the bodies.  
He stands over them, staring.  

             TERRANCE
      Fuck.  

He turns around to see Joe dragging DeShawn out of the booth.  

DeShawn starts to struggle and Joe PUNCHES HIM DIRECTLY IN 
THE HOLE IN HIS FUCKING LEG.  He screams and squirms, and Joe 
pulls the gun out of DeShawn’s waistband.  Tracy stands on 
top of the bar now, her gun trained on DeShawn.  

             JOE
      Up to you now Terrance.

             TERRANCE
      What the fuck are you doing?

             JOE
      This was a set up.  Your pal wasn’t 
      supposed to be in here.  

             TERRANCE
      No.

             JOE
      Nobody knows I come here Terrance, 
      nobody but people I trust.  

                                      75.

             DESHAWN
      Man fuck him!  Who you gonna 
      believe?  

Terrance is quiet.  It’s starting to make sense to him.  

             JOE
      I think you need to let him go 
      Terrance. 

Terrance walks up to DeShawn, who starts to cry.  

             DESHAWN
      Dude I didn’t.   I swear to God.

             TERRANCE
      I woulda given you LA if you wanted 
      it.  

             DESHAWN
      I’m sorry man.  I’m sorry.  I 
      shouldn’t have done it, he told me 
      I had to.  It was Big Richie man.  
      He told me he’d kill me if I didn’t-

Terrance touches his shoulder.  

             TERRANCE
      It’s alright man.  

DeShawn keeps shaking his head.  

             DESHAWN
      Don’t do me man.  Don’t.

             TERRANCE
      Open your mouth.  

             DESHAWN
      I’m sorry man.  I’m so sorry.

             TERRANCE
      It’s okay.  But you gotta open your 
      mouth.  

DeShawn shakes his head.  Terrance is getting more and more 
upset.

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      I gotta do you.  Open your mouth 
      man.  

Terrance starts to tear up.

                                      76.

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      I gotta fucking do you.  So open 
      your mouth so I don’t have to mess 
      up your face.  

DeShawn opens his mouth.  Terrance puts his gun in it.  Tears 
are streaming down both their faces now.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry.

And he pulls the trigger.  And his brains spray the booth 
behind him, and his eyes go blank.  

Terrance stands.  Joe puts his arm on his shoulder.  

             JOE
      I’m sorry.  You did the right 
      thing.

Terrance shrugs him off.  

             TERRANCE
      Had to get done.   

INT. CONDO - DAY

Terrance knocks at the door to Shania’s condo.  

She answers.  

             SHANIA
      What do you want?

             TERRANCE
      Just wanted to say hi to little 
      Javan.  Wanted to talk to you.  
      Some shit’s been happening and, I 
      don’t know, just wanted to see you 
      two.   

             SHANIA
      Little Javan is out.  

             TERRANCE
      Where’s he at?

             SHANIA
      His grandmother’s house.  

             TERRANCE
      I don’t like that woman, I don’t 
      like him spending time over there.  

                                      77.

             SHANIA
      Well he’s there.  So not a lot we 
      can do about it now, huh?

             TERRANCE
      Why is he over there while you’re 
      in town?

             SHANIA
      I wanted a night to myself.  

             TERRANCE
      Can I come in?

             SHANIA
      No.  

             TERRANCE
      Why?  I just wanna-

             SHANIA
      You need to call before you come 
      over.  

             TERRANCE
      I did call.  I called a whole lot, 
      you never picked up.  

             SHANIA
      Fine, but you can’t just show up. 

             TERRANCE
      So you’re not letting me in.  

             OTHER MAN
	(O.S.)
      Shania, everything okay?

             TERRANCE
      Who the fuck is that?

             SHANIA
      None of your business.  

             TERRANCE
      It’s a whole lot of my business.  

             SHANIA
      We’re not together anymore 
      Terrance.  I’m allowed to have a 
      life.  

Terrance shoves the door open and walks in.  

                                      78.

INT. CONDO - SAME

Shania backs away.  A well dressed, professional looking 
African American CARL (28) stands in the living room, trying 
to look menacing.  Terrance barges in, heads straight for 
him.  Carl doesn’t back down.

             TERRANCE
      What the fuck are you doing in my 
      girl’s apartment?

             CARL
      Is this Terrance?

             TERRANCE
      Yeah motherfucker.  This is 
      Terrance.  Who the fuck are you?

             CARL
      I’m Carl.

             TERRANCE
      Carl?  Shania are you fucking 
      seriously going with some dude 
      named Carl?  Who looks like this?  

             SHANIA
      Terrance calm down.  I think you 
      should go.  

             TERRANCE
      Tell me right now.  Are you fucking 
      this clown?

             CARL
      Excuse me?

             TERRANCE
      I wasn’t talking to you.  

             CARL
      You better leave.  

             TERRANCE
      Fuck you. 
        (to Shania)
      Look I’m sorry about the way things 
      went the last time -

             CARL
      Maybe you didn’t hear me.  

Terrance draws his gun and sticks it in Carl’s face.  

                                      79.

             TERRANCE
      No.  I didn’t fucking hear you.  
      What did you say?  Tell me again.  

             CARL
      Whoa.  Calm down man.  

             SHANIA
      Terrance what are you doing?  You 
      think you’re getting me back by 
      pulling a gun?

Terrance shakes his head and walks out the door.  

INT. MASTRO’S STEAKHOUSE - NIGHT

An upscale steakhouse.  Harry Anderson and Joe dig into big 
cuts of beef.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      You haven’t been grilling me 
      tonight.  You’re calm.  Dare I say, 
      happy.

             JOE
      I took your suggestion.  Picked up 
      a hobby.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Really?  And what’s that?

             JOE
      Mentoring someone in the business.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      That’s great, that you’re giving 
      back to the community. 

             JOE
      It’s funny.  Had a crazy day today 
      with him.  Kind of... had to break 
      off a partnership that he had.  I 
      worked him through it, but the 
      partner, he wasn’t happy.  He made 
      some threats, but we won the day.  
      We stomped that guy out.  I mean it 
      was stressful.  My heart was 
      pounding out of my chest.  But It 
      was also great.  I loved every 
      second of it.  

                                      80.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Coffee is for closers.  You never 
      forget that feeling.

             JOE
      You have no idea.  What I realize 
      is that I really miss getting my 
      hands dirty you know?  Getting down 
      in the grime, teaching someone the 
      ropes.  The good and the bad of it 
      all, it’s just good to be in the 
      mix.  

Harry has no idea what Joe is saying, but he nods and smiles 
anyway.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Well cheers to your new hobby.    

Joe and Harry raise a glass.

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - NIGHT

Nick slowly creeps into the house.  Nobody appears to be 
home.  He heaves a sigh of relief and heads up the stairs.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - SAME

Nick pokes his head into his parents’ room. Michelle is in 
bed.   

             NICK
      Mom?

             MICHELLE
      Is that you Nicky?

             NICK
      Yeah.  It’s me.  

             MICHELLE
      Come in.  Come in baby.  

Nick walks in the room.  He sits on the floor next to his 
mother.  

Nick starts to cry.  

             NICK
      I fucked up real bad mom.  

                                      81.

             MICHELLE
      It’s okay Nicky. 

             NICK
      I have to do something bad to fix 
      it.  

             MICHELLE
      Nicky, we’re going to get some snap 
      dragons for the front yard for you.  
      You love snap dragons.  When you 
      were a little kid, you used to pick 
      the snap dragons and then play with 
      them with your GI Joes, like they 
      were monsters.  Do you remember 
      that Nicky? 

             NICK
      When I come back, I’m going to help 
      you mom.  

             MICHELLE
      You were always ripping up the snap 
      dragons in the end because the GI 
      Joes had to win.  You remember that 
      Nicky?  

             NICK
      I remember it.  

             MICHELLE
      And we used to get so mad at you 
      because there were never any snap 
      dragons in the garden after a week.  
      But we loved you Nicky.  I love 
      you, your father loves you.  We 
      love you.  You can rip up all the 
      snap dragons you want.  

             NICK
      Alright mom.  I’m sorry.  

             MICHELLE
      It’s okay Nicky.  We’re very proud 
      of you.  You’re a good boy.  

             NICK
      Okay mom.  Bye.  

EXT. GOLF COURSE - DAY

Terrance lines up a shot on the tee.  He uses NICK’S GOLF 
CLUBS.  Smacks the ball.  Joe watches it sail right hard.  

                                      82.

             TERRANCE
      Mother fucker.  

             JOE
      Lighten up, everybody has a little 
      bit of a slice when they first 
      start.  Your back swing is too big.  
      You’re swinging for the fences, and 
      not focusing on being smooth.  

Joe sets out another ball.  Terrance takes another swing.  
Better.  Joe nods.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Good work.  

Terrance nods, he sets down another ball.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      You okay with everything that 
      happened yesterday?  

             TERRANCE
      I’m cool.  Really, I am.  

             JOE
      Drop the tough guy thing for a 
      second.  I’ve gotten to know you 
      past couple months.  You’re smart.  
      You’re a good kid.  I’ve got a lot 
      of love for you.  And I know that 
      shit wasn’t easy, but it was 
      necessary.  You’re doing real well 
      and I’m proud of you.

Terrance nods.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  It’s tough right now because 
      my girl, she doesn’t want me seeing  
      my kid.  

             JOE
      Family is a tough thing.  Nobody 
      says this, but you have to neglect 
      them sometimes to get where you 
      want, to take the next step.  But 
      then when you get there, when you 
      get on top, you just work at 
      getting them back.  And they’ll 
      come back around, you don’t have to 
      worry about that.  They’ll see the 
      hard work, and the sacrifice, and 
      they’ll appreciate it.  
                                      83.

             JOE
	(CONT'D)
      Right now, they don’t understand 
      because they can’t see it.  Just 
      focus on the work.  Don’t let the 
      other noise get in your head.  The 
      personal shit, it works itself out 
      in the end.  

Terrance nods.  

             TERRANCE
      Word.  Eyes on the prize for now.  

             JOE
      I’m proud of you.  I really am.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Joe packs his bags as Michelle lays in bed.  

             MICHELLE
      Nicky was here.  

             JOE
      Oh?

             MICHELLE
      He was upset about something.  

             JOE
      I know.  

             MICHELLE
      Can’t you help him Joe?

             JOE
      I tried.  He doesn’t want my help.  

             MICHELLE
      Maybe you should call him.

             JOE
      I’m not calling him.  He can 
      apologize.  

             MICHELLE
      He’s your son Joe.  Just call him.

             JOE
      He’s gotta grow up some day 
      Michelle.  And I’m not -

             MICHELLE
      Just turn out the light.

                                      84.

             JOE
      I have to finish packing.  

             MICHELLE
      Fine.

Joe zips up his suitcase and stands.  He walks over to 
Michelle and kisses her on the head.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Joe puts on the TV as he makes eggs.  News of Bernie Madoff’s 
arrest scrolls across the television.  He stares.  

Joe pulls out his cell phone and dials HARRY ANDERSON.  

The phone rings.  An assistant answers on the other end.  

             JOE
      It’s Joe O’Hara calling for Harry 
      Anderson.  
        (a beat as he listens)
      When will he be out?
        (beat)
      I need to talk to him now.  Pull 
      him out of the meeting.  
        (beat)
      Fine.

Joe grabs his now sizzling eggs off the stove and throws the 
pan in the sink.  

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - GARAGE - SAME

Joe pulls out a stepladder and pulls a small box from an air 
duct.  He spins the combination lock, pulls it open and pulls 
out a GLOCK and a CLIP.  He checks the clip, jams it into the 
gun and chambers a round.  He tucks it in his back waistband, 
puts on his jacket and walks out of the room. 

EXT. LAX - DAY

Terrance gets dropped off at LAX by Pai (20).  Pai hands him 
off some bags.

             TERRANCE
      I’m gonna be back around in a week 
      or so.  

Pai nods.  

                                      85.

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      In the interim, need you to check 
      on everyone who owes.  We trying to 
      be closed out of LA in the next 
      week.  Call me if you got people 
      having trouble paying.  Here’s the 
      list.

Terrance hands him a folded up piece of paper.

             PAI
      Word, I’ll see to it.  

INT. ANDERSON, HARDING INVESTMENTS - OUTER OFFICE - DAY

A HOT SECRETARY (23) sits at a secretarial desk outside a 
plush office as Joe comes striding in.  

             HOT SECRETARY
      Excuse me- Is Mr. Anderson 
      expecting you?

             JOE
      You fucking bet he is.  

Joe strides past her, she starts to stand.  

             HOT SECRETARY
      Sir, please-

             JOE
      Sit the fuck down.  

Joe barges into the office.  

INT. ANDERSON, HARDING INVESTMENTS - HARRY’S OFFICE - SAME

Joe strides into Harry Anderson’s well appointed office.  
Harry sits at his desk, his head in his hands.  He sits up 
straight when Joe walks in.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Joe, to what do I owe the pleasure?  

             JOE
      Your secretary said you were in a 
      meeting.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      I was.  

                                      86.

             JOE
      You know what’s funny about people 
      with power, Harry?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      What’s that?

             JOE
      They always have ugly secretaries.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Excuse me?

             JOE
      It’s true.  A truly powerful man 
      has a really ugly secretary, or 
      executive assistant if you’re into 
      being PC.  As you can tell, I’m 
      not.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      What do you want Joe?

             JOE
      A powerful man has an ugly 
      secretary because he doesn’t need 
      some hot young thing sniffing 
      around his nuts all day to feel 
      like a man.  He has some ugly old 
      hag, so that his wife thinks he’s 
      faithful.  And when he wants to or 
      needs to, he gets a mistress that 
      won’t fucking sue him for sexual 
      harassment in the workplace.  You, 
      Harry, have a very attractive 
      secretary.  Which makes me worry.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Joe I’m supposed to be in a 
      meeting.  

             JOE
      We’ve been over this.  Your hot 
      slut secretary told me.  And you 
      know what else?  You’re full of 
      shit.  This big time market maker 
      you invested a portion of our 
      capital in.  That was Madoff, 
      wasn’t it?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Joe - I don’t feel like I need to 
      remind you that every investment 
      has attendant risks.  

Joe pulls out the Glock and sticks it in Anderson’s face.  

                                      87.

             JOE
      Is this one of the risks?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Whoa.  Listen.  Joe.  

Joe open palm slaps Anderson right out of his chair.  

             JOE
      What was my fucking exposure?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      It was complete, okay?  We lost 
      everything.  

             JOE
      Everything?  Every fucking dollar I 
      gave you?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      You think it’s bad for you?  I’m 
      ruined Joe.  I’ve got nothing.  

             JOE
      You said you did your due diligence 
      on him.  How the fuck did this 
      happen?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      You don’t do due diligence on 
      Bernie Madoff!  He fucking created 
      the NASDAQ for Chrissake.  

Joe cocks the gun.  

             HARRY ANDERSON
	(CONT’D)
      Joe I’m sorry.  Please don’t.  I 
      swear to god I didn’t know.  I have 
      a family.

             JOE
      Really?  You fuck your secretary?  

             HARRY ANDERSON
      What?

             JOE
      Tell me if you fuck your secretary.

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Why are you asking me this?  What 
      do you want?

Joe holds the chamber of the gun to Harry’s ear and fires, 
singing his hair and blowing out his eardrum.  He screams as 
blood drips out of his ear.  

                                      88.

             JOE
      Did you fuck her?

             HARRY ANDERSON
      Yes.  Yes I did.  

             JOE
      You put all my money with Madoff 
      for the same reasons you fucked 
      your slut secretary.  You are a 
      powerless piece of shit.  Your 
      balls are exactly as small as I 
      thought they were.  I should have 
      checked you out, but I got lazy.  
      Live and learn I guess.  

Joe uncocks the Glock and puts it back in his belt.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      I’m not going to do anything to 
      you.  But I’m going to get the fuck 
      out of town and I suggest you do 
      the same.  I have a unique 
      business, Harry, and my clients are 
      not the type to take losses well.  
      I give it a day or two before they 
      start asking questions, and when 
      that happens, they’re going to 
      start looking for me, and by 
      extension, you, very soon.  They’re 
      not the type to take losses well.  
      I have a flight to catch.  Good 
      luck to you. 

INT. O’HARA HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Joe walks into the master bedroom.  His wife is still in bed.  

             JOE
      Michelle.  Wake up.  

She groggily lifts her head.  

             MICHELLE
      Joe not now I have a headache.  

             JOE
      Listen to me.  I bought you a 
      ticket to Hawaii.  

                                      89.

             MICHELLE
      What?

             JOE
      You’re on the next flight after me.  

             MICHELLE
      Why are we going to Hawaii?

             JOE
      Michelle, something awful happened 
      and we need to get out of town.  I 
      can tell you when we get there.  

             MICHELLE
      What happened?  Tell me now or I’m 
      not going.

             JOE
      Michelle we lost all our money.  
      We’ve got nothing left.  There’s 
      money in Hawaii I can get for us, 
      so we can start over.  But we have 
      to leave today.

Michelle is completely zonked on meds.  She’s barely awake.  
She sighs heavily.

             MICHELLE
      Joe I can’t fly today.  My head is 
      killing me.  

             JOE
      We have to go Michelle.

             MICHELLE
      We can go tomorrow.  I’ll feel 
      better tomorrow.

             JOE
      Listen.  Just listen.  Some of my 
      clients, they’re bad people.  And I 
      lost their money too.  And they’re 
      going to come for us.  So I need 
      you to get on this flight.  

He pulls Michelle out of bed.  She’s a mess- she’s clearly 
barely gotten out of bed for days.  

             MICHELLE
      You’re making me anxious Joe and I 
      don’t appreciate it. 

                                      90.

             JOE
      We’re getting you in the shower.  

Joe helps her into the bathroom.  

             JOE
	(O.S)
	(CONT’D)
      I’m going to pack a bag for you.  
      Clean up a little.  

The SHOWER turns on.  

             MICHELLE
	(O.S.)
      Joe I’m in no shape to travel.  

Joe emerges from the bathroom and grabs a duffel bag, starts 
throwing Michelle’s clothes in it.  

Michelle emerges from the bathroom.  

             MICHELLE
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing?  I’m not going.  

             JOE
      GET IN THE SHOWER.

Michelle stares at him, then walks into the bathroom.  

EXT. BEACHSIDE TRAILER PARK, KALANIANAOLE HIGHWAY - DAY

Terrance sits in a rickety beach chair outside a trailer, 
next to AHE (28), a huge Samoan dude, covered in tattoos, who 
takes a long drag off a joint.  

             AHE
      How’s your girl, she coming out 
      here with Javan?

             TERRANCE
      No.  They’re cool.  Not the right 
      time to bring them out.  

             AHE
      Word.  Let shit settle.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  Time for family later.  
      Now’s time for business.

             AHE
      We ready to get into action.  
      Couple hold outs here and there - 
      but we’ll fix them up.  

                                      91.

             TERRANCE
      Just take them apart.  They’ve had 
      time.  If they’re still holding 
      out, then we aren’t gonna be able 
      to work with them.  

             AHE
      Alright.  I don’t know if -

             TERRANCE
      I don’t want to be setting a 
      precedent, like, take your time to 
      decide.  It’s not about deciding 
      for them, no decision to be made.  
      They are either in, or they are 
      done.  

             AHE
      I hear, I hear.  

Terrance’s phone rings.  He looks at it, nods to Ahe, and 
steps away to take the call.

INTERCUT:  Pai, in Mark’s apartment, with a badly beaten 
Mark.  

             PAI
      Got a boy here, owes us.  Says he 
      needs just another day or two, says 
      he got till the first.  Mark or 
      some shit.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah.  I know him.  You take what 
      he got?

             PAI
      Ain’t got nothing.  But.  He says 
      his boyfriend be in Hawaii, taking 
      care of getting the money.  

             TERRANCE
      Get that boyfriend’s number.  
        (to Ahe)
      Yo take down this number.

Terrance hands the phone to Ahe.  Ahe walks into the trailer 
with it. Terrance sits and stares out into the ocean.  

INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - ROOM - DAY

Nick and Pastor Hank set their things down.  Pastor Hank 
flops on the bed, rubbing his eyes.  

                                      92.

             PASTOR HANK
      I need a nap.

Nick sits on the side of the bed and pats his leg.

             NICK
      Do you mind if I head down to the 
      beach to see what’s up?

             PASTOR HANK
      Sure.  Of course.  

Nick digs in his duffle bag for a swimsuit, pulls one out, 
heads into the bathroom.  

EXT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - BEACH - LATER

Nick sits on the beach, alone.  He pulls out his phone and 
tries to call Mark.  No answer.  Then his phone rings.  It’s 
a number he doesn’t recognize, but he answers it anyway.  

             NICK
      Hello?

             AHE
	(O.S.)
      Got your boy Mark.  Tells us you 
      left town. 

             NICK
      We’ve still got another couple days 
      to pay.  

             AHE
	(O.S.)
      Now there’s interest.  Better come 
      see us at the Waikiki Edition 
      resort.  Room 543.  We don’t see 
      you in the next hour, Marky’s not 
      gonna see you either, ever.  

Ahe hangs up.  

EXT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - FRONT ENTRANCE - LATER

Nick walks out the front entrance of the hotel in his board 
shorts and a t-shirt, hails a cab.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE LIVING ROOM - DAY

A knock sounds at the door.  Ahe, gun in hand peaks through 
the peephole.  Terrance sits on the couch, flipping through a 
notebook.  

A SKINNY SAMOAN GUY (25), tattooed, spikey hair, (we 
recognize him from the opening sequence)sits nearby on a 
chair, UZI in hand, feet up on an ottoman, reading a 
magazine.  

                                      93.

             AHE
      Some white kid.  

             TERRANCE
      That’s our boy.  

Terrance gets up and answers it.  

             TERRANCE
	(CONT’D)
      There he is.  Knew I didn’t have to 
      worry about you.  

He holds the door open and NICK walks in.  

             NICK
      I’m going to have the money in a 
      few days, you said we had till the 
      first.

             TERRANCE
      But then you skipped town, which 
      made me worried.  And it made me 
      charge you interest.   

             NICK
      That’s not fair.

             TERRANCE
      Motherfucker don’t talk to me about 
      fair.  You opted into this line of 
      work.  The rules is I make the 
      rules.  I say you owe me interest.  
      I say that while you on your little 
      fun boy holiday in Hawaii, you 
      gotta do me a favor.  

             NICK
      What favor?

Terrance sets a .38 Special, a box of bullets and a burner 
phone down on the counter in front of him.  

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Joe sits in first class, visibly nervous, sipping on a vodka 
soda as he watches CNN COVERAGE on the small screen in front 
of him- Madoff’s sons are being arrested.  He makes a last 
minute call on his phone.  

                                      94.

             JOE
        (into cell)
      Katherine.  Make sure my wife gets 
      into the car and onto that flight.
        (listens)
      Yes.  Go to the house now please.  
      Thank you.  

Joe hangs up and runs his hands through his hair, thinking.  
He looks on his phone - finds an entry - NICK - and dials.  

                                  CUT TO:

INT. TAXI - DAY

Nick rides in a taxi, examining the gun between his legs.  He 
flips open the cylinder, spins it.  His phone is ringing.  He 
digs it out of his pocket, looks at the name.  DAD.  He hits 
ignore and puts it back in his pocket.  

                                  CUT TO:

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Joe sighs as the voicemail comes on.  

             JOE
      Nick.  I need you to call me back, 
      as soon as possible.  It’s 
      important.  

He hangs up.  Flight attendants roam the aisles, asking 
people to turn off their cell phones.  Joe nods and shuts his 
off.  

INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - LOBBY - LATER

Nick walks through the lobby. He listens to the MESSAGE from 
Joe on his voicemail.  He sits down on a chair in the lobby 
and dials Joe back.  

It goes straight to voicemail.  

             NICK
      I’m fine Dad.  I don’t need your 
      help, and I don’t want it anymore.  

He hangs up, then stands.

                                      95.

INT. AIRPORT - NIGHT

Joe steps out of the jetway at the Honolulu airport.  

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Yeah son!  

Joe turns- it’s Terrance and Michael Lamar (Terrance’s uncle, 
whom we met earlier), with outstretched arms.  

             JOE
      Gentlemen.  Good to see you.  

Joe hugs them each warily, trying to figure out if Michael 
realizes he’s lost all his fucking money.  

             TERRANCE
      How was your flight?

             MICHAEL
      Nigger how you think his flight 
      was?  How is anybody’s flight?  You 
      cramped, motherfuckers be breathing 
      on you. 

Joe smiles, trying to play it cool.   

             JOE
      Yeah it was a shit flight.  But I 
      fly first unlike you two clowns.  

             TERRANCE
      Shit.  Why am I not- what the fuck 
      do you do again?

             JOE
      Private wealth manager.

They crack up.  

             TERRANCE
      Right.  Why am I not a private 
      wealth manager?

             MICHAEL
      You a funny fucking guy Joe.  

INT. RENTAL CAR - NIGHT

Terrance drives, Michael sits shotgun and Joe sits in the 
back seat.   

                                      96.

             TERRANCE
      So you come by later if you up for 
      it- we got some bitches coming 
      over, should be a real nice time.  

             MICHAEL
      Joe don’t fuck no hos Terrance.  He 
      loves his wife too much.  He’s too 
      good to her.  

             JOE
      I’m going to lay down for awhile 
      when I get in, then maybe I’ll come 
      by for a night cap.  

             MICHAEL
      Alright.  

The car stops in front of the MOANA SURFRIDER HOTEL.   

             JOE
      Thanks again for the ride. Later on 
      gentlemen.  

INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN RESORT - HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Nick stretches out on a bed.  Pastor Hank is in the bathroom 
blowing a rail.  He comes back into the room.  

             PASTOR HANK
      How was the beach?  You were gone 
      for awhile.

             NICK
      Just wanted to look around the 
      hotel a little.  Let’s go to the 
      bar downstairs, it looks fun.  

             PASTOR HANK
      No.  No.  We need to go out.  I 
      want to do something crazy.  

             NICK
      Okay.  

             PASTOR HANK
      I got you a new shirt.  

Pastor Hank pulls a NEON GREEN LACOSTE SHIRT out of his bag.  

             NICK
      What’s wrong with my shirt?

                                      97.

             PASTOR HANK
      I just want to see you in this one.  

Pastor Hank is nervous.  He gets up and walks to the bathroom 
and starts washing his face.  

             NICK
      Alright.  So what’s your crazy plan 
      for tonight?

Pastor Hank starts to cut up a line on the sink.  He snorts 
the line and looks at Nick.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Well.  My crazy plan is that I need 
      to do a little church business 
      while I’m on this trip to make it 
      look legitimate, so I have a dinner 
      tonight.  But I want you going to 
      Fusion to meet some boys.  Have 
      fun.  I’ll meet you at around 
      midnight and we’ll stay out all 
      night.  

             NICK
      Okay.  Sounds good. 

Pastor Hank walks over to Nick and puts his hands on his 
shoulders.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Thank you.  You’re very sweet to 
      me.     

Nick smiles uncomfortably.  

             NICK
      So I’ll head out then?  

             PASTOR HANK
      Yes sure.  But you should change - 
      throw on that shirt.   

             NICK
      Okay....

Pastor Hank goes back to the bathroom and tees up another 
line.  

INT. MOANA SURFRIDER HOTEL - JOE’S ROOM - DAY

Joe sits on the bed and rubs his eyes.  He picks up the phone 
and dials a number.  

                                      98.

             JOE
      Frankie?  It’s Joe here.  I’m in 
      Honolulu and I need two clean 
      Glocks with extended mags dropped 
      off at my hotel. 

Joe listens.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      How did I know you’d have a guy 
      here?  Moana Surfrider Hotel in 
      Waikiki.  Room 319.   Alright.  
      Take care.  

He hangs up.  

EXT. HONOLULU AIRPORT - LEI STAND - DAY

Joe stands outside a lei stand at the airport, on his cell.  
Michelle answers on the other end.  

             JOE
      You didn’t get on the plane?

             MICHELLE
	(O.S.)
      I told you Joe.  I’m too tired.  

             JOE
      You need to come out tomorrow.

             MICHELLE
	(O.S.)
      Okay.

             JOE
      I’ll book you another flight.

             MICHELLE
	(O.S.)
      I’m going to bed Joe.  

             JOE
      I’ll call you in the morning.

She’s already hung up.  Joe pulls at his hair.  

He dials NICK.  

                                  CUT TO:

INT. FUSION CLUB - CONTINUOUS

Nick sits alone at a table.

                                      99.

It’s early but the club is starting to fill up.  A few guys 
give him long looks.  His CELL buzzes.  He looks at it.  
Ignores the call.  

                                  CUT TO:

EXT. HONOLULU AIRPORT - LEI STAND - DAY

Joe doesn’t leave a message.  He hangs up and walks toward 
the parking garage.

INT. FUSION NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT

Nick sips a drink.  He looks at his phone.  No messages.  He 
finishes off his cocktail.  A BUZZ - it’s the BURNER PHONE in 
his pocket.  Text message.  It reads-

TEXT: NEON GREEN LACOSTE.  FUSION CLUB.  NOW.  REPORT BACK TO 
US.

Nick stares at it for a long moment.  He looks at his neon 
green Lacoste Shirt.  He slams the table.  

INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN RESORT - HOTEL LOBBY - SAME

Nick walks through the hotel lobby with purpose, straight for 
the elevator.  

INT. ELEVATOR - SAME

Nick checks the chamber on the revolver, then cocks it.  

INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN RESORT - HOTEL HALLWAY - SAME

Nick strides down the hotel hallway, revolver at his side.  

INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN RESORT - HOTEL ROOM - SAME

Nick bursts into the hotel room to find Pastor Hank praying.   

             PASTOR HANK
      Nick!  You’re back early...

Nick sticks the gun in Pastor Hank’s face.

             PASTOR HANK
	(CONT’D)
      What are you doing?  Where did you 
      get that gun?

                                     100.

             NICK
      You want to kill me?

             PASTOR HANK
      What?

             NICK
      You told someone to have me 
      killed??

             PASTOR HANK
      No, Nick - what are you talking 
      about?

Nick is starting to cry now. 

             NICK
      I didn’t want to do anything to 
      you, I just needed the money, okay?  

             PASTOR HANK
      I’m sorry.  

They stare at each other in silence, as tears stream down 
Nick’s face.  

             NICK
      I didn’t want to.  I was a good 
      kid.  I was.  If I didn’t get them 
      the money, they were going to kill 
      my boyfriend.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Who?

             NICK
      The guys.  The guys that sent me 
      off to kill someone.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Nick, maybe just put the gun down.  

             NICK
      I just need the money Hank.  That’s 
      it.  I don’t want people to get 
      hurt.  Just give me the money and 
      I’ll disappear, you’ll never see me 
      again.  

             PASTOR HANK
      Okay.  Okay I will.  I’m going to 
      stand up.  Is that okay?

Nick nods.  

                                     101.

Pastor Hank stands.  

             PASTOR HANK
	(CONT’D)
      It’s in my suitcase.  

             NICK
      It is?

             PASTOR HANK
      Yes.  

Nick keeps the gun trained on him.  

             NICK
      Why would it be in your suitcase?

             PASTOR HANK
      Somebody just dropped it off.  

Pastor Hank starts to move towards him, slowly.  

             NICK
      Stop.  

             PASTOR HANK
      It’s okay Nick.  

             NICK
      Stay there.  I’ll look in the-

Pastor Hank LUNGES at Nick, trying to knock the gun away, 
tackling him to the floor.  

Nick struggles with him on the floor, but manages to pull his 
arm out of Pastor Hank’s grip and shoots him in the gut.  

Pastor Hank collapses back onto the floor, clutching his 
stomach.  

Nick stands, unsteady.  Pastor Hank gasps for air.  Nick 
stares at him, writhing in pain.  And he SHOOTS HIM IN THE 
HEAD.  

He slowly sits down on the floor and rubs his face.  Blood is 
pooling around Pastor Hank’s head.   

His BURNER phone goes off.  Text message.  It reads-

TEXT:  IS IT DONE?

Nick gets up.  He knows what he has to do. 

                                     102.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL LOBBY - LATER

Joe walks through the hip Waikiki resort lobby - THE SAME 
FROM THE OPENING SEQUENCE.

Joe pushes the button and waits for the elevator.

Ding.  The elevator arrives.  Joe boards.  

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Joe punches a number.

He pulls a Glock out of his belt, checks the clip and the 
chamber, holsters it, then pulls a second Glock, clip, 
chamber, check, holster.  

Ding.  The elevator doors pop open.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY

Joe walks down the hallway.  SKINNY SAMOAN GUY from before 
hangs out outside the door, sitting in a chair in the hall.  
He nods at Joe.

Joe knocks at the door.  

             MICHAEL
	(O.S.)
      Terrance get your ass out here.  
      Come in Joe, it’s open.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE - SAME

Joe walks into the room and surveys the scene.  Michael 
lounges on the couch with Ahe and three HOOKERS.  The girls 
blow rails off Michael’s chest.  

             JOE
      Getting the party started I see.  

             MICHAEL
      You know it sonny bono. 

             JOE
      Where’s Terrance?

             MICHAEL
      He’s around.  Have a toot while you 
      wait.  

Terrance enters from one of the bedrooms.  

                                     103.

             JOE
      I’m good for now.  

             TERRANCE
      Joe!

Terrance walks up and hugs Joe.  

             JOE
      Alright big guy.  

             TERRANCE
      We doing it!  You see this?  We 
      doing it.  

             JOE
      Where is everything?  

             MICHAEL
      The shit’s in a safe in the next 
      room.  Ain’t trying to trust these 
      bitches with that kinda cake laying 
      around.  

             JOE
      Let me have a peek?  It’s been 
      awhile since I’ve seen that much 
      cash in one place.  

Terrance smiles.  

             TERRANCE
      Come with me.  Yo Ahe, come help me 
      with the bag?  
        (to Joe)
      I want to show you my books too.  

Ahe stands, puts out his joint.  

             MICHAEL
      Before ya’ll go.  Ya’ll gonna bang 
      out one of these bitches?  Because 
      if not, I think I’ll take a few of 
      them inside and show them what’s 
      good.  

             AHE
      Save one for me.  

             JOE
      All yours.  

             TERRANCE
      Yeah I’m cool. 

                                     104.

             MICHAEL
      Word.  That’s a hold on one of the 
      bitches.  You got it.

Terrance, Ahe and Joe walk into one of the bedrooms.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Michael pulls two of the Hookers into the bedroom and shuts 
the door.  He starts to unbutton his pants.  

             MICHAEL
      Why don’t ya’ll help me with this.  

The two Hookers smile at each other and walk towards Michael.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL LOBBY - SAME

Nick winds his way through the plush hotel lobby, eyes 
forward.  

INT. ELEVATOR - SAME

Nick enters the elevator, punches a button.  He draws the 
revolver again and double checks the chamber.  He snaps the 
cylinder back into place and looks at himself in the mirror.  
He’s a killer now.  DING.  The doors open.  He steps out into 
the quiet hallway.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Joe and Terrance look over a ledger in the other bedroom at 
the desk, numbers neatly laid out in rows and columns.  

             TERRANCE
      So that’s it.  

             JOE
      This is great.  

             TERRANCE
      It’s amazing the peace you feel, 
      when all the numbers are laid out 
      like that.  

             JOE
      Yeah.  Like you’ve brought order to 
      the universe.  

                                     105.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL HALLWAY - SAME

Nick walks down the hallway, clutching the revolver at his 
side.  He rounds a corner and spots the Skinny Samoan Guy 
sitting outside the room.  He tucks the gun into his belt.  
The Skinny Samoan guy stands as Nick approaches.  

             NICK
      I was here earlier.  

             SKINNY SAMOAN GUY
      Oh yeah.  You good.  

Nick nods, and pushes the door open.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE - SAME

Nick slowly pushes the door to the suite all the way closed.  
He deadbolts it and flips the chain over.  

A HOOKER pounds a line of blow and looks up at him, smiling.  
Nick makes a “sh” gesture and raises his gun.  She freezes, a 
deer in headlights.  He motions for her to go into the front 
hall bathroom.  She grabs the rest of her baggie and rushes 
in, locking the door. 

Nick slowly approaches one of the bedroom doors.  It’s 
slightly ajar.  The sounds of sex emanate from inside.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Terrance and Ahe both grab handles of a duffle bag, toss it 
onto the bed with a thump.  Terrance unzips it; packed with 
bundles of the cash.  

             JOE
      This is all the cash? 

             TERRANCE
      Yeah, for now.  

             AHE
      We got drops set around the city 
      tomorrow and the next day.  

Joe stares at the money.  

             JOE
      You did good Terrance.  You came 
      real far.  

Terrance smiles.  

                                     106.

             TERRANCE
      Thanks Joe.  I owe it all to you.  

Joe puts his hand on Terrance’s shoulder.   

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Nick pushes the door open and comes face to face with Michael 
fucking a hooker from behind on the bed.  Nick raises the 
gun.  

             MICHAEL
      Mother fuck-

BOOM.  Shoots Michael in the head.  The two hookers in the 
room SCREAM. 

             NICK
      Shut the fuck up - stay there - 
      don’t move.  Just stay in this 
      room.  I don’t want to hurt you.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Inside the other bedroom.  

             JOE
      What the fuck was that?  Who knows 
      you’re here?

Terrence looks to Ahe.  Ahe shakes his head.  

             TERRANCE
      Nobody. 

Terrance walks quickly to the closet and grabs two Mossberg 
500 pump action shot guns, tossing one to Joe and one to Ahe.  
He picks up a hand gun from the table.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HALLWAY - SAME

The SKINNY SAMOAN GUY is pounding at the door.  He can’t get 
in.  He rifles through his pockets and finds a key card, 
opens the door, but the door is latched and he can only open 
it a few inches.   

                                     107.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Nick checks his revolver again.  Only two bullets left.  He 
snaps the chamber back into place and starts to walk out of 
the room when he notices-

A NICKEL PLATED BERETTA ON THE DRESSER.  

Nick grabs the gun, chambers a round and starts to walk out 
of the room when he notices-

AN AK-47 PROPPED UP AGAINST THE WALL.  

He stuffs the Beretta in the front of his pants, then grabs 
the AK, struggles with the slide for a second, then chambers 
a round.  

He walks out into the living room.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE - SAME

Nick walks out of the bedroom with his AK-47 to find Terrance 
slowly pulling open the door of the other bedroom.  Nick 
opens fire immediately and Terrance slams the door shut.  
Nick continues firing on the door, shredding it, then stops.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE HALLWAY - 

The Skinny Samoan throws his shoulder into the door, 
loosening the latch, but not breaking through.  He pauses to 
look through the crack and sights Nick, shredding the bedroom 
door.  He jams his uzi through the crack and fires into the 
room.   

                                  CUT TO:

THE LIVING ROOM - 

Where Nick turns and sprays the door to the hallway forcing 
the Skinny Samoan guy back.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE BEDROOM -

Where Joe, Ahe and Terrance crouch against a wall.  

                                     108.

             JOE
      Who the fuck is out there?

             TERRANCE
      It’s this junkie fag man.  

             AHE
      Mother fucker grabbed one of the 
      AKs. 

             JOE
      What?

             TERRANCE
      I sent this junkie to go kill that 
      fucking priest’s boy-toy and now 
      he’s back with a machine gun.  

             JOE
      Well fuck him.  I’m not dying here.

Joe sticks the muzzle of his shotgun out a small hole in the 
door and just starts pounding out rounds.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE HALLWAY - 

Where the Skinny Samoan is sitting, leaning up against the 
wall, a bullet in his shoulder, bleeding.  He holds up the 
Uzi and steadies it between his knees, aiming at the door.

                                  CUT TO:

THE LIVING ROOM -

Where Nick takes cover behind a couch as shotgun pellets 
shred the living room.  In between bursts he suddenly stands 
and opens up again with the AK.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE BEDROOM -

Joe, Ahe and Terrance take cover.  

             JOE
      Offer him money.  

             TERRANCE
      What?
             JOE
      You own this island now.  He won’t 
      get to the airport.  Offer him some 
      cash to get the fuck out of here 
      and we’ll shoot him in the back on 
      the street.  

Terrance nods.  

             TERRANCE
      Yo Nickyboy!

Joe looks at Terrance.

                                     109.

                                  CUT TO:

THE LIVING ROOM -

Nick is in the kitchen of the suite, grabbing a few clips 
from the counter top and stuffing them in his pockets.  

             NICK
      Fuck you Terrance.  

             TERRANCE
	(O.S.)
      Listen Nicky.  I got some cash in 
      here.  I’ll give you a hundred 
      grand to get the fuck out of here 
      right now.  All debts between us 
      are even.  

Nick opens up on the door again.  

             NICK
      I can pump that door full of 
      fucking bullets all day.  Come out 
      now and I won’t kill you.  

             TERRANCE
      Ain’t happening Nickyboy.  We both 
      know I open this door you’ll kill 
      me.  It’s you take the cash or you 
      leave here a corpse.  

THE BEDROOM -

Terrance, Ahe and Joe press themselves against the wall as 
Nick unleashes another torrent of rounds.  Joe is dumbstruck.

                                  CUT TO:

                                     110.

             JOE
      Jesus fucking Christ.  

             TERRANCE
      Motherfucker was in my accounts 
      receivable. 

Joe nods.  

             JOE
      Where are the shells?

             TERRANCE
      Desk.  

Joe scrambles to the desk.  Terrance and Ahe crouch by the 
shredded door.  They peer outside.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE LIVING ROOM -

Nick has run out of bullets.  He ducks down behind the couch 
again and tinkers with the AK, trying to figure out how to 
release the clip so he can reload.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE BEDROOM -

Joe sets the shotgun down, ostensibly to reload.  But 
Terrance and Ahe aren’t watching - they’re unloading bullets 
through the shredded door.   

Joe draws both Glocks from his back, one in each hand.  He 
takes a moment sighting Ahe and Terrance.  Takes a deep 
breath.

             JOE
      You’re a good kid.  You should know 
      that.  

Terrance starts to turn and BAM! Joe lets loose on both 
Glocks, smearing Terrance and Ahe all over the wall.  

                                  CUT TO:

THE LIVING ROOM -

Nick jumps when he hears the gun shot.  He finally gets the 
clip in the AK and chambers a round.  He creeps up, aiming 
the AK at the door, ready to release another volley.  

                                     111.

             NICK
      Last chance to come out alive.  

             JOE
	(O.S.)
      Nicky it’s me.  It’s your dad.

Nick looks confused.

             NICK
      What?

             JOE
	(O.S.)
      It’s your dad.  I just killed 
      Terrance and his cousin.  They’re 
      dead.  I’m going to come out, okay?  

Nick is dumbfounded.  

             NICK
      Wait.  Show me your hands.

             JOE
	(O.S.)
      Nicky it’s just me.  Everyone else 
      is dead.  

             NICK
      Show me your hands.  

Joe sticks his hands out the door.  

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      Alright.  Now come out slowly.  

Joe slowly walks out of the bedroom.  Nick doesn’t lower the 
gun.

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      What the fuck are you doing here?

             JOE
      What are you doing here?  

             NICK
      You know these guys?

             JOE
      Yes.  They were clients.  

                                     112.

             NICK
      What?

             JOE
      This is the family business Nick.  

Nick doesn’t know what to say.  He hefts the AK to his 
shoulder and takes aim at Joe.

             NICK
      You set me up.  

             JOE
      What?

             NICK
      The fucking priest wanted me dead.  
      You set it up.  

             JOE
      You were with Hank?  You’re-

             NICK
      Yeah dad.  Your failure son is a 
      fag.  

             JOE
      Nicky I didn’t know it was you!  
      How could I have known?

             NICK
      So what now?

             JOE
      We gotta get out of here.  People 
      are looking for me.  

             NICK
      Who’s looking for you?

             JOE
      My clients.  I lost everything in 
      the Madoff scheme.  Nobody knows 
      yet.  But they’re all going to find 
      out soon enough.  If I didn’t kill 
      these guys they were going to kill 
      us as soon as they found out.  

             NICK
      And you just left mom and me?

                                     113.

             JOE
      I had to.  I was going to send for 
      you - I tried calling but - Look 
      we’re broke.  We lost everything.  
      And there’s enough cash and blow 
      here for us to start all over.  
      That was the plan.  That’s why I 
      came here.

             NICK
      You wanted to start over without 
      us.  

             JOE
      No Nicky, just put the gun down.  

             NICK
      No.

             JOE
      Nicky put the fucking gun down, 
      alright?  You’re not doing this.  
      This isn’t you.  You’re not going 
      to shoot me.  

Nick drops the gun.  Joe walks over and hugs him.  Nick goes 
stiff at his touch.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Help me out.  We gotta get out of 
      here.  We’ll talk more when we get 
      somewhere safe.  

Nick quietly follows Joe into the bedroom.

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE BEDROOM - SAME

Joe begins piling the coke and cash back into the duffle bag.  

             JOE
      There’s easily two million in cash 
      here.  We’ll buy our way out of 
      here and then send for your mother.  

             NICK
      Okay.  

Joe finishes packing the bags.  He hands one to Nick.  He 
walks out into the living room.  Nick follows him.  

INT. WAIKIKI EDITION RESORT - HOTEL SUITE LIVING ROOM - SAME

Nick trails behind Joe.

                                     114.

             NICK
      So you were going to come back for 
      me and mom?

             JOE
      Yes Nicky.  Now let’s go.  

             NICK
      Okay.  

Joe makes for the door.  

             NICK
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t believe you.  

Joe stops and turns, PULLING A GUN OUT OF HIS WAISTBAND AND 
AIMING IT AT NICK.  

             JOE
      Well believe it Nicky.  You don’t 
      have a choice.  Now let’s get 
      going.  

             NICK
      I think you’re going to kill me 
      first chance you get.  I’m baggage.  

             JOE
      You’re my kid.  I’m not going to 
      kill you.  

             NICK
      So why are you pointing a gun at 
      me?

             JOE
      Because you won’t - fuck Nick.  I 
      can’t take any chances and we have 
      to go.  

Nick nods.  Joe gets closer to the door.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Are you coming or not?  

Nick hesitates.  He’s weighing something in his mind.  He 
takes a deep breath, then nods.

             NICK
      Sure.  

                                     115.

Joe keeps his eyes on Nick, slowly opening the door to the 
hallway - exposing his back to-

THE SKINNY SAMOAN GUY - WHO, WITH HIS LAST BIT OF STRENGTH, 
UNLOADS THE UZI INTO JOE’S BACK.  

NICK PULLS OUT THE NICKEL PLATED BERETTA - AND WHEN JOE FALLS 
TO THE GROUND, SHOOTS THE SKINNY SAMOAN IN THE FACE.

Nick approaches his father.  Crouches down, rolls him over.  

             JOE
      I’m sorry Nicky.  I am. 

Tears start to stream down Nick’s face.

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      I didn’t mean - I’m sorry. I just 
      didn’t know.  

Joe pulls out his phone.  

             JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Call Frankie.  His name is in the 
      phone.  If you pay him, he’ll get 
      you out of here.  

Nick takes the phone.  

             NICK
      I’m sorry dad.  

Nick picks up Joe’s bag and hefts it to his shoulder.  He 
puts the Beretta in Terrance’s limp hand and walks out the 
door. 

THE END.

