            THE KILLING FLOOR

               Written by

              Bac DeLorme
                 & 
             Stephen Clarke

                                       WME
                                   David Karp
                                 310-285-9000

                         FOURTH FLOOR MANAGEMENT
                                  Jeff Silver
                                 424-279-9301


                                      ii.

"No man is rich enough to buy back his past."

-Oscar Wilde

EXT. A DENSE PINE FOREST - DAWN

Soaring with A PAIR OF TURKEY VULTURES high above the thick 
green canopy. 

As they crest a snow-capped mountaintop, the forest ends 
abruptly, exposing a fifty-yard wide clearing, carved out of 
the harsh terrain, that extends as far as the eye can see in 
both directions, giving the appearance of AN INVERSE GREAT 
WALL OF CHINA.  This is the Montana/Canada border.

The vultures dive lower and keep pace as they track a HERD OF 
STAMPEDING CATTLE along the seemingly endless forest trench.

EXT. IDYLLIC MOUNTAINTOP PASTURE - DAWN

Peaceful.  Serene.  Desolate.  STRAY BONES AND HIDES are 
scattered about the rocky clearing.

Suddenly, the stampeding herd crests the craggy ridge and 
thunders past. On their heels, TWO WEATHER-BEATEN COWBOYS ON 
HORSEBACK struggle to restore order amidst the dusty chaos. 

INT. DARK BUNKER - DAWN

Reinforced with railroad ties and scraps of wood, this 
underground shelter is hardly more than a giant hole in the 
earth.  Sounds of GRUNTING and MOANING permeate the dank 
silence.

In a dark corner of the bunker, shafts of light play off the 
HEAVILY-TATTOOED BACK of a GREEN-HAIRED PUNK as he thrusts 
and grunts atop his TRASHY GIRLFRIEND.  Meth gear, cigarette 
butts and discarded Red Bull cans litter the muddy floor 
around them.

The “ceiling” above begins to SHAKE VIOLENTLY, raining bits 
of stone and soil down onto the lovemaking couple.  Still 
thrusting hard, the punk cranes his neck toward the racket. 

             PUNK
      Oh fuck.  

Pulling on a pair of briefs, he leaps to his feet and crosses 
to the other side of the bunker where a crudely-constructed 
PVC PIPE PERISCOPE extends down from the darkness above.  

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      What the fuck, Jimmy?!

             PUNK
      Shut up!

                                      2.

The punk rotates the periscope while peering through the 
viewfinder.

EXT. IDYLLIC MOUNTAINTOP PASTURE - CONTINUOUS

A sun-bleached cow’s skull lifts slightly from the ground and 
rotates toward-

THE STAMPEDING HERD, which is just beginning to settle and 
calm under the watchful eye of the two cowboys.

DOWN BELOW-

The punk’s face is still pressed to the viewfinder.

             PUNK
      What the fuck?! Shit. Shit!

He scrambles through the darkened bunker, slinging A RIFLE 
over his bare shoulder, then tucking a 9mm PISTOL into the 
waistband of his briefs. 

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      Jimmy, what the fuck?!

The punk looks panicked as he fumbles with a muddy tarp.

             PUNK
      I said shut the fuck up!

He pulls back the tarp to reveal a FULLY CAMOUFLAGED 4-WHEEL 
ATV.  When he starts the engine, the headlights illuminate A 
PAIR OF WOODEN PLANKS that rise up at an angle into the dark 
abyss above.  He revs the engine.

             PUNK
	(CONT’D)
      Stay down here and keep your 
      fucking mouth shut no matter what 
      happens. You hear me?

She rolls her eyes.  He guns the engine and rockets up the 
makeshift ramp toward-

ABOVE-

A six-foot square patch of ground bursts open with the force 
of the ATV.  Once the ATV surfaces, the trap door slams 
closed again, restoring order to the terrain.

The sight and sounds of the punk on the ATV startles the herd 
once again, setting the stampede back in motion.  

                                      3.

The cowboys rear up on their horses as the punk takes aim 
with his rifle.

CRACK-

A shot rings out, echoing off the distant mountains.  The 
bullet rips through the first cowboy’s shoulder, spinning him 
off his saddle.  He hits the ground at an awkward angle.

The punk now trains his sights on the 2nd cowboy.  He fires, 
but misses, dropping a stampeding cow.  The cowboy begins to 
push the frenzied herd away from the clearing.  The punk 
fires another shot, but again, he misses the 2nd cowboy, 
killing another cow in the process.

             PUNK
	(CONT’D)
      Fuck!

Frustrated, the punk JAMS THE THROTTLE ON THE ATV and rockets 
toward the 2nd cowboy, his EYES FILLED WITH RAGE. The gap is 
closing rapidly when-

POP! POP!-

The injured cowboy on the ground fires his pistol, shredding 
one of the front tires on the ATV.  The front end digs into 
the ground under its own weight.  THE PUNK GOES FLYING over 
the handlebars as the ATV tumbles end over end.

Now scraped up, with a fresh gash in his face, the punk 
struggles to get back to his feet.  The 2nd cowboy has pushed 
the herd even further away.  

A GUTTURAL ROAR escaping through his clenched teeth, the punk 
pulls the pistol from his waistband and stalks toward the 
injured cowboy.

Standing over the injured cowboy, a twisted look of 
satisfaction on his face, the punk pumps two quick rounds 
into the cowboy’s forehead.  But before the echo of the 2nd 
shot reports back from the distant mountains-

CRACK-BOOM!

A RIFLE BLAST ripples across the pasture.  The punk is hit 
right between the eyes and drops into a lifeless heap.

IN THE DISTANCE-

The 2nd Cowboy lowers his rifle, a look of calm concern on 
his face.  He slides the rifle back into a saddle holster as-

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      Noooo! Jimmy!!! Oh god, Jimmy!!!

                                      4.

The girl has emerged from the bunker and is now scrambling 
across the pasture toward the dead punk.  She collapses by 
his side. Blood spills from his wound as she pulls and tugs 
at his lifeless body.  

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      Jimmy!! Nooooo! Noooo!!!

In shock, she looks around.  First at the dead cowboy, then 
at the 2nd Cowboy who, still mounted on his horse, watches 
her from a short distance away, deciding what to do next.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      Hey!... You!... 
        (a fire building)
      You motherfucker! You’re fucking 
      dead, you motherfucker!!!  You’re 
      fucking-

She bursts into tears, her face streaked with blood.  

The cowboy takes one final look, then turns and pushes the 
herd over the ridge, his Stetson hat blowing from his head 
and settling in the tall grass as he recedes from view. A 
SILK TAG on the inside of the hat reads: “Made Especially for 
Clarence Lamb.”

INT. ELK FOOT CITY HALL / TAX ASSESSOR’S OFFICE - MORNING

COREY MEAGHER, 28 and ruggedly handsome, sits very straight 
in a wooden chair, his COWBOY HAT in his lap and a far off 
look in his eyes.  He is staring out the window at-

THE FRONT LAWN-

A YOUNG MOTHER, about Corey’s age, laughs and plays with her 
YOUNG SON in the grass.

THE TAX CLERK, a kindly middle-aged woman, reenters the 
office carrying an unwieldy stack of documents.

             TAX CLERK
      My apologies, Mr. Meagher. I swear 
      it’s impossible to find anything I 
      need ever since we switched over to 
      computers. I thought they were 
      supposed to make our lives 
      easier...

Corey pulls his thoughts back into the room.

                                      5.

             COREY
        (a polite chuckle)
      Don’t own one myself, ma’am.

             TAX CLERK
      Now, as I was saying before, 
      there’s been a huge influx of 
      wealth into the area ever since the 
      airport expansion was completed 
      down in Kalispell. Some folks 
      around here say that was the 
      beginning of the end for Elk Foot. 
      And this is precisely what has put 
      you and your... I’m so sorry... You 
      said you share the home with your-

             COREY
      -With my grandfather. That’s okay.

             TAX CLERK
      That’s right... well, that’s what’s 
      put you and your grandfather in 
      this, um, predicament. Now, 
      unfortunately, property taxes are 
      based on property values and, well, 
      what happens when rich folks from 
      New York and California decide they 
      want a second home in Elk Foot, 
      Montana?  Well, the property values 
      go up.  That’s what happens.  Up 
      and up and up until people like you 
      and your grandfather, and, frankly, 
      most of us, can’t afford to live 
      and work here anymore.

             COREY
      So they just keep raising our taxes 
      until we can’t afford it any more 
      and then they come take our home 
      away from us?  

             TAX CLERK
      Well, roughly speaking, I suppose 
      that’s, um, right. Yes. If you’re 
      unable to pay your taxes, the state 
      will be forced to foreclose on your 
      property.

             COREY
      Forced?  So what are we supposed to 
      do?

                                      6.

             TAX CLERK
      Have you considered selling? Maybe 
      take an apartment here in town? 
      Downsize, as they say?

             COREY
      That’s not an option.

             TAX CLERK
        (uncomfortable)
      Okay, well, let’s see. You already 
      mentioned that your parents had 
      passed, bless their souls, and 
      you’re not married?

             COREY
      No. Separated.

             TAX CLERK
      There’s no shame in that...
      Do you have any other family that 
      might be able to help out with 
      expenses? Any siblings?

             COREY
      I have a brother.

             TAX CLERK
        (hopeful)
      Well, there you go. You see? Does 
      your brother live in the area?

             COREY
      Not sure, ma’am.  He might be 
      living down in Kalispell.  Then 
      again, he might be dead.

             TAX CLERK
        (uncomfortable again)
      Okay... Well are there any other 
      relatives? Cousins? An aunt 
      perhaps?

             COREY
      I had two uncles. One of them died 
      of asbestos out of that mine down 
      in Libby.  The other one hanged 
      himself in our family’s hunting 
      shack a few winters back.

Now thoroughly uncomfortable, she rifles through some of the 
other papers.

                                      7.

             TAX CLERK
      I’m sorry to hear that. I see here 
      that you have a military 
      background?

             COREY
      Yes, ma’am. I served with the corps 
      in Iraq.

She scans down the page a bit.

             TAX CLERK
      And you were injured?

             COREY
      Yes, ma’am. I was.

             TAX CLERK
      Well, what about the military 
      payouts? The disability benefits?

Corey goes silent.  Then-

             COREY
      I’m afraid I don’t get those, 
      ma’am. Dishonorable discharge.

Now they’re both silent. Corey looks her in the eye.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      I deserted my squad.

             TAX CLERK
      I see.

They sit in silence for a moment, then-

             COREY
      Well, I’m already late for work...

Corey rises from his chair, holding his hat against his 
chest.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      So how long do we got?

The tax clerk is moved.  She’d like to help.

                                      8.

             TAX CLERK
      Well, Mr. Meagher, it appears 
      you’re currently thirty-six 
      thousand dollars in arrears and the 
      new tax cycle will post at the end 
      of the month, bringing that total 
      up to right in the neighborhood of 
      fifty-thousand dollars. If you 
      can’t pay down at least the current 
      balance in the next three weeks, 
      I’m afraid the foreclosure process 
      will begin shortly after that.

             COREY
      Okay. Thanks for your time, ma’am.

Corey sets his hat.

             TAX CLERK
      I wish there was more I could do to 
      help.

Corey looks at her, gives her a nod, then exits.

EXT. ELK FOOT CITY HALL - DAY

Corey walks across the parking lot with a PRONOUNCED LIMP. He 
looks over at the lawn where he saw the young mother and 
child playing earlier.  They’re no longer there.  He climbs 
into his WEATHERED OLD PICKUP TRUCK.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / MAIN STREET - DAY

Corey drives his truck down the main thoroughfare of the 
quaint township.  Coming to a stop at a hanging traffic 
light, his attention is drawn to the corner where AN OLDER 
MAN has a DOG ON A LEASH.  The dog begins to BARK AND GROWL.  
Corey is transfixed.

The light turns green and Corey eases forward.  Now, however, 
the view ahead is slightly askew.  PLUMES OF SMOKE rise up 
around him.  SHADOWY FIGURES lope past.

Corey slowly turns his head toward the passenger seat where A 
SOLDIER IN FULL FATIGUES AND HELMET faces forward as the 
truck lurches slowly along.  After a moment, the soldier 
turns to look at Corey.  ONE LENS of his wire spectacles has 
been shattered to bits.  

Corey pushes the cigarette lighter in and waits for it to pop 
out.  One hand on the wheel, he presses the RED-HOT METAL to 
his forearm as a faint groan escapes his gritted teeth.

                                      9.

When Corey looks back to the passenger seat, THE SOLDIER IS 
GONE.  The street has also returned to normal.  He shakes out 
A COUPLE ASPIRIN and chokes them down as he continues ahead. 

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / MANAGER’S OFFICE - DAY

A BESPECTACLED USDA INSPECTOR sits in the small, wood-paneled 
outer office staring into space.  Directly behind him, A 
LARGE DIAGRAM details the cuts of beef on the profile of a 
cow. A SECRETARY types at an outdated computer.

The door to the inner office opens. THE 2ND COWBOY, from 
earlier, steps out into the waiting room.  His name is 
CLARENCE LAMB and his jagged features are still easily 
recognizable without his cowboy hat.  The Inspector looks up 
and the two men regard each other for a moment before-

             PLANT MANAGER
      Here you are, Mr. Lamb.  You go on 
      and take this chit down the hall to 
      accounts payable and they’ll cut 
      you a check for them cows.

THE PLANT MANAGER, a ruddy-faced man of 60, has emerged from 
the inner office.  He hands Lamb the chit.

             CLARENCE
      Pleasure doing business with you.

Lamb exits.  The sound of his boots recedes down the 
corridor.

The Plant Manager looks at the Inspector, then at the 
secretary.

             PLANT MANAGER
        (full volume)
      Ms. Doris, is this the new USDA 
      Inspector?

             SECRETARY
        (while typing)
      His name is Phil.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, alright then. Sorry to keep 
      you waiting, Phil. Welcome to 
      Criswell Meatworks. Can Ms. Doris 
      get you a cup of coffee?

             PHIL
      I’m fine thanks. I’d really like to 
      get started.

                                      10.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, you’re the boss. Let me show 
      you around the insides.

             PHIL
      Thank you.

The two men exit.

EXT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS - DAY

Corey’s pickup pulls into the already-full employee lot.  As 
he limps toward the building, he looks up at a sign board 
that reads “CRISWELL MEATWORKS - DAYS WITHOUT A LOST TIME 
ACCIDENT: 273.”

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Corey removes his timecard from the rack and is about to 
stick it in the clock when he notices that it has already 
been stamped.  He looks around the empty locker room before 
returning the card to the rack.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - DAY

Corey, now dressed in a white jumpsuit and apron, enters the 
kill floor of the small, rural slaughterhouse.  ALEX 
PETTIGREW, 25 and a bit squirrelly, is already on the floor 
disemboweling a hanging carcass.  Corey holds a look as the 
guts spill out into a large metal bin.

             ALEX
        (without looking back)
      You just gonna stand there staring 
      at my ass all day, bro?

Corey doesn’t respond. He pulls his goggles on, picks up a 
very large, VERY SHARP KNIFE and nods to LUPE, a saintly 
looking older woman who sits atop an elevated platform 
overlooking the knocker cage, a cow already in position. 

Lupe pulls down the FACEMASK on her helmet, whispers a 
prayer, then presses a BOLT GUN to the cow’s head and pulls 
the trigger.  The stunned animal slides down the chute where 
Corey wraps a chain around its ankle and HOISTS IT INTO THE 
AIR.

Then, with the very large knife, Corey severs the cow’s 
jugular.  BLOOD ERUPTS FROM THE NECK like a geyser.

                                      11.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
        (now facing Corey)
      She’s a squirter.

Corey silently wipes a bit of blood from his face.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      I did you a solid, bro. Ain’t you 
      gonna say thank you?

             COREY
        (without looking back)
      Don’t ever do that again.

Alex is taken aback.  He flips his goggles up.

             ALEX
      I punch you in. I cover for your 
      sorry, can’t get to work on time 
      ass and this is how you thank me? 
      Fuck you, bro! Fuck you! I’ll let 
      your sorry ass get fired next time. 
      Is that what you want? 

Corey turns, the very large knife still dripping blood. He 
stares holes through Alex.  This is interrupted by-

             PLANT MANAGER
      ...We better put our goggles on 
      now.

The Plant Manager has entered the kill floor followed by the 
USDA Inspector.  

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      And this right here is our kill 
      floor. We make every attempt to 
      make each kill as quick and 
      painless as possible.

Corey and Alex end their face-off and go back to work.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      You’ll notice we take the waste 
      materials, your hooves and snouts 
      and so forth, and we run them 
      through this grinder so they can be 
      rendered down and used for cattle 
      feed, fertilizer... what have you. 
      No waste water! No air pollution! 
      What do you say, Phil?

                                      12.

             PHIL
      Everything seems to be in order. 
      Thank you. I think I can handle 
      myself from here.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, alright then. This lot’s 
      about to clear.  There’s a hot-side 
      break room just through there. It’s 
      got vending machines and a table 
      that you’re welcome to use.  You 
      need anything else, c’mon back up 
      to the office and ask me or Ms. 
      Doris. Don’t bother asking these 
      two anything. They’re better with a 
      knife than with a conversation if 
      you know what I mean.

The Inspector stares at the Plant Manager awkwardly.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      Well, alright then.

The Plant Manager exits as the Inspector makes a note on his 
clipboard. 

TIME PASSES THEN-

ALEX stands on a small ladder using a reciprocating saw to 
slice straight down the center of a skinned carcass.  Corey 
separates offal on a moving conveyer belt.  The BREAK BELL 
sounds and the conveyer stops.  Alex breezes past Corey.

             COREY
      Hey.

Alex stops and turns.

             ALEX
      What?

             COREY
      Let me buy you a coffee.

             ALEX
      You sorry?

             COREY
      Let me buy you a coffee.

                                      13.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / BREAK ROOM - DAY

Corey and Alex stand side by side in front of an old COFFEE 
VENDING MACHINE, both facing forward.  Alex smokes a 
cigarette while drinking coffee from a styrofoam cup.  Corey 
has a styrofoam cup of coffee in each hand.  He sips from one 
as the other cools.  They are both BLOOD SOAKED AND SILENT.  
Time passes.  THE BELL sounds again.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - DAY

Back on the kill floor, Alex pulls on his gloves as Corey 
places EARBUD HEADPHONES in his ears.  Corey gives a nod to 
Lupe, who turns and gives a nod to ANOTHER MAN down the line.  
This man presses a LARGE RED BUTTON on the wall.  

The groan of A WARNING SIREN pulses as A LARGE ROLLING DOOR 
raises, emitting a single-file line of cattle into the curved 
corral that leads to the knocker cage.

Each cow wears A VERY FAMILIAR BRAND.  This is THE HERD FROM 
THE OPENING SEQUENCE.  Alex howls like a wolf.

             ALEX
      Woot Woooot! New lot comin’ down! 
      Let’s get our motherfuckin’ kill 
      on, people! C’mon! First victim!

Corey hits play on his iPod.  A BEETHOVEN SYMPHONY drowns out 
the sounds of Alex and the distressed herd and SETS THE 
BALLET IN MOTION...

A COW enters the knocker cage.  Lupe prays, flips her 
facemask down, then-

Stun. Slide. Hang. Slice. Bleed. Die. Skin. Gut. Separate. 
Repeat.

Stun. Slide. Hang. Slice. Bleed. Die. Skin. Gut. Separate. 
Repeat.

As the gruesome ballet plays out, the tiled floor becomes A 
SEA OF BLOOD around their feet.

The USDA Inspector works his way down the line, eventually 
taking up a position near Corey as he pushes a freshly 
skinned carcass down the hanging track to Alex, who buries a 
blade in the abdomen, spilling the guts.

THE FINAL COW enters the knocker cage.  It’s MORE AGITATED 
than the others.  It KICKS and THRASHES in the cage as Lupe 
says her prayer.  

                                      14.

Lupe is careful to align the bolt gun properly, but she has 
trouble picking her moment due to the beast’s WILD FLAILING.

Finally... THWACK! The cow goes limp.  Lupe opens the cage 
and the stunned cow slides down the chute to Corey.  He wraps 
the chain around the cow’s back hooves and hoists the animal 
into the air.  But as he begins to draw his blade across the 
cow’s the throat, THE COW SPRINGS TO LIFE!

Its throat partially sliced, it begins to writhe and fight, 
the weight of its 1500 pound body stressing the chain.

Before anyone can react, THE COW TOPPLES TO THE FLOOR, blood 
shooting from its throat.  Upon getting its footing, IT 
CHARGES THE INSPECTOR, throwing him violently against the 
wall with the force of a mid-size sedan.  He collapses in a 
heap on the floor.

The angry beast NOW TURNS ON COREY.  Its nostrils flared, it 
charges forward, slipping and sliding on the bloody floor.  
Corey, too, can’t get his footing as he struggles to get out 
of the way.  He trips and falls.  His ear buds fall out, 
exposing him to the AUDITORY HORRORS that a half-killed 
animal is capable of producing.

Corey avoids the angry creature, but finds himself trapped as 
the cow circles back and CHARGES HIM AGAIN.

Just as he is about to suffer the same fate as the Inspector, 
Corey sees Alex dive toward the charging animal with his 
knife in hand.  He swings the blade at the cow’s hind legs, 
severing its Achilles tendons, and dropping it to the floor.  
It slides to a stop with enough momentum left to push Corey 
against the wall.

Alex immediately straddles the cow and begins to plunge his 
knife into the creature’s rib cage... Over and over again.

Corey, covered head to toe in blood and viscera, can’t look 
away.  Alex looks maniacal as he continues to slash and stab.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - LATER

TWO PARAMEDICS wheel the Inspector out on a stretcher as 
Corey and Alex clean up some of the mess.

             ALEX
        (to Corey)
      You see how I dropped that bitch? 
      Clean slice right through the 
      Achilles. Then I scrambled her 
      insides good. 

             ALEX
	(CONT'D)
      She had her eye on you, bro. She 
      knew what you was up to. Kill or be 
      killed, right bro?

                                      15.

Alex KICKS the cow’s lifeless carcass to emphasize each word.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      Kill. Or. Be. Killed. 
        (to the dead cow)
      Fuck you, bitch! You’re fuckin dead 
      now!  You lose, bitch!

             COREY
      Hey! Enough!

Corey still looks troubled by the whole event.  The Plant 
Manager enters the kill floor.

             PLANT MANAGER
        (somber)
      I’m gonna follow the ambulance over 
      to General and keep an eye on Phil 
      til his wife can drive up from 
      Bozeman and be by his side. Why 
      don’t you two go ahead and finish 
      processing what’s on the floor and 
      then shut her down for me? We can 
      get a fresh start in the morning.

He gives Lupe a salute and a wave.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
        (speaking loudly)
      Hola Lupe! No more today, 
      comprende? Go home now. Su Casa. 
      Gracias!

Lupe climbs down from her platform and exits.  The Manager 
continues his rounds as he makes his way toward the exit.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
        (O.S. - calling out)
      Shuttin’ her down everybody! Go 
      home and be with your families!

Corey goes back to work, sorting through the offal on the 
conveyer before it goes into the paunch wash.  As A STOMACH 
goes by, he notices something odd about THE SHAPE.  He hits 
the KILL SWITCH, stopping the conveyer.

             COREY
      Hey. Alex. Take a look at this. 
      This thing look right to you?

                                      16.

Alex sets down his saw and joins Corey at the offal conveyer.

             ALEX
      Looks like she ate her lunch with 
      that shit still in the fuckin’ 
      lunch box.

Corey digs through more unsorted viscera and removes another 
stomach.  He drops it next to the 1st one.  It has the SAME 
BRICK-SHAPED OUTLINE.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      That shit’s crazy, bro. You think 
      it’s cancer or some shit?

             COREY
      No.  Ain’t cancer.

With the tip of his blade, Corey delicately slices open the 
stomach membrane and pushes it aside.  He reaches inside the 
stomach and removes A TIGHTLY-WRAPPED BRICK OF BROWNISH-WHITE 
POWDER, still covered in blood and bile.

             ALEX
      Oh... shit.

             COREY
      Looks like drugs. Cocaine maybe.

             ALEX
      That ain’t blow, dude.  That’s 
      straight up smack right there.

             COREY
      Smack?

             ALEX
      Yeah. Heroin, bro.

             COREY
      You sure?

             ALEX
      Shit, bro. I live on The Rez. You 
      think I don’t know what a brick of 
      smack looks like? I ain’t seen that 
      shit around for a minute though. 
      All the damn junkies on The Rez are 
      into meth now. I wouldn’t even know 
      where to score this shit no more.

             COREY
      Well now you know. 

                                      17.

Corey tosses the brick to Alex, then slices open the 2nd 
stomach.  It also contains a brick of heroin.  Alex has 
already set his brick down and started digging in the 
entrails in search of more.

             ALEX
      How many head came in on that lot?

             COREY
      Had to be thirty, forty head.

Alex holds up ANOTHER SQUARE STOMACH.

             ALEX
      Looks like they were all packin’.

A LITTLE LATER-

A WEIGHING SCALE is piled high with bloody, bile-covered 
bricks of heroin. Corey balances the last one on top.

                                 FADE TO:

             COREY
      That’s the last one.  
        (reading the scale)
      Forty-eight point eight nine.

             ALEX
      Oh shit! That’s like-

Alex is too excited for words.  He paces and punches at the 
air.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      Bro! That’s like...
      That’s gotta be worth like a half-
      mill on the street, bro. I ain’t 
      shittin’ you.

             COREY
      I’m gonna call Sheriff Kinnie.

             ALEX
      What?! The fuck you are, bro. We 
      just struck gold here. This is fuck-
      you money right here. That’s what 
      this is. Fuck-you money.

                                      18.

             COREY
      No. This is illegal narcotics. 
      Ain’t no money til you sell it and 
      we ain’t gonna sell it. We’re gonna 
      do what’s right.

             ALEX
      What’s right? You know what’s 
      right? Not spending the rest of our 
      lives slittin’ throats in this shit 
      hole. You think you’re ever gonna 
      get out of here without a miracle? 
      Well, guess what? Here’s your 
      motherfuckin’ miracle! Right here!

             COREY
      I’m no drug dealer.

             ALEX
      Neither am I, bro. We’re not going 
      into fucking business. It’s one and 
      done. A one-time deal that’s gonna 
      solve all your fucking problems. 
      You tellin’ me you can’t use some 
      extra money right now? You tellin’ 
      me you like comin’ to this fucking 
      place every day of your goddamn 
      life? Goin’ home with the stink of 
      death on you? You tellin’ me you 
      can picture yourself on the fuckin’ 
      kill floor when you’re fifty, still 
      workin’ for that pension you’ll be 
      dead before you ever fuckin’ 
      collect on? We gotta do-

Alex stops abruptly at THE SOUND OF A DISTANT DOOR CLOSING.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      You hear that?

Alex crosses to the other side of the kill floor for a look. 
He sees the Plant Manager making his way through the corrals.  
They make eye contact. 

             PLANT MANAGER
        (calling out)
      Alex, that you boy? I was driving 
      home and saw Corey’s pickup still 
      parked in the lot. What’s going on?

Alex is frozen.  He looks at Corey... helpless.

                                      19.

             ALEX
      We were just, uh, finishing up 
      with, uh, cleaning the, uh... 

Alex looks back to Corey again.  The Plant Manager is steps 
away from the kill floor.  Corey very reluctantly pushes the 
bricks of heroin into a large metal bin, then slides the bin 
under a viscera cart, out of view, just as-

             PLANT MANAGER
      There you are, Corey. Now, why are 
      you fellas here so darn late?

             COREY
      That old girl spilled a lot of 
      blood around the place, Mr. Evans. 
      We was just seeing to it. That’s 
      all. How’s that inspector doin’ 
      anyways?

             PLANT MANAGER
      I see. Well, doctors say he’ll be 
      back at it tomorrow. No skull 
      fractures. No broken bones. He’ll 
      have a nice shiner alright. His 
      wife made it up from Bozeman. She 
      was pretty shook up. That’s for 
      sure. Damn shame something like 
      that happening on his first day. 
      Can’t never tell, I suppose.

             COREY
      Alright, well we better finish up 
      here. Been a long day, sir.

             PLANT MANAGER
      You can finish up in the morning. 
      I’ll lock her up myself. Thanks for 
      managing things for a spell.

Corey eyes the bin where the drugs are stashed.

             COREY
      Yes sir.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / LOCKER ROOM

Corey punches out at the time clock while Alex zips out of 
his jumpsuit.

             ALEX
      Good choice, bro. We can get that 
      shit out the door tomorrow. 

                                      20.

             COREY
      I didn’t make any choice. I just 
      bought myself a little thinking 
      time. That’s all.

             ALEX
      That’s cool, bro. A little thinking 
      time’s what you need. I hope you 
      think about all the fine cars and 
      fine women that money’s gonna buy 
      us.

Corey gives Alex a look, then sets his hat and exits.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / RURAL ROAD - NIGHT

Corey drives his pickup through the wooded darkness.  It’s 
clear he’s giving everything some good thought.

As he rounds a bend, his headlights play off of the evergreen 
forest that borders the winding road.

Then, as Corey steers into the turn, his headlights 
illuminate THE TRASHY GIRLFRIEND from the opening sequence. 
She walks slowly along the side of the road like a zombie, 
CAKED IN DRIED BLOOD. She doesn’t acknowledge Corey’s passing 
truck as the light washes over her.

Corey holds a look until the truck passes and the girl 
returns to darkness.  He rubs his eyes wearily, then pushes 
the cigarette lighter into its chamber.

EXT. LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey is parked at the side of the road, across the street. 
He watches the house from the darkened cab of his pickup.

Through the kitchen window, a young boy, HUNTER, is seated at 
the table. His mother, LIZ, 27 and classically pretty, 
enters.  She sets a plate of food in front of Hunter, then 
kisses the top of his head.

Corey starts his truck and pulls away.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Set against the forest at the end of a long unpaved driveway, 
Corey’s modest home is completely dark except for a porch 
light. Corey’s truck pulls down the driveway, trailing a 
cloud of dust.

                                      21.

INSIDE THE TRUCK-

Corey cuts the engine as the dust cloud settles around his 
truck. He stares at the house, deep in thought, then-

BOOM!

A SHOTGUN BLAST. Corey’s windshield spiderwebs. Corey ducks 
for cover inside the cab. 

BOOM!

ANOTHER SHOT rips through the passenger door.

Corey opens the door and rolls out of the truck, onto the 
ground. He crawls across the ground toward a nearby woodpile. 

Behind the woodpile and breathing hard, he sees A FIGURE move 
across the darkness.

             COREY
      Shit.

Corey crawls from behind the woodpile and makes his way 
around the back of the house. Keeping close to the house, he 
moves around to the opposite side. Peering around the corner, 
he can see the SHADOWY FIGURE of a man, A DOUBLE-BARRELED 
SHOTGUN hanging at his side.

Sneaking up behind the man, Corey grabs hold of the barrel. A 
struggle ensues. The man begins to HOWL and SPIT and GROAN as 
Corey overpowers him. 

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Let go, Pop. C’mon. It’s me.

Corey is careful not to injure HIS GRANDFATHER as he disarms 
the old man.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon look at me, Pop. It’s me.

GRANDPA stares at him with a wild, confused look in his eyes.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s alright, Pop. I ain’t gonna 
      hurt you. Let’s just go back inside 
      now. Okay? I’ll fix you some 
      supper.  C’mon.

Corey takes Grandpa by the arm and begins to lead him back to 
the house when he notices A FLICKERING LIGHT coming from 
inside.

                                      22.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Shit...

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / KITCHEN - NIGHT

THE COUNTER IS ON FIRE and the flames have already begun to 
spread up the wall, filling the kitchen with smoke. Corey 
digs a fire extinguisher out of a cluttered closet and begins 
to fight the flames. 

                                 FADE TO:

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - LATER

Grandpa sits inches from the TV, smoking a cigarette and 
watching a war documentary. Corey is seated at the dining 
table with two mugs of coffee in front of him.

SHERIFF KINNIE, a slender, kind-faced older man, enters 
through the front door as A SMALL FIRE TRUCK recedes from 
view behind him. Corey hands him a mug of coffee. 

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Oh. Thank you kindly.

The Sheriff takes a seat.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
	(CONT’D)
      Bill says you did a good job 
      puttin’ out that fire. It’s a good 
      thing you called it in though. I’ve 
      seen these things reignite hours 
      later. Better safe than sorry. 
      That’s what I always say.

             COREY
      Thanks for your help, Sheriff.

The Sheriff takes a sip of coffee.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Mmm. That’s a good cup of Joe.
        (another long sip)
      So, what are you figuring started 
      that fire anyways?

Corey is watching Grandpa, who continues to smoke.  The 
sleeves of his robe are peppered with cigarette burns.

                                      23.

             COREY
      I was frying up a couple venison 
      steaks for me and Grandpa to have 
      for supper. Grease must have caught 
      fire. It spread fast.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Uh huh. Uh huh.  Boy, I’ll tell you 
      what... I haven’t had a nice piece 
      of venison for quite some time now.

Corey stands.

             COREY
      Let me get you a couple steaks from 
      the cellar. I got a buck and three 
      doe last season. We’ve got plenty 
      of meat to last us.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      That’s mighty kind. 

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey meets Sheriff Kinnie by his SUV and hands him the 
WRAPPED VENISON STEAKS.

             COREY
      Just put them in the fridge to thaw 
      out when you get home.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Boy, that’s mighty kind of you, 
      Corey. How are things over at the 
      meatworks these days? Marty 
      treating you okay?

             COREY
      I can’t complain.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Boy, I do miss my cowboyin’ days. 
      Shame the work dried up. Law 
      enforcement just hasn’t provided me 
      with the same excitement.

             COREY
      That’s probably for the best.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Well, I reckon you’re right on that 
      one. Alright, I’ll leave you to it. 

                                      24.

The Sheriff climbs into his SUV.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
	(CONT’D)
      Bill says you got no structural 
      damage, but it’ll smell unpleasant 
      in there til you got time to fix it 
      back to normal.

             COREY
      Can’t smell no worse than the 
      slaughterhouse. Thank you, Sheriff.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Any time.

Corey watches Sheriff Kinnie drive away.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Corey watches Grandpa eat a microwave dinner. Grandpa sets 
his fork down and looks at Corey.

             COREY
      That it? You done?

Grandpa just stares at him.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Alright, good. I’m sorry you got 
      your supper so late. Bed time?

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / GRANDPA’S ROOM - NIGHT

Corey tucks Grandpa into bed. As he leaves the room, he hangs 
a string of metal pots and pans over the doorknob.

             COREY
      Night, Pop.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey adds a hasp and lock to the outside of the front door.  
He then takes the shotgun and a box of shells, puts them 
behind the seat in his pickup, and locks the truck.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / BATHROOM - NIGHT

Corey showers. Bits of blood and filth from a hard day’s work 
wash down the drain.

                                      25.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / COREY’S ROOM - NIGHT

Corey lies awake in bed, staring at the ceiling. Around him, 
HALLUCINATIONS OF GIANT CAMEL SPIDERS materialize out of the 
floorboards.  They climb up the walls and across the ceiling.  
Corey watches them as if it’s nothing new, his mind deep in 
thought.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / KITCHEN - NIGHT

Standing alone in the kitchen, Corey drinks a glass of milk. 
The entire wall behind him is CHARRED BLACK.

                                FADE OUT.

INT. WAREHOUSE - MORNING

A TELEPHONE HANDSET dangles by its cord in the back corner of 
the vast warehouse.  A distant door opens, throwing a column 
of early morning light across the polished floor. 

A MAN of average height and build approaches the telephone. 
The name tag on his polo shirt reads: ALAN WARD. He lifts the 
receiver to his ear.

             ALAN
      Yes? 

He picks up a pencil and begins to write as he listens.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      Okay.  Yes.  I can do that.  Should 
      take about two days. Yes, for both. 
      Mmm Hmm.  Okay.  Bye now.

On the paper, he has written “Elk Foot, Montana.”

EXT. SHERIFF’S OFFICE - MORNING

A large sign outside reads “SHERIFF - ELK FOOT, MONTANA.”

INT. SHERIFF’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

THE TRASHY GIRLFRIEND from the opening sequence sits at the 
end of a long wooden table voraciously devouring a fast food 
breakfast. A DEPUTY eyes her inquisitively from a nearby 
desk.

Sheriff Kinnie enters from outside carrying a box of 
doughnuts. He steals a glance of the girl before setting the 
doughnuts on the deputy’s desk.

                                      26.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Mornin’ Rusty. I brought doughnuts. 
      Should I start a fresh pot?

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Mornin’ Sheriff. I’m gonna pass on 
      the doughnuts, but I could go for a 
      warmer-upper if you’re fixin’ a 
      pot.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      You sure? They’re the healthy kind.

Sheriff Kinnie holds the box up again.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
	(CONT’D)
        (to the girl)
      How about you, young lady? Can I 
      interest you in a doughnut?

The girl ignores him.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Yeah, she don’t talk much. I know 
      she can talk though. She used the 
      phone right after I brought her in. 
      I’m pretty sure the number was 
      Canadian.  Fella on the other end 
      didn’t sound too happy when she 
      said where she was, that’s for 
      sure.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Hmm. That so? And you said she had 
      blood on her?

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      She was covered in it. Weren’t hers 
      though. She don’t seem to have any 
      injuries to speak of.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Any identification?

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Nothing she was willing to share 
      with me. Heck, the most interaction 
      I’ve had with her was when she 
      snatched that egg sandwich out of 
      my hand. 


             DEPUTY RUSTY
	(CONT'D)
      If I didn’t know any better, I’d 
      say she was feral. I’ve taken to 
      calling her Wildcat.

                                      27.

EXT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS - MORNING

Corey arrives early to work. The parking lot is nearly empty. 
As he enters the building, A WORKMAN is changing the sign to 
read: “CRISWELL MEATWORKS - DAYS WITHOUT A LOST TIME 
ACCIDENT: 0.”

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - MORNING

Corey, suited up, enters the kill floor. All is very quiet 
and still. He looks up at Lupe’s platform. It’s empty. He 
pulls out the metal viscera bin where he hid the drugs. As he 
hefts one of the bricks in his hand-

             ALEX
      Looks like we both had the same 
      idea.

Corey startles. He whips around. Alex is holding a LARGE 
DUFFEL BAG. He tosses it on the floor beside Corey.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon. Help me fill it up.

Alex begins to transfer the bricks into the duffel. Corey 
watches Alex for a long moment, then looks around the empty 
slaughterhouse one last time.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
        (as he loads)
      This guy I used to buy weed off is 
      pretty well connected. I can call 
      him in a little bit. He sleeps 
      late. He can probably take this 
      shit off our hands. If not, he’ll 
      know somebody.

Corey thinks for a moment, then hesitantly begins to transfer 
bricks into the bag with Alex.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      There you go! Good man!

I/E. ALAN WARD’S CAR / INTERSTATE - MORNING

Alan Ward, name tag removed, drives his nondescript sedan at 
a reasonable speed. Everything about him is average. He wears 
a realistic-looking FAKE MUSTACHE AND EYEGLASSES.

                                      28.

AT AN AIRPORT CHECK-IN KIOSK-

Alan hands over a passport.

             TICKET CLERK
      Good morning, Mr. Nolan. Where are 
      you headed today?

             ALAN
      Missoula, Montana.

AT A RENTAL CAR COUNTER-

             RENTAL CAR CLERK
      Welcome to Missoula, Mr. Walsh. 
      Your car is right outside.

AT A MOTEL CHECK-IN DESK

             DESK CLERK
      How many keys would you like, Mr. 
      Sinclair?

             ALAN
      Just one.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Alan turns on the TV and sits down on the edge of the bed. 
Bracing himself with both hands, he raises and lowers his 
body, testing the springs on the mattress.

He pulls back a corner of the bedspread, then the sheet. He 
examines the mattress tag, then replaces the sheet.

He looks back at the fishing show on the TV, then removes his 
fake mustache and TURNS THE VOLUME UP LOUDER... THEN LOUDER.

He scans the room with his eyes.

INT. SHERIFF’S OFFICE - DAY

Sheriff Kinnie and Deputy Rusty are engaged in a game of GIN 
RUMMY.  They’ve dealt the girl a hand, which remains face-
down on the table in front of her.  

                                      29.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Your turn, Wildcat.

She gives Rusty a look of disgust.  Sheriff Kinnie picks up 
her cards, draws from the pile, looks the cards over, then 
discards the ace of spades.  Rusty gives him a look.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      She’s got a strategy.

Rusty chuckles as he snatches up the ace.  THE DOOR OPENS. 
The two lawmen rise from their seats to greet THE VISITOR.

             ALAN
      Hello officers. I believe you have 
      my daughter.

Kinnie and Rusty step aside, revealing the girl.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      There you are, darling. Your 
      mother’s been worried sick.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
        (concerned)
      My deputy here picked her up in the 
      wee hours wandering around the 
      parking lot of the Thriftway. She 
      was covered in blood.

             ALAN
        (dry)
      She sleepwalks.  May I take her 
      home now?

Kinnie is taken aback.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Why... sure. Of course you can. I’m 
      sure she could use some rest.

The girl stands and walks toward the door, followed by Alan. 
The Sheriff studies them as they go.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
	(CONT’D)
        (calling out)
      Where did you say you folks lived 
      again?

Alan turns in the doorway to face the Sheriff.

             ALAN
        (a friendly smile)
      Oh, I didn’t specify.

                                      30.

They exit. A long silence, then-

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Poor fella’s got his hands full 
      with that one.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      It’s a difficult age.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS - DAY

The BREAK BELL rings.  Work stops and the employees head for 
the break rooms.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / BREAK ROOM - DAY

Alex stands in front of the coffee vending machine smoking a 
cigarette. Corey enters and inserts a couple quarters without 
looking at Alex.

             ALEX
      You get it out?

             COREY
      Yep.

             ALEX
      Boss see you?

             COREY
      Nope.

Corey takes his coffee from the dispenser and exits.

EXT. RURAL HOUSE - DUSK

Alan Ward removes the mail from the mailbox. He looks through 
the mail as he walks up the empty driveway toward the house.

INT. RURAL HOUSE / KITCHEN - DUSK

Alan throws a long shadow as he enters through the back door. 
He casually tosses the mail on the kitchen table.

A CHILD’S BEDROOM-

Alan enters and takes a seat on the bed. Again, he raises and 
lowers his body, testing the springs. He pulls back the 
fitted sheet to examine the mattress tag.

                                      31.

He replaces the sheet, then faces forward and applies his 
FAKE MUSTACHE.

EXT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS - DUSK

Slaughterhouse employees leave for the night. Corey walks 
alone across the parking lot, toward his truck. 

IN HIS TRUCK-

Corey looks down at the duffel bag on the floor of his truck, 
then back at the slaughterhouse. He watches AN OLDER MAN exit 
the building, still specked with dried blood and carrying a 
worn old lunchbox. He looks tired and sore. Corey thinks for 
a long moment, then turns the ignition and drives out.

EXT. GROCERY STORE PARKING LOT - DUSK

Corey parks at the outer edge of the lot and kills his 
headlights. He sits in silence, listening to the radio until 
the passenger door opens and Alex climbs in.

             ALEX
      Sweet ride. 
        (slapping the dash)
      This is some old school shit right 
      here, bro.

             COREY
      Belongs to my grandfather. 

Alex unzips the duffel.

             ALEX
        (to the drugs)
      How are my babies doin’? Did you 
      miss your daddy?

             COREY
      So, where are we going? Where’s 
      your guy live?

             ALEX
      Man... that fool still ain’t texted 
      me back. Fuckin potheads, man. It’s 
      alright though. I can stash this 
      shit at my place til we make a 
      deal.

                                      32.

             COREY
      I don’t think that’s a good idea. 
      We gotta be smart about this every 
      step of the way. Even if the law 
      ain’t lookin’ for this stuff, you 
      can bet the person who put it in 
      them cows sure as hell is.

             ALEX
      Where do you want to keep it then?

             COREY
      I got a place.

INT. CLARENCE LAMB’S HOUSE - NIGHT

The front door swings open and a six-year-old boy, SCOUT, 
rushes in brandishing a pair of new toy six-shooters. He 
bounds through the living room aiming at various “targets.”

             SCOUT
      Bang! Bang bang!! Bang! Stick em 
      up! Bang!

As Scout continues on through the house, the tall, slender 
frame of CLARENCE LAMB, the cowboy from the opening sequence, 
appears in the doorway carrying shopping bags.

             SCOUT
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Bang! Bang bang!!

Clarence removes a hat box from one of the bags and crosses 
to a large mirror. He removes a brand new Stetson hat and 
sets it gingerly atop his head, admiring his reflection.

UPSTAIRS-

Scout tromps up the stairs like an outlaw, pistols aimed.

             SCOUT
	(CONT’D)
      Bang! Bang bang!!

He continues down the upstairs hallway.

IN A DARKENED BEDROOM-

The door is KICKED OPEN, revealing Scout in a cowboy pose.

             SCOUT
	(CONT’D)
      Bam! Bam! Bam!

Then SCOUT GOES SUDDENLY SILENT as his expression changes.

                                      33.

DOWNSTAIRS-

Clarence notices the silence. He glances up at the ceiling, 
then places the hat back in the box and heads for the stairs.

UPSTAIRS-

As Clarence reaches the top of the stairs, he calls out-

             CLARENCE
      Scout? Where you at, boy?

Nothing.  He continues down the upstairs hallway.

             CLARENCE
	(CONT’D)
      You best not be messin’ where you 
      ain’t supposed to...

Clarence looks into his bedroom as he passes. It’s empty. He 
continues ahead toward a closed door at the end of the hall.

             CLARENCE
	(CONT’D)
      Scout? You playin’ hide and seek?

He arrives at the closed door and listens. It’s completely 
silent.  He swings the door open.

IN THE CHILD’S BEDROOM-

Clarence freezes in the doorway. Alan Ward, still sitting on 
the edge of the bed, has a firm grip on Scout, who gazes up 
at his father as if in a trance. Alan reveals a handgun, 
using it to point toward A MINIATURE CHAIR, meant for a 
child.

             ALAN
      Why don’t you have a seat, Mr. 
      Lamb. This shouldn’t take too long.

Clarence takes a seat on the tiny chair. He looks small and 
humiliated and weak.

EXT. A DENSE PINE FOREST - NIGHT

At the edge of the forest, Corey kills the engine and climbs 
out of the truck with the duffel bag and a machete.

             ALEX
      Yo, where you goin’ now, bro?

             COREY
      Gotta hike the rest of the way in. 
      It ain’t far. Maybe a quarter mile.

Corey disappears into the forest. Alex reluctantly follows.

IN THE FOREST-

Corey hacks a path with the machete.  Alex stops.

                                      34.

             ALEX
      Hey. Hold up. I ain’t goin’ any 
      farther til you tell me what’s out 
      here.

             COREY
      We got a hunting shack just over 
      the ridge. Haven’t been out since 
      my uncle hanged himself in it, but 
      it should serve. 

             ALEX
      How much farther?

             COREY
      Not much. I can see the clearing up 
      there.

Corey makes his way up a wooded incline. Alex follows.

EXT. HUNTING SHACK - NIGHT

Corey and Alex enter the clearing near the old wooden shack.  
As they approach, Corey sees QUICK FLASHES of a BULLET-
RIDDLED CINDER BLOCK WALL. He stops walking and grips the 
blade of the machete with his white-knuckled fist. A trickle 
of blood runs down the tarnished blade.

             ALEX
      What the fuck, bro. You okay?

             COREY
        (returning)
      Yeah. 

Corey tosses the machete to the ground and begins to work a 
combination lock on the door to the shack. Alex watches him 
closely, studying the spinning dial.

INT. CLARENCE LAMB’S HOUSE / BEDROOM - NIGHT

Clarence is still seated on the tiny chair, his eyes filled 
with tears. 

                                      35.

             CLARENCE
        (solemn)
      How much are they paying you to do 
      this? I’ll get you more. I’ll give 
      you everything I have. Please.

Scout, still in Alan’s clutches, looks confused.

             ALAN
      I’m on salary. I’m afraid this 
      transaction is non-negotiable, Mr. 
      Lamb. In fact, I was asked 
      specifically to make the experience 
      as painful as possible.

POP!

A SILENCED GUNSHOT rips into Clarence’s chest, just below the 
heart. Blood spills from the wound as Clarence moans. Alan 
releases his hold on the child.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      Go give your father a hug. Say 
      goodbye.

Scout runs to Clarence, wraps his arms around him and 
whimpers. Clarence begins to choke and gasp.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      I shot you through the lung. 
      Eventually it will collapse and 
      you’ll die of asphyxiation. I’m 
      told it’s extremely unpleasant.

Clarence’s choking and gasping grows in intensity, the sound 
of air escaping through the bullet hole. Scout begins to sob, 
his face and arms stained with his father’s blood.

Clarence chokes and spits a mouthful of blood onto the floor. 
Suddenly, THE AWFUL GURGLING SOUND STOPS and Clarence seems 
to catch his breath once again. He sucks in air, fighting to 
stay alive.

Alan is inquisitive. He walks across the room and squats down 
in front of Clarence for a closer look.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      Ah, you see what’s happening here?

Clarence breaths heavily, his eyes fixed on Alan’s.

                                      36.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      Yes. The blood has begun to congeal 
      in the entry wound, sealing the 
      hole and allowing you to breath 
      again... Fascinating.

Alan leans in close to inspect the wound.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      The human body never ceases to 
      amaze me. So resilient.

Alan pats at the lapels of his sportcoat, then reaches into 
the inside pocket, producing an expensive looking GOLD PEN.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      This should do the trick.

As Clarence watches, helpless and terrified, Alan inserts the 
pen into the bullet hole, giving it a slight jiggle to re-
open the wound. As he removes the pen, AIR HISSES FROM THE 
HOLE and Clarence, once again, begins to choke and gasp.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      There we go.

Alan wipes the blood from the pen on Scout’s shirt, then 
returns the pen to his inside pocket, a satisfied look on his 
face.

EXT. CLARENCE LAMB’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Alan exits the house and walks away, down the road.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / RURAL ROAD - NIGHT

Corey drives along a dark stretch of road. Alex sits shotgun.

             ALEX
      Just let me out right here, dog.

             COREY
      You crazy? I’ll drive you home.

             ALEX
      It’s cool. Some folks on the Rez 
      see me with you, they’re gonna ask 
      questions. Might even try to fuck 
      with you. You don’t want that. 
      Trust me. I can walk the rest of 
      the way. It ain’t that far.

                                      37.

             COREY
      You sure?

             ALEX
      Yeah, it’s all good, bro.

Corey pulls over and Alex starts to get out of the truck.

             COREY
      Hey... Alex.

Alex turns back to face him.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Be careful.

             ALEX
        (laughing)
      It’s all good. I’ve walked this 
      road a thousand times, bro.

Alex gets out and disappears into the night.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / RURAL ROAD - NIGHT

Corey drives alone.  His headlights graze the front lawn of a 
house where CLARENCE LAMB’S SON, SCOUT, stands at attention.  
He is STREAKED WITH BLOOD, his toy gun cradled in his arms.  
He pays no attention to Corey’s passing truck.

Corey pinches at the bridge of his nose, then pushes in the 
cigarette lighter and keeps driving.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey kills the engine and rolls to a stop under a tree.

Deep in thought, Corey watches as the flickering light from a 
TV dances on the living room curtains.

After a moment, he starts the engine and drives away.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey, keys in hand, is about to remove the lock from the 
hasp on the front door. He stops, his eyes taken by something 
beside the door.

The window beside the door has been SMASHED OUT. Corey is 
momentarily frozen as he stares at the window.  His heart 
starts to beat more quickly as his mind races.

                                      38.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE / DRIVEWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Moving quickly, Corey retrieves the shotgun from the truck.

I/E. COREY’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Corey slowly pushes the door of the house open and creeps 
inside.  He stops in the darkened foyer.  He can hear the 
sound of HUSHED VOICES coming from somewhere.  The sound of 
the voices is very faint, ALMOST HALLUCINATORY.

There’s a light on upstairs.  He quietly removes his boots 
and begins to ascend the stairs.

His body quivers with tension as he reaches the top of the 
stairs.  He readies the shotgun before slowly moving down the 
hallway toward the bathroom. The voices are louder now.

He stops at the bathroom door. He takes a deep breath before 
slowly pushing the door open with the muzzle of the shotgun.  

IN THE BATHROOM - 

Grandpa sits happily in the bathtub, immersed to his waist in 
soapy water. The tension leaves Corey’s body as he lowers his 
weapon.

             COREY
      Liz?

Liz, the woman Corey watched through the window of the house 
earlier, is seated on a chair opposite the bathtub.

             LIZ
      He insisted on a bath. I hope 
      that’s not weird.

Corey is beyond shocked to see her there.

             COREY
      What are you doing here?

             LIZ
      He might not remember who you are 
      anymore but he sure does remember 
      my telephone number.  He called the 
      house all day leaving messages 
      about being held hostage by a 
      strange man. I’m sorry I had to 
      break that window. I tried your 
      cell.

                                      39.

             COREY
      It got shut off.  Where’s Hunter?

             LIZ
      He was here, but Paul picked him up 
      and took him back home.

             COREY
        (disappointed)
      Paul’s back?

             LIZ
      For now... Well... We’ll see.

An awkward silence descends. They both regard Grandpa in the 
bathtub.  He’s a poignant facsimile of a happy toddler.

             GRANDPA
        (breaking the silence)
      Cold!

             COREY
      Let’s get you dry, Pop.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Corey and Liz watch as Grandpa sits too close to the 
television smoking a cigarette.

             LIZ
      You know you can’t just lock him up 
      in the house like this.  He needs 
      someone to be living here looking 
      after him or...

She doesn’t want to say it, but Corey catches her drift.

             COREY
      I can’t just put him in some home.  
      But you’re right.  I’ll figure 
      something out.

She takes his hand.

             LIZ
      I know you will.

Corey nods solemnly, appreciating the encouragement.  He 
looks over at Grandpa.

                                      40.

             COREY
      You know sometimes, when he’s not 
      too confused, he talks about you. 
      He thinks we’re still married.

             LIZ
      We were only married for a year.

             COREY
      Yeah, but he always loved you. 

Corey looks into Liz’s eyes.  She realizes she’s still 
holding his hand and draws it away.

             LIZ
      I gotta be getting back.  It’s 
      late.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey pulls into Liz’s driveway and stops the truck.  Grandpa 
sits shotgun with Liz in the middle.  Corey gets out of the 
truck to let Liz out.

             LIZ
      You know I have some time on my 
      hands.  Hunter’s at school all day.  
      I could look after Pop for you 
      while you’re at work until you get 
      things figured out.

             COREY
      You’re not workin?

             LIZ
      Half the medical assistants at the 
      center got laid off. I suppose it’s 
      my own damn fault for getting 
      knocked up and dropping out of 
      nursing school.  Paul’s been 
      helping out with the rent and 
      bills.  It’s been tough, but we’re 
      trying to make it work.

             COREY
      It’s been tough all around lately.  
      I reckon we’re all due a little 
      better luck. I guess Hunter must be 
      happy to have his daddy home.

Liz smiles.

                                      41.

             LIZ
      He’s a good little man.

A moment of silence as they look at each other.

             COREY
      I’ve been thinking about you a 
      whole lot lately.

             LIZ
      You walked out on me, Corey. And 
      that was a long time ago. Long 
      enough that you shouldn’t be 
      thinking about me like that 
      anymore.

             COREY
      I didn’t walk out. I got deployed.

Liz shrugs her shoulders.  They’ve had this argument before.

             LIZ
      I gotta go in.  Think about my 
      offer to look after Pop.

Corey watches as she goes inside.  He gets back in the truck, 
pausing for a moment to watch the light from the TV still 
flickering on the window. 

             GRANDPA
      Hurts.

This snaps Corey from his revery. He looks at Grandpa, unsure 
what he meant by this, before noticing that Grandpa’s 
cigarette has burned down, spilling hot ash onto his leg.

             COREY
      Shit, Pop.

Corey quickly, lovingly brushes the burning ash away.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon. Let’s get back.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The TRASHY GIRLFRIEND sits on the still-made bed watching 
television.  Empty candy wrappers are strewn sloppily around 
her.  She smokes and listlessly changes channels on the TV.

Alan enters.  She becomes agitated at the sight of him.

                                      42.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      What the fuck, asshole? You said 
      you’d be right back. I’ve been 
      sitting in this shithole all night 
      with nothing to eat but fucking 
      stale candy bars. I told you all 
      about that fucking cowboy. Now take 
      me home.

             ALAN
      You’re absolutely right. Why don’t 
      you wait out in the car while I 
      settle up with the innkeep?

He holds out the car keys for her.  She grabs them from him.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      Fucking finally! God!

She storms out the door.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / GRANDPA’S ROOM - NIGHT

Corey stands over Grandpa watching him sleep. He tucks the 
blanket under Grandpa’s chin, then collects some soiled 
dishes from the cluttered nightstand.

A FRAMED PHOTO lies face-down amidst the disarray. Corey 
regards it for a moment before righting it. In the photo, a 
much younger Grandpa stands with TWO YOUNG BOYS on a fishing 
trip. One of the boys is unmistakably Corey. 

Corey’s gaze shifts from his own image to that of the OLDER 
BOY in the photo. He stares at the image wistfully.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Corey, still carrying the framed photo, removes a WORN OLD 
ADDRESS BOOK from a drawer beneath the telephone.  He flips 
through the pages of hand-written numbers and addresses until 
he gets to DALE MEAGHER.

Unlike the other entries, Dale’s stretches down the entire 
page, one number after another having been SCRATCHED OUT and 
replaced with the next.

Corey lifts the receiver and begins to dial the last number 
that was entered into the book.

                                      43.

INT. FLOPHOUSE / HALLWAY - NIGHT

A PAY PHONE rings in the dimly-lit lobby of the shabbily-
furnished flophouse. A SCRUFFY, DISHEVELED MAN dressed in a 
tattered bathrobe huffs and puffs his way to the phone and 
lifts the receiver. After a long beat-

             SCRUFFY MAN
      Hello.

INTERCUT-

             COREY
      Hello. I’m trying to reach Dale 
      Meagher.

             SCRUFFY MAN
      Who’s this?

             COREY
      His brother. 
        (silence)
      My name’s Corey.

Another long beat, then-

             SCRUFFY MAN
      He don’t live here no more.

             COREY
      Alright. Thank you. You got a new 
      number for him by any chance?

A CLICK, then a dial tone. Corey replaces the receiver.

I/E. ALAN WARD’S CAR / RURAL ROAD - NIGHT

The Trashy Girlfriend plays with the radio as Alan drives. 
She flicks from country station to country station, agitated.  
She slams the off button.  

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      Why do you talk like that anyway?

Alan ignores her, his eyes on the darkened road ahead.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      Innkeep? C’mon. Who the fuck talks 
      like that?  So fucking gay.

She laughs mockingly. She looks around.

                                      44.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      What are we, DRIVING all the way 
      home? Where’s the fucking airport 
      in this shithole?

Alan pays her no mind. He turns the car onto a dirt road and 
keeps driving into DARKER DARKNESS.  

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      Are you fucking lost? You’re 
      fucking lost, aren’t you? Great...

I/E. ALAN WARD’S CAR / EMPTY FIELD - NIGHT

Alan rolls the car to a stop at the edge of a field.

             ALAN
      Okay.  We’re here.

He kills the lights.  Suddenly it’s very dark.  He gets out 
and walks at a casual pace into the field. The girl jumps out 
and stalks after him. 

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
      What the fuck are you doing now?  

Alan, ignoring her, keeps walking.  Her anger is fading, 
she’s getting nervous.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      I want to go home!

She’s frightened now.  Alan keeps walking. She follows.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon!  Where are we going?

They reach the middle of the field.  Alan stops and turns to 
face the girl, her expression barely visible in the darkness. 
She seems small and lost, like a little girl.

Alan looks directly into her eyes, his own expression 
inscrutable.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      Please mister.  I just want to go 
      home. I’m sorry I made fun of you. 
      Can you please just take me home?

Alan raises a pistol to her forehead.

             TRASHY GIRLFRIEND
	(CONT’D)
      Oh god...

                                      45.

POP!

Her body drops to the ground like a stone. Alan walks back to 
his car.

INT. NURSING HOME OFFICE - MORNING

Corey sits in a chair opposite a MATRONLY SUPERVISOR as she 
taps on her computer keyboard. He looks out the open door at 
the drab, dingy lounge area. The NEGLECTED RESIDENTS barely 
interact or move around. They look lost and lonely. 

Corey looks back at the supervisor who continues to tap on 
her computer. He looks back into the lounge as an OLD WOMAN 
begins to cry. AN ORDERLY appears and turns her wheelchair to 
face the wall.

             SUPERVISOR
      Okay, Mr. Meagher.  You’d be 
      looking at about twenty-five 
      hundred a month for the in-home 
      care. That’s for an aide, not a 
      nurse. Plus we’d have to add on for 
      any supplies or additional services 
      like doctor visits, medication... 
      things like that.

             COREY
      That’s more than I’m taking home 
      right now, ma’am. Isn’t there some 
      sort of government thing that could 
      help out?  Medicaid?

             SUPERVISOR
      Well, as you own the home you won’t 
      qualify for Medicaid. You might be 
      thinking of Medicare. Of course, 
      they require at least a three day 
      hospital stay before they’ll cover 
      any of our services.

Corey takes this all in. The old woman in the lounge 
continues to whimper. Corey steals another glance. 

             COREY
        (dejected)
      So, what if I put him in here then?

             SUPERVISOR
      I could put him in one of our 
      suites... that’s a shared room with 
      three other residents... and that 
      would run...  

                                      46.

She taps at her keyboard.

             SUPERVISOR
	(CONT’D)
      ... about fifty-two hundred a 
      month... not including any special 
      procedures that might be required 
      down the line.

Corey takes it all in, his eyes fixed on some far off point.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - MORNING

Corey joins Alex, already on the floor.  Alex nods toward the 
Plant Manager’s office. 

Corey looks up at the enclosed office where Sheriff Kinnie 
and his deputy stand and put their hats on.  They shake hands 
with the manager.  As the men exit the office, Sheriff Kinnie 
tucks a SMALL ORANGE NOTE PAD into his hip pocket.

Alex grabs the prone animal in front of him by the head and 
slices its throat, BLOOD JETS OUT onto his coveralls.

             ALEX
      They were waiting here when the 
      place opened up this morning.

Corey doesn’t speak, but he’s clearly shaken by this turn of 
events.  Mechanically, he sticks the animal Alex has passed 
him with his knife and slices down its midsection, spilling 
offal onto the conveyor belt below.

The Plant Manager enters the kill floor, hesitant and cagey.  

             PLANT MANAGER 
      I need to see you both in my office 
      once this lot clears.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / MANAGER’S OFFICE - AFTERNOON

Corey and Alex enter the office.  The Plant Manager is 
already seated behind his desk.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Have a seat, fellas. You alright? 
      You want Ms. Doris to get you a 
      soda or something?

They sit down across from the manager.

             ALEX
      What’s up? We in trouble? We seen 
      the Sheriff hangin’ around. 

Corey shoots Alex a warning glance.

                                      47.

             COREY
        (to the Plant Manager)
      Thanks. We ain’t thirsty. What do 
      you need to talk to us about, Mr. 
      Evans?

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, I’m afraid I’ve got a bit of 
      alarming news. A man I purchased a 
      lot of cattle from a few days back 
      was found dead of a gunshot wound 
      right in his own home. 

             COREY
      Suicide?

             PLANT MANAGER
      Afraid not, Corey. Sheriff’s 
      calling it a murder. I can’t say I 
      can recall another murder in Elk 
      Foot and I been here for fifty-two 
      years. Just can’t imagine such a 
      thing. 

             ALEX
      So, what’d you call us up here for? 
      You think we did it or something?

Corey throws Alex another look.

             COREY
      Sheriff Kinnie have any leads?

             PLANT MANAGER
      None so far. He found a check stub  
      from the meatworks in the man’s 
      pocket what led him here. Here’s 
      what I gave him...

The manager sketches A SYMBOL on a piece of paper.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      This here’s the brand they wore, 
      best I can remember. I hadn’t ever 
      seen it before, that’s for sure. 
      Sheriff suspects they mighta been 
      rustled. 


                                      48.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      Anyways, you fellas remember this 
      lot comin’ through? Maybe notice 
      anything odd about it?

Corey looks at the symbol. He remembers it well.

             ALEX
      Shit. We just kill’em and clean’em. 
      We don’t take em out to dinner and 
      get to know em. 

Corey looks agitated. He glances around the small office.

             PLANT MANAGER
      I just thought you mighta seen 
      something jumped out at ya. I’d 
      like to see whoever did this get 
      found. That man left a young boy 
      behind. Already lost his momma to 
      cancer a couple years back. It’s a 
      damn shame. Boy’s an orphan now.

             COREY
      We’ll think on it and let you know, 
      Mr Evans.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Thank you, son. I’d like to help 
      the Sheriff any way we can.

             COREY
      Me too, sir.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Alright then, you best get back 
      down on the kill floor. Thanks for 
      your time. I’ll let you know if I 
      hear anything.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - AFTERNOON

Corey and Alex are back to work.  They’re visibly tense, 
their minds clearly racing.  

The USDA Inspector hovers nearby, his head wrapped in a heavy 
bandage. He has a nasty looking black eye.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / BREAK ROOM - AFTERNOON

Bloody from their day’s work, Corey and Alex huddle in front 
of the vending machine, their voices hushed.

                                      49.

             ALEX
      Josh just texted me. We can go over 
      to his place after work.

             COREY
      Can he move the stuff or not?

             ALEX
      Check yourself, dog.  These ain’t 
      girl scout cookies we’re trying to 
      sell.  You don’t conversate about 
      that shit on the fucking phone. You 
      cool to drive or what?

EXT. JOSH’S HOUSE / FRONT STOOP - NIGHT

Corey and Alex wait by the door.

             COREY
      Maybe you should knock again?  I 
      hear music or something.

Alex shrugs and raises his hand to knock again when it 
suddenly opens.  AURORA, 30’s, average, stands inside.

             AURORA
      Namaste.  Sorry I didn’t hear the 
      door.  I have some lentils going in 
      the pressure cooker.  Come in,  
      Come in, please.

INT. JOSH’S HOUSE / HALLWAY - NIGHT

Alex and Corey follow Aurora into the house.  Corey takes in 
the decor:  Native American wall hangings, Southeast Asian 
nick-nacks, incense.  Relaxing pan-flute music floats down 
the hallway.  Aurora stops suddenly, whirling around and 
startling Corey and Alex. 

             AURORA
      SHOES!!

Corey gives Alex a look.

             AURORA
	(CONT’D)
      Sorry... house rule.  We have an 
      assortment of slippers if you’d 
      like to borrow some.  Josh is in 
      the meditation room.  It’s just in 
      there.

She turns and walks away. Corey and Alex take their shoes 
off. Alex takes a pair of slippers.

                                      50.

             COREY
      This don’t seem like the place.

             ALEX
      It’s cool, bro. Trust me. Let’s 
      talk to the man.

IN THE MEDITATION ROOM-

Corey and Alex enter to find a shirtless JOSH, 30’s, 
ponytail, in the middle of the room holding an ADVANCED YOGA 
POSE. The pan-flute music continues.

They stand awkwardly watching Josh, unsure how to proceed.  
Corey gives Alex another look.  Alex can only shrug in 
response.

Finally, Josh breaks the pose before turning to face them.

             JOSH
      Gentlemen, welcome.  Would either 
      of you care for a bong hit?

             COREY
      No thanks. Just came to talk.

Josh sizes him up.

             JOSH
      Okay... well, have a seat. Let’s 
      talk.

Corey and Alex take a seat on two giant pillows while Josh 
takes a long tug from a GLASS BONG. Exhaling a plume of 
smoke, Josh turns to Corey and Alex.

             JOSH
	(CONT’D)
      What are you in need of?

             ALEX
      We’re actually looking to sell.

             JOSH
      Alex, you know I grow my own shit, 
      right?  And you know it’s the best.  
      Why would I want to buy?

Alex takes a small baggie of heroin from his pocket and puts 
it on the table.  Corey is clearly taken aback by this.  
Where did he get it?

             ALEX
      I know you don’t grow this shit.

Josh winces at the sight of it.

                                      51.

             JOSH
      Blow?

             ALEX
      Smack.

             JOSH
      Where did you get this?

             ALEX
      We-

             COREY
        (cutting him off)
      We happened into it. There’s fifty 
      pounds and we’d like to move it all 
      at once. We’ll give it to you for a 
      fair price.

             JOSH
      I wouldn’t even begin to know what 
      to do with that. I only deal in 
      high-end cannabis. I like to think 
      of it as a fine wine or a nice 
      craft beer. It takes months for me 
      to cultivate my crop, understand?  
      That junk?  It’s like cheap vodka.  
      They make it in fucking bathtubs.

             COREY
      Sorry to have wasted your time.

Corey is about to leave.  Alex grabs his arm.

             ALEX
      Whoa whoa, hold up.  You don’t know 
      anybody who would want this shit?  
      We got a lot, dog.  It’s worth a 
      lot of money.

             AURORA
	(O.S.)
      Joshua, have you seen the-

Aurora enters and GASPS when she sees the heroin.

             AURORA
	(CONT’D)
      I want you two to leave my home and 
      take that garbage with you.

                                      52.

Corey and Alex look at Josh.

             AURORA
	(CONT’D)
      Now!

AT THE FRONT DOOR-

Josh sees them out.

             JOSH
      I’m sorry about that. Aurora has a 
      very sensitive spirit. 

He closes the door behind him, joining Corey and Alex on the 
front stoop.

             JOSH
	(CONT’D)
        (whispering)
      Listen, if you really want to move 
      that shit, you should take a drive 
      down to Kalispell. There’s a motel 
      called The Good Knight Inn. With a 
      ‘K,’ like Sir Galahad. It’s right 
      on Center Street. It’s basically a 
      halfway house for junkies and 
      derelicts. Shouldn’t be too hard to 
      move that stuff if you set the 
      right price. But be careful. If you 
      truly “happened into it” then 
      someone’s probably waiting for it 
      to hit the street. Be smart, 
      brothers. Okay?

             ALEX
      Thanks, dog. You rock.

They fist bump. Josh holds his fist out to Corey. Corey looks 
at the fist for a beat before giving it a halfhearted bump.

             JOSH
      Namaste.

INT. TRUCKSTOP DINER - NIGHT

Corey and Alex drink coffee in a corner booth.  Corey looks 
defeated and uncertain... distant.  An oblivious Alex devours 
a plate of bacon and eggs.

             ALEX
      You pop any tags over in the 
      desert?

Corey drifts back.

                                      53.

             COREY
        (not listening)
      What?

             ALEX
      Kill anybody, dog. You waste any 
      Hajis?

             COREY
      I’m thinking maybe we drive up to 
      the shack and ditch the shit right 
      now. Just throw it in the river and 
      walk away.

Alex almost chokes on his eggs.

             ALEX
      Wow. We gonna surrender? Just like 
      that? I thought you was Semper Fi, 
      dog.

             COREY
      What are we gonna do?  Go down to 
      Kalispell and sling nickel bags on 
      the street? End up shot or in jail?  
      We ain’t got the connections to do 
      this right. We ditch it right now.  
      Nice and clean.  Nobody gets hurt.

             ALEX
      It’s desperate times, bro. I saw 
      this guy on TV. He tattooed porno 
      websites all over his face just to 
      feed his damn kids. On his FACE, 
      dog. We got a chance to do 
      something here. You feel me? 

             COREY
      There’s too much risk.

Alex looks around the diner, then-

             ALEX
      You ever done time?

             COREY
      Nah... I was no saint when I was 
      younger.  Me and my brother used to 
      boost cars now and then. Take 
      joyrides and whatnot.  We usually 
      just put em back where we found 
      them when we were done.
        (a chuckle)

                                      54.

             COREY
	(CONT'D)
      Some of them we stole more than 
      once.
        (thoughtful)
      Closest I ever came to doing time 
      was sitting in a hole in the desert 
      waiting to get my head blown off. 
      How bout you?

             ALEX
      Nah. Me either, bro. Probably 
      should have, but they deal with 
      things a bit different on the rez, 
      you know? 

He pushes his empty plate away.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      I mean there’s some days I feel 
      like I’d rather be doing time, you 
      know?  Other days I feel like I am 
      doing time... just waiting for my 
      card to get punched. 

Corey watches as Alex rips open sugar packets and pours them 
on the table.  He looks up at Corey.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      You know what this is, bro?

             COREY
      A mess.

             ALEX
      No.  It’s dope.

He takes an unopened sugar package and separates some sugar 
from the pile.  He picks up the salt shaker, unscrews the lid 
and pours some salt onto the smaller pile of sugar.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      See where I’m going?  We cut this 
      shit up and sell it on the street 
      and we can double... nah fuck 
      that... TRIPLE what we get. Same 
      way I used to sell dime bags of 
      catnip to dumb fuckers in junior 
      high.  We could clear a million 
      easy.  A MILLION dollars, dog!

             COREY
      How did your catnip selling 
      business end up?

                                      55.

             ALEX
        (laughing)
      Shit!  I sold some to the wrong 
      motherfuckers one time. They fucked 
      me up good, dog. Put me in the damn 
      hospital.

             COREY
      Right.  We ain’t no drug dealers.  
      We get rid of this shit in one go.  
      Money or no money.

             ALEX
      No money?  Man, you know what, if 
      you want out just give your half to 
      me. I’ll sell that shit on my own. 

             COREY
      What if you get caught? They’ll 
      trace it back to the kill floor and 
      I’ll go down with you. No way.

Alex sits back in the booth.  A bemused smirk on his face.

             ALEX
      36-22-12.

             COREY
      What?

             ALEX
      The combination to the hunting 
      shack, ain’t it?  Maybe I’ll go out 
      there tonight and take my half.  
      Shit, if you don’t want yours, 
      maybe I’ll take all that shit.

Corey starts to tense up.  

             COREY
      Good luck finding your way back 
      there.

             ALEX
      Shit... I’m Injun, son. I could 
      find that shit blindfolded.

Corey considers the threat, his mind racing.

             COREY
      Look, just give me the weekend to 
      think on things, okay? It can wait 
      a couple days.

Alex rolls his eyes and shrugs.

A PRETTY YOUNG WAITRESS approaches the table.  She hands a to-
go bag to Corey.

                                      56.

             WAITRESS
      Here you go.  
        (to Alex)
      You mind not pouring any more sugar 
      on the table?  I have to clean that 
      up.

             ALEX
      Shit, baby.  I got something right 
      here you can clean up.  

He grabs his crotch for greater emphasis.  Her upper lip 
curls in distaste.  Corey stands, handing her a twenty dollar 
bill.

             COREY
      Here you go, miss. I’m sorry about 
      that.  You can keep the change.
        (to Alex)
      C’mon. Let’s go. I gotta get back.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / TWO LANE BLACKTOP - NIGHT

Corey drives as Alex fiddles with the radio.  

             ALEX
      You ruined my game in there. That 
      bitch was fucking hot. I coulda 
      been hittin’ that.

Corey gives Alex a dubious look.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      It’s like my uncle told me on his 
      death bed. Fuckin’ lung cancer took 
      months to eat him up. I was like 
      fifteen or something.  My aunt 
      brought me and my cousins to see 
      him.  She thought she was gonna 
      scare us off cigarettes and shit.

Alex lights a smoke.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
        (a chuckle)
      I guess that shit didn’t work. 
      Anyway, he was all doped up and for 
      some reason he calls me over. 

                                      57.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      I don’t know why he picked me. We 
      were never close or nothin’. He 
      makes me lean in real close and he 
      whispers in my ear, “I wish I 
      fucked more women.”  Ain’t that 
      some shit?  He’s about to fuckin’ 
      die and all he can think about is 
      that he didn’t get enough ass in 
      his life.  That shit haunts me, 
      dog.  I ain’t never gonna let that 
      shit happen to me.

             COREY
      He was in a room surrounded by his 
      family and that’s what he said to 
      you?

             ALEX
      Yeah, dog.  Ain’t that some shit?

             COREY
      Seems like he missed the point.

Alex shakes his head, nonplussed. He turns on the radio and 
spins the dial, settling on a station playing “Let The Bodies 
Hit The Floor.”  He cranks the volume and begins to slap the 
dash with the beat of the song.

A truck pulling a LIVESTOCK TRAILER pulls alongside.  Corey 
looks out at the ghostly white faces of the cattle peering at 
him from the darkness.

Alex begins to chant.

             ALEX
      Let the bodies hit the floor! Let 
      the bodies hit the floor!

REALITY SKEWS-

The cattle MORPH INTO BLINDFOLDED SUNNI MUSLIMS.

Corey is now driving a MILITARY HUMVEE as a group of young 
marines in their late teens and early twenties chant the same 
lyrics in chorus.

             MARINES
      Let the bodies hit the floor!  Let 
      the bodies hit the floor!

The Sergeant Corey hallucinated earlier is silently sitting 
shotgun, wearing the same look of uncertainty Corey had at 
the truck stop.  He turns to Corey, one lens of his 
spectacles is shattered. He speaks slowly and softly.

                                      58.

             SERGEANT
        (calm)
      Stop the fucking truck.

REALITY BEGINS TO SKEW AGAIN-

             SOLDIER/ALEX
      STOP THE FUCKING TRUCK!

Corey SKIDS TO A STOP, narrowly missing the livestock trailer 
as it merges ahead. Corey and Alex both take a moment to 
consider their close call.

             ALEX
      What the fuck?! You trying to 
      fuckin’ kill us?! Fuck!

Corey remains silent, staring straight ahead, his hands still 
gripping the wheel tightly.

Alex takes a pen from the cup holder.  He looks for something 
to write on before finally settling on a napkin he finds on 
the dash. He scribbles something on it and shows it to Corey. 
Corey looks at the crudely written words: BERTH - DEATH 
(sic).

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      You see that dash in the middle?  
      That’s your life, bro.  It’s short.  
      You gotta make your dash count.  
      You gotta live your dash, bro.  

Corey takes this in.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      I’m gonna walk from here.  That 
      dash is short enough, you know what 
      I mean?  

He pushes the napkin into Corey’s hand and steps out of the 
truck. Corey watches as he walks away, down the shoulder of 
the two-lane road.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Corey enters with his to-go bag from the diner to find Liz 
sitting on the couch reading.  Her son Hunter is sleeping 
with his head on her lap.  Grandpa, wrapped in a blanket, 
sits inches from the television.  

Liz turns and smiles when Corey walks in.  They speak quietly 
so as not to wake the child.

                                      59.

             LIZ
      Hey there.

             COREY
      Hey.  Sorry it’s so late. We had a 
      new lot come in late. Boss wanted 
      them to clear.

             LIZ
      That’s okay.  A little overtime 
      can’t hurt right now, right?

             COREY
      I brought you all some food.

             LIZ
      We already ate. I left some for 
      you. It’s in the pot on the stove.  
      You’ve really got to do something 
      about that kitchen by the way.  It 
      looks awful with the walls all 
      charred up like that.

             COREY
      It’s on my list.

Corey places the to-go bag on the coffee table and takes a 
seat on the couch beside Liz and Hunter.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      This is nice. 

Liz gives him a warm smile as he takes in the domesticated 
scene his living room has become.  For the first time he 
seems relaxed, his expression satisfied and serene.  He looks 
down at the sleeping child.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      You know, he don’t much look like 
      his Daddy.

Liz looks down at the boy, blushing slightly.  As she turns 
back to Corey to say something he has leaned in to steal a 
kiss.  She pushes him away.

             LIZ
      No Corey.

There’s an awkward moment, neither party is sure what to do.  
The commotion has stirred Hunter awake.

             HUNTER
      Mommy?

                                      60.

             LIZ
      Be still, honey.  It’s okay.
        (to Corey)
      We gotta go.  I gotta get him into 
      bed.

She waits for a response.  Corey, mortified by the turn of 
events, can only nod his head dumbly.

EXT.  COREY’S HOUSE / DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

Liz watches as Corey loads the sleeping Hunter into the back 
seat of her car.  He closes the door gently before turning to 
her.

             COREY
      Look, I’m sorry about that in 
      there.

             LIZ
      It’s okay. I think it’s my fault 
      for being around here so much 
      lately. It’s been hard on both of 
      us.  Maybe you can find somebody 
      else to look after Pop for a little 
      while?  Sorta let things cool off a 
      bit?

             COREY
        (quietly)
      Go on then.  You gotta get home. 
      I’ll find somebody.

             LIZ
      Are you-
        (firm)

             COREY
      Go on now.

Corey has turned to stone.  His jaw clenches as he stares at 
the ground.  She gets in the car, backs out of the driveway, 
and is gone into the night.  Corey keeps his eyes on the 
ground.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / KITCHEN - NIGHT

Corey removes the lid of the pot on the stove.  He stares at 
the contents.

AT THE KITCHEN TABLE - 

                                      61.

Corey quietly consumes a cheeseburger from the to-go bag.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Corey enters to find Grandpa has fallen asleep in front of 
the television.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / GRANDPA’S ROOM - NIGHT

Corey enters the room with his grandfather in his arms.  He 
places him in the bed and covers him.  He watches him sleep, 
deep in thought.

EXT. IDYLLIC MOUNTAINTOP PASTURE - MORNING

The same mountain pasture from the opening scene.  TWO FOREST 
RANGERS are preparing to remove the body of the dead cowboy. 
The horse he was riding before being gunned down grazes a few 
feet from his body. The body of the PUNK and his ATV are 
nowhere to be seen.  

Sheriff Kinnie and his deputy survey the scene.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Hikers that found him said the dead 
      cowboy was face down ‘cept they 
      didn’t know he was dead until they 
      flipped him over, then they was too 
      upset to flip him back.  They 
      figured he must’ve taken a bad 
      spill off his horse until they 
      spied them bullet holes in him.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      Mmm Hmm. Died with his boots on.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Now, these two head of cattle here 
      were sliced up the belly and had 
      their insides pulled out onto the 
      dirt.  I can’t figure why the dead 
      cowboy woulda done that. He left 
      the horse alone for what it’s 
      worth. Rangers reckon he’d been out 
      here about a week before the hikers 
      found him. Good thing his horse had 
      plenty to graze on.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      He American?

                                      62.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      No I.D., But that’s Canuck 
      territory just the other side of 
      the lake there.  Coulda come down 
      on horseback I suppose, but chances 
      are he’s off the Rez.

             SHERIFF KINNIE
      You reckon he mighta been rustlin 
      these heifers?

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      If he’s off the Rez, you can count 
      on it.

Kinnie shoos a pair of HISSING TURKEY VULTURES so he can 
inspect the dead cattle. He produces the SMALL ORANGE NOTEPAD 
from his hip pocket and flips through pages of handwritten 
notes before settling on a CRUDELY DRAWN SYMBOL.  It’s the 
same as the brand the Plant Manager showed Corey and Alex 
earlier.  

Kinnie squats down and places the drawing beside the brand on 
one of the cows, revealing a match there too. He slides the 
notepad back into his pocket. 

As Deputy Rusty helps the Park Rangers, Sheriff Kinnie 
strolls toward the discarded bones and skulls on the other 
side of the pasture.  

He stops directly on top of THE HIDDEN TRAPDOOR that the punk 
propelled himself through on his ATV earlier. A FAINT HUMMING 
SOUND gets his attention. He looks up into the sky. AN EIGHT-
PROPELLERED DRONE appears. It descends until it hovers just a 
few feet above Kinnie’s head.  He stares at it pensively.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. DARKENED ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dim light flickers in the darkened room as LOUD DUBSTEP MUSIC 
thumps in the background.  BRICKS OF HEROIN are piled on 
either side of a MONITOR SCREEN.  

Sheriff Kinnie, his face distorted by the fish-eye lens, 
stares into the camera. HE DRAWS HIS PISTOL and aims it at 
the lens.

                                      63.

EXT. IDYLLIC MOUNTAINTOP PASTURE - CONTINUOUS

Kinnie has his gun trained on the drone in an eerie Mexican 
stand-off. Deputy Rusty looks on in disbelief, then 
unholsters his own pistol.

A moment later, the drone abruptly rises and retreats over a 
nearby hilltop.

Directly below Kinnie’s feet, through a few feet of dirt, 
stone and roots...

INT. SECRET BUNKER - CONTINUOUS 

TWO TWEAKED OUT AND TATTED PUNKS aim rifles at the trapdoor 
hatch.  Dirt falls from below the hatch, the dust hanging in 
the air around a thin ribbon of light. 

                              SMASH CUT TO:

EXT. WOODED TRAIL - DAY

A CLUSTER OF ATVs roars past.  The riders are FULLY 
CAMOUFLAGED and loaded down with gear.  Their faces are 
hidden behind balaclavas and goggles.  The leader of the pack 
skids to a halt. The others pull up behind him.  He looks 
through pair of high-powered binoculars, scanning the terrain 
ahead. He signals to the others and they ROAR AWAY down the 
trail.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY

Corey sips from a coffee thermos as he bounces along the 
neglected, windy road. 

THE SAME GROUP OF ATVs bursts from the trees and bounces onto 
the road behind him.  Corey jumps, his truck swerving as he 
checks his mirror and rights himself.  The ATVs continue 
behind him momentarily before turning off into an open 
pasture and disappearing from sight.

He grabs the aspirin container and shakes one into his mouth.

EXT. HUNTING SHACK - DAY

Corey approaches the hunting shack where he and Alex left the 
drugs.  When he reaches the door he freezes.  The hasp has 
been broken away from the rotted wooden door frame, leaving 
the door slightly ajar.

AT HIS TRUCK - 

                                      64.

Corey removes the shotgun and chambers a round.

BACK AT THE SHACK - 

Corey approaches the door cautiously, shotgun in hand. Aiming 
the shotgun, he gently eases the door open with his foot.

The interior is dark except for a couple shafts of light 
penetrating the old wooden roof planks.  Corey enters slowly, 
his weapon at the ready.  As he reaches the back of the shack 
he sees that some floor boards have been pried loose. 

He drops to his knees and peers into the hole.  The duffel 
bag is missing.  He paws at the hole to make sure... Nothing.  
He stands up.  His heart is pounding as he scans the cabin, 
desperately searching for a sign of the missing drugs. 

He moves toward a small window at the back of the cabin.  He 
clears the window of dust with his shirt sleeve and peers out 
at the open meadow beyond. Nothing.

He looks up to a nearby tree-stand. It’s empty.

As he scans the terrain, his eyes seize on SOMETHING MOVING.  
He ducks back into the shadows. Sweat trickles down his 
temple, his breathing slightly ragged.

He slowly leans his head toward the window for a closer look.  
A FIGURE IN A GHILLIE SUIT raises up from the long grass and 
scans the area with binoculars before dropping into the grass 
again.  Corey stiffens up.  The figure appears to be crawling 
toward the cabin.  Corey raises the shotgun slowly.  He takes 
a deep breath and holds it as he settles the sight on the 
Ghillie Man.  His finger teases the trigger.

IN THE MEADOW - 

The Ghillie Man is slowly prone-crawling toward the shack.

SUDDENLY - Corey is on top of him, digging a knee into his 
back and shoving the gun’s muzzle into the back of his head.  
The Ghillie Man screams and writhes inside the heavy suit.

             COREY
        (shouting)
      Hands behind your head!  I said 
      hands behind your head 
      motherfucker!

The Ghillie Man complies as Corey stands, his gun still 
trained on the man’s head.

                                      65.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
        (screaming)
      Who the fuck are you?  What do you 
      want from me?  Answer me right now 
      or I’ll peel your fucking cap!  
      Answer me!

Muffled cries come from inside the Ghillie suit.  Corey is 
about to reach down and pull his mask off when -  

The sound of ROARING ENGINES as FIVE MORE CAMOUFLAGED MEN on 
ATVs come bounding over the hill.  Corey, desperate now, 
places his foot on the man’s throat as he turns to face the 
new threat.

The lead ATV rider skids to a halt and signals for the others 
to stop.  Corey, focused and intense, in full battle mode, 
flicks the sights of his shotgun from man to man waiting for 
the first sign of danger.  His finger curls around the 
trigger as his sights settle on the first ATV rider.

The man raises both hands, showing Corey that they’re empty 
before cautiously removing his head gear, revealing a kindly, 
middle aged face.  

             ATV MAN
      Mister please! We’re birders!  
      We’re just birders.  We don’t wish 
      you any harm at all.  We’re out 
      here looking for birds. That’s all. 
      Please... let Stan go.

Corey watches in amazement as the other men remove their 
headgear to reveal similarly kind, unthreatening faces.  One 
of them has a BIRD CALL that he places to his lips and gives 
a little TOOT as if to convince Corey their story is true.  

             ATV MAN
	(CONT’D)
      Sir. Can you please lower the 
      weapon? I beg of you.

Corey realizes he still has the gun trained on the men.  He 
lowers it slowly before turning to remove Ghillie Man’s hood, 
revealing another kind, middle aged face.  

The man is sobbing in terror. His face bright red and 
streaked with tears and mucus.  Corey removes his boot from 
the man’s neck and watches as he scrambles away desperately 
toward his friends.

The men start their ATVs and speed away.  Corey is left alone 
in the meadow, shaken by how close he came to killing an 
innocent man.

                                      66.

AT THE SHACK - 

Corey returns, shaken but still cautious.  He removes a 
Maglite from his coat pocket.  He enters the cabin, led by 
the light, revealing the squalor of the interior.  Dirty pots 
and pans, spilled food and empty beer cans litter the floor.

He moves toward the spot where the floor boards have been 
pried away and lowers himself to one knee for a closer look.  
He gets down on his belly and shoves his head into the hole. 

He’s met with a MENACING HISS and GNASHING TEETH.  A LARGE 
RACCOON SNARLS and lashes at Corey’s face with its claws.  He 
stumbles backward, dropping his flashlight.  There’s a 
clatter as the raccoon forces the door open to allow her cubs 
to escape.

Corey takes a moment to steady himself.  He retrieves the 
flashlight from the floor and lowers himself into the hole.  
Peering deep into the recesses of the space below the shack, 
Corey is able to locate THE DUFFEL BAG, surrounded by a 
number of other found objects that have been made into a sort 
of nest.  He’s just able to reach the bag and pull it free.  
He opens it to make sure the contents of the bag have 
remained untouched.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / RURAL ROAD - DAY

Corey drives toward town, the duffel bag on the bench seat 
next to him.  He turns on the radio.  It’s still on the LOUD 
HARDCORE station Alex was playing the night before.  He 
pushes at the vintage preset buttons: 

Click: TALKING.  Click: PREACHING.  CLICK: COUNTRY AND 
WESTERN.  Corey turns up the volume of the Country Music. He 
takes a deep breath and sits back in his seat.

In the distance, Corey sees THE DEPUTY’S CRUISER approaching 
from the opposite direction.  The cruiser gives a BURST FROM 
THE SIREN and FLASHES ITS LIGHTS as it’s about to pass 
Corey’s truck. 

Corey watches in his rearview in dismay as the cruiser 
performs a u-turn and pulls up behind his truck.  Another 
siren burst and light flash impel Corey to pull over.

             COREY
      Shit...

He looks at the duffel on the seat next to him.  He 
surreptitiously pushes it onto the floor.

MOMENTS LATER -

Corey rolls down his window as the Deputy approaches, his 
knuckles gripping his knees so hard they’ve turned white.

                                      67.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      How you doin, Deputy?

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      Howdy. Reason I pulled you over was 
      that cracked windshield you got 
      there.  I got a call from some 
      nature enthusiasts sayin there’s 
      some sort of lunatic with a rifle 
      runnin’ around out here threatening 
      people.  I thought that cracked 
      windshield mighta had something to 
      do with it.

The deputy runs his finger across the bullet hole.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
	(CONT’D)
      Looks like somebody tried to shoot 
      it out.

             COREY
      No sir, just some rocks kicked up 
      by a semi out on the interstate. 
      Been meaning to get it fixed. I 
      ain’t seen any lunatics out here 
      today.

The deputy eyes the shotgun in Corey’s passenger seat.  Corey 
follows his gaze.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      I was hoping to take a couple 
      turkeys this morning. Season just 
      started up.

The deputy gives a knowing nod. 

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      You don’t have to tell me. You get 
      anything?

             COREY
      Didn’t so much as see one. I reckon 
      they must know.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
        (a chuckle)
      I bet they do alright. Well listen, 
      I’m gonna let you off with a 
      warning for that window today.  

                                      68.

             DEPUTY RUSTY
	(CONT'D)
      Just make sure you get it seen to 
      in the next couple weeks. Damn 
      thing is likely to fall in on you 
      if you’re not careful.

             COREY
      Yes sir.  

             DEPUTY RUSTY
      You have yourself a good day now.

The deputy walks back to his car. Corey watches tensely in 
his rearview as the deputy gets in his car, u-turns, then 
speeds off down the road.

INT.  COREY’S HOUSE / GRANDPA’S ROOM - DAY

Corey enters Grandpa’s room holding a bowl of cereal.  
Grandpa is sitting up in bed, staring at the wall.  

             COREY
      Mornin’ Pop. You ready for some 
      breakfast in bed?

Corey props him up and hands him the bowl. Grandpa just 
stares at it.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon now. Eat up. Don’t make me 
      feed it to you.

Grandpa lets the bowl fall from his hands. It crashes to the 
hardwood floor, spilling milk and cereal.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
        (patient)
      Alright... you don’t want cereal? 
      How about we take a drive into town 
      and get some DQ? That sound good?

EXT. GOOD KNIGHT INN - DAY

Corey and Grandpa sit in the cab of the truck eating fast 
food. Corey keeps a close eye on the activities at the 
dismal, two-storey transient motel.

PROSTITUTES bring JOHNS to various rooms. TWO DRUG PUSHERS 
sling small bags of dope that they keep stashed behind a 
dumpster. A FILTHY MAN IN A WHEELCHAIR keeps watch from the 
corner. He gives a whistle as he watches a SQUAD CAR roll 
past, signalling to the others to lie low.

             GRANDPA
      Toilet.

Corey’s concentration is broken. He looks over at Grandpa.

                                      69.

             COREY
      You need the toilet, Pop?

             GRANDPA
      Toilet.

             COREY
      Alright... here, gimme those empty 
      containers. I’ll toss em out, then 
      we can go over to the bus terminal. 
      They got a head in there you can 
      use.

Corey gathers the fast food wrappers and steps out of the 
truck, crossing to a nearby dumpster. He keeps a casual eye 
on the motel. All of the money seems to funnel through room 
237. The prostitutes and dope dealers both drop their 
earnings through an open window next to the door.

BACK IN THE TRUCK-

Corey rolls down his window.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Gettin’ hot. Ain’t even summer 
      yet... Okay, you ready?

Corey begins to turn the ignition. The starter churns, then- 

WHAM!

A MAN with sallow, emaciated features has appeared at Corey’s 
window, inches from Corey’s face.  Corey startles. The truck 
goes silent.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Whoa! Get back!

The man recoils, then returns to the window, speaking in 
hushed tones through his ROTTING TEETH.

             DALE
      It’s me, Corey. It’s Dale!

A look of horror crosses Corey’s face. He looks into the 
man’s eyes. The two men look oddly similar yet vastly 
different. Dale picks at a scab on his cheek as he talks.

                                      70.

             DALE
	(CONT’D)
      You gotta help me, bro. I know I 
      fucked up but I need your help 
      right now. Please...

Corey remains stoic as he regards Dale.

             COREY
      What sorta mess you in?

             DALE
      It’s bad, bro. You gotta help me. I 
      don’t even-

Dale stops. He looks past Corey to Grandpa.

             DALE
	(CONT’D)
      Is that Pop? Pop?!

Grandpa doesn’t look over.

             COREY
      He don’t remember you.

             DALE
        (earnest)
      Corey, please. I’m family. I’m your 
      damn big brother. You gonna let 
      them kill me? I been clean for six 
      days now. C’mon. You gotta help me 
      go straight. I mean it this time. I 
      swear to you.

             COREY
        (reluctant)
      Get in the truck.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Dale stares at a plate of food as he sips coffee. He pushes 
the plate away, then looks at Grandpa, who is seated next to 
him. He reaches into Grandpa’s shirt pocket and removes a 
pack of Winstons, shaking one loose.

             DALE
      ...havin’ a goddamn nic fit over 
      here. Shit.

He lights it, then holds one out to Grandpa.

             DALE
	(CONT’D)
      You want a lung dart, Pop?

Grandpa takes a cigarette. They smoke together. Corey enters 
and watches them from the doorway.

                                      71.

             COREY
      They had a memorial service for Mom 
      and Dad a few months back. You 
      missed it.

             DALE
      I missed a lot.

             COREY
      Ain’t you gonna eat nothin’?

             DALE
      No appetite.

They regard each other for a moment.

             COREY
      So, how much you need?

             DALE
      Twelve hundred. I know it don’t 
      sound like much, but it’s enough to 
      get killed over and it’s more than 
      I got right now. 

             COREY
      Who are you in to?

             DALE
      Guy called Pellet Weeks. That’s 
      what I know him by anyways.

             COREY
      Uh huh. Who is he? Dope dealer?

             DALE
      The only one still slinging smack. 
      I never would of done business with 
      him if I had the choice. The 
      fucking fucker’s fucking nuts. But 
      if you want dope... if you need 
      dope... Pellet’s the fucking man 
      around here. No competition.

             COREY
      How much does he move?

                                      72.

             DALE
      I’d say he does well. Still a lot 
      of junkies down in Kalispell ain’t 
      switched over to ice yet. I’d say 
      he does pretty well alright.

             COREY
      How do I get in touch with him?

Dale lets out a laugh.

             DALE
      Aw shit. Look at my little brother. 
      You got the eye of the tiger right 
      there, my man. That’s what you got. 
      They teach you that in the army? 
      What do they call that? The 
      thousand yard stare?

Dale chuckles again.

             DALE
	(CONT’D)
      Yeah.  That’s it.  The thousand 
      yard stare.

             COREY
      This all some kinda joke to you?

             DALE
        (uneasy)
      Aw, lighten up, bro. I was just 
      messin’. Damn...

             COREY
        (a fire building)
      Hard to believe there was a time I 
      looked up to you. Guess I was just 
      young and stupid.

             DALE
      Hey, that ain’t necessary, Corey. 
      Now, I told you I was just messin’. 
      C’mon now...

             COREY
      It’s about time you took some 
      responsibility. You ain’t done 
      nothin’ but shit all over this 
      family for the last ten years. 
      Ain’t done nothin’ but cause 
      problems. You know that? You think 
      you’re some kinda outlaw? Some 
      kinda rebel? Is that it?

                                      73.

Dale averts his eyes.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Ain’t nothin’ but selfishness is 
      what it is. You ain’t livin’ life 
      for no one but yourself.

Dale shakes out another cigarette and lights it.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      It’s time for you to be the big 
      brother. You hear me?

             DALE
        (sheepish)
      Yeah. I hear you.

             COREY
      Good. I ain’t got nothin’ more to 
      say on it. Now, here’s what I need 
      from you right now. I need you to 
      keep an eye on Pop. Make sure he 
      don’t wander off or get messed up 
      in nothin’ while I go down to 
      Kalispell and try to make things 
      right with this Pellet Weeks. Can 
      you do that? Can you be the big 
      brother?

             DALE
        (quiet)
      Yeah. Yeah. I can do that.

Corey is unflinching.  He’s heard this a thousand times 
before.  Dale knows Corey isn’t buying it.

             DALE
	(CONT’D)
      You got my word, bro. Promise.

             COREY
      ‘fraid your word don’t carry much 
      currency around here no more.  

Corey continues to stare daggers through Dale. Dale’s eyes 
dart around the room as he takes a long drag on his 
cigarette. Corey looks from Dale to Pop, then back to Dale.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      But you’re all I got I suppose. You 
      and Pop... 

Corey takes a moment to consider this, then-

                                      74.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      So, where do I find Pellet Weeks?

The hint of a smile crosses Dale’s face. He takes another 
long drag, then-

             DALE
      You wanna get in touch with Pellet 
      Weeks, you got one option. He only 
      leaves his compound once a day. 
      Every morning. Eight o’clock sharp.

                                 FADE TO:

EXT. FLATHEAD DINER - MORNING

A vintage, working class diner.  Corey’s Truck is parked in 
the adjacent lot.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Don’t matter if it’s snowing, 
      raining or if the goddamn sky’s on 
      fire, Pellet eats breakfast with 
      his wife at the Flathead Diner over 
      on West Idaho, ‘bout a block past 
      Lucky Lil’s Casino...

                                 FADE TO:

INT. FLATHEAD DINER - MORNING

Corey is nestled in a corner booth with a cup of coffee. He 
watches the clock. It’s 7:55AM.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Now, you’ll know him by his wife. 
      She’s a big ol’ fat woman. Five... 
      six-hundred pounds easy...

Corey watches as the door opens and PELLET’S WIFE comes 
lumbering into the diner with the assistance of TWO CANES. 
Her hair and makeup is impeccable.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      She always looks nice though. 
      Pellet buys her nice things. Takes 
      her to the beauty parlor and such. 
      Guess he ain’t never heard about 
      puttin’ lipstick on a pig.

PELLET WEEKS enters behind his wife. He’s her physical 
opposite, a tall slender frame topped with a head like 
Rasputin. He strokes his LONG BEARD as he scans the 
restaurant with his WILD EYES. A HOSTESS greets them.

                                      75.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Pellet’s first wife was a beauty. A 
      real trophy wife. Won pageants and 
      shit. Folks say they was high 
      school sweethearts back in the day. 
      Well, here’s how that ended: She 
      spent all his money and fucked half 
      the state of Montana. Then she 
      stole his car and ran off with a 
      couple bush niggers off the rez. He 
      never saw the car or the wife 
      again. 

Pellet and his wife are shown to an empty table in the center 
of the room. They give the WAITRESS their order. Corey 
watches intently from his booth.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Once the dust settled and he’d 
      licked his wounds, he vowed to find 
      himself the fattest, ugliest woman 
      he could and marry her on the spot. 
      He figured he’d hedge his bets and 
      find himself a woman that most men 
      would get sick at the sight of. 
      Avoid going through the same mess 
      twice. Seems to be working for him.

The waitress brings food to Pellet’s table. 

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Now, the other thing I can tell you 
      about Pellet Weeks is that he 
      always eats before his wife. 
      Always. Her food will arrive same 
      time as his and she will just sit 
      there and stare at that goddamn 
      plate with her mouth all slobbery 
      at the sides, but she will not take 
      a bite until Pellet has cleaned his 
      plate.

Sure enough, Pellet digs into his breakfast as she sits 
silently, swabbing drool from her mouth as she stares at her 
plate.

                                      76.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      You know why? It ain’t outta 
      respect and it ain’t because Pellet 
      don’t love that woman just as big 
      as she is and don’t want her to 
      eat.

Pellet wipes the last bit of yolk from his plate with a crust 
of bread. He gives it a cursory chew, then swallows it down. 
His wife watches with intent anticipation. 

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      It’s because they share a set of 
      teeth.

Pellet places his utensils on the empty plate, then reaches 
deep into the far recesses of his egg-stained mouth with his 
greasy fingers. After a bit of manipulation, his hand emerges 
with A FULL SET OF DENTURES, still coated with bits of food. 
He hands them to his wife, who then inserts them into her own 
mouth and proceeds to tuck into her breakfast.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Now, that’s what I call love.

Corey gets up from his booth and goes to the counter to pay.

EXT. FLATHEAD DINER - MORNING

Corey watches from his truck as Pellet uses a mechanized lift 
to load his wife into the back of a WINDOWLESS CARGO VAN. 
Corey follows the van into traffic.

EXT. PELLET’S COMPOUND - MORNING

The cargo van pulls up outside a small gate which is framed 
by a ten-foot-high cinder block wall that stretches the 
entire block. As Pellet approaches the gate with his wife, 
the door opens from the inside, allowing them entry.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Most days, after breakfast, they go 
      back to the compound and don’t come 
      out again til the next morning. 
      Used to be, he just had his old 
      house there on his family’s plot of 
      land... about an acre, right there 
      in the center of town. After the 
      neighbors got to complaining about 
      the state of things, the city 
      ordered him to tidy the place up 
      and kennel his hounds. 

             DALE
	(V.O.)
	(CONT'D)
      Instead, Pellet just built himself 
      a big ol’ fuck-off wall around the 
      whole dang place, and there weren’t 
      a thing no one could do about it.

                                      77.

Pellet returns to the van alone. He gets in and drives away. 
Corey’s truck falls in behind.

             DALE
	(V.O.)
      Anyways, the only other time Pellet 
      leaves the compound is to go 
      collect his earnings. He don’t 
      trust no one who ain’t family, 
      especially with his money.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / GOOD KNIGHT INN - DAY

Corey pulls into a spot as Pellet’s van comes to a stop 
outside the seedy motel. The wheelchair man gives a whistle.

The door to room 237 opens and a BAREFOOT CHILD exits the 
room dragging A LARGE LAUNDRY BAG. She drags the bag down the 
long, second-story exterior corridor, down the stairs and 
past the empty pool toward A ROW OF WASHERS AND DRYERS that 
sit beneath an outdoor shelter.

The child struggles with the bag, shoving the whole thing 
into a dryer. Next, she inserts a quarter and starts the 
machine before shuffling back to room 237.

Once the child is back in the room, Pellet exits his van, 
walks directly to the dryer and removes the bag. Walking back 
to the van, he tosses the bag into the rear cargo hold and 
drives away. Corey starts his engine.

EXT. PELLET’S COMPOUND - DAY

Pellet’s van pulls up to a GARAGE DOOR built directly into 
the wall of his compound. The door rolls open and Pellet 
backs the van into the narrow opening. The door closes.

Corey watches from a safe distance. He takes one final look 
at the compound before driving off.

INT. WAL MART - DAY

Corey wanders down the long main corridor of the superstore. 
He’s the only shopper without a cart.

AT THE REGISTER-

Corey drops a PACKAGED DISPOSABLE CELL PHONE on the counter.

                                      78.

             WAL MART CASHIER
      Credit card?

             COREY
      Cash.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / WAL MART PARKING LOT - DAY

Corey opens the packaging with a knife and removes the 
disposable cell phone. He digs around for a scrap of paper 
and a pen, then writes the cell phone number down.

EXT. GOOD KNIGHT INN - DAY

Corey is on foot. He approaches the wheelchair man with 
confidence and tosses a SMALL BAGGIE OF POWDER onto his lap.

             WHEELCHAIR MAN
      Fuck is this?

             COREY
      You know what it is.

Corey hands him the paper with the cell number on it.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Tell Pellet there’s more where that 
      came from. 

             WHEELCHAIR MAN
      Who says I’m working for Pellet?

             COREY
      Just give it to him.

             WHEELCHAIR MAN
      Who the fuck are you?

             COREY
      Don’t deliver that to Pellet and 
      you’ll find out who the fuck I am.

Corey walks away. The wheelchair man watches him until he’s 
out of sight.

EXT. OPEN SKY - DAY

THE SAME EIGHT-PROPELLERED DRONE from the mountain pass 
hovers in the big open sky.

                                      79.

             EDDIE JOE
	(O.S.)
      This shit’s tight, yo!

EDDIE JOE, big, black, dreadlocked and tracksuited, operates 
the REMOTE CONTROL under the supervision of a PUNK TEENAGER 
who looks very similar to the ones from the secret bunker. 
They’re standing in the middle of a large open field next to 
A CORRAL FILLED WITH CATTLE. Eddie Joe’s CELL PHONE begins to 
ring in his pocket. He fumbles with the remote control, 
trying to get to his phone. Finally-

             EDDIE JOE
	(CONT’D)
      Here. Take this shit before I crash 
      this motherfucker. 

Eddie Joe hands off the remote and answers his cell phone. 

             EDDIE JOE
	(CONT’D)
        (into phone)
      Who dis? Who told you that? Uh-
      huh... Pellet call him yet? Yeah, 
      alright. Hold up a sec.

Eddie Joe climbs into a CUSTOM BUILT GOLF CART and drives up, 
over the crest of the hill revealing-

EXT. RURAL MCMANSION - DAY

MTV-STYLE opulence is on display. A BENTLEY, A BENZ and A 
HUMMER are parked on the front lawn next to a couple ATVs and 
a trailer with TWO JET SKIS. The lawn is eroded and brown 
where someone has frequently done donuts. 

Eddie Joe pulls up on the golf cart. The license plate reads 
“PIMP.” Beneath that, “BEAUTIFUL BRITISH COLUMBIA.”

INT. RURAL MCMANSION - DAY

Eddie Joe walks through the formal living room where MORE 
PUNK TEENAGERS play video games on a GIANT TV. He still has 
the cell phone held to his chest. He stops in his tracks when 
he sees that one of the punks has his shoes on the LARGE 
WHITE SOFA.

             EDDIE JOE
      Man, you must be trippin’. Get your 
      damn feet off the damn 
      Chesterfield! Where the fuck you 
      think you is, Son? Shit. 

The boy removes his feet. Eddie Joe continues up the GRAND 
STAIRCASE, cell phone still held to his chest.

                                      80.

UPSTAIRS-

Eddie Joe walks down a long corridor. The wall is lined with 
LARGE, IDENTICALLY FRAMED PHOTOS. They’re all of the same 
PUNK KID: On a boat. With a gun. Next to a car. In a white 
suit. In a black suit... Always trying to look “hard” at the 
camera.

At the end of the corridor, ANOTHER XXXL TRACKSUIT, like 
Eddie Joe, except white, is seated on a chair outside a 
CLOSED DOOR. All his attention is on his cell phone.

Eddie Joe gives Tracksuit #2 a disapproving shake of the head 
before rapping on the door with his gold rings.

             BOSS
	(O.S.)
        (behind the door... 
         groggy)
      Yeah?

             EDDIE JOE
        (to the door)
      Got a call for you, Boss. It’s 
      important.

             BOSS
	(O.S.)
        (behind the door)
      Hang on.

Eddie Joe watches Tracksuit #2 playing a game on his phone. 
He shakes his head again. Finally, the door swings open-

             BOSS
	(CONT’D)
      Gimme the phone.

The “Boss” is the kid in all the photos from the corridor. 
He’s shirtless and scrawny.  Behind him, TWO NUDE WOMEN begin 
to stir in the king size bed. The Boss snatches the cell 
phone from Eddie Joe and slams the door closed.

Eddie Joe continues to look at Tracksuit #2 with disgust as 
he waits to get his phone back. Finally, the door opens a 
crack and The Boss’s hand extends with the cell phone. Eddie 
Joe takes the phone and the door slams closed. Eddie Joe 
begins to walk away when the door opens again.

             BOSS
	(CONT’D)
      Eddie Joe!

Eddie Joe turns back to face The Boss.

             EDDIE JOE
      Yeah, Boss.

                                      81.

             BOSS
      Tell Troy to hack Pellet’s line and 
      track this faggot when he calls.

             EDDIE JOE
      You got it, Boss. I’m on it.

EXT. RURAL ROAD - DAY

Corey drives his truck along a tree-lined country road. He 
glances down at the cell phone. No calls. When he looks up-

             COREY
      Shit!

He SLAMS ON THE BRAKES. The truck skids to a dusty stop a few 
feet away from Grandpa, who is wandering half-naked down the 
middle of the road. Corey loads Grandpa into the truck.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - DAY

Corey bounds through the already-open front door. The house 
has been turned upside down. Every drawer hangs open, the 
contents strewn about the floor.

             COREY
      Shit... Dale?!...
      Dale, you here?!

No answer. He goes room to room calling out.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Dale?! 

UPSTAIRS-

In the hallway, he finds a pillowcase with valuables spilling 
out of it, onto the floor.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Shit. Dale?!

He sees his bedroom door is open just a crack. He approaches 
and tries to open it, but it won’t budge. Something’s 
blocking it. He leans into it and pushes hard.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / COREY’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The door slides open, pushing DALE’S LIFELESS BODY with it. 
Corey squeezes into the room and takes in the scene. 

                                      82.

THE DUFFEL BAG WITH THE DRUGS has been extricated from 
beneath the bed. On the floor, next to Dale’s body, a bent 
spoon lies next to a lighter. Corey flips Dale over. He’s 
BLUE IN THE FACE and A SYRINGE still dangles from his arm. 
Corey gasps.

             COREY
      Fuck.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Corey drags Dale’s lifeless body into the bathroom and puts 
him in the tub. He turns the shower on full blast.

             COREY
      C’mon Dale! Wake up! Don’t fucking 
      die right now. Not now!

Corey drops to his knees. He beats on Dale’s chest as the 
water rains down on them both. Corey beats harder...

FLASHBACK TO IRAQI DWELLING-

BOOM! An explosion has filled the SMALL IRAQI DWELLING with 
smoke and debris. Corey pumps feverishly on the chest of an 
injured soldier, complete chaos around him. Women and 
children scream and cry. Other soldiers shout orders. The 
wall behind Corey is singed with BLOOD AND SOOT. The smoke 
hangs thick.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      C’mon Sergeant! Don’t fucking die 
      right now! 

Corey looks at the Sergeant’s face. It’s the soldier with THE 
SHATTERED LENS. His eyes have rolled back. A BLOODY SOLDIER 
approaches Corey from behind.

             BLOODY SOLDIER
      He’s done, Meagher. Stop it!

Corey continues to beat on the Sergeant’s chest.

             BLOODY SOLDIER
	(CONT’D)
      He’s done, Meagher!

The bloody soldier pulls Corey back, revealing the fact that 
only the Sergeant’s top half remains. His lower intestines 
have spilled onto the dirt floor of the dwelling.

             BLOODY SOLDIER
	(CONT’D)
      He’s done. C’mon.

                                      83.

BACK IN THE BATHROOM-

Corey stops trying to resuscitate Dale. He collapses on the 
tile floor, his back against the tub. His eyes filled with 
pain, he stands and opens the medicine cabinet. He selects 
one of the MANY PRESCRIPTION BOTTLES and shakes a few pills 
directly into his mouth.

He closes the cabinet door and stares at his own reflection 
in the mirror as he swallows the pills. Dale’s leg still 
dangles over the edge of the tub behind him.

Suddenly-

             DALE
      WWWWWWHHHHHHHHAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!

DALE SHOOTS UPRIGHT, gasping for air and spitting bile. 

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Dale, still looking half-dead, sips coffee at the table. He 
turns to Grandpa, seated next to him, and pats at his shirt 
pockets.

             DALE
      Got a lung dart for me, Pop?

             COREY
	(O.S.)
      I guess you’re feeling better.

Corey watches from the doorway. Dale finds a smoke.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      I ain’t gonna ask what you was 
      doin’ when you found them drugs.

Dale lights his cigarette, stares at Corey.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      And you ain’t gonna ask me where I 
      got all them drugs.

Dale takes a long drag... exhales.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      We clear?

             DALE
      As a bell.

Corey takes a seat across from Dale and Grandpa.

                                      84.

             COREY
      I’m fixin’ to sell them drugs to 
      Pellet Weeks. I’m gonna use the 
      money to make things right with the 
      tax collector and get Pop a full 
      time nurse... and if there’s any 
      left over, I’m gonna settle the 
      score between you and Pellet. 
      Understood?

Dale gives a sheepish nod.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      If you can’t keep an eye on Pop 
      without fucking things up, then 
      maybe I can’t do that last part 
      neither. Now look at me.

Dale looks up slowly.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      This is the last chance you’re 
      gonna get from me. You fuck this up 
      and you ain’t part of this family 
      no more. You hear me?  

             DALE
        (quiet)
      Yeah.

Corey watches Dale fidget for a long beat, then stands and 
begins to exit when Dale stops him.

             DALE
	(CONT’D)
      Corey?

             COREY
      Yeah?

             DALE
      Be careful doing business with 
      Pellet. He might seem like some 
      dumb hick to you, but he’s very 
      smart and he’s very violent... 
      Pellet Weeks is the devil.

EXT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS - MORNING

Corey sits in his truck watching the other workers enter. He 
looks at the heroin duffel on the floor. He checks the cell 
phone. No calls. Something catches his eye. He pulls at the 
corner of the napkin that Alex gave him: BERTH-DEATH. Corey 
puts the napkin in his pocket and goes inside.

                                      85.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR

Corey enters the kill floor where Alex is already arranging 
his tools. Alex turns to face him.

             ALEX
      You get some rest this weekend?

Alex has a BIG BLACK EYE. Corey looks at the eye, then at 
Alex’s hands. They’re also scraped up at the knuckles.

             COREY
      Not bad.

             ALEX
      Get laid?

             COREY
        (staring at the eye)
      What happened?

             ALEX
      What?...
        (realizing his eye)
      Oh this? Shit. My old lady found 
      some of that dope on me after you 
      dropped me off the other night. She 
      went fucking crazy. Like fucking 
      apeshit, bro. 
        (a nervous laugh)
      She kicked the shit outta me pretty 
      good. Kicked me outta the house... 
      the whole nine. 

             COREY
        (concerned)
      She tell anybody else about what 
      she found?

             ALEX
      What?! No. She ain’t like that. 
      It’s cool. Everything’s cool, bro. 
      So what did you decide? You like my 
      plan or what? We gonna move this 
      shit old school?

Corey is about to continue when the Plant Manager enters.

                                      86.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Mornin’ fellas. Sorry to get in 
      your business first thing on a 
      Monday, but I got a call from 
      Sheriff Kinnie relates back to that 
      lot Clarence Lamb brought in here 
      before he got himself killed. The 
      one I was asking you two about last 
      week.

Alex begins to fidget. 

             COREY
      What’d the Sheriff have to say?

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, they found another dead 
      cowboy up in the Kootenai.

Corey’s mind races. He eyes Alex’s injuries.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      And the thing is is that there was 
      two heifers had been gutted right 
      there next to the stiff. They wore 
      the same brand as that lot Clarence 
      brought in here. Sheriff thinks the 
      dead cowboy mighta been in cahoots 
      with Clarence. Thinks they mighta 
      been rustlin’ them cows across the 
      border from Canada.

             COREY
      Guess it don’t matter now what they 
      was doin seein’ as they’re both 
      dead.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, no. I guess it don’t. I guess 
      it don’t. Well, anyways, I was just 
      comin’ down to see if either of you 
      remembered anything else about that 
      lot now that you had the weekend to 
      think on it.

             ALEX
      I remember they squealed when we 
      slit their throats. Oh, and they 
      bled real good too. Buckets...

                                      87.

             COREY
      That ain’t necessary, Alex. We 
      don’t recall anything unusual, Mr. 
      Evans. We’ll let you know if 
      anything springs to mind.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Well, alright then. You do that. 
      I’ll let you fellas get back to 
      work now.

The USDA Inspector enters the floor. His head bandage has 
been replaced by a smaller band-aid. The manager exits. 

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
        (as he walks away)
      Mornin’, Phil. Lookin’ good.

                                 FADE TO:

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / BREAK ROOM - DAY

Corey sips his coffee in front of the vending machine. Alex 
joins him.

             ALEX
      You think those cowboys got 
      stitched for rustling cattle or for 
      losing fifty pounds of dope? 

             COREY
      I’d say it was a bit of both.

             ALEX
      Maybe you’re right, then. Maybe we 
      should ditch the shit or at least 
      lay low for a bit. I don’t really 
      feel like dying and shit.

Corey pulls the cell phone out of his pocket and shows it to 
Alex.

             COREY
      Might be too late.

             ALEX
      I ain’t feelin’ you, bro.

             COREY
      I found a guy down in Kalispell. If 
      this phone rings, we got a deal. 
      You still in? 

                                      88.

Alex smokes silently for A LONG MOMENT. He looks like he 
might back out. Then-

             ALEX
      Shit, I’m just playin’. Course I’m 
      in, dog... Shit. Show me some love.

Alex offers a fist. Corey “bumps” it.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - DUSK

Corey, Dale & Grandpa eat supper in silence. Corey has the 
cell phone right next to his plate.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - DUSK

The air is still as Corey exits the back of the house, 
walking about 50 yards back to a small creek that separates 
the property from the forest. Next to the creek are two 
small, modest HEADSTONES. Corey squats down and neatens the 
area around the graves before taking a seat on a small bench.

He enjoys a moment of quiet reflection before AN ANT crawls 
across his hand. He looks down as a few more ants crawl 
across his boot, drawing his gaze to A SMALL ANTHILL.

Corey swipes his boot across the anthill causing THOUSANDS OF 
ANTS to swarm to the surface.

                                 FADE TO:

EXT. IDYLLIC MOUNTAINTOP PASTURE - DUSK

PUNK TEENAGERS funnel out of the underground bunker with A 
CACHE OF WEAPONS, loading them onto ATVs as the sun sets 
behind the mountaintops.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey enters through the back door, taking extra care to lock 
the door behind him. He takes a moment to look at the kitchen 
walls, still charred from the fire.

IN THE LIVING ROOM-

Corey finds Dale and Grandpa asleep in front of the 
television. He quietly grabs his keys and leaves through the 
front door.

                                      89.

EXT. LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey sits in his truck and watches as PAUL, pure white 
trash, eats dinner with Liz and Hunter.

Paul starts to become agitated.  He and Liz are arguing.  He 
grabs his dinner plate and flings it against the wall.

Corey sits bolt upright in the truck. 

Paul reaches out and grabs Liz by the hair.

Corey is out of his truck and moving quickly towards the 
house.  He tries the front door. It’s unlocked.  He walks 
quickly inside.

INT. LIZ’S HOUSE / DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Paul still has Liz by the hair as he screams in her face.

             PAUL
      YOU STUPID FU -

Corey moves directly toward them and pulls Paul away from 
Liz. Paul turns, shocked to see Corey there.

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
      Speak of the devil.  What the fuck 
      are you doing in my house soldier 
      boy?

             COREY
      Just settle down.

Paul lunges at Corey.  Corey is easily able to deflect Paul’s 
intended blow.  He flips him around, pushing him against the 
wall with his arm behind his back.  

             LIZ
      STOP!

             PAUL
      LET ME GO!

             COREY
      You gonna relax? 

             PAUL
      LET ME THE FUCK GO!

             LIZ
      Corey please.

                                      90.

             COREY
      Alright.  Don’t do nothin’ stupid 
      now.

Corey releases Paul who immediately lunges at him again.  
Corey drops him to his knees with a hard right hook to the 
gut.  He’s about to deliver another punch when he’s halted by 
the sight of Hunter at the table.  The boy is ashen faced and 
terrified.

Corey grabs Paul by the shirt and drags him down the hallway.  
He pushes him out the front door.

FRONT YARD - 

Paul stumbles backward.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Go somewhere and get yourself 
      calmed down.

             PAUL
      I’ll see you later, soldier boy. 

He starts to walk away.  He turns back to Corey.

             PAUL
	(CONT’D)
       Tell her I’ll see her too.

He turns and starts walking again.  This time Corey is on top 
of him in a flash.  He slams him against the hood of his 
pickup truck, his arm pinned behind his back.

             COREY
        (snarling)
      You ever put your hand on her again 
      and I’ll snap your fuckin arm.  You 
      understand me?

             PAUL
      FUCK YOU!

Corey pushes Paul’s pinned arm upwards, hard.

             COREY
      UNDERSTAND?

             PAUL
      FUCK! YES! YES!

Corey releases him and watches as Paul scrambles towards his 
pickup truck, gets in and drives away.

INT. LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey enters the house as Liz comes down the stairs.

                                      91.

             COREY
      Are you okay?

             LIZ
      I’ll be fine.  I was just putting 
      Hunter to bed.

             COREY
      How is he?

             LIZ
      He’s pretty shook up.

Corey nods grimly.

             LIZ
	(CONT’D)
      What were you doin here anyway?

             COREY
      I was... I...  

Corey doesn’t know what to say.

             LIZ
      It’s okay.  Thank you was what I 
      was trying to say.

She pulls him towards her for a hug and suddenly they locked 
in a fiercely passionate kiss.

INT. LIZ’S HOUSE / BEDROOM - NIGHT

The couple lie naked underneath a thin sheet.  Liz has her 
head on Corey’s chest, enveloped in his arms.

             COREY
      You ever feel like you can’t stop 
      doin’ some things even though you 
      know they’re wrong?

             LIZ
      Maybe... You talking about this?  
      Because this is a mistake I 
      wouldn’t mind making again. 

She snuggles up to Corey and kisses him.  Corey smiles at 
her.

                                      92.

             COREY
      No.  I definitely ain’t talkin 
      about this.  I don’t got that voice 
      in my head telling me it’s wrong.

Corey taps himself on the head with his index finger.  She 
laughs wryly.

             LIZ
      I hear that voice all the damn 
      time.

             COREY
      It just seems like some things you 
      always end up doing.  You do one 
      thing thinking it’s different and 
      then you realize you’re just doing 
      the same thing all over again just 
      in a different way... I don’t know.

She becomes pensive, turning her head away. Corey, concerned, 
reaches over and strokes her hair.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Hey.  Don’t mind me.  I’m just 
      talkin’.  

             LIZ
      No no.  It’s not that.  It’s...

They lie there silently for a moment.  Corey watches her, 
concerned.  Finally...  

             LIZ
	(CONT’D)
      Corey?

             COREY
      Yeah?

             LIZ
      I need to tell you something but 
      you need to promise not to get mad 
      at me.

             COREY
        (worried)
      What is it?

She takes a deep breath, steels herself.

             LIZ
      Hunter isn’t Paul’s boy... He’s 
      yours.

                                      93.

Corey isn’t angry.  He’s completely bowled over by the news.  
He lies there silently, too shocked to speak.  Liz waits 
nervously for his response.

COREY’S CELL PHONE BEGINS TO RING.  

At first Corey doesn’t know what it is.  He looks around in 
confusion before the realization hits.  

He jumps out of bed and grabs the phone.  Pulling on his 
pants, he starts to exit the room, phone in hand.

             LIZ
	(CONT’D)
      Corey?

             COREY
      I’m sorry.  It’s about Pop.  I’ll 
      be right back.

EXT.  LIZ’S HOUSE / FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

Corey stands on the front porch wearing only a pair of pants.

             COREY
      Saturday? Yeah.  That’ll work.  
      Where should we meet you?... 
      Fine... Yeah.  I heard you. Call 
      when I get to the gate.

INT. LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Corey enters the room and places the cell phone on the 
dresser. Liz watches him from the bed.

             LIZ
      You finally pay your phone bill?

             COREY
      I gotta be in touch with the person 
      I got lookin’ after Pop.

She examines his face.

             LIZ
      You’re not mad?

Corey laughs.

             COREY
      Nah...  I don’t know what I am 
      right now, but mad ain’t it.  

                                      94.

He sits on the bed, takes her hand.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      I’m worried about you two here.

             LIZ
      Don’t be.  He’ll come back here 
      begging me to forgive him.  He 
      always does.  What about you?

             COREY
      I’m fine.  I just got some good 
      news.

She smiles at him.  He leans in and kisses her.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      I love you.

             LIZ
      I... I need some time to think 
      about everything that’s happened.  
      Can you give me some time?

             COREY
      Sure.  We got time.

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILLING FLOOR - DAY

Corey and Alex are hard at work on the line. Corey mops 
bloody matter from the floor as Alex finishes gutting the 
last animal on the line.

THE BELL SOUNDS and the conveyor belt stops.  Corey flicks 
his goggles on top of his head.  He shares a nervous look 
with Alex. 

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / FAST FOOD PARKING LOT - DAY

Corey and Alex sit in the parked truck.  Corey has his eyes 
closed, his lips moving in silent prayer.  Alex stares at 
him, confused.  Corey opens his eyes. 

             COREY
      Ready?

Alex takes a deep breath.  He looks out the front window of 
the truck, unsure.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Hey.  You ready?

                                      95.

             ALEX
      Fuck it.  Let’s do it.

Corey grabs the duffel bag and they both exit the truck.  
Corey slings the duffel over his shoulder as they begin 
walking.

             ALEX
	(CONT’D)
      What was that all about before?  In 
      the truck?

             COREY
      Prayin’.

             ALEX
      I didn’t know you were religious, 
      bro.

             COREY
      I ain’t usually.

EXT. PELLET’S COMPOUND / ACROSS THE STREET - DAY

FIVE of the PUNK TEENAGERS FROM THE BUNKER watch Pellet’s 
compound from inside a DARK SUV.  

INSIDE THE SUV- 

The Punk in the driver’s seat holds a FULL METH PIPE.  He 
places it to his lips, lights the contents and inhales.

His pupils almost disappear as he releases the meth smoke.  
He passes the pipe to the punk in the passenger seat.

             PUNK #1
      Gotta get right.

AT THE COMPOUND GATE -

Alex fidgets nervously as Corey dials a number into his cell 
phone.

INSIDE THE SUV -

The Punks, tweaked out from the meth, are watching Corey and 
Alex.  Corey’s voice can be heard from a hand-held 
transmitter in the driver’s lap.

             COREY 
        (on the transmitter)
      We’re here.

                                      96.

             PUNK #1
      That’s them.

AT THE GATE - 

A slot slides open in the doorway.  A DARK PAIR OF EYES peers 
through the hole at Corey and Alex.

             COREY
      We’re here to see Pellet.

The slot closes and they hear the sound of something being 
dragged along the ground.  The door rolls open slowly to 
reveal a ragged, unkempt, EERILY SILENT BOY of about seven. 
Beside him is the small step-stool he used to reach the peep 
hole.

The gate begins to close behind Corey and Alex as they step 
inside.  The child turns and starts walking.    

INSIDE THE COMPOUND - 

Corey, quickly and surreptitiously, slides a piece of rusty 
pipe with his foot onto the door track.  It wedges against 
the jam, preventing the door from closing completely.

Corey and Alex follow the boy through the junk-filled 
interior courtyard.  STRAY MONGREL DOGS stalk menacingly 
around the dirt lot.

As they approach the door, they pass ANOTHER CHILD sitting 
naked in a kiddie pool partially filled with murky water.  AN 
OLD HOUND DOG stands by the pool watching them.  The dog 
casually lifts its leg and urinates directly into the water.  
The boy in the pool doesn’t react.  

Corey locks eyes with the hound as they pass.

INT.  PELLET’S HOUSE - DAY

Despite the daylight outside, the house is poorly lit and 
dark.  Corey and Alex follow the boy down a hallway through 
the labyrinthine interior.  

The boy stops outside a darkened room and points down the 
hallway.  He enters the room where he joins THREE OTHER 
RAGGED CHILDREN on a filthy sofa.  An old television flickers 
in the corner, providing the only illumination in the filthy, 
debris strewn area. A SMALL DOG rips at the sofa with its 
teeth.  The children ignore him.

Corey and Alex appear almost bovine-like as they continue 
their progress down the narrow, chute-like hallway. 

                                      97.

Corey sees QUICK FLASHES of the Iraqi dwelling. The bullet-
riddled cinder block wall. He fights it off.

             PELLET
	(O.S.)
      You bring the shit?

Like a spider, Pellet moves slickly out of the shadows, 
snapping Corey back to reality.  A flickering electric 
lantern on the wall barely illuminates Pellet’s gaunt, corpse-
like face.

Corey hoists the bag from his shoulder to show Pellet.  
Pellet moves toward Corey and Alex and frisks them quickly 
with his long, skeletal fingers. 

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      Come on then.

He turns and starts walking.  Corey and Alex follow him into 
the deeper, darker recesses of the house.

INT. PELLET’S COMPOUND / DINING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Corey and Alex follow Pellet into the room to find Pellet’s 
wife sitting at the dining room table.  An untouched plate of 
food sits on the table in front of her.  

Pellet picks his plate up from the table and shovels the last 
few morsels of food into his mouth with his hands as Corey 
and Alex watch.  He drops the empty plate on the table before 
reaching into his mouth and removing his food encrusted 
dentures.  Ropes of drool dangle from the dentures as he 
hands them to his wife.

She takes the dentures and places them in her mouth.  There’s 
an AUDIBLE SQUELCH as she settles them into place. Alex 
fights down the urge to gag as she begins to eat.

             PELLET
      Alright.  Give that bag here. 

Corey is about to pass the duffel bag over when-

             ALEX
      Whoa.  Hold up.  Where’s the money?  
      Put the money on the table first.

Pellet’s eyes flash as he stares at Alex.  The only sound in 
the room is Pellet’s wife eating as Pellet takes a long 
moment to look Alex over.

He approaches him slowly, his tongue flicking over his 
TOOTHLESS GUMS.  

                                      98.

He stops, his face inches from Alex’s, his wild eyes darting 
as he studies Alex’s features.  He continues to lick and suck 
on his toothless gums.

             PELLET
      You a Prairie Nigger, boy?

Alex gives Pellet his best hard look but he’s clearly 
intimidated.

             ALEX
      Where’s the fucking money?

Like a dog, Pellet sniffs Alex.

             PELLET
      Okay.  Let me give you an example.  
      Let’s say I’m me and you’re you...

There’s an uncomfortable pause before PELLET PUNCHES ALEX 
HARD in the side of the face, sending him sprawling to the 
ground.  Corey tenses but restrains himself.  Alex, stunned, 
unsteadily rises to his feet.

Pellet’s wife continues to eat.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      There.  That make more sense now, 
      Kemosabe?

Corey drops the duffel bag onto the table.

             COREY
      You made your point, Pellet.

Pellet’s malevolent eyes turn to Corey, who coolly returns 
his look.

             PELLET
      Did I?  I hope so.  I hope you got 
      my point.  But just in case...

He rips open his shirt, revealing a CRUDELY MADE EXPLOSIVE 
VEST. TWO ELECTRODES are taped to his bare chest.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      I only trust family to work for me, 
      so this here’s my personal 
      bodyguard.  My heart stops and this 
      blows everything around me to shit.

Corey tenses when he sees the vest.  He holds up his hands in 
a gesture of appeasement. 

                                      99.

             COREY
      We’re just here to do business.

             PELLET
      Alright.  Let’s see what you brung 
      me.

Pellet reaches into the duffel and removes a heroin brick.  
He takes a GREASY STEAK KNIFE from his dinner plate and licks 
it clean before cutting open the brick of heroin.  

Corey looks over at Alex as if to say “don’t do anything 
stupid.”

Pellet cooks a hit of heroin from the brick over a candle on 
the table.  He fills a syringe.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      Dennis!

A moment as Pellet waits for Dennis.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
        (louder)
      DENNIS!

DENNIS, a gaunt sixteen year old, appears through the door to 
the dining room.  He obediently approaches Pellet and stands 
in front of him.

Pellet takes the syringe and plunges it into Dennis’s neck.  
He grabs Dennis by the face and looks carefully into his eyes 
for what seems like an eternity.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      Is it good?

Dennis doesn’t speak, but Pellet can tell by what he sees 
that the heroin is having the desired affect.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      Oh yeah.  It’s good.  It’s real 
      good.  Back to your room now boy.

Dennis leaves the room.

             PELLET
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s talk business.

Suddenly -

FOUR OF THE PUNK TEENAGERS from the SUV burst into the room.  
They are HEAVILY ARMED and FULLY TWEAKED OUT ON METH.  
Pellet’s wife stops eating.

                                     100.

             PUNK #2
      PUT YOUR FUCKING HANDS IN THE AIR!  
      ALL YOU MOTHERFUCKERS PUT YOUR 
      FUCKING HANDS IN THE AIR!

Another one of the Punks grabs the duffel and looks inside.  
He nods to the others as he slings the bag over his shoulder.  

             PUNK #3 
        (to Pellet)
      WHERE’S THE FUCKING MONEY?  

Punk #3 points two pistols, one in each hand, at Pellet.  
Pellet looks at him, sucking his gums disdainfully. 

             PELLET
      Fuck you.

The punk smashes Pellet above the eye with the butt of his 
gun, dropping him to his knees.

Alex tries to run for the door right as one of the Punks 
swings his assault rifle to face him.  He immediately pulls 
the trigger.  

A bullet RIPS THROUGH ALEX’S HEAD, splashing Corey’s face 
with BLOOD AND BRAIN MATTER. Alex drops like a stone.

The LOUD PERCUSSION of the gunshot in the small room has left 
COREY’S EARS RINGING.  He can barely hear the sound of the 
Punks yelling.  He sways slightly and his VISION BLURS around 
the sickening sight of his dead friend on the ground.  
Everything appears to him like it’s HAPPENING UNDER WATER.

Pellet, taking advantage of the chaos, grabs the steak knife 
from the table and plunges it into Punk #3’s neck.

The room EXPLODES BACK INTO REAL TIME for Corey.  Punk #3 has 
dropped his pistols and is flailing at the steak knife 
embedded in his neck.

The other Punks train their guns on Pellet.  Pellet and his 
wife disappear in a HAIL OF GUNFIRE as Corey runs for the 
door.

One of the punks turns and is about to unload on the escaping 
Corey when...

PELLET’S VEST EXPLODES -

DARKNESS. THEN -

Corey awakens.  He opens his eyes slowly.  Smoke and fire 
everywhere.  

                                     101.

He coughs out plaster dust and wipes debris from his eyes 
before he realizes one of the Punks is laying on top of him. 

The punk comes to.  He starts to scramble for A PISTOL a few 
feet away.  Corey grabs him around the waist and pulls him 
back as the Punk kicks at him furiously.  

Corey manages to scramble on top of the punk.  He grabs him 
by the hair and smashes his head into the ground until he 
goes limp.

He stands and retrieves the pistol.

Coughing from the smoke, he begins to move down the hallway.

THE RAT-TAT-TAT OF MACHINE-GUN FIRE as bullets thud into the 
wall beside Corey.  He ducks into a doorway as more bullets 
whiz by his head.

He leans slowly back out of the room to see one of the punks, 
eyes wild, charred and bloody, stalking down the hallway 
toward him, machine gun in hand.  

The punk fires first.  He misses as Corey steadies himself 
and pulls the trigger of the pistol, UNLOADING SEVERAL 
ROUNDS.  The bullets strike the Punk in the chest and head 
before he disappears into a fog of smoke and blood spray.

In a crouching posture, Corey moves down the hallway 
backwards with his gun trained on the area the last Punk came 
from.  

Behind him, another CHARRED, BLOODY PUNK APPEARS.  The Punk 
raises his gun and is about to pull the trigger when -

BOOM!

Corey turns to see the punk drop to the ground with a giant 
hole in the middle of his chest.  Dennis, Pellet’s heroin 
test dummy, is standing behind the punk with a smoking 
shotgun.  Corey locks eyes with Dennis and they both lower 
their guns.  Corey moves past him, gingerly, down the 
hallway.

BULLETS SMASH into the wall beside him.  One of the bullets 
CATCHES HIM IN THE SHOULDER.  He spins to the ground, firing 
in the direction the bullets came from before...

CLICK! CLICK! CLICK!

His gun is empty.

                                     102.

MORE GUNFIRE forces Corey to scramble down another darkened, 
smoke filled hallway. It looks like a DEAD END.  He’s 
desperate now, blood is flowing from the wound in his arm.  

He HEARS MORE GUNFIRE.  

He backs toward the pitch black end of the hallway.  He 
turns, scrabbling at something in the dark.  Finally his hand 
finds A DOOR KNOB.  He turns it and pushes open the door.

THROUGH THE DOOR - 

The garage containing PELLET’S CARGO VAN.  Corey enters the 
garage, smashes the passenger window and climbs into the van.

INT. PELLET’S COMPOUND / GARAGE - DAY

Punk #3 bursts through the door CARRYING DENNIS’S SHOTGUN.  
He’s singed and charred, the steak knife Pellet buried in his 
neck still sticking out of him.

His face is twisted with rage as he moves toward the van with 
the shotgun raised.  He can’t see anything in the side 
mirror.

IN THE VAN - 

Staying low in the cab, Corey has cracked the steering column 
open.  He sparks two wires.  The ENGINE RUMBLES to life.  
Corey throws the van into gear.

HE SLAMS THE GAS PEDAL DOWN WITH HIS HAND.

EXT. PELLET’S COMPOUND / GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

The van BURSTS THROUGH THE GARAGE DOOR into the street.  It 
careens wildly before SMASHING INTO A PARKED CAR.

The punk exits the garage and PUMPS A ROUND from the shotgun 
into the back window of the van.  He pulls the trigger again 
but the gun is empty.  

He drops the gun to the ground before grabbing the handle of 
the steak knife in his neck and yanking it free.  He runs 
toward the van wielding the knife.

The van suddenly peels out in reverse.  It slams into the 
punk and SMASHES HIM against another parked car, killing him 
instantly.  Pinned between two vehicles, the dead punk’s head 
lolls sickly atop his crushed torso.  His hand unclenches and 
he drops the bloody steak knife to the ground.

                                     103.

The transmission groans and the van takes off forward.  The 
punk’s body slides to the ground.  

I/E. PELLET’S VAN / STREET - CONTINOUS

Corey is now upright at the wheel of the van.  He screeches 
around the first corner past THE LAST LIVING PUNK who’s still 
waiting in the SUV outside the compound.  The SUV takes off 
after Corey.

When Corey looks in the rearview to see the chasing SUV he 
notices in the reflection that Alex’s brains still decorate 
his face.  Disgusted, he tries to clean his face but only 
succeeds in smearing the remnants more.  

He scans the road ahead nervously.

He sees QUICK FLASHES of the IRAQI DESERT as he drives a 
Humvee.

The SUV is managing to keep pace behind Corey.  Corey skids 
around another corner, taking him off the main street and 
onto a road that leads into the wilderness.

Corey steps hard on the gas pedal.  The SUV is right behind 
him.  There’s nothing but two-lane blacktop in front of them. 
Corey eyes the HUNGRY HORSE DAM off to his right. 

AT THE DAM -

The two vehicles speed across the top of the dam.

As they near the end of the dam traverse, there’s a steep 
bend in the road.  Corey spins the wheel.  He’s traveling too 
fast to make the turn.  The van slides off the road and down 
a steep embankment toward the river below.

Corey is thrown violently around the cab of the van as it 
careers wildly downhill through the overgrown terrain.

THEN -

THE VAN SMASHES into a concrete footing at the base of the 
dam.  Corey is thrown violently forward.  His head is rammed 
into the steering wheel, KNOCKING HIM UNCONSCIOUS.

                              SMASH CUT TO:

FLASHBACK-

                                     104.

I/E. IRAQI HOUSE / FALLUJAH VILLAGE - NIGHT

Corey rises IN A FOG as the bloody soldier pulls him back, 
revealing the fact that only the Sergeant’s top half remains. 
His lower intestines have spilled onto the dirt floor of the 
dwelling.

             BLOODY SOLDIER
      He’s done. C’mon.

Corey turns to see ANOTHER SOLDIER in the room with his gun 
trained on AN OLDER IRAQI WOMAN, her face streaked with 
tears.

             IRAQI WOMAN
        (in arabic)
      No! Please! No!

The soldier pulls the trigger and the woman drops to the 
ground.  He turns the gun on a SCREAMING CHILD kneeling 
beside the woman.

Corey couldn’t be more disgusted.  He storms out of the 
house.

IN THE STREET - 

The bloody soldier follows him.

             SOLDIER
      The fuck you doin’, Meagher?

Corey ignores him.  He gets in THE HUMVEE parked outside, 
starts the engine and roars away into the Iraqi night.  

             SOLDIER
	(CONT’D)
        (shouting)
      HEY! COME BACK MEAGHER!  WHAT THE 
      FUCK ARE YOU DOING?!

I/E. HUMVEE / IRAQI DESERT ROAD - NIGHT

Corey speeds along the dirt road in the Humvee.  

His walkie-talkie crackles -

             VOICE ON WALKIE
      Meagher! Meagher answer your radio! 
      GET BACK HERE! THIS IS DESERTION!

SUDDENLY -

                                     105.

A HUGE EXPLOSION as A ROADSIDE IED is detonated.  The Humvee 
flips and tumbles, engulfed in flames.  

Corey drags himself out of the vehicle.  HIS LEG HAS BEEN 
COMPLETELY SHREDDED to a pulp.  He collapses in the dirt.

                              SMASH CUT TO:

I/E. PELLET’S VAN / RIVER BANK - DAY

The dust has settled.  Corey’s head is still on the steering 
wheel.  He slowly regains consciousness and realizes where he 
is.  It’s quiet now.  He looks around the van and can’t see 
anything outside.

He checks himself quickly.  His arm is still bleeding from 
the bullet he took.  He checks his head.  He’s bleeding from 
a gash but it’s superficial.

THE VAN LURCHES FORWARD.

Corey tries to hit the brakes, but something prevents him.  
He looks down to see that HIS ANKLE HAS BEEN HANDCUFFED TO 
THE GAS PEDAL.

The van lurches again, closer to the roaring river.

OUTSIDE THE VAN - 

The punk is using his SUV to push the van, with Corey inside, 
into the river.  He backs the SUV up the embankment before 
slamming on the gas pedal and SMASHING THE SUV INTO THE BACK 
OF THE VAN.  

The SUV digs in and maintains its traction as it pushes the 
van towards the river.

The van nose-dives into the rushing water.  Water flows 
through the smashed out passenger window and the van begins 
to sink.

INSIDE THE VAN - 

Corey struggles as the cab of the van rapidly fills with 
water. 

Desperate, he reaches down and hikes up his pant leg, 
unlacing his combat boot and REVEALING A PROSTHETIC LEG. 

He unhooks the leg from his body and wriggles free.  He 
reaches back, grabbing the prosthesis around the ankle and 
engaging a QUICK-RELEASE that separates the leg from the 
foot, freeing it from the handcuffs.

                                     106.

The cab of the van is now completely submerged.  Corey opens 
the metal cage door leading to the back of the van and crawls 
up and in.  The water is now rising into the back of the van 
as it sinks deeper into the river.

Corey can’t reach the back doors of the van above him.  He 
treads water as the level rises and the gap closes toward the 
square of light above.

Corey realizes that there are HUNDRED-DOLLAR BILLS floating 
in the water around him.  The money is coming from DOZENS OF 
LAUNDRY BAGS just like the one he saw Pellet collect at the 
Good Knight Inn.

He pulls one of the bags open.  It’s FILLED WITH MONEY.  He 
tries another bag.  Same result.

He’s now only a foot away from the smashed out back window, 
bathed in the sunlight that pours through the opening.  He 
puts his prosthesis in one of the bags and collects as many 
of the other bags as he can carry before slipping through the 
makeshift exit.

RIVER SURFACE - 

Corey gasps and struggles in the strong current as the van 
disappears beneath the surface of the water. In the distance, 
the Punk’s SUV speeds away across the dam.

RIVER BANK - 

Down river, a ONE-LEGGED COREY scrambles ashore with SIX 
LAUNDRY BAGS in tow. Exhausted, he collapses on the muddy 
river bank.

EXT. PELLET’S COMPOUND - DUSK

A bloody, bruised Corey drives by slowly in his pickup truck.  

The area is hectic with activity. Police cars, ambulances and 
EMERGENCY PERSONNEL are everywhere.  BODY BAGS decorate the 
sidewalk.  

One of the CHILDREN FROM THE COMPOUND sits on the sidewalk, 
being tended to by A PARAMEDIC.  Corey locks eyes with the 
child.  Corey holds the look as he continues driving, the 
light from the police cars finally obscuring his view.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

                                     107.

EXT. MILES OF MATTRESSES - MORNING

The strip-mall MATTRESS EMPORIUM sits opposite a Canadian 
Tire automotive center.

INT. MILES OF MATTRESSES - MORNING

A RED GUMBALL LIGHT rotates atop an in-store display. MUZAK 
plays as SHOPPERS test mattresses in the VAST SHOWROOM. 

             ALAN
	(O.S.)
      Now, this is one of my favorites. 
      It employs space-age technology in 
      its coil design. You won’t get a 
      better night’s sleep anywhere else.

Alan Ward, dressed in a polo shirt and name tag, wears a big 
smile as he sells a mattress to a YOUNG COUPLE.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      Go ahead. Sit on it. Heck, lay on 
      it! Tell me what you think.

The couple lays down awkwardly on the mattress as Alan’s CELL 
PHONE begins to ring in his pocket.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      That’s nice, eh? 

Alan silences his phone.

             ALAN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m sorry about that. I thought I 
      had it on vibrate. Now, if you like 
      it, I could have you two sleeping 
      on it tonight. I’ll even waive the 
      delivery fees. How’s that sound?

The PA SYSTEM crackles

             VOICE ON PA SYSTEM
      Alan, you have a call on line two. 
      Alan line two.

Alan looks up at the ceiling-mounted speaker, his expression 
shifts briefly, then-

             ALAN
      I’m awfully sorry, but I have a 
      call. I’ll be right back. Can I 
      bring either of you a cold pop or a 
      bottled water? It’s on the house.

INT. WAREHOUSE - MORNING

In the back of the warehouse, Alan lifts the handset on the 
same wall-mounted phone he used earlier. His expression has 
darkened considerably.

                                     108.

             ALAN
        (into the phone)
      I told you... if I don’t answer, 
      I’m busy. What is it?
        (he listens)
      Okay. I’ll take care of it.

                                  CUT TO:

AIRPORT-

             TICKET CLERK
      There you go, Mr. Matthews.

RENTAL CAR COUNTER-

             RENTAL CAR CLERK
      Here are the keys, Mr. Stevens.

MOTEL CHECK-IN-

             MOTEL CLERK
      You’ll be in room 109, Mr. Clark. 

INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY

Alan sits on the bed and tests the springs. He lifts the 
bedspread to read the tag on the mattress. He applies his 
fake mustache and turns on the television.

A HUNTING PROGRAM plays on the TV. Alan turns the volume 
louder, louder, louder, LOUDER-

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - DAY

The SAME HUNTING PROGRAM plays on the TV. Dale is asleep on 
the couch. Corey appears in the doorway. He’s cleaned up and 
the cut on his forehead has scabbed over. He hops to the 
table where he sits and attaches his prosthetic leg.

Leg attached, Corey turns off the TV, then wakes Dale. Dale 
pops up urgently.

                                     109.

             DALE
        (disoriented)
      What day is it?!

             COREY
      Sunday.

             DALE
        (immense relief)
      Oh good!

Dale rolls back over, facing the back of the couch.

             COREY
        (to Dale’s back)
      I’m takin’ Pop over to the rest 
      home. They’re gonna size him up. 
      See what sorta help he’s gonna need 
      here at the house.

Dale doesn’t respond.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
        (to Dale’s back)
      Guess I won’t be needing your help 
      around here no more.

Still nothing from Dale.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      I can give you a bit of walkin’ 
      around money. Get you started 
      anyways. 

Still nothing. Corey stands and fishes his keys out of his 
coat pocket. THE DISPOSABLE CELL PHONE falls to the floor 
with a clatter. Corey picks it up and looks at it. He cracks 
it in half, removes the battery and throws the whole mess 
into the wastebasket.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay Pop, you ready?

Grandpa is propped up in a chair by the door. Corey has 
dressed him in a nice suit and combed his hair, but his face 
is still twisted into a confused grimace.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - DAY

Corey has Grandpa loaded into the truck. He starts the engine 
and drives away. The house is basked in beautiful light.

                                     110.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / RURAL ROAD

Corey points out familiar sights as he drives.

             COREY
      Look Pop. You remember that spot? 
      That’s where you taught me how to 
      fish when I was just a pup.

Grandpa can only muster a LOW GROAN.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - DAY

The house looks like an oil painting, framed against the 
surrounding forest. Alan Ward appears in the driveway 
carrying a briefcase. He looks up at the house, then walks 
casually up to the door and knocks. Nothing.

Alan looks around. Nothing but forest. He turns the knob. The 
door opens.

I/E. COREY’S TRUCK / RURAL ROAD

Corey tries to engage Grandpa.

             COREY
      There’s the Miller’s old place. You 
      remember Gus? From the lumber yard? 
      Didn’t he fix you up with Memaw? 
      Used to say he did...

Grandpa’s eyes are distant and watery.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / LIVING ROOM - DAY

Alan creeps into the living room and discovers a sleeping 
Dale on the couch, his head still buried in the back 
cushions... snoring.

Alan calmly sets the briefcase on the dining table and 
removes A SMALL PISTOL. He keeps it at his side as he 
approaches the couch, eyeing the remnants of the disposable 
cell phone in the wastebasket as he moves closer to Dale.

Placing the muzzle of the pistol against Dale’s temple, Alan 
asks-

             ALAN
      Mr. Meagher?

Dale, groggy, twists his upper body to face Alan. Alan keeps 
the muzzle pressed firmly to Dale’s forehead.

                                     111.

             DALE
      What?

             ALAN
      Corey Meagher?

Dale processes this for a moment, grasping the consequences 
of his answer. Then-

             DALE
        (solemnly)
      Yeah. That’s me.

EXT. NURSING HOME - DAY

Corey’s truck pulls into the porte cochere and stops. A FEW 
RESIDENTS are seated in wheelchairs on the small patch of 
lawn.

IN THE TRUCK-

             COREY
      Okay, Pop. We’re here.

Corey turns to face his Grandfather. The tension has left 
Grandpa’s face. His eyes are still open, but he looks 
peaceful. Corey regards him for a moment. He strokes 
Grandpa’s hair, then delicately closes his eyes.

OUTSIDE-

The truck pulls out of the porte cochere and drives away.

INT. COREY’S HOUSE - DAY

Corey enters carrying Grandpa’s lifeless body. Dale’s legs 
are still draped over the arm of the couch.

IN GRANDPA’S ROOM-

Corey lays Grandpa down on the bed, folding his arms 
naturally across his waist.

             COREY
      There you go. You’re home now, Pop.

Grandpa, still dressed in a suit, looks more dignified than 
he has throughout.

                                     112.

IN THE LIVING ROOM-

Corey returns downstairs and leans against the door frame 
looking at Dale’s legs.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
        (firm)
      Dale. Dale, get up. Pop died... 
      Dale!

Frustrated, Corey approaches the couch. Grabbing Dale by the 
shoulder, Corey begins to shake him. Dale’s head rotates 
slightly revealing a TIDY ENTRY WOUND... right between the 
eyes.

             COREY
	(CONT’D)
      No...

Corey drops to his knees. The room turns around him. Photos 
of the family... Mom, Dad, Grandpa... Corey and Dale as 
little boys. Corey is defeated. He leans back against the 
wall staring in disbelief at his dead brother. His gaze 
settles on DALE’S LEGS, still draped over the arm of the 
couch.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / BATHROOM - DAY

Corey selects a prescription bottle from the medicine cabinet 
and swallows some pills. When he closes the cabinet door, the 
reflection reveals Dale’s legs draped over the edge of the 
bathtub.

Corey approaches the bathtub. He’s carrying a RECIPROCATING 
SAW and a WELDING TORCH. He sits on the edge of the tub and 
lights the torch, holding the bright blue flame to the saw’s 
LONG SERRATED BLADE.

Once the blade has gone RED HOT, he pulls Dale’s leg into his 
armpit like a wrestling hold, then slowly lowers the WHIRRING 
BLADE down onto Dale’s lifeless limb, just below the knee.

Just as the blade is about to make contact, Corey releases 
the trigger and the blade stops. COREY CHOKES AND VOMITS onto 
the bathroom floor.

Composing himself, Corey again takes a firm hold of Dale’s 
leg and reengages the saw.

FLASHBACK-

                                     113.

Corey is fireman-carried into a tent and flopped down onto a 
gurney by a member of his squad. MEDICS go to work on him. 
Muffled, distorted calls for TOOLS AND SUPPLIES. The word 
“AMPUTATE” floats by. A BONE SAW is raised, its diamond-sharp 
blade spinning at high RPMs.

Corey, still in shock, strains to watch as the spinning blade 
enters his MUTILATED LEG.

                                  CUT TO:

INT. CRISWELL MEATWORKS / KILL FLOOR - DAY

Corey uses a bone saw to remove the hooves from a skinned 
carcass. He drops the hooves into THE GRINDER where they’re 
CHEWED INTO PULP to be rendered down for cattle feed.

The Plant Manager enters and approaches Corey.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Looks like ol’ Alex never turned up 
      today. That right?

             COREY
      Haven’t seen him.

             PLANT MANAGER
      Musta had one a them powwows out on 
      the rez over the weekend. He’s 
      probably sleeping it off. I’m sure 
      we’ll see him tomorrow. Well, 
      thanks for pickin’ up the slack, 
      son. You do good work.

Corey just nods. The QUITTING BELL sounds.

             PLANT MANAGER
	(CONT’D)
      Well, that’s another day done. I’ll 
      see you bright and early. 
      Goodnight, Corey.

             COREY
        (sheepish... guilty)
      Night.

The manager exits, followed by the USDA Inspector. Corey 
looks up as Lupe climbs down from her perch. He’s now ALL 
ALONE on the kill floor.

He walks to the bin where he and Alex hid the drugs. He pulls 
the bin out, reaches inside, and removes a PLASTIC-WRAPPED 
PACKAGE bound with duct tape.

                                     114.

Corey gives one last look around the facility before 
unwrapping the package and revealing DALE’S SEVERED LEG.

Corey steps on a pedal, engaging the grinder. He looks down 
at the large, interlocking STEEL BLADES as they churn, BITS 
OF BLOODY VISCERA still present from their last task.

With a heavy heart, he drops the leg into the grinder. He 
watches solemnly as THE LEG IS SWALLOWED UP by the churning 
blades.

IN THE LOCKER ROOM-

COREY PUNCHES OUT. His expression makes it clear that this is 
the last time he’ll do this.

When he slides his timecard back into the rack, his focus 
shifts to the name on the timecard directly above his... ALEX 
PETTIGREW. 

INT. COREY’S HOUSE / COREY’S ROOM - DUSK

Dale’s body lies prone on Corey’s bed. His leg has been 
neatly amputated and cauterized at the knee.

Corey enters and sits on the edge of the bed. He empties 
Dale’s pockets, retrieving his wallet. He checks the I.D., 
then removes his own wallet and slides it into Dale’s pocket.

Still sitting on the edge of the bed, Corey lifts his pant 
leg and REMOVES HIS PROSTHETIC LEG. He lovingly attaches the 
prosthesis to his dead brother’s body.

He stands, hoisting a LARGE GASOLINE CAN, and spills some 
fuel around the bed.

EXT. COREY’S HOUSE - DUSK

Corey exits the storm cellar with a LARGE BACKPACK slung over 
his shoulder. He uses an OLD CANE to stabilize himself on one 
leg.

THE FLAMES have already begun to lick at the window frames of 
the house. BLACK SMOKE billows out.

Corey’s pickup truck is still parked in its usual spot. He 
hobbles past it and INTO THE FOREST, where he SLOWLY 
DISAPPEARS FROM VIEW.

In the sky above, TWO TURKEY VULTURES circle above the trees 
as the sun sets over the distant mountaintops.

                                     115.

EXT. LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Liz arrives home with Hunter in tow, her arms loaded down 
with groceries. There’s a LARGE, UNMARKED BOX on her 
doorstep.

INT. LIZ’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Liz gets Hunter situated, then hefts the VERY HEAVY BOX, 
dropping it onto the table. Using a kitchen knife, she cuts 
away the duct tape. 

Cautiously curious, she slowly folds back the flaps to reveal 
the contents. SHE GASPS, startling Hunter.

             LIZ
      I’m sorry, baby.

Her eyes begin to well up with tears as she reaches into the 
box, lifting out HANDFULS AND HANDFULS OF CASH and piling it 
on the table in front of Hunter.

                                FADE OUT.

                                 THE END.

