                                           Draft 3/8/13

    THE END OF THE TOUR

            Screenplay by
         DONALD MARGULIES
Based on "Although Of Course You End Up Becoming Yourself: 
A Road Trip With David Foster Wallace" by David Lipsky

David Kanter/Matt DeRoss/James Dahl
ANONYMOUS CONTENT

                                 FADE IN:

EXT. / INT. LIPSKY’S WEST END AVE. APT. (2008)

A bright, unpretentious two-bedroom in a pre-war building, 
cluttered with books and papers, reflecting its owner’s 
lively mind.  The decor is that of a perennial grad student’s 
digs, the bachelor pad of a New York intellectual. An 
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is curled up on the sofa.

Seated at his messy desk in his office, DAVID LIPSKY, a 
strapping, boyishly handsome forty-three, quick-witted, 
tightly-wound, smokes and types speedily from scraps of 
handwritten notes, surrounded by books on his current 
journalistic subject, climate change.  A stack of copies of a 
hardcover book - Absolutely American by David Lipsky - looms 
nearby, his recent publishing success.  

SUPER TITLE:  September 12, 2008

His iPhone vibrates.  “Jeff/Newsweek” appears on its screen.

             LIPSKY
      Hey, Jeff, what’s up?

             JEFF’S VOICE 
      (over phone)  Listen: According to 
      this unconfirmed report... David 
      Wallace is dead.

             LIPSKY
      (disputing)  No no no no, must be one 
      of those rumors...

While they speak, Lipsky rapidly googles “david foster 
wallace dead” and scans the news.

             JEFF’S VOICE
      I’m only telling you what we heard.

             LIPSKY
      I just googled it. Must be a college 
      prank or something.  

             JEFF’S VOICE
      I thought if anybody knew whether it 
      was true or not...

Over, the sound of another call coming in on his cellphone.

             LIPSKY
      Hold on a second, I’m getting another 
      call.

                                         2.

Just then, his desk phone also rings.  He looks at it.

With trepidation, Lipsky refreshes his computer screen.  The 
page now shows a flood of breaking-news items about Wallace’s 
death at age 46.  Shock registers on Lipsky’s face.  OVER: 
NPR reporter ROBERT SIEGEL. 

             ROBERT SIEGEL
	(O.S.)
      Now a remembrance of writer David 
      Foster Wallace... 

EXT. BARNES & NOBLE BOOKSTORE - NEW YORK - DAY

Lipsky, pensive, smoking, walks down upper Broadway on a 
crisp autumn day, stops at a window display honoring Wallace 
with his picture and copies of his books The Broom of the 
System, Brief Interviews with Hideous Men, A Supposedly Fun 
Thing I’ll Never Do Again and his magnum opus, Infinite Jest.

             ROBERT SIEGEL
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      He was found dead, an apparent 
      suicide, on Friday night. 

INT. NPR OFFICE - NEW YORK

Lipsky is greeted by a college-age INTERN in the reception 
area and escorted to a booth.

             ROBERT SIEGEL
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Wallace's novel, "Infinite Jest," 
      brought him fame and a wide audience. 

INT. NPR STUDIO - NEW YORK

Lipsky, wearing headphones, heart pounding, nervously waits 
for a cue from a woman producer in the control booth.  

             ROBERT SIEGEL
	(O.S.)
      ...Writer David Lipsky has this 
      appreciation.

The producer signals to Lipsky, who reads his prepared 
remarks from his shaky hands.

             LIPSKY
      To read David Foster Wallace was to 
      feel your eyelids pulled open. Some 
      writers...

We tune down on Lipsky and hear his interior, writer’s voice:

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
      Suicide is such a powerful end...

                                         3.

INT. LIPSKY’S WEST END AVE. APT. - OFFICE (2008)

Lipsky at his computer composing those words.

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      ...it reaches back and scrambles the 
      beginning.  

As he types, we INTERCUT quick flashes:

INT. CAR / EXT. ROAD - ILLINOIS - 12 YEARS EARLIER (1996)

Blurry, indistinct POV shots of David Foster Wallace in the 
passenger seat of a moving car: Lipsky’s memory struggling to 
come into focus. 

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      Eventually, every memory and 
      impression gets tugged in its 
      direction.

INT. LIPSKY’S WEST END AVE. APT. (2008)

Lipsky rummages through drawers and closet shelves until he 
locates a particular shoe box labeled “DFW.”  He opens the 
box: inside are a motley bunch of audio tapes - eight or nine 
of them - numbered, scrawled with dates from four days in 
March 1996.  He lays them out in chronological order.  

He digs out a quaintly clunky SONY tape recorder that was 
state-of-the-art back in 1996.  It doesn’t play.  He removes 
its batteries and looks in drawers for new ones.  No luck.  

In the BATHROOM, Lipsky takes the batteries out of his 
electric toothbrush and puts them in the recorder.

With a mixture of excitement and trepidation, he inserts 
cassette #1 in the machine and presses play.  The sound of 
David’s voice mid-tape, is both comforting and moving.

             DAVID’S VOICE
      (on the recording)  -- there was, if 
      anything, a conscious attempt to not 
      give overt direction.

INT. CAR / EXT. ROAD - ILLINOIS - 12 YEARS EARLIER - (1996) 

Lipsky’s SOFT-FOCUS POV: The still-elusive DavID FOSTER 
WALLACE - 34, scruffily handsome, wire-rimmed glasses, head 
covered in a white bandanna - in the passenger seat talking.  

                                FLASH TO: 

                                         4.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      Although, of course, you end up 
      becoming yourself.

With the grey, midwestern landscape passing by, David spits 
chewing tobacco into a Savarin coffee can. 

                              CUT BACK TO: 

INT. LIPSKY’S WEST END AVE. APT. (2008)

Lipsky presses rewind on the tape player.  He ruminates as we 
HEAR the whir of the tape rewinding. 

EXT. DOWNTOWN NEW YORK SKYLINE - NIGHT (1996)

Stock footage with the heart-stopping view of the illuminated 
twin towers tells us we are in pre-2001 New York.

                              FLASHBACK TO:

SUPER TITLE: 1996

             LIPSKY
	(O.S.)
      (reads) “I didn’t understand SoHo...

INT. BOOK SHOP - NEW YORK - NIGHT

Lipsky stands before a paltry turnout - consisting of old 
people and a few loyal friends (among them his pretty 
girlfriend, SARAH) - reading from his novel, The Art Fair.  
Here, Lipsky is 30 years old but looks like a student, his 
long, dark, Byronic hair framing his fine features.

             LIPSKY
	(CONT’D)
      - the warehouses, the old buildings, 
      the cobbled streets.  

EXT. KGB BAR - LOWER EAST SIDE - ANOTHER NIGHT

Lipsky and Sarah walk down hip East 4th Street on a cold, 
wintry night.

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      It wasn’t the Upper East Side, and it 
      was dirty.  

They encounter a crowd of mostly young people in front of the 
KGB BAR, an artsy hangout known for its literary events, and 
a BOUNCER trying to control it.  In a window, A SIGN touts a 
book-reading by Wallace, with “Sold Out” slapped across it.

                                         5.

Looking above the heads of the crowd, Lipsky glimpses only 
the back of a man (WALLACE) wearing a bandanna being ushered 
into the bar like a rock star.  Lipsky feels like the boy 
with his nose pressed up against the sweetshop glass.

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      I felt marooned...

INT. BOOK SHOP - NEW YORK - NIGHT (CONTINUED)

Distracted by disinterested CUSTOMERS who continue to browse, 
Lipsky hears a muffled giggle and sees a YOUNG COUPLE in the 
audience flirting and clearly not listening.

             LIPSKY
      ...our mother had taken us off the 
      track of the nice life we’d been on.  
      She’d moored us in a creepy cul-de-sac 
      with her art-world friends.”

He hears a snore and sees a homeless man in the audience 
stretched across three chairs, sleeping.

INT. LOFT - NEW YORK (1996)

Deafening music.  A crowded, noisy gathering of mostly young, 
cool, black-attired New York writers and artists.  Lipsky 
gets two glasses of wine from a bar.  We FOLLOW as he makes 
his way through the crowd.  He knows a lot of people with 
whom he exchanges ad-libbed greetings along the way.  They 
have to shout to be heard above the din.

             BEARDED GUY
      David, hi!  How’d your reading go?

             LIPSKY
      Great!

             BEARDED GUY
      Sorry I missed it!

             LIPSKY
      Don’t worry about it!

Drinks held aloft, Lipsky continues into the crowd.  A MODEL:

             MODEL
      I heard you got the Rolling Stone job!

             LIPSKY
      We’ll see!  I’m sort of on probation!

Lipsky delivers the drink to Sarah, who stands in a circle of 
acquaintances in mid-conversation.  

                                         6.

             BALD INTELLECTUAL
      Every woman wants to fuck him.  And 
      every man who hates him, secretly 
      wants to be him.

             LIPSKY
      Who?

             SARAH
      David Foster Wallace.

             LIPSKY
      If I hear one more thing about David 
      Foster Wallace...

             BALD INTELLECTUAL
      Did you see Kirn’s review in New York?  
      The guy’s been fucking canonized!

INT. LIPSKY’S W. 77TH ST. APT. (1996)

Lipsky, at the bathroom door, reads aloud Walter Kirn’s 
review in New York magazine (2/12/96).  Sarah comes out in a 
towel and he follows her to the bedroom.

             LIPSKY
      “Next year’s book awards have been 
      decided.” Can you believe this?  “The 
      plaques and citations can now be put 
      into escrow.” Unbelievable.  “With 
      Infinite Jest by David Foster Wallace - 
      a plutonium-dense, satirical whiz-kid 
      opus that runs to almost a thousand 
      pages (not including footnotes) - the 
      competition has been obliterated.  
      It’s as though Paul Bunyan had joined 
      the NFL or Wittgenstein had gone on 
      Jeopardy! The novel is that colossally 
      disruptive.  And that spectacularly 
      good.”  That’s just the fucking 
      opening paragraph!  

             SARAH
      What if it actually is that good?  You 
      know?  You may just have to read it.

She kisses him.

INT. LIPSKY’S W. 77TH ST. APT. - ANOTHER NIGHT (1996)

We pan the apartment.  If his 2008 place is grad-student-y, 
the 1996 Lipsky residence is smaller and explosively chaotic, 
like a teenager’s domain: clothing, books, magazines strewn 
everywhere, his cluttered desk planted in the living room.

We find Sarah sitting up in their untidy bed reading the 
current bestseller, Primary Colors.  We pull back and see 
Lipsky beside her reading Infinite Jest.  Silence.

                                         7.

             LIPSKY
      Shit.

             SARAH
      What.

             LIPSKY
      It’s good.  Fuck.

Pause.  She sets down Primary Colors and begins reading her 
own copy of Infinite Jest.  

INT. OFFICES OF ROLLING STONE - DAY

Buzzing with the hip, youthful industry of people who know 
they’re at the place to be.  Lipsky drops by to see his 
editor, BOB LOVE, 40, greying, bearded.

             LIPSKY 
      How many times have we interviewed a 
      writer in the last ten years?  Guess.

             BOB
      Um... how many? 

             LIPSKY
      Zero.  I checked.  

             BOB
      Maybe that’s because we don’t 
      interview writers.

Lipsky tosses Newsweek, opened to a photo of Wallace, onto 
Bob’s messy desk.

             LIPSKY
      There hasn’t been a writer like this 
      one.  Once in a generation, maybe.  
      Hemingway, Pynchon.  Let me have this 
      story.  

             BOB
      What story?

             LIPSKY
      He’s finishing up his book tour and I 
      want to go with him.  

             BOB
      That’s not a story.  

                                         8.

             LIPSKY
      He teaches at some small state 
      university, somewhere in Illinois. 
      Send me there.  Please, Bob.  This is 
      the sort of stuff I should be doing, 
      not 500-words on girl bands.  
        (re: the photo)
      Look at him:  He looks like one of us.
      Talk to Jann?

             BOB
      He’s not gonna go for it...

LATER - LIPSKY’S CUBICLE

Lipsky works at his computer.  Newsweek with the Wallace 
photo lands on his desk.  Bob has popped in.

             BOB
      I talked to Jann.  You’re on.  

             LIPSKY
      Great!

             BOB
      But there had better be a story 
      there...

Bob leaves.  Lipsky’s triumphant smile fades.  He looks at 
the photo of Wallace.  Now what?

INT. LIPSKY’S W. 77TH ST. APT. - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sarah, in bed, reads Infinite Jest as Lipsky walks back and 
forth across frame, gathering stuff to pack for his trip.  
It’s irrational but he’s jealous of her attention given to 
the novel; sensing it, she playfully removes the book jacket.

A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS as Lipsky packs his shoulder bag.  
Laptop.  Notebook.  Wallace’s books, full of notations and 
post-its.  Tape recorder, packs of audio cassettes.  He 
considers then tosses in The Art Fair and zips up his bag.  

INT. LIPSKY’S W. 77TH ST. APT. - BEDROOM - DAWN

The diffuse, cool blue light of morning light.  Fully 
clothed, wearing his parka, Lipsky climbs into bed beside the 
sleeping Sarah and kisses her goodbye.  

             SARAH
      Mmm.  Call me.

             LIPSKY
      I will.

                                         9.

             SARAH
      (teasing)  Send him my love.

Lipsky playfully tosses a pillow at her.

EXT. APT. BUILDING - W. 77TH ST. - NEW YORK

A grey wintry morning.  Lipsky, outside his building, hails a 
taxi.  A cab pulls up and pops its trunk.  Lipsky tosses in 
his valise, slams it shut, gets in.

             LIPSKY
      LaGuardia.  American.

The cab drives away.

INT. CAB / EXT. FDR DRIVE - DAY

Lipsky, in the backseat, reads Infinite Jest; he’s about 
three-quarters of the way through it.  He makes a note in the 
margin, then glances out the window at the passing skyline.  
A road sign appears for LaGuardia.

EXT. CHICAGO O’HARE AIRPORT - DAY

An American Airlines plane comes in for a landing on the 
flat, grey, wintry landscape.

INT. CHICAGO O’HARE AIRPORT 

Lipsky goes up at the Budget Rent-a-Car counter.

             RESERVATIONIST
      Next person in line?

             LIPSKY
      Hi, I have a reservation, the name is 
      Lipsky?  David Lipsky?  L-I-P, S-K-Y.  
      Reserved by Rolling Stone?

EXT. CHICAGO O’HARE AIRPORT - PARKING LOT

Lipsky, holding the Budget folder, locates his rental car.  
He finds it: a forest-green 1995 Grand Am.  He clicks his 
key; the car blinks at him.

The Grand Am pulls out of the lot and onto the highway, past 
a sign for Bloomington. 

INT. CAR / EXT. ROAD - BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS - DAY

Lipsky, lost, at the wheel, refers to a road map.  Over we 
hear a telephone ringing tone.

                                         10.

EXT. HIGHWAY - BLOOMINGTON - DAY

An American landscape of fast-food places and chain stores.  
Tractor-trailer trucks thunder past, spraying slush. Lipsky’s 
Grand Am is parked in a Mobil station.  He stands at a pay 
phone.  (We never intercut during telephone conversations.)

             DAVID’S VOICE
      (over phone)  Hello?

             LIPSKY
      David, hi, it’s David Lipsky.

             DAVID’S VOICE
      Where are you?

             LIPSKY
      I think I may have made a wrong turn 
      somewhere.  Let’s see, I’m on County 
      Highway 29, across from Circus Video?

             DAVID’S VOICE
      How’d you get this number?

             LIPSKY
      Your publicist sent it in her e-mail, 
      just in case.

             DAVID’S VOICE
      Well, lose it.

INT. CAR / EXT. DAVID’S HOUSE - ENVIRONS - DAY

Stormy skies.  Flat, wintry terrain.  As the car pulls up, 
Lipsky sees, through the windshield, a modest, one-story 
brick house in the distance, and a man emerging from it.  

From Lipsky’s POV: DAVID Foster Wallace, hands shoved in his 
jeans pockets for warmth, comes out of his house, accompanied 
by his two barking, rambunctious black labs, JEEVES and 
DRONE.  This is the first time we see David up close and in 
focus: stubble, long hair, blue bandanna, wire-rims, Frye 
boots, 6’2” and, at this time in his life, burly.

Lipsky parks.  He takes a deep, bracing breath before getting 
out of the car to finally meet the man about whom he has 
complicated feelings.  

             DAVID
      You made it.

             LIPSKY
      Yeah.  Hi.

David offers his wary, tolerant hand.  This being the end of 
his tour, his patience is frayed and he’s just about talked 
out.  But, at the same time, it’s Rolling Stone, he wants to 
make a good impression.

                                         11.

             DAVID
      Dave Wallace.

             LIPSKY
      David Lipsky.  Pleasure.

Lipsky is cowed but determined to hold his own.  These are 
two really smart, competitive guys out to impress each other.  
Wallace wants to be favorably profiled and Lipsky wants 
Wallace’s approval - and a good story.

             DAVID
      Fucking cold, let’s go inside. (to the 
      dogs) Jeeves, Drone!  Get over here!

Lipsky gets his shoulder bag out of the car and follows David 
and the rowdy, barking dogs into the house.

             DAVID
      (to the dogs) Quiet! Our guest doesn’t 
      want you slobbering all over him.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, I don’t mind.  I love dogs.

             DAVID
      Yeah?  Well, you haven’t met these 
      guys...

He closes the door.

INT. DAVID'S HOUSE - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

Lipsky drops his bag on the messy, shit-stained shag carpet.  
The dogs are indeed all over him.  Lipsky scritches their 
heads and speaks to them as a dog lover would speak to dogs.

             LIPSKY
      Yes, I’m very glad to meet you, too.  
      Who are you?

             DAVID
      That’s Jeeves.  The Jeevesmeister.  I 
      got him ‘cause he was so ugly.  No one 
      else wanted him.  Now he’s like a 
      Cover Girl-dog.  Aren’t you, Jeeves?  
      Yes, you are.  And this is Drone.  My 
      provisional dog.  

                                         12.

             LIPSKY
      Why provisional?

             DAVID
      Just showed up one day while Jeeves 
      and I were out jogging and the rest is 
      history.  I feel like I should offer 
      you tea or something.

             LIPSKY
      Yeah. Thanks. That would be great.

David goes to put up water.  We STAY on Lipsky, casually 
studying the room with the eye of a journalist, taking in the 
grad-student-like accoutrements: cramped cinder-block 
bookshelves; hodgepodge of furniture, an ALANIS MORISSETTE 
poster conspicuously on the wall.  Lipsky peruses wildly 
eclectic book titles (Kant, Kael, Krazy Kat) while raising 
his voice to converse with David, who’s in the kitchen.  

             LIPSKY
      Have you always been unlisted?  

             DAVID
	(O.S.)
      (from the kitchen) I had to do that 
      recently.  It was getting crazy.  

             LIPSKY
      Because of fans?

             DAVID
      I don’t know if “fan” would be the 
      right word... but, yeah.  I think what 
      happened was, I had forgotten to tell 
      my parents not to give my number out.  
      So it was people who tracked my 
      parents down, and um - 

             LIPSKY
      (knowing)  Ohhh.

             DAVID
      - and they were all very nice.  But a 
      lot of them were seriously troubled 
      and upset, and wanted to talk about, 
      in great detail, their problems.  You 
      know, like to a really good friend.  
      Why me, I do not know.  And I have 
      this terrible problem, I just really 
      hate to hurt people’s feelings.  So I 
      did something kinda cowardly.

             LIPSKY
      Unlisting your number’s not cowardly.

                                         13.

             DAVID
      It kinda is.  I mean, I changed my 
      number so these folks couldn’t find me 
      anymore.  There was one guy who was a 
      computer operator in Vancouver, lived 
      in a basement.  Who I found really 
      moving.  In terrible terrible pain.

             LIPSKY
      What did he want from you?

             DAVID
      Wasn’t clear, and when I would sort of 
      ask him, he’d get angry, and that’s 
      when it got scary.  

A short time later.  LIPSKY’S POV: A child’s drawing pinned 
to a shelf.  He comes closer to examine the primitive scrawl: 
“Chickenhead Dave Wallace.”  David returns with mugs of tea.

             LIPSKY
      Thanks.  (re: the drawing)  Who’s the 
      artist?

             DAVID
      Hm?  (Lipsky points.)  Oh, one of my 
      friend’s daughters.  Calls me 
      Chickenhead, and I call her 
      Chickenhead.  Her latest salvo in the 
      war.

Laughing, Lipsky takes out his tape recorder and starts to 
set it up but stops.

             LIPSKY
      You mind if I...?

             DAVID
      Hey.  Do what you’ve got to do.

Lipsky nervously unwraps and loads a Maxell cassette in the 
recorder and sets it on a pile of magazines - Cosmopolitan on 
the top.  David sees his reaction to the magazine.

             DAVID
      I subscribe.

             LIPSKY
      Oh.  Uh huh.

             DAVID
      Stuff like “I’ve Cheated - Should I 
      Tell?”: Fundamentally soothing to the 
      nervous system.  

Lipsky laughs as he pops in the cassette.  (Lipsky is a 
nervous laugher; he laughs a lot, not only where indicated.)

                                         14.

             DAVID
      Listen: Before we start putting stuff 
      on tape, I gotta ask you something.  

             LIPSKY
      Okay...

             DAVID
      I need to know that anything that I 
      ask you five minutes later to not put 
      in, you won’t put in.

             LIPSKY
      Absolutely.

             DAVID
      Given my level of fatigue and fuck-up 
      quotient lately, it’s the only way I 
      can see doin’ it and not going crazy.

             LIPSKY
      I understand completely.

Lipsky presses play.  The ever-present tape recorder becomes 
a third character in this conversation.  David sees Lipsky 
make a mental note of the chess board.

             DAVID
      You play?

Later.  They’re playing.  David, for all his brilliance, is a 
surprisingly inept - if determined - chess player.  David 
hums a soft, indistinct tune as he assesses the board.

Jeeves puts his snout on Lipsky’s knee and whines.  Lipsky 
instinctively - perhaps inappropriately (David gives him a 
look) - taps the dog on his nose and immediately regrets it. 

             LIPSKY
      Sorry.

             DAVID
      That’s alright, he deserved it.  See, 
      Jeeves?  You’re pissin’ even the guest 
      off.  Even the guest is swattin’ ya.  

David moves a chess piece.

             DAVID
      Well, that didn’t do a whole heck of a 
      lot for me, did it?  

                                         15.

             LIPSKY
      I hate to do this to you...

On the contrary; he loves that he’s besting David Foster 
Wallace at chess.  Lipsky takes his rook.

             DAVID
      Oh fuck me!  Who’s idea was it to play 
      chess, anyway?

Lipsky sees out the window: a FedEx truck pulls up outside.

             LIPSKY
      Looks like you’ve got a delivery.

             DAVID
      Saved by Federal Express.

Lipsky observes as David goes to the front door to deal with 
the FEDEX GUY, 40, who’s a little star-struck.  

             FEDEX GUY
      David Wallace?

             DAVID
      That’s me.

             FEDEX GUY
      Sign here, please.

As David signs for a packet:

             FEDEX GUY
      So you’re the writer guy, right?

             DAVID
      I guess.

             FEDEX GUY
      Saw you in Time - maybe it was 
      Newsweek.  How does it feel to be 
      famous?

That throws David, makes him edgy.

             DAVID
      Well, my dogs don’t give me any more 
      respect, if that’s what you mean.  
      Look, thanks a lot.

He closes the door and refers to the chess board.  

                                         16.

             DAVID
      Let’s finish this travesty later.  
      I’ve got to go teach.  

INT. CAR / EXT. MAIN STREET - BLOOMINGTON

KFC, Taco Bell, Wendy’s, Days Inn go by in a blur of American 
franchises.  Lipsky at the wheel.  David chewing tobacco.

             LIPSKY
      You like teaching?

             DAVID
      Yeah, but these poor kids, that’s 
      what’s so fucked: I haven’t been 
      around for two weeks and I’m gonna 
      have to cut it short today.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      ‘Cause we’ve gotta get up at five in 
      the morning to leave for Minneapolis, 
      remember?

             LIPSKY
      Oh, shit, do we really have to get up 
      at five?

             DAVID
      That’s what you signed on for, man.

David spits chewed tobacco into a Savarin can.

EXT. MAIN STREET - BLOOMINGTON - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

The car pulls into Illinois State University parking.

INT. CLASSROOM - ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY - DAY

A generic classroom: Fluorescent lighting and a big clock on 
the wall.  Lipsky observes David, caffeinated Diet Pepsi in 
hand, and his arriving students; there will be 15 in all, 
predominantly male.

             STUDENT #1
      Ah, the Prodigal Professor!

             STUDENT #2
      I didn’t realize how famous you were 
      till my mom called, said she read 
      about you in Time magazine.

                                         17.

             DAVID
      Damn, my cover’s totally blown.  

They laugh in the slightly forced way of people in the 
presence of a celebrity.  As an aside, David sees Lipsky take 
out his tape recorder.

             DAVID
      (sotto)  Could you not, uh...

             LIPSKY
      Oh.  Okay.

             DAVID
      It’s just, it gets pretty sensitive 
      around here.  

             LIPSKY
      Got it.  

Lipsky puts away the recorder and takes out his notebook.  
More students arrive, ad libbed affectionate greetings.

             STUDENT #3
      Professor!  Done being famous yet?

             DAVID
      Two more minutes.

Students laugh.  A PUNKISH wiseguy from the back of the room:

             WISEGUY STUDENT
      I knew him well, Horatio - a man of 
      infinite jest...

Students laugh.  David shouts to be heard:

             DAVID
      OK, you’re allowed one reference!

A short time later.  David introduces Lipsky.

             DAVID
      OK, class, listen up: The guy with the 
      pad writin’ stuff down is a writer for 
      Rolling Stone - so don’t embarrass me, 
      okay?

Students, genuinely impressed, Ooo and Ahh... A pretty 
student seated nearby flirts with Lipsky.

             PRETTY STUDENT
      Really?  For Rolling Stone?

                                         18.

             LIPSKY
      Uh huh.

             WISEGUY STUDENT
      Hey, we all gonna be on the cover?

LATER.  The class in-progress.  Lipsky observes as David 
paces.  He’s “on” and his students are eating it up.

Laughter.

             DAVID
      A campus romance story, I gotta tell 
      ya, to the average citizen, is not all 
      that interesting.  The great dread of 
      creative writing professors?: “Their 
      eyes met over the keg...”

             EARNEST STUDENT
      I just want my narrator to be funny 
      and smart, y’know?

             DAVID
      Here’s a tip, then: To have your 
      narrator be funny and smart? Have him 
      say funny, smart things.  Works every 
      time.

Laughter.  Lipsky jots down a note.

EXT. ISU CAMPUS - PARKING LOT - DUSK

Lipsky and David walk back to the car.  

             DAVID
      I’m usually a much better teacher than 
      this.  I swear to God.

             LIPSKY
      I thought you were great.  They 
      obviously love you.

             DAVID
      Yeah?

             LIPSKY
      Oh, come on, you know they do.

They get in the car.

             DAVID
      I’m hungry.  You?

                                         19.

EXT. / INT. MONICAL'S PIZZA - BLOOMINGTON - NIGHT

The restaurant’s logo - purple letters surrounding a red 
pizza - lit up against a cobalt sky.  They park and go inside 
where they’re greeted by a HOSTESS with big hair.

             MONICAL’S HOSTESS
      Evenin’, gentlemen. Two for dinner?

             DAVID
      Yes, but we’re not on a date.

That strikes both Lipsky and the Hostess as an odd remark.

             MONICAL’S HOSTESS
      Follow me, please?

They follow her to a table.  Lipsky sees DINERS smoking.

             LIPSKY
      There’s a smoking section?

             DAVID
      Are you kidding?  In some of these 
      places in the mid-west there’s a chain-
      smoking section.

LATER. They give their order to the waiter.

             WAITER
      ...And what can I get you to drink?  
      Beer, or...

             DAVID
      Uh, not for me, thanks.  A large Diet 
      Rite.

             LIPSKY
      I’ll have the same.

             WAITER
      I’ll be right back with your pop.

The waiter goes.  Lipsky sets up the tape recorder.

             LIPSKY
      You don’t drink.

             DAVID
      Is that a question?

             LIPSKY
      It’s an observation.

                                         20.

             DAVID
      No; I don’t.  You can order whatever 
      you want, go right ahead.

             LIPSKY
      That’s all right.  My friends who have 
      been through the program say they 
      didn't want people to drink in front 
      of them, so I've always…

             DAVID
      Well, I'm not any sort of authority on 
      any sort of “program.” But from my 
      very limited outside understanding, 
      people who have been in it for a 
      while: you could snort cocaine off the 
      back of your hand next to them and 
      they’re okay. 

Lipsky is embarrassed for having been presumptuous.  The 
waiter delivers their drinks.

A short time later.  Drinking their Diet Rites and eating 
cheesy Chicago-Style pizza off trays.

             DAVID
      You know what I would love to do?

             LIPSKY
      What?

             DAVID
      A profile of one of you guys who’s 
      doin’ a profile of me.  Too po-mo and 
      cute?

             LIPSKY
      Maybe.

             DAVID
      But it would be interesting.  You’re 
      gonna go back to New York and sit at 
      your desk and shape this thing however 
      the hell you want.  And that to me is 
      extremely disturbing.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      Because I want to be able to try to 
      shape and manage the impression of me 
      that’s coming across. 
      I can’t even tell if I like you or not 
      because I’m too worried whether you 
      like me.
                                         21.

  

Before Lipsky can assure him, the waiter appears.

             WAITER
      Everything all right, gentlemen?  Can 
      I get you anything else?

             LIPSKY
      We’re fine, thanks.

The waiter goes.

             DAVID
      So what’s this piece about?  What does 
      “Jann” want?

             LIPSKY
      What’s it like being the most-talked 
      about writer in the country.  That 
      sort of thing.

             DAVID
      How do you learn to do this stuff?

             LIPSKY
      What.

             DAVID
      Interviewing.  Did you go to 
      interviewing school?

             LIPSKY
      No... 

A beat.  Lipsky feels a tad fraudulent to identify himself as 
a writer to the man whose success and talent he envies.

             LIPSKY
      I’m a writer. 

             DAVID
      Oh, yeah?

             LIPSKY
      I mean I write fiction. Just published 
      my first novel, as a matter of fact.

             DAVID
      What’s it called?

                                         22.

             LIPSKY
      The Art Fair?

David shrugs.  He’s never heard of it.  Lipsky feels foolish 
for having brought it up.

             LIPSKY
      And I, uh, had a collection published, 
      a couple of years ago.

Lipsky’s pumping leg betrays his anxiety.  David notices.

             DAVID
      You’re a nervous fellow, aren’t you?

             LIPSKY
      Sorry.

Embarrassed, he stops.  

LATER.  The pizza is decimated; all that remain are charred 
crusts.  David is loosening up.

             DAVID 
      The thing about this tour is...  I 
      would like to get laid out of it a 
      couple of times, but... Like, people 
      come up, they kinda slither up during 
      readings or whatever.  But it seems 
      like, what I want is not to have to 
      take any action.   

             LIPSKY
      Like...?

             DAVID
      Like, I don’t want to have to say, 
      “Would you like to come back to my 
      hotel?”  I want them to say, “I am 
      coming back to the hotel.  Where is 
      your hotel?”

Lipsky laughs.

             DAVID
      I can’t stand to look like I’m 
      actively trading on this sexually.  
      Even though of course I have no 
      problem with that.  In retrospect, it 
      was lucky that I didn’t.  

             LIPSKY
      Why?

                                         23.

             DAVID
      Basically, it just would have made me 
      feel lonely.  

             LIPSKY
      Why lonely?

             DAVID
      Because it wouldn’t have had anything 
      to do with me, it would have just 
      been...

             LIPSKY
      Your fame.

             DAVID
      Yeah.

             LIPSKY
      Except... if they’re responding to 
      your work, and the work is so 
      personal... then trading on it is 
      actually another way of meeting you, 
      no?

A beat.  David is impressed by Lipsky’s analysis.

             DAVID
      Huh.  You know? I think this piece’ll 
      really be good if it’s mostly you.  
      Talk all you want, man, save me a 
      whole lotta trouble.

Lipsky laughs, sensing his stock has risen, relaxing more 
into the rhythm of their conversation.

INT. CAR / EXT. STREETS - BLOOMINGTON - NIGHT

David at the wheel, driving Lipsky’s rental.  Tape running.

             DAVID
      So this is what a real car feels like.  
      The one I have runs like a power lawn 
      mower. 

             LIPSKY
      You think being handsome has anything 
      to do with your success?

             DAVID
      What?

                                         24.

             LIPSKY
      You are photogenic... You look good in 
      your author’s photo.

             DAVID
      You’d have to come put me down if I 
      even start thinking that way.

             LIPSKY
      Thinking what way?  About how books 
      are sold?

             DAVID
      Like, “Do you want to do a Rolling 
      Stone interview, do you want to do X, 
      do you want to do Y” worries me that 
      what I’m doing right now is being a 
      whore.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      You know, cashing in somehow, or 
      getting some little celebrity for 
      myself that will, for some bizarre 
      reason, sell more copies of the book.  

David sees Lipsky jot that down in his pad.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      Fine, you can quote that. In a context 
      where I didn’t sound like a total 
      dweeb.  By the way, are they gonna 
      send Annie Leibovitz to take pictures?

             LIPSKY
      I’m not sure.  Possibly.

             DAVID
      I know: You’re a good-looking guy.  We 
      should have ‘em photograph you, and 
      say you’re me.  Maybe I’ll finally end 
      up getting laid. 

Lipsky laughs.  The car approaches a 7-Eleven lit up against 
the night sky and pulls into its parking lot.

INT. 7-ELEVEN - BLOOMINGTON - NIGHT

Muzak.  In the blue-white fluorescent light, David stocks up 
on six-packs of Diet Rite, chewing tobacco, Oreos, etc.

At the cash register, Lipsky prepares to pay.

                                         25.

             LIPSKY
      Let me.

             DAVID
      You don’t have to pay for my shit.

             LIPSKY
      It’s not coming out of my pocket... 
      I’ve got an expense account.

             DAVID
      All right, if you insist...

David grabs a couple more Snickers.

INT. CAR / EXT. ROAD - BLOOMINGTON - NIGHT

Riding through town, the Davids are eating candy like 
teenagers on a joyride.

             DAVID
      If you ate this stuff all the time, 
      what would be wrong with that?

             LIPSKY
      Except for your teeth falling out and 
      getting really fat?

             DAVID
      Yeah, it doesn’t have any of the 
      nourishment of real food, but it’s 
      real pleasurable masticating and 
      swallowing this stuff. 

             LIPSKY
      Like seductive commercial 
      entertainment.  

             DAVID
      Exactly, and what saves us is that 
      most entertainment isn’t very good.

             LIPSKY
      What about good seductive 
      entertainment - like Die Hard?

             DAVID
      The first Die Hard?  Great film.

             LIPSKY
      Brilliant, right?  

                                         26.

             DAVID
      A little formulaic but, yeah.  I 
      really like Bruce Willis.  

             LIPSKY
      I really liked him in Pulp Fiction.

             DAVID
      Yeah, but Tarantino is such a schmuck 
      90 percent of the time. 

             LIPSKY
      I know!

             DAVID
      But ten percent of the time, I’ve seen 
      genius shining off the guy.

EXT. DAVID’S HOUSE - NIGHT

The car pulls up, parks.  They get out with the spoils from 
the 7-Eleven.  Mid-discourse:

             DAVID
      So if the book’s about anything, it’s 
      about the question of: Why am I 
      watching all this shit?  It’s not 
      about the shit, it’s about me.  Why am 
      I doing it?  And what’s so American 
      about what I’m doing?  And maybe 
      that’ll hook into your gut a little 
      bit and you feel some stuff about it.  
      Like, “Hey, this is me.”

We hear the dogs barking as David unlocks the door and they 
enter the house.

INT. DAVID’S HOUSE (CONTINUOUS)

The dogs run out to do their thing.  David puts away the soda 
and snacks.

             DAVID
      I don’t know, the minute I start 
      talking about this stuff, it sounds, 
      number one: very vague.  And, two: 
      really reductive.  

             LIPSKY
      I don’t think you’re being reductive 
      or vague at all.

                                         27.

             DAVID
      Because it’s like, I don’t have a 
      diagnosis, a system of prescriptions.  
      You know?  Like, why are we - and by 
      “we” I mean people like you and me: 
      mostly white, upper middle class, 
      obscenely well-educated, doing really 
      interesting jobs, sitting in really 
      expensive chairs, watching the best, 
      most sophisticated electronic 
      equipment money can buy - why do we 
      feel empty and unhappy?  

             LIPSKY
      Kinda like Hamlet.  Only without the 
      channel-surfing. 

             DAVID
      I’m not saying TV is bad or a waste of 
      your time. Any more than, you know, 
      masturbation is bad or a waste of your 
      time. It's a pleasurable way to spend 
      a few minutes. But if you're doing it 
      twenty times a day, if your primary 
      sexual relationship is with your own 
      hand, then there's something wrong. 

             LIPSKY
      At least if you wank off, some action 
      has been performed, though, right?

             DAVID
      All right, you could make me look like 
      a real dick if you print this: Yes, 
      you're performing muscular movements 
      with your hand as you're jerking off. 
      But what you're doing is running a 
      movie in your head, and having a 
      fantasy relationship with somebody who 
      isn't real, in order to stimulate a 
      purely neurological response.
      Look: as the Internet grows in the 
      next ten, fifteen years, and virtual 
      reality pornography becomes a reality, 
      we're gonna have to develop some 
      machinery, inside our guts, to help us 
      turn off pure, unalloyed pleasure.  
      Otherwise, I don’t know about you, but 
      I’m gonna have to leave the planet.

             LIPSKY
      (smiles uncertainly)  Why?

                                         28.

             DAVID
      Because the technology is just gonna 
      get better and better and better. And 
      it's gonna get easier and easier, and 
      more and more convenient, and more and 
      more pleasurable, to be alone with 
      images on a screen, given to us by 
      people who do not love us but want our 
      money. 

             LIPSKY
      Advertisers.

             DAVID
      Yes.  Which is all right. In low 
      doses, right? But if that's the basic 
      main staple of your diet? You're gonna 
      die. In a meaningful way, you're going 
      to die.

Silence.  Lipsky mulls over the gravity of what David has 
said.  David breaks the portentous silence when he pops a wad 
of tobacco in his mouth.

             LIPSKY
      Can I try that?

             DAVID
      Be my guest.  It takes some getting 
      used to.

Lipsky tries it and makes a horrible face.  David laughs.

             LIPSKY
      You mind if I use your uh...

Amused, David points the way to the bathroom.  

             DAVID
      All yours.

Lipsky goes, leaving the tape running.  

INT. DAVID’S BATHROOM

Lipsky spits the tobacco into the toilet and flushes it.  He 
cups his hands under the running water and rinses his mouth.  
He looks at himself in the mirror and takes a deep, 
fortifying breath.  He stealthily opens the medicine cabinet 
and finds it stocked with jars of vitamins, Stri-Dex pads and 
tubes of Topol, toothpaste for smokers.  He jots down notes.

INT. DAVID’S LIVING ROOM

Lipsky returns.  David is playing with his dogs.

                                         29.

             LIPSKY
      Do you not have a TV?

             DAVID
      I do not have a TV.

             LIPSKY
      How come?

             DAVID
      ‘Cause if I had a TV, I’d watch it all 
      the time. I don’t even know if I would 
      watch it; it would be on all the time - 
      my version of a fireplace.  A source 
      of warmth and light in the corner that 
      I would occasionally get sucked into.

             LIPSKY
      The problem with TV watching is, it's 
      never finished. I've had to go through 
      that my whole life. 

             DAVID
      I sort of think, anybody our age has 
      the same tendency, whether they 
      recognize it or not.

             LIPSKY
      How much TV did you watch when you 
      were a kid?

             DAVID
      A lot.

             LIPSKY
      Me, too.  I preferred my dad's house 
      over my mom’s because there were no 
      restrictions on TV at all. 

             DAVID
      I had to be limited. Two hours a day 
      on weekdays, four hours a day on 
      weekends. And I could only watch one 
      rough program a week.

             LIPSKY
      What do you mean by “rough?”

                                         30.

             DAVID
      My parents determined the definition 
      of rough up until I was like seven or 
      eight. They didn't count Batman as 
      rough, which I remember at the time 
      seemed like this incredible mistake on 
      their part. 

             LIPSKY
      Have you seen it lately?

             DAVID
      Unbelievably campy, right?

Later.  Music on stereo.  Empty soda cans.  Candy wrappers.  
Tape running.  Ruminative, growing more intimate, like 
friends bullshitting into the night.

             DAVID
      You have a girlfriend?

             LIPSKY
      It’s complicated.

             DAVID
      Why?

             LIPSKY
      I was seeing someone, then she moved 
      to L.A. and we theoretically broke up.  
      And I started seeing someone else, but 
      then I started seeing the first woman 
      again - trying the bi-coastal thing - 
      and the second... Well, let’s just say 
      she hasn’t taken it very well.

             DAVID
      I don’t know about you, but I seem to 
      have this incredible knack for 
      attracting crazy women.  Say what you 
      want about them: Psychotics tend to 
      make the first move.

Lipsky laughs.

             DAVID
      It’s much easier having dogs.  You 
      don’t get laid; but you also don’t get 
      the feeling you’re hurting their 
      feelings all the time.

             LIPSKY
      You’re not dating anyone?

                                         31.

             DAVID
      Seriously dating?  No.  I’m out of 
      practice; I wouldn’t know what to say.  

             LIPSKY
      You want to have kids?  

             DAVID
      Yeah; do you?

             LIPSKY
      Yeah.  Eventually.  I think.

             DAVID
      Writing books is kinda like raising 
      children, but you gotta be careful: 
      you should take pride in the work but 
      it’s bad to want that glory to reflect 
      back on you.

             LIPSKY
      You worry about having children?

David seems far away; this is difficult for him.  After a 
beat, he speaks, sounding vulnerable, which doesn’t go 
unnoticed by Lipsky.

             DAVID
      I don’t know that I want to say 
      anything more about it - okay?

             LIPSKY
      (prepared to back off)  That’s fine.

             DAVID
      I mean, we can joke about getting laid 
      on tour and stuff, but...

             LIPSKY
      It’d be nice to have someone to be 
      sharing this with.  

             DAVID
      Yeah.  I really have wished I was 
      married, the last couple of weeks.

             LIPSKY
      You have?

                                         32.

             DAVID
      Yeah, because nobody quite gets it.  
      Your friends who aren’t in the writing 
      biz are all just awed by your picture 
      in Time, and your agent and editor are 
      good people, but they also have their 
      own agendas.  You know?  It’s fun 
      talking to you about it, but, hey, 
      you’ve got an agenda, too.  There’s 
      something nice about having somebody 
      who kinda shared your life, and that 
      you could allow yourself just to be 
      happy and confused with.

             LIPSKY
      Nice to get back to the hotel and call 
      someone.

             DAVID
      Uh huh.  (A beat.)  Why aren’t you 
      married at thirty? 

             LIPSKY
      Why aren't you married at thirty-four?

             DAVID
      You first.

             LIPSKY
      Um... I think it's hard to cast that 
      role … to fill it when you know it's 
      for thirty or forty years … someone 
      who, whatever mental landscape you're 
      in, they're going to be in it too, you 
      need someone who'll fit any landscape 
      you can imagine.

             DAVID
      I'm not that systematic about it. I've 
      come close a few times, and each of 
      those times involved, you know, a 
      three- or four-year thing. And then 
      when it didn't work out - I think the 
      larger thing is probably that I tend 
      to be interested in women that I turn 
      out not to get along very well with.

Lipsky laughs.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      And the ones that I get along very 
      well with, I'm not interested in in a 
      kind of romantic way. So that I've got 
      a lot of really good women friends. 
      But I tend to have a really hard time 
      with girlfriends, because the ones I'm 
      attracted to are a lot of fun in the 
      standard ways, for like a couple of 
      weeks. But in terms of the daily, 
      let's-go-shopping stuff, that we tend 
      not to get along really well.

                                         33.


             LIPSKY
      Why not?

             DAVID
      I don't know. I have friends who say 
      that this is something that would be 
      worth looking into with someone that 
      you pay. 

He and Lipsky laugh.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      But a lot of it too is that - I can't 
      put it as well as you did about the 
      “mental landscapes,” I just know I'm 
      hard to be around. 

David’s “mental landscapes” reference: competitive, fawning, 
mocking?  Lipsky isn’t sure.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      Because when I want to be by myself, 
      like to work, I really want to be by 
      myself.  I think if you dedicate 
      yourself to anything, one facet of 
      that is that it makes you very very 
      self-conscious.  You end up using 
      people. Wanting them around when you 
      want them around, but then sending 
      them away.  

             LIPSKY
      Comes with the territory, though, 
      doesn’t it?  Self-consciousness?

             DAVID
      There’s good self-consciousness.  And 
      then there’s this toxic, paralyzing, 
      raped-by-psychic-Bedouins self-
      consciousness. 

Lipsky laughs.  He refers to the ALANIS poster.

                                         34.

             LIPSKY
      Tell me about that.

             DAVID
      Alanis?  I don’t know, I guess I’m 
      susceptible like everybody else.

             LIPSKY
      She’s pretty, alright...

             DAVID
      Yeah, but in a very sloppy, very human 
      way.  That squeaky, orgasmic quality 
      in her voice?  A lot of women in 
      magazines are pretty in a way that 
      isn’t erotic because they don’t look 
      like anybody you know; you can’t 
      imagine them putting a quarter in a 
      parking meter or eating a bologna 
      sandwich.  But her, I don’t know, I 
      just find her absolutely riveting.

             LIPSKY
      How’d you get to know her, her music, 
      I mean?

             DAVID
      Listening to cheesy Bloomington radio, 
      and “I Want to Tell You” came on.  

             LIPSKY
      (correcting him)  “You Oughta Know.”  

             DAVID
      What?

             LIPSKY
      “I Want to Tell You” is the book O.J. 
      wrote.  

             DAVID
      Oh, right.

             LIPSKY
      Wouldn’t it be great if O.J. sang “You 
      Oughta Know?”

They laugh.  Lipsky is pleased to make David laugh.  Pause.

             DAVID
      If somehow this whole fuss could get 
      me even like a five-minute cup of tea 
      with her...

                                         35.

             LIPSKY
      Why don’t you put out feelers, see if 
      she’d be willing to meet you?

             DAVID
      You serious?  I would never do that.

             LIPSKY
      Why not?

             DAVID
      I’d be too terrified.  Why, you would 
      do that?

             LIPSKY
      If I were you?  Why not?

             DAVID
      Shit, a date with Alanis Morissette?  
      What would I say to her? “So what’s it 
      like to be you?”  (gruff voice)  “I 
      don’t know - shut up.  Keep the fuck 
      away from me.”

             LIPSKY
      But you’d go if she called? “Hey, 
      Dave. I’m at the Drake in Chicago.  
      Let’s have that tea.”

             DAVID
      Yeah... except this is gonna look 
      ridiculous: like I’m using Rolling 
      Stone as a vehicle to try to - but you 
      know what?  I’d go in a heartbeat.

As Lipsky cracks up, David paints the picture:

             DAVID
      Perspiring heavily, all the way up 
      there, shoving Certs into my mouth.  
      Goin’ nuts.  It would cost me like a 
      week of absolute trauma, but yeah, in 
      a heartbeat I would do it.

David realizes the late hour.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      Look, I like talking to you but we 
      have to get up really early.

             LIPSKY
      What is it, like ten o’clock?  

                                         36.

             DAVID
      It’s eleven-thirty, dickbrain.

             LIPSKY
      Shit...I am so sorry, I completely 
      lost track of time.  When should I 
      pick you up in the morning?

Lipsky gets his coat.

             DAVID
      Where you going?

             LIPSKY
      Motel.  There was like a Days Inn on 
      the main road.  I thought I’d -

             DAVID
      (overlap)  No no you don’t want to 
      stay there - trust me.  I’ve got a 
      guest-roomish place you can crash in.

             LIPSKY
      You sure?   I don’t want to impose...

INT. DAVID’S GUEST ROOM - NIGHT

The room is cluttered, not unlike Lipsky’s place in New York.  
David clears stuff off a futon that’s on the floor.  

             DAVID
      Let me get this shit out of the way... 
      Hm.  (re: the rumpled sheet) Might be 
      a good idea to change that.

JUMPCUT.  Together, they put on a clean sheet. 

JUMPCUT.  David about to go, leaves the door ajar.  

             DAVID
      Uh, leave the door open for the dogs.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, okay.

             DAVID
      They like to wander from room to room 
      during the night; if the door’s 
      closed, they’ll eat it to get through 
      if they have to.  ‘Night.

David goes.  Lipsky finds himself surrounded by intimidating 
stacks of foreign editions of David’s books.  He stealthily 
looks around the mess of activity on the desk. 

David knocks on the open door as he enters, startling Lipsky 
in his snooping.  David’s holding a blanket.

                                         37.

             DAVID
      Gets a little frosty in here.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, thanks. 

             DAVID
      Hey.  My spare blanket is your spare 
      blanket.  ‘Night.

             LIPSKY
      ‘Night.  (calls)  Thanks!

LATER.  Lipsky turns out the light and gets in bed.  From his 
POV on the floor: The looming towers of Infinite Jest in 
foreign editions (German, Japanese, Italian, French).  The 
door creaks open: Drone pays a visit.

INT. DAVID’S GUEST ROOM - DAWN

Lipsky, asleep in grey, hazy, pre-dawn light, is awakened by 
the sound of Jeeves HOWLing in the next room.  He hears 
David’s muffled voice through the wall.

             DAVID
	(O.S.)
      Jeeves, enough.  I mean it, Jeeves, 
      shut the fuck up!

EXT. DAVID’S HOUSE - DAWN

In the middle of a wintry field.  The kitchen window is lit.

INT. DAVID’S KITCHEN - MORNING

Lipsky, wrecked, enters and finds David drinking coffee.  

             DAVID
      Morning.  There’s coffee...

             LIPSKY
      No, thanks.  I don’t need coffee to 
      wake up.  But cigarettes...?

He lights up.

             DAVID
      Brothers of the lung.

A Pop-Tart pops up from the toaster.

                                         38.

             DAVID
      Want to split this with me?  It’s the 
      last one I’ve got.

             LIPSKY
      No thanks.

David splits it in two and offers Lipsky half.  

             DAVID
      Mi Pop-Tart es su Pop-Tart.

             LIPSKY
      Thanks.

They bite into their Pop-Tarts.

Later.  David is in the shower.  We hear the water running.  

             SARAH’S VOICE
      (over phone)  You stayed with him?  At 
      his house?!

Lipsky, on the kitchen phone, has pulled the cord as far as 
it can go and whispers.

             LIPSKY
      (on the phone)  He put me on a futon 
      in his guest room.  You should see it, 
      it’s like a fucking trophy room: 
      foreign editions of all his books... 
      Piles of Infinite Jest, towers of ‘em.  
      I think he put me in there on purpose.  

             SARAH’S VOICE
      What do you mean?

             LIPSKY
      To show me what a big dick he has.  

             SARAH’S VOICE
      Oh, come on.  Is he that competitive?

             LIPSKY
      Yes!  

TIMECUT.  Still on the phone, now with Bob, his editor, who 
admonishes him.

             BOB’S VOICE
      (over phone)  This can’t be a fluff 
      piece.

                                         39.

             LIPSKY
      I know, Bob.

             BOB’S VOICE
      Get him to talk about his substance-
      dependency issues.  There’s got to be 
      something to those heroin rumors.

             LIPSKY
      I’m working up to it; there hasn’t 
      been a good time to ask, “Is it true 
      you were a heroin addict?”  Okay?

David comes out of the shower, surprising him.

             DAVID
      Who’re you talking to?

             LIPSKY
      My girlfriend.

             DAVID
      Say hello.

             LIPSKY
      (into phone)  David says hello.

             BOB’S VOICE
      What?

INT. DAVID’S LIVING ROOM - DAY

David and Lipsky are about to leave.  David writes a note and 
posts it on the fridge with a Chicago Cubs magnet.

             LIPSKY
      What’s that?

             DAVID
      For Sally, the intrepid dog-sitter.  
      Operating instructions.

EXT. DAVID’S HOUSE - DAY

A miserable morning.  Grey, freezing rain.  Lipsky scrapes 
ice off the windshield.  The men get in the car.

INT. CAR / EXT. STREETS - BLOOMINGTON - DAY

Windshield wipers clear falling sleet. The tape recorder on 
the transmission between them.  Radio plays softly.  Riding 
past farmland, plants, strip malls.  David, in the passenger 
seat, gives the lay of the land.

                                         40.

             DAVID
      ...There’s a Mitsubishi plant, and 
      then there’s a lot of farm-support 
      stuff, like Ro-Tech, Anderson Seeds...  

             LIPSKY
      What are you doing here?  I mean, why 
      aren’t you in New York?

             DAVID
      Because every time I go to New York, I 
      get caught up in this - there’s this 
      enormous hiss of egos at various 
      stages of inflation and deflation.  
      It’s all about me-me-me.  

             LIPSKY
      Y’know what Hemingway said: “Literary 
      New York is like a bottle of tapeworms 
      all trying to feed off each other.”

             DAVID
      Yeah: Or great white sharks fighting 
      over a bathtub.  There’s so little - 
      the amount of celebrity and money 
      we’re talkin’ about, on the scale of 
      like true entertainment, is so small.  
      And the formidable intellect marshaled 
      by these egos fighting over this small 
      section of the pie - 

“Glycerine” by Bush comes on the radio.  He turns it up.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      Oh!  Listen to this song.  

             LIPSKY
      What is it?

             DAVID
      “Glycerine” by Bush.  A direct steal 
      from a song by Brian Eno.  Remind me 
      to play it for you when we get back.

They listen to the song.

EXT. BLOOMINGTON-NORMAL AIRPORT - DAY

The SONG continues over as the Grand Am approaches the 
airport, and pulls into a parking structure.

INT. BLOOMINGTON-NORMAL AIRPORT

David and Lipsky in a crowd of anxious travelers, awaiting 
word.  An announcement comes over the p.a. system.

                                         41.

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      Attention passengers of American Eagle 
      Flight 4432, service to Chicago -

             LIPSKY
      That’s us.

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      Sorry to inform you that at this time 
      we still have not received promising 
      news with regard to the runway 
      conditions here at Bloomington.  

Passengers groan.

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      Again, this is an indefinite delay.  
      We have no anticipated departure for 
      this aircraft at this time. 

             DAVID
      (over the above)  Oh, good, maybe I 
      won’t have to go.

             LIPSKY
      Let’s get some breakfast.

INT. BLOOMINGTON-NORMAL AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP

A waitress presents Lipsky with a mountainous burger deluxe.  
David, appropriately having bacon and eggs, is bemused.  

             DAVID
      I’m not even going to start on the 
      idea of eating a hamburger at seven in 
      the morning.

Later.  During breakfast.  The tape recorder is on the table.

             LIPSKY
      I gotta ask: What’s with the bandanna?

             DAVID
      Why?

             LIPSKY
      People think the it’s a way you’re 
      trying to connect with the younger 
      reading audience.

                                         42.

             DAVID
      Is that what people think?  I don’t 
      know very many Gen-Xers who wear ‘em, 
      do you?  In the Southwest people wear 
      ‘em all the time.  

             LIPSKY
      But people thinking it’s a commercial 
      gesture...?

             DAVID
      I don’t know what to say.  I guess in 
      a way I don’t even want you to have 
      brought this up.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      Because now I’m worrying that it’s 
      going to seem intentional.  Like if I 
      don’t wear it, then am I not wearing 
      it because I am bowing to other 
      people’s perception that it’s a 
      commercial choice?  Or do I do what I 
      want, even though it’s perceived as 
      commercial - and it’s just like one 
      more crazy circle to go around.

             LIPSKY
      When did you start wearing them?

             DAVID
      In Tuscon.  It was a hundred degrees 
      all the time.  I would perspire so 
      much... I would drip on the page, into 
      the electric typewriter, and worried I 
      was gonna give myself a shock. And 
      then I discovered that I felt better 
      with them on.  

             LIPSKY
      Uh huh.

             DAVID
      I know it’s a security blanket for me - 
      whenever I’m nervous.  Or feel like I 
      have to keep myself together.  It 
      makes me feel kinda creepy that people 
      view it as an affectation or a 
      trademark or something.  It’s more 
      just a foible, the recognition of a 
      weakness, which is that I’m just kinda 
      worried my head’s gonna explode.

                                         43.

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      (over the p.a.)  Attention passengers.  
      We regret to inform you that American 
      Eagle Flight 4432, service to Chicago, 
      has been cancelled.  I repeat... 

             DAVID
      Let me call Holly, my publicist, maybe 
      she’ll let us bag it.

             LIPSKY
      Let’s go.  (to the waitress)  Can we 
      have our check, please?

Lipsky turns off the recorder and pockets it.

             DAVID
      Where we going?

             LIPSKY
      I’m driving us to O’Hare.  

             DAVID
      You’re what?

INT. CAR / EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY

The Grand Am on the road to O’Hare.  Trucks race past spewing 
cascades of water.  Wipers at top speed.  Ambient radio.  
Tape running.  Lipsky at the wheel.  

             LIPSKY
      Your parents are both academics?

             DAVID
      My dad, philosophy; my mom, English.  
      You?

             LIPSKY
      My dad’s in advertising, my mom’s a 
      painter.  They split up, I lived with 
      my mother in SoHo and my brother moved 
      in with my dad.

             DAVID
      Sounds like there’s a story there.

             LIPSKY
      There is; I just wrote it.

             DAVID
      So what was that like, your family 
      divided that way?

                                         44.

             LIPSKY
      Hey, who’s interviewing whom?  How old 
      were you when you started writing 
      fiction?

             DAVID
      Twenty-one.

             LIPSKY
      Never before?

             DAVID
      I think I started a World War Two 
      novel when I was nine.

             LIPSKY
      What about?

             DAVID
      A bunch of people with strangely 
      hyperdeveloped skills and powers, who 
      are going to invade Hitler's bunker 
      during World War Two. I remember I 
      started it after seeing Kelly's 
      Heroes.

             LIPSKY
      Clint Eastwood, Telly Savalas.

             DAVID
      Yeah, or maybe The Dirty Dozen.  
      Anyway, so yeah, I really started when 
      I was in college. I'd written a couple 
      of papers for other people. 

             LIPSKY
      They were paying you to write their 
      papers?

             DAVID
      Well, I wouldn't put it that coarsely. 
      But let's say there were complicated 
      systems of reward. I’d read two or 
      three of their papers to learn, you 
      know, what their music sounded like.  
      And I remember thinking, “Man, I'm 
      really good at this. I'm a weird kind 
      of forger. I mean, I can sound kind of 
      like anybody.” 

Further down the road, on the outskirts of Chicago, bucolic 
mid-western landscapes have given way to massive refineries.

                                         45.

             LIPSKY
      Odds are I’m gonna want to talk to 
      your parents.

             DAVID
      What for?

             LIPSKY
      Biographical stuff.

             DAVID
      No.  Un-uh.  They’re real, real 
      private people, and I would have a 
      hard time with it.  

             LIPSKY
      Okay.  I was just -

             DAVID
      (sharply)  I hereby request you don’t. 

Lipsky is surprised by his vehemence.

             LIPSKY
      (backing off)  Say no more.

They ride in silence as Signs for O’Hare terminals go by.

EXT. O’HARE AIRPORT - PARKING LOT - DAY

Lipsky looks for a place to park the Grand Am. 

INT. O’HARE AIRPORT - UNITED COUNTER - DAY

With a female ticket agent who seems to flirt with David.

             UNITED TICKET AGENT
      You gentlemen traveling together?

             DAVID
      Yes, but not together-together.

The agent is amused.

INT. O’HARE AIRPORT - TERMINAL “B”

David and Lipsky run to catch the plane.

             LIPSKY
      How come you always say that?

             DAVID
      Say what?

                                         46.

David’s response is cut off by the announcement.

             ANNOUNCEMENT
      (over p.a.)  Last call for flight #326 
      to Minneapolis-St. Paul.  Now boarding 
      at Gate B-16.

              DAVID
      Boy, are we gonna feel silly if this 
      thing crashes.

AT THE GATE  

The last stragglers are boarding.  David and Lipsky 
breathlessly arrive.  David stops.

             DAVID
      Wait.  

             LIPSKY
      What’s wrong?

             DAVID
      I’m wondering if we should get on.

             LIPSKY
      Are you serious?

             DAVID
      I always fear that when I really 
      impose my will on something, the 
      universe is gonna punish me.

             ATTENDANT
      Gentlemen?

Lipsky makes a decision.  His story depends on it.

             LIPSKY
      Come on.

The attendant scans their boarding passes and they pass 
through the portal.  The attendant closes the door. 

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Lipsky and David are seated over the wing.  David lifts the 
window shade.

             DAVID
      Oh, no, there’s a gremlin on the wing!

                                         47.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, man, that episode scared the shit 
      of me.

             DAVID
      That was William Shatner, you know.

             LIPSKY
      I know.  But Rod Serling didn’t write 
      that one; it was Richard Matheson.

             DAVID
      You know even more useless information 
      than I do!

Even their TV trivia banter is laced with competitiveness.

LATER.  David riffs off the SkyMall gift catalogue, to 
Lipsky’s amusement.  INSERT snippets from the brochure.

             DAVID
      The Turbo Toning Belt:  Tone those abs 
      while sitting on your fat ass...  An 
      ergonomic dog dish for food and water.  
      Who would’ve thought: The posture dogs 
      have been eating off of for fifty 
      million years hasn’t done ‘em a stitch 
      of good.

Lipsky laughs, contributes to the improvisation.

             LIPSKY
      The Germ-Destroying Purifier.  Look at 
      it: it looks like the Orgasmatron from 
      Sleeper.

David looks at the airline Safety Guide - fluffy white clouds 
against a blue sky - evocative of the cover of Infinite Jest.

             DAVID
      See this?  This was my major complaint 
      about the cover of the book: it looks 
      like a fucking airline-safety guide.  

             LIPSKY
      What did you want?

             DAVID
      This great photo of Fritz Lang 
      directing Metropolis.  You know it?  A 
      thousand bald men and he’s standing 
      there with a megaphone?

                                         48.

The No Smoking sign pings on.  David takes out his chewing 
tobacco and puts some in his mouth.

             DAVID
      See?  Now I can enjoy full nicotine 
      satisfaction and you cannot.

David smiles.

LATER.  During the flight.  Unappetizing lunches (back in the 
day when airplane lunches were still being served) sit on 
their open tray tables.  Lipsky breaks a plastic knife while 
attempting to smear butter on a frozen roll.

             DAVID
      OK, crap jobs: Let’s see: I was a 
      security guard for this software 
      company for three and a half months.  

             LIPSKY
      Why’d you quit?

             DAVID
      For the incredibly brave reason that I 
      got tired of getting up so early in 
      the morning.  I had to wear this 
      polyester uniform, and walk under 
      these fluorescent lights, twirlin’ my 
      baton, checking in every ten minutes:  
      [mimes a walkie-talkie] “All clear at 
      this cubicle!” Like, every bad '60s 
      novel about meaningless authority. 

             LIPSKY
      And were you thinking, “My God, I had 
      two books come out when I was in my 
      early twenties and here I am...”?

             DAVID
      No. As a matter of fact, one reason I 
      liked that job is, I walked around not 
      thinking. In a really like, “Huh: 
      there's a ceiling tile.” 

             LIPSKY
      And after the three and a half months?

             DAVID
      This is the worst: I worked as a towel 
      boy at this chichi health club. 

             LIPSKY
      A “towel boy?”

                                         49.

             DAVID
      They called me something other than a 
      towel boy, but I was in effect a towel 
      boy. Who every once in a while was 
      entrusted with the job of checking 
      people in, having them show their 
      card?

             LIPSKY
      Uh huh.

             DAVID
      Anyway, I'm sitting there, and who 
      should walk in to get their towel, but 
      this guy, this writer I knew.  Who 
      received a Whiting Writer's Award the 
      same year I had, like two years 
      earlier, in 1987. 

             LIPSKY
      Oh, shit...

             DAVID
      So I see this guy that I'd been up on 
      this fucking rostrum with, having 
      Eudora Welty give us this prize - 

             LIPSKY
      Oh, God!

             DAVID
      - And two years later, I'm like … It's 
      the only time I've literally dived 
      under something, to have somebody 
      avoid seeing me. 

             LIPSKY
      Did you think you were done then?

             DAVID
      Yeah. I was pretty sure life was over.

             LIPSKY
      This is after your suicide watch?

David blinks.  A beat.  The STEWARDESS collects their trays.

             DAVID
      How’d you know about that?

             LIPSKY
      I read it somewhere.

                                         50.

             DAVID
      That was actually a fairly grim -

             LIPSKY
      McLean’s, right?  How long were you 
      there?

             DAVID
      Eight days, I think. 

             LIPSKY
      Why were you there?

             DAVID
      Mostly 'cause I was scared I would do 
      something stupid. I'd actually had a 
      friend from high school who tried to 
      kill himself by sitting in a garage 
      with the car runnin'. And what it 
      turned out was, he didn't die, but it 
      really fucked up his brain. And I 
      knew, that if anybody was fated to 
      fuck up a suicide attempt, it was me. 

             LIPSKY
      So here you are still in your 
      twenties...

             DAVID
      My late twenties.

             LIPSKY
      Your late twenties, somewhat in pain 
      about your desire to become a sort of 
      successful literary person.

             DAVID
      I think probably the not very 
      sophisticated diagnosis is that I was 
      depressed. 'Cause by this time, my 
      ego's all invested in the writing. 
      It's the only thing that I've gotten, 
      you know, food pellets from the 
      universe for.  So I feel really 
      trapped: Like, “Uh-oh, my five years 
      is up. I've gotta move on, but I don't 
      want to move on.” I was really stuck. 
      And drinking was part of that. But it 
      wasn't that I was stuck because I 
      drank. It was like, I really sort of 
      felt like my life was over at twenty-
      eight. And that felt really bad, and I 
      didn't wanna feel it.  
      And so I would do all kinds of things: 
      I mean, I would drink real heavy, I 
      would like fuck strangers... Or, then, 
      for two weeks I wouldn't drink, and 
      I'd run ten miles every morning. You 
      know, that kind of desperate, like 
      very American, “I will fix this 
      somehow, by taking radical action” 
      sort of thing.
                                         51.



             LIPSKY
      And here you are now, promoting this 
      acclaimed book.  Not bad.

             DAVID
      This [the interview] is nice, but this 
      is not real.  

They look at one another.  An announcement fills the silence.

             ATTENDANT
      (over p.a.)  Ladies and gentlemen, as 
      we begin our descent to Minneapolis-
      St. Paul International Airport...

EXT. MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL AIRPORT - DAY

The plane comes in for a landing.

INT. MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL AIRPORT - DAY

The guys walk from the gate and follow the arrow to baggage 
claim.  They descend on the escalator.

             DAVID
      An escort’s supposed to pick me up 
      and, you know, escort me to the 
      reading.  And of course, when I hear 
      “escort,” I imagine like full geisha 
      with hairpins who will take you to the 
      bookstore, then back to the hotel, 
      walk on your back and fuck your 
      eyeballs out.  

Lipsky is laughing.

             DAVID
      More often than not they’re like burly 
      Irishmen.  In their forties.  Who tell 
      you their life stories.  Or this lady 
      in Boston who I sort of wanted to 
      adopt me.

At the bottom of the moving stair stands a solidly-built, 
perky, forty-ish woman, PATTY, holding a sign: “MR. WALLACE.”

                                         52.

             PATTY
      Mr. Wallace!  I recognized you from 
      your picture! I’m Patty Gundersson!  
      Welcome to the Twin Cities!

             LIPSKY
      Hi, I’m David Lipsky.

             PATTY
      David and David.  That’s easy.

As they exit frame:

             DAVID
      (in explanation) We’re not a couple.  
      He’s writing a piece on me.

INT. PATTY’S CAR / EXT. HIGHWAY - ST. PAUL - DAY

Driving through St. Paul toward Minneapolis, along the 
Mississippi.  David and Lipsky share the backseat.  Patty is 
a talker.

             PATTY
      You wouldn’t believe all the famous 
      people I’ve driven around! Shirley 
      MacLaine?  When she came through on a 
      book tour?  Ron Wood.  You know, of 
      the Rolling Stones?  

             DAVID
      Uh huh.

Lipsky sees the passing, obstructed view of the Mary Tyler 
Moore commemorative statue.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, look: The Mary Tyler Moore statue.

             DAVID
      Oh, yeah.

             PATTY
      Do you want me to stop?

             DAVID
      No, no.

                                         53.

             PATTY
      Everybody who comes here, the first 
      thing they want to see is where Mary 
      Tyler Moore threw her cap in the air.  
      One of our biggest attractions.  You 
      sure you don’t want me to stop?

             DAVID
      I’m sure.  Thanks, anyway.  
        (sotto, to Lipsky)
      Trust me: This is about as sexy as the 
      tour gets.

Lipsky laughs.

EXT. HOTEL WHITNEY - MINNEAPOLIS - DAY

Patty drops them off at the historic, one-time mill [since 
converted to condos].  They get their bags out of the car.

             PATTY
      You’re at liberty.  I’ll be back at 
      5:15 to take you to the book-signing.  
      Anything else I can do for you?

             DAVID
      No, thanks.  We got it.

She goes.  And they go inside:

INT. HOTEL WHITNEY - LOBBY - DAY

Lipsky and David check in at the front desk.

             FEMALE DESK CLERK
      Mr. ...

             LIPSKY
      Lipsky.  L-I-P, S-K-Y.

             FEMALE DESK CLERK
      I’ve got you in a standard double.  
      And Mr. Wallace?  You have a room with 
      twins.

             DAVID
      Ah, yes: Anita and Consuela.

Lipsky laughs.  The desk clerk doesn’t get the joke.

             FEMALE DESK CLERK
      Excuse me?

                                         54.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR

The elevator arrives with a ding.  They both get off; David 
finds his room.  

             DAVID
      See ya later.  I’m gonna get me some 
      shut-eye.

We follow Lipsky in the opposite direction to his.

INT. LIPSKY’S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Lipsky plops down, fully clothed, in exhaustion, on the bed 
of his generic hotel room.

Later, his hair still wet from a shower, Lipsky is on the 
phone to Bob, his increasingly exasperated editor.  

             BOB’S VOICE
      (over phone)  Where’s the beef?

             LIPSKY
      I’m working on it.

             BOB’S VOICE
      I went out on a limb for you! 

             LIPSKY
      I know, Bob, and I appreciate it!

             BOB’S VOICE
      Keep at him.  Be a prick if you have 
      to. 

             LIPSKY
      Look, tonight’s his last book-signing; 
      I’ll get to see him in his element.

EXT. HUNGRY MIND BOOKSTORE - ST. PAUL - NIGHT

Snowy.  A cool, independent bookstore [now defunct].  People 
who have begun to show up for the event recognize David; some 
gawk, some smile.  David’s friends, two attractive women 
around his age, Julie (tall, blonde) and Betsy (petite, 
brunette), surprise him with their attendance.  

             DAVID
      I can’t believe you guys showed up!

             JULIE
      We wouldn’t miss this, are you 
      kidding?

                                         55.

             DAVID
      Gluttons for punishment, both of you.

They greet and hug David.  Introductions, handshakes.  
Improvisational feel.

             DAVID
      This is David Lipsky.  A reporter from 
      Rolling Stone.

             JULIE
      Oh, wow, hi. 

             DAVID
      This is Julie...

             LIPSKY
      Hi, Julie.

             DAVID
      And this is Betsy.  

             BETSY
      Hi.

             LIPSKY
      Nice to meet you.  

             DAVID
      Betsy and I went to grad school 
      together, in Tucson.

             LIPSKY
      Nice.  (to Julie)  How do you know 
      David?

             DAVID
      She wrote me a fan letter.

             JULIE
      I did, I was the books editor at City 
      Pages and I wrote him a fan letter, 
      that’s right.

             DAVID
      Julie has worked with a whole lot of 
      writers -

             JULIE
      So I’m discriminating.

                                         56.

             DAVID
      Exactly.  And we discovered that we 
      actually kind of like each other as 
      people.  

             JULIE
      Aw, thank you, Dave.

             DAVID
      That’s how I met Jon Franzen: I wrote 
      him a fan letter. Writers are 
      pushovers when it comes to flattery. 
      You should try it sometime.

David nervously smokes.  Patty gives him a disapproving look.  
He exhales smoke.

Lipsky looks through the window at the gathering audience.

             DAVID
      Anybody look dangerous?

             LIPSKY
      (assessing, playing along) Mmm...  No.

             PATTY
      (concrete as ever)  Aw.  Don’t worry.  
      Minnesotans are really nice and 
      friendly.

David, irritated, says nothing, shares a look with Lipsky.  
The READING LADY, a robust earth-mother who loves books and 
loves her job, comes out to welcome David.

             READING LADY
      Welcome to the Hungry Mind!  It’s a 
      honor to have you here.

             DAVID
      You haven’t heard me read yet.

INT. HUNGRY MIND BOOKSTORE

The crowd is growing, spilling into the aisles, buzzing in 
anticipation.

INT. HUNGRY MIND BOOKSTORE - MANAGER’S OFFICE

The room, crammed with books and an old sofa, doubles as a 
kind of “green room” for visiting writers.  David, Lipsky, 
the Reading Lady, Julie, Betsy and Patty mill about.

             DAVID
      Can I get something to drink?

                                         57.

             READING LADY
      Of course, what would you like?

             DAVID
      Do you have any artificial spit?

Everyone laughs, perhaps a little too heartily.

             DAVID
      No, it’s an actual pharmaceutical 
      product.  Zero-Lube.

             LIPSKY
      Really?  Artificial saliva?

             DAVID
      Yeah, but it’s way better ‘cause it 
      lubricates.  You don’t get that clicky 
      sound you do with dry mouth.

             READING LADY
      I’ll have to remember that.

             DAVID
      Next tour, I bring a case.

             READING LADY
      In the meantime, what can I get you?

             DAVID
      Water?  No ice?

The Reading Lady goes to fetch it.

Lipsky and Betsy.

             LIPSKY
      Are you a fiction writer, too?

             BETSY
      I’m a poet, actually.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, wow.  

             BETSY
      Just got my first poem published in 
      the Kenyon Review.

             LIPSKY
      Congratulations!

David observes Lipsky chatting animatedly with Betsy, 
disapproval registering on his face.  The Reading Lady brings 
David a cup of water.  

                                         58.

             DAVID
      Oh, thanks.

He drinks it.

             DAVID
      Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m off to 
      do “Job One.”

             PATTY
      Hm?

             DAVID
      I need to find the loo.

             READING LADY
      Right this way...

CAMERA follows Lipsky behind David as she walks him along the 
perimeter of the shop, turning heads and causing a ripple of 
excitement.  She deposits him at the rest room door.

             DAVID
      I can take it from here, thanks.

He goes in.  Lipsky and the Reading Lady wait.  Small talk:

             READING LADY
      Al Franken - who’s great, by the way.  
      He killed here last week.

Lipsky sees a woman customer pick up a copy of The Art Fair 
from a table and glance through it, raising his self-esteem.  
But, in a beat, she puts it back down.  His heart sinks.

LATER. The Reading Lady leads them to the side of the podium.  
On the move:

             DAVID
      I don’t mean to be a prima donna or 
      anything, but I’d really prefer it if 
      we didn’t have a Q & A.  

             READING LADY
      Of course.  Whatever you feel most 
      comfortable with.

                                         59.

             DAVID
      It’s always stuff like “Where do you 
      get your ideas?” (to Lipsky)  From a 
      Time-Life subscription series for 
      $17.95 a month. 

Lipsky laughs.

A SHORT TIME Later.  Off to the side of the podium.  As the 
reading lady makes her introductory remarks off-screen, 
Lipsky watches David scan the faces of his young audience.  
He speaks mostly to himself, but for Lipsky’s benefit also.

             DAVID
      This is it.  The swan song.  The 
      finale.  It’s all downhill from here.

At the podium (continuous)

             READING LADY
      ...This is the very last stop on his 
      book tour and we’re very lucky to have 
      him!  Ladies and gentlemen... Would 
      you welcome to the Hungry Mind... 
      David.  Foster.  Wallace!

The packed audience applauds enthusiastically.  David checks 
his underarms - already soaked.

             DAVID
      (to Lipsky)  Shit.  I wish they made 
      Depends for underarms.

Lipsky laughs as David warily makes his way to the podium. 
The applause subsides.  Lipsky watches from the sidelines.

             DAVID
      Thank you.  Hi.  Can you hear me okay?  

Members of the audience nod and assure him they can.

Laughter.

             DAVID
      Am I too close?  Am I like fellating 
      the microphone?

             DAVID
      It’s kind of a hard book to read from, 
      as you can tell by the looks of it.

More chuckles.

                                         60.

             DAVID 
      But this is a section I think reads 
      pretty well on its own.

He pauses, sips water, then starts reading from Infinite 
Jest.  He wets his fingertip when turning the page.  His 
reading voice is measured and intimate, with little 
inflection; he acclimates himself to performance fairly 
quickly and seems to relax into it.

             DAVID
      (reads) “Good old traditional audio-
      only phone conversations allowed you 
      to presume that the person on the 
      other end was paying complete 
      attention to you while also permitting 
      you not to have to pay anything even 
      close to complete attention to her. -”

Lipsky looks around at the transfixed audience with a mix of 
vicarious pride and envy.  

A photographer’s flash goes off.  David stops and addresses a 
WOMAN PHOTOGRAPHER.

             DAVID
      Could you not do that?

             WOMAN PHOTOGRAPHER
      (embarrassed)  Oh, I’m sorry...

             DAVID
      It’s just, I’m tryin’ to read and I’m 
      seein’ like green spots.  Thank you.

A smattering of applause.  He resumes.

             DAVID
      “A traditional aural-only conversation 
      [...] let you enter a kind of highway-
      hypnotic semi-attentive fugue: while 
      conversing, you could look around the 
      room, doodle, fine-groom, peel tiny 
      bits of dead skin away from your 
      cuticles, compose phone-pad haiku, 
      stir things on the stove... “

We tune down and dissolve to the end of the reading.

             DAVID
      ...I have no saliva left, so I’m gonna 
      stop here.  Thank you very much.

                                         61.

The audience applauds wildly, embarrassing David.  Lipsky 
applauds, too, but can’t help feeling a little jealous.  The 
Reading Lady returns to the microphone at the podium.

             READING LADY
      Before we start the book-signing, I’m 
      sure David wouldn’t mind answering a 
      question or two...

David shoots an incredulous look at Lipsky.  The Reading Lady 
calls on a HIPPIE-ISH YOUNG WOMAN.

             READING LADY
      Yes?

The HIPPIE-ISH young woman stands.

             HIPPIE-ISH YOUNG WOMAN
      So, hi.

             DAVID
      Hi.

             HIPPIE-ISH YOUNG WOMAN
      Um... Like, how do you get your ideas?

David looks deadpan at Lipsky.

Later.  A long line of excited book buyers wait their turn.  
Seated at a table, David signs his name along with his 
version of a smiley face and hands it to a YOUNG WOMAN.

             DAVID
      There you go.

The young woman looks at it with bemusement.

             YOUNG WOMAN
      What is that supposed to be, a 
      computer?

             DAVID
      What?  No.  It’s a smiley face. See? 

             YOUNG WOMAN
      Ohhh...

             DAVID
      If you want, I could put Wite-Out over 
      it...  

             YOUNG WOMAN
      That’s okay.

                                         62.

             DAVID
      You sure?  It’s your book...

Lipsky observes from the sidelines with Betsy and Julie.  

Back to David.  A NERDY GUY pulls out the Vintage paperback 
copy of The Broom of the System.

             DAVID
      Oh no.  That old thing?

             NERDY GUY
      Do you mind...?

             DAVID
      Not as long as you buy my new one, 
      too.

The guy plunks down a copy of Infinite Jest, too.  

             DAVID
      Now we’re talkin’.

David signs both books and blows over the ink to dry it.

             DAVID
      My publisher taught me that.

The guy laughs as David sees Lipsky laughing with Julie and 
Betsy and is threatened by it.  Lipsky sees David looking at 
them and smiles; David ominously doesn’t return the smile.  
He turns instead to the next customer.

             DAVID
      Who’s next?

The rebuff registers with Lipsky whose smile fades.

EXT. / INT. I-HOP - ST. PAUL - NIGHT

David and Lipsky are dining out on pancakes with Julie and 
Betsy.  Laid-back, improvisational.

             DAVID
      I couldn’t be plain old “David 
      Wallace” ‘cause there were “David 
      Wallaces” all over the place.  And 
      “David Raines Wallace” wrote for The 
      New Yorker.  That’s when Fred Hill 
      asked me what my middle name was and 
      decided that was what my name was 
      gonna be.

                                         63.

             LIPSKY
      (to Julie)  This is like a superhero 
      origin story.

             BETSY
      Dave, remember in Tucson, that 
      professor you kind of locked horns 
      with?

             DAVID
      My nemesis who shall remain nameless?  
      I think I was kind of a prick. But so 
      was he.  I was just unteachable. I 
      mean, I don't think I was actively 
      unpleasant in class. 

             BETSY
      You were pretty unpleasant.

Later, toward the end of the meal.  The restaurant has 
cleared out.  An employee is mopping up.

             DAVID
      Well, I’ve got to get up 
      unconscionably early for a public 
      radio interview.

             LIPSKY
      Which means that I have to get up 
      early, too.

             DAVID
      You can do whatever the fuck you want.  
      Sleep in if you want to.

David’s mercurial attitude toward him unnerves Lipsky.  They 
settle up the check.

INT. JULIE’S VW / EXT. HIGHWAY - ST. PAUL - NIGHT

Julie at the wheel; Betsy in the passenger seat.  David and 
Lipsky are in the backseat smoking, each blowing smoke out of 
their respective windows.  Spirits high, they sing along with 
the INXS SONG “Need You Tonight” on the radio.

             JULIE
      Can you close the fucking windows, 
      pleaaasssse, it’s freezing!

             LIPSKY
      Oh but this is our hypothermia smoking 
      tour of the Midwest.

Julie and Betsy laugh.  David does not.

                                         64.

             BETSY
      “Hypothermia smoking tour.”  I love 
      that!  Sounds like something Dave 
      would say.

             DAVID
      (to himself)  Doesn’t it.

David doesn’t like that Lipsky amused his friends with a DFW-
like joke - and Lipsky realizes it.  Tremors of growing 
tension come to the surface.  

EXT. HOTEL WHITNEY - NIGHT

Julie’s VW pulls up and deposits the Davids.

             JULIE
      What are you doing tomorrow after your 
      interview?

             DAVID
      Don’t know yet.

             JULIE
      Give us a call, okay?

Ad-libbed “Good night”s all around.  Julie and Betsy drive 
away and David and Lipsky enter the hotel.

INT. DAVID’S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

CAMERA pans M n M wrappers, Tobelerone, mixed nuts containers 
strewn around the carpet: The detritus of a non-alcoholic 
mini-bar snack attack.  

             LIPSKY
	(O.S.)
      How does that feel?  People fighting 
      to get in, big line of people who want 
      to impress you...

We find David and Lipsky in twin beds, facing each other, 
talking like college roommates pulling an all-nighter.

             DAVID
      I’ll tell you - having an audience 
      with really really pretty girls who 
      are paying attention to you, and like 
      what you’re sayin’?  Is gratifying on 
      a fairly I think simple mammal level.

             LIPSKY
      And why is that?

                                         65.

             DAVID
      Oh, because I think pretty girls are 
      what you most sort of dream and 
      despair of ever having, of ever paying 
      attention to you.  And there they are, 
      in the front row, making eyes at you.

             LIPSKY
      My girlfriend loves you, by the way.

             DAVID
      She does?

             LIPSKY
      Yeah, it’s actually getting to be a 
      problem.  I think she loves your 
      writing more than she loves mine.  

             DAVID
      Get her on the phone.

             LIPSKY
      What?

OVER we HEAR a ringing tone.

A SHORT TIME LATER

Lipsky holds the phone.  We HEAR Sarah’s voice.

             SARAH’S VOICE
      (over the phone)  Hello?

             LIPSKY
      Hi.

             SARAH’S VOICE
      Hi!  How’s it going?

             LIPSKY
      Did I wake you?

             SARAH’S VOICE
      No, I’m up reading Infinite Jest.  
      It’s pretty fucking amazing.

             LIPSKY
      Listen: Somebody wants to say hello.  
      Hold on a sec.

He hands the receiver to David.

             DAVID
      (whispers to Lipsky)  What’s her name?

                                         66.

             LIPSKY
      Sarah.

David speaks into the phone.  (When David is on the phone, we 
- and Lipsky - hear only his side of the conversation.)

             DAVID
      (on the phone)  Sarah?  Hi.  It’s Dave 
      Wallace.

Lipsky tries to reclaim the phone a couple of times during 
the following but David, engaged in a power play, retains 
control: his way of re-asserting himself after Lipsky’s 
perceived transgressions with David’s women friends.

             DAVID
      How are you?  Nice to meet you 
      telephonically, too.  (to Lipsky)  Are 
      you behaving yourself?  Yeah, I’m 
      pretty sure he is.  

Lipsky reaches for the phone but David continues talking.

             DAVID
      Tonight was my last reading.  Okay, I 
      guess.  What’s weird is there’s this 
      terrible dread beforehand, but then, 
      like halfway through, it gets to be 
      fun almost.  

Again, Lipsky tries to reclaim the receiver.

             DAVID
      What’re you up to tonight?  No 
      kidding!  What part are you up to?  
      Wow, you’re pretty far along!...  

Now that David’s talking about the book, Lipsky gives up in 
frustration, plops into a chair, and quietly seethes as we 
TUNE DOWN on David’s voice in the background. 

INT. LIPSKY’S HOTEL ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Lipsky, in bed, is on the phone with Sarah.  He’s livid.

             LIPSKY
      (on the phone)  What the fuck was that 
      about?  

             SARAH’S VOICE
      (over phone)  What.

                                         67.

             LIPSKY
      You were on the phone with him for 
      like a half hour!  

             SARAH’S VOICE
      It wasn’t a half hour...

             LIPSKY
      It was twenty-five minutes; I timed 
      it!  You were only supposed to say 
      hello!  

EXT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - MORNING

Lipsky leaves his room and goes down the hall to collect 
David.  He knocks on his door.  Listens.  TV sounds from 
inside.  Knocks again.

             LIPSKY
      David?  Escort’s waiting. We gotta go.

David, still in boxers and Chicago Cubs t-shirt, frazzled, 
opens the door.  

             DAVID
      Sorry, man.  Got totally lost in an 
      orgy of crap.  

David ducks into the bathroom.  

             DAVID
      First Falcon Crest was on, then Magnum 
      P.I., now Charlie’s Angels.  A perfect 
      storm of shit.  Out in a minute.

We hear the shower running.  Lipsky sits on the bed watching 
Jaclyn Smith and Farrah Fawcett.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - MORNING

Ding.  The elevator arrives.  Lipsky and David emerge and we 
follow them through the lobby.  David is wearing a turtleneck 
and jeans with his shower-wet hair pinned up.  

They exit the hotel and find Patty waiting out front.  She 
taps her watch like a schoolmarm.  Her face falls when she 
sees how David is dressed: she disapproves of his attire. 

             PATTY
      Is that what you’re wearing?

             DAVID
      For a radio interview?  Yes.

                                         68.

They climb into the backseat of the car.

EXT. MINNESOTA PUBLIC RADIO - ST. PAUL - DAY

The car pulls up to the entrance.  The men get out.

             PATTY
      Take your time.  I’ll be waiting right 
      here.

             DAVID
      Wish me luck.

             PATTY
      (calls as they go)  You’ll be fine.  
      All you need to do is loosen up!  

INT. NPR STUDIO

A pretty PRODUCTION ASSISTANT greets David and Lipsky. 

             DAVID
      I’m Dave Wallace.

             P.A.
      (blushes)  I know who you are.

David introduces Lipsky.

             DAVID
      My amanuensis, Mr. Boswell.

The P.A. shakes Lipsky’s hand, playing along with the joke.

             P.A.
      (in greeting)  “Mr. Boswell.”  Right 
      this way.

She leads David, followed by Lipsky, down a corridor past 
glass-walled studios.  Lipsky sees people recognize David, 
whisper among themselves.  Young women smile shyly, excited 
to be in the presence of a cool celebrity.

             P.A.
      Can I get you anything?

             DAVID
      Just water.

             P.A.
      Glass?

             DAVID
      Bottle’s fine.

                                         69.

             P.A.
      (to Lipsky)  “Mr. Boswell?”

             LIPSKY
      Same.

             NPR GUY
      We’re gonna record digitally.  I hope 
      that’s OK.

             DAVID
      So only yes or no answers?

Lipsky laughs, David sees him scribble in his pad.

             DAVID
      If you do a really mean job, I have 
      twenty years to get you back.  
      Remember that.

Later.  The interview goes on the air.  Lipsky observes from 
outside the booth.  The NPR GUY has a good radio voice.

             NPR GUY
      My guest today is David Foster 
      Wallace, who has burst on the literary 
      scene with his 1,079-page, three-pound-
      three-ounce novel, Infinite Jest. Jay 
      McInerney called it “something like a 
      sleek Vonnegut chassis wrapped in 
      layers of post-millennial Zola.” David 
      Foster Wallace, welcome to our show.

             DAVID
      Thank you, glad to be here.

He exchanges looks with Lipsky outside the booth.

             NPR GUY
      You have said that you saw yourself as 
      - quote - “a combination of being 
      incredibly shy, and being an 
      egomaniac, too.”

             DAVID
      I think I said “exhibitionist, also.”

             NPR GUY
      Meaning?

                                         70.

             DAVID
      Well, I think being shy basically 
      means being self-absorbed to the 
      extent that it makes it difficult to 
      be around other people...  

INT. PATTY’S CAR / EXT. MINNESOTA PUBLIC RADIO - DAY

Patty waits in her car.  David and Lipsky climb in.

             PATTY
      That was wonderful!  I listened to the 
      whole show! So interesting!  I just 
      may have to read your book!

             DAVID
      I’m sorry.

             PATTY
      You have the rest of the day off.  
      Where would you like me to take you?

EXT. MALL OF AMERICA - DAY

Patty drops them off.  David and Lipsky get out.

             PATTY
      I’m more than happy to stick around...

             DAVID
      That’s okay, my friends are gonna meet 
      us here; they have a car.

             PATTY
      It’s my job to escort you around.

             DAVID
      You’ll take us to the airport in the 
      morning.

Patty has grown sour.

             PATTY
      Oh, all right.  Have a nice day.

David closes the car door.  She pulls away with a screech.

             DAVID
      See that?  Another woman I 
      disappointed.

                                         71.

INT. MALL OF AMERICA - MONTAGE - DAY

A SONG accompanies David and Lipsky walking around the Mall 
of America, a massive monument in metal and glass to American 
excess.  A city of the future with the ubiquitous motto, 
“America, You’re the One!”  The very thought of David Foster 
Wallace, the great synthesiser of popular culture, in such an 
environment is almost too perfect.

In a sequence that will be largely improvised, they explore 
shops, try stuff on, people watch.  Amusement rides.  Lego 
Store.  Camp Snoopy water flume.  Hulk Hogan’s Pastamania! 

             DAVID
      I don’t know about you, but when I 
      think pasta, I think Hulk Hogan.

INT. MALL FOOD COURT - HULK HOGAN’S PASTAMANIA

Overweight, unsmiling American consumers - women, couples, 
teens, crying kids in strollers - haul shopping bags bursting 
with purchases.  OVER we hear:

             DAVID
	(O.S.)
      Look at these people.  Look at 'em.  
      Are these happy campers?  They're 
      living the dream.  They can't fill 
      their maws fast enough.  Processed 
      foods, instant crap.  All these 
      received notions of happiness. If I 
      buy this, if I eat that... Do these 
      folks look happy to you?

David and Lipsky sit over lunch, the recorder running on the 
table between them.  

             DAVID
      I wanted to write something that had 
      kind of the texture of what mental 
      life was like in America right now.  
      Which meant, sort of an enormous 
      tsunami of stuff coming at you.  And 
      also - it’s not entirely reader-
      unfriendly.  It wasn’t unfun.

             LIPSKY
      Not at all.  It is sort of heavy, 
      though.  I mean weight-wise. 

             DAVID
      My friend said when it hit the porch, 
      it sounded like a car bomb going off.

Lipsky laughs.

                                         72.

             LIPSKY
      Who are your readers?  College kids?  

             DAVID
      The people who seem most enthusiastic 
      are young men.  Which I guess I can 
      understand - it’s a fairly male book, 
      a fairly nerdy book, about loneliness.

             LIPSKY
      You think it’s about loneliness?

             DAVID
      Yeah.  I think if there is sort of a 
      sadness for people under forty-five or 
      something, it has to do with pleasure 
      and achievement and entertainment.  
      And a kind of emptiness at heart of 
      what they thought was going on, that 
      maybe I can hope that parts of the 
      book will speak to their nerve endings 
      a little bit.  Look at these people

He presses stop on the tape recorder, surprising Lipsky.

             DAVID
	(CONT’D)
      By the way, if you quote any of this, 
      you’d do me a favor if you’d say that 
      I’m talking about what I hope for the 
      book, or what the book is tryin’ to 
      do, I don’t pretend that it has. Okay?  

             LIPSKY
      Got it.  

Lipsky presses play.

             LIPSKY
      So: the Walter Kirn review, in New 
      York Magazine -

             DAVID
      Didn’t read it.  I mean, I heard.

             LIPSKY
      “Next year’s book awards have been 
      decided” kind of thing. How’d it feel?

             DAVID
      I applauded his taste and discernment.  
      What do you want me to say?  How would 
      you feel?

                                         73.

             LIPSKY
      Well, that I’d known all along it was 
      good, and here was someone validating 
      that.

             DAVID
      But there’s the other part that says, 
      “Oh no, this makes absolutely no sense 
      to anybody else. I’m a pretentious 
      fuckwad.  People are gonna ridicule 
      me.”  The Times dumped on it.  That 
      Japanese lady?  

             LIPSKY
      This is one of the few cases where the 
      Times didn’t matter.  You’re already 
      number 15 on the best-seller list...

             DAVID
      All I know is, this is absolutely the 
      best I could do between like 1992 and 
      1995.  And if everybody hated it, I 
      wouldn’t be thrilled, but I don’t 
      think I’d be devastated, either.  So 
      it’s sort of like... If you’re used to 
      doing heavy-duty literary stuff that 
      doesn’t sell well?  Being human 
      animals with egos, we find a way to 
      accommodate that fact by the following 
      equation: If it sells really well and 
      gets a lot of attention, it must be 
      shit.  Then, of course, the ultimate 
      irony is: if your thing gets a lot of 
      attention and sells really well, then 
      the very mechanism you’ve used to 
      shore yourself up when your stuff 
      didn’t sell well, is now part of the 
      Darkness Nexus when it does, so you’re 
      screwed.

Lipsky is laughing.  

INT. MULTIPLEX - MALL OF AMERICA

David and Lipsky stand outside.  Julie and Betsy arrive. Ad-
libbed greetings all around.

             BETSY
      Oh, my God, this place is insane!

             JULIE
      I can’t believe we actually found you!

A SHORT TIME LATER.  The foursome look over movie titles on 
the electronic board.

                                         74.

             BETSY
      What’s The Juror?

             LIPSKY
      Demi Moore, John Grisham.  

             BETSY
      Oh, right.  Happy Gilmore?

             JULIE
      Adam Sandler?  Forget it.  

             DAVID
      Ooo, Broken Arrow!  Perfect dumb boy 
      movie.  Things that blow up!

             LIPSKY
      I’ve already seen it, but...

             DAVID
      You’ve already seen it?  Boy, you are 
      a man from my own heart, aren’t you.

             LIPSKY
      I don’t mind, I’ll see it again...

             BETSY
      I’ll see anything.

             DAVID
      You sure?  We can see something else.

INT. MULTIPLEX

A loud action scene - helicopters, explosions - from Broken 
Arrow with John Travolta, Christian Slater and Samantha 
Mathis fills the screen. 

Seated up close, their heads craned looking up at the screen, 
Julie and Betsy sit together and Lipsky monitors David’s 
reactions.  David is an ideal spectator, totally engaged with 
a child-like guilelessness that Lipsky finds endearing.

             DAVID
      Oh boy... oh wow, oh jeez...!

LATER THAT NIGHT

Julie, Betsy, David and Lipsky file out after the movie.  
Improv post-movie discussion.

                                         75.

             DAVID
      Wasn’t that cool at the end, when 
      Travolta gets impaled by the thing?

             JULIE
      Let’s all go back to my place.

             DAVID
      Can we watch TV?

INT. JULIE’S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - ST. PAUL - NIGHT

On TV: John Michael Higgins in The Late Show.  They sit 
around snacking on fresh popcorn and soda.

             DAVID
      I know that guy.

             LIPSKY
      The guy playing Leno?

             DAVID
      No, the guy playing Letterman.

             JULIE
      How do you know him?

             DAVID
      Went to Amherst with him.

             LIPSKY
      Friend of yours?

             DAVID
      No.  I hated his guts.

             JULIE
      Why?

             DAVID
      He was just very cool and popular and 
      I wasn’t, basically.  

Laughter.  The kitchen is visible from the living room.  
Lipsky gets a soda out of the fridge.  

             JULIE
      (calls)  There’s beer in there, too.

             LIPSKY
      I’m okay with this, thanks.

In the living room, David looks at the TV listings.

                                         76.

             DAVID
      Ooo, you know what’s on after this? 
      Sodom and Gomorrah!  You ever see 
      that?  Stewart Granger?

             JULIE
      Dave, you sure you want to do that?  
      According to this it’s 154 minutes.

Back to Lipsky in the kitchen.  Betsy comes in.

             BETSY
      I brought you something.

             LIPSKY
      You brought me something?

She gives him a copy of the Kenyon Review.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, great!  This has your poem in it!  
      Thank you!

David sees them talking animatedly and doesn’t like it.

             LIPSKY
      Hey, when I get back to New York, you 
      mind if I e-mailed you with questions 
      about what David was like in grad 
      school and stuff?

             BETSY
      Sure, if it’s okay with Dave.

             LIPSKY
      What’s your e-mail address?

David sees Lipsky take out his pad and pen.  He gives it to 
Betsy, who writes down her e-mail address.  

INT. JULIE’S KITCHEN - A SHORT TIME LATER

Lipsky, drinking from a soda can, stands watching TV.  All of 
a sudden, David, flushed and angry, gets in his face, and 
pushes a startled Lipsky against the fridge.

             DAVID
      (whispers)  What the fuck do you think 
      you’re doing?

Lipsky initially thinks David is joking.

             LIPSKY
      (smiling)  What?

                                         77.

             DAVID
      I saw the way you were hitting on 
      Betsy.

             LIPSKY
      Hitting on her?  I was talking to her.

             DAVID
      I saw you!  You got her to give you 
      her address.

             LIPSKY
      Her e-mail address.  In case I had 
      questions, for the piece I’m doing.

             DAVID
      Well, I don’t want her talking to you.  
      She doesn’t have my permission.

             LIPSKY
      Fine!  I won’t contact her.

             DAVID
      I told you she and I dated when we 
      were in grad school... You can show me 
      the respect of not coming on to her 
      right in my face.

             LIPSKY
      David, I’m sorry it looked that way.  
      I didn’t mean to offend you.  Besides, 
      why would I want to get involved with 
      someone who lives in St. Paul?

             DAVID
      You’re already involved with someone 
      who lives in L.A....  

David is glaring at him when we hear:

             JULIE
	(O.S.)
      You guys okay in there?

             DAVID
      (calls)  Yeah, fine.  (to Lipsky)  
      Stay away from her.

David goes back to the women.  

             DAVID
	(O.S.)
      What’d I miss?

                                         78.

Once he catches his breath, Lipsky, breaking solidarity with 
David’s abstinence, gets a beer out of the fridge and 
pointedly, while making eye contact with David, pops open the 
can and defiantly takes a slug.

INT. JULIE’S LIVING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Sodom and Gommorah is on television.  David watches; Betsy is 
gone; Julie has fallen asleep.  Lipsky, now wary of David, 
sits some distance away, struggling to stay awake.

INT. TAXI / EXT. STREET - MINNEAPOLIS - NIGHT

Lipsky and David ride in the backseat in silence, avoiding 
each other, looking out their respective windows.  The cab 
pulls up to their hotel.  Lipsky is prepared to pay the fare.

             DAVID
      I got it.

             LIPSKY
      That’s all right, my expense 
      account’ll cover it.

             DAVID
      So will mine.  I got it, I said.

Lipsky relents.

INT. HOTEL ELEVATOR 

Lipsky and David ride up in silence.  The elevator arrives at 
their floor with a ding.  

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR (CONTINUOUS)

Lipsky goes in one direction; David in the other.

             LIPSKY
      Good night.

David doesn’t respond.  Lipsky watches him petulantly go down 
the hall to his room.

INT. LIPSKY’S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Lipsky, agitated, paces the while talking on the phone.

             SARAH’S VOICE
      (over phone)  Were you flirting?

             LIPSKY
      No!  Sarah, I swear to you: He just 
      completely went bonkers on me.

                                         79.

             SARAH’S VOICE
      You do that, David, you know?  You’re 
      not even aware of it.

             LIPSKY
      What do I do?

             SARAH’S VOICE
      You’re compulsively flirtatious.  

             LIPSKY
      I can’t believe you’re taking his 
      side!

             SARAH’S VOICE
      I am not!  

TIMECUT.  DAWN.  Lipsky, depressed after a sleepless night, 
is now on the phone with his editor, who we hear shouting.

             BOB’S VOICE
      (over the phone)  What do you mean, 
      he’s not talking to you?!  

             LIPSKY
      There’s some weird, yin-yang, counter-
      transferrence, doppleganger shit going 
      on.

             BOB’S VOICE
      Get over it!  You’ve got this fucking 
      piece to write!  

EXT. HOTEL WHITNEY - MORNING

Lipsky, unshaven, and David, unsmiling, emerge from the hotel 
with their bags.  Patty greets them with a cheery smile.

             PATTY
      Good morning!  And how are we this 
      morning?

David climbs into the backseat.

             LIPSKY
      I think I’ll ride up front.

David looks a little surprised but says nothing.

             PATTY
      Oh.  All right.  Here, let me get my 
      junk out of the way...

                                         80.

She makes room for Lipsky who gets into the passenger seat.  
Patty continues yammering but Lipsky tunes her out.  The car 
pulls away.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Mid-flight.  David, his beaten-up Robert Heinlein paperback 
on his lap, sleeps soundly with his lips slightly parted and 
his bandanna’d head leaning against the window.  Lipsky 
studies his face with new objectivity.

EXT. O’HARE AIRPORT - CHICAGO - DUSK

Frigid, windy, in crepuscular light.  David and Lipsky emerge 
from baggage claim with David pulling his rolling suitcase, 
and look out across the wintry landscape, a fresh layer of 
snow covers every car in the lot, making them 
indistinguishable from one another.

             LIPSKY
      Oh, shit, where did we park?

They walk up and down the rows of snow-covered cars looking 
for the Grand Am.  Lipsky repeatedly clicks his key hoping to 
have the car announce itself with blinking headlights.  

             DAVID
      Are you fucking kidding me? You didn’t 
      write down where we were parked?

Lipsky is cold, feeling vulnerable, fighting tears.

             LIPSKY
      I didn’t, okay?  I’m sorry!  I fucked 
      up.  I’m a fuck-up, what can I say?  
      Not everyone can be as fucking 
      brilliant as you.

             DAVID
      What the fuck is with you?   

             LIPSKY
      What the fuck is with you?  

Lipsky clicks the key and this time he locates the car.

They pry open the iced-over doors of the Grand Am.  Lipsky 
finds a frozen mess of a burst bottle of Snapple looking like 
a chunk of amber.

                                         81.

INT. CAR / EXT. HIGHWAY - OUTSIDE CHICAGO - NIGHT

They ride in silence.  Lipsky, at the wheel, collects his 
thoughts before speaking his mind.  This is a more assertive 
Lipsky than we’ve seen before.

             LIPSKY
      I gotta say... There’s something 
      basically false about your approach 
      here. 

             DAVID
      What do you mean “false?”

             LIPSKY
      I think it’s part of your social 
      strategy.  

             DAVID
      Which is...?

             LIPSKY
      You still feel you’re smarter than 
      other people.  

             DAVID
      Oh, really?

             LIPSKY
      Yes. Acting like someone who’s playing 
      in the kids’ softball game, trying to 
      hold back his power-hitting, to -

             DAVID
      When?

             LIPSKY
      Here, now, for the past three days, in 
      your social persona.

             DAVID
      You’re a tough room, you know that?

             LIPSKY
      You make a point of holding back - 
      there’s something obvious about you 
      holding back your intelligence, to be 
      with people who are younger or maybe 
      not as agile as you are...

             DAVID
      That would make me a real asshole, 
      wouldn’t it?  I don’t think writers 
      are any smarter than other people.  
      I think they may be more compelling in 
      their stupidity, or in their 
      confusion.  But I think one of the 
      true ways that I have gotten smarter 
      is, I’ve realized that I’m not much 
      smarter than other people. 
                                         82.

 

             LIPSKY
      Yeah, right.

             DAVID
      (continuous)  There are ways in which 
      other people are a lot smarter than 
      me.  Like, I don’t know, it makes me 
      feel kinda lonely that you think that 
      I... Like there’s been certain stuff 
      that I’ve told you that’s really true 
      and, frankly, I think it’s been brave 
      of me.

             LIPSKY
      Absolutely.

             DAVID
      I’ve written enough of these “pieces” 
      to know that you could present this in 
      a hundred different ways.  Ninety of 
      which I’m really gonna come off as a 
      monumental asshole.  But it seems like 
      your read of this is, “Huh: what an 
      interesting persona Dave is adopting 
      for the purposes of this interview.”  

             LIPSKY
      That’s not what I’m saying.

             DAVID
      Isn’t it?  (A beat.)  OK, this is 
      gonna fit right into the persona 
      thing: I work really really hard.  

             LIPSKY
      David, no one is questioning how hard 
      you work.

             DAVID
      (overlap)  But I’m not all that fast.

             LIPSKY
      (incredulous)  What?!

             DAVID
      If we’d done this interview through 
      the mail?  
      And I had access to a library, and 
      could look stuff up? You and I would 
      be equals.  

                                         83.


             LIPSKY
      Oh, come on...

             DAVID
      My dream would be for you to write 
      this up, send it to me, and I get to 
      rewrite all my quotes - which of 
      course you’ll never do.  When I’m in a 
      room by myself, alone, and have enough 
      time, I can be really really smart.  
      Don’t get me wrong: I think I’m 
      bright; I think I’m talented.  I don’t 
      mean to sound disingenuous.  

             LIPSKY
      (amused)  Oh, no?!

David, angered, presses on.

             DAVID
      I’m not an idiot.  I mean, you know, I 
      can talk intelligently with you and 
      stuff.  But I can’t quite keep up with 
      you.

             LIPSKY
      Bullshit.

             DAVID
      Believe me: I’m not just “Aw-shucks, 
      I’m just in from the country, I’m not 
      really a writer, I’m just a regular 
      guy.”  I’m not trying to lay some kind 
      of shit.  And I’m -

             LIPSKY
      But you just did it again!  You 
      flatter me, but are you just being 
      patronizing because you know and I 
      know I’m nowhere near your league, or 
      because you genuinely -

             DAVID
      I just think to look across the room 
      and automatically assume that somebody 
      else is less aware than me, or that 
      somehow their interior life is less 
      rich, and complicated, and acutely 
      perceived than mine, makes me not as 
      good a writer. 

                                         84.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      Because that means I'm going to be 
      performing for a faceless audience, 
      instead of trying to have a 
      conversation with a person.  And if 
      you think that's faux, then you think 
      what you want. But what I've got is a 
      serious fear of being a certain way. 
      And a set I think of like, real 
      convictions about why I'm continuing 
      to do this, why it's worthwhile. Why 
      it's not just an exercise in basically 
      getting my d*ck sucked. And, you know 
      what?, this is a very clever tactic of 
      yours:

             LIPSKY
      What tactic?

             DAVID
      Get me a little pissed off, a little 
      less guarded, I’m gonna reveal more.
        (Pause.)
      It's true that I want very much - I 
      treasure my regular-guy-ness; I've 
      started to think it's my biggest asset 
      as a writer - is that I'm pretty much 
      just like everybody else. But I don't - 
      you know, whatever. I'm not gonna say 
      it again. I'm not doing a faux thing 
      with you.

             LIPSKY
      But the faux thing: isn't what you 
      just said an example of the faux 
      thing? You don't want to take the risk 
      of giving the full you?

             DAVID
      Look, I don’t know if you’re a very 
      nice man or not.  It’s very clear that 
      you don’t believe a word I’ve said.  

             LIPSKY
      All your protesting... “I’m just a 
      regular guy.”  You don’t crack open a 
      thousand-page book ‘cause you heard 
      the author’s a regular guy.  You read 
      it because you understand the author 
      is brilliant.  
      You want him to be brilliant.  So who 
      the fuck are you kidding?  
                                         85.



David presses stop on the tape recorder.

             DAVID
      I don’t have the brain cells left to 
      play any kind of faux games with you.  
      I’m fried.  

             LIPSKY
      Fine.

David turns on the radio.  They ride without speaking for 
what seems like a very long time.  An R.E.M. song comes on.  
Soon Lipsky starts mumble-singing along with R.E.M.  In a few 
moments, David, barely audibly, joins him.  Their voices grow 
stronger.  Singing together, in the dark, headlights 
streaking by, begins to have a healing effect.   

EXT. GAS STATION - HIGHWAY - NIGHT

In nasty weather, Lipsky fills the tank, leaving the cap on 
the roof.  David runs around to the other side of the car to 
take over driving duty from Lipsky.  They drive away, sending 
the cap flying.

INT. CAR / EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - BLOOMINGTON - NIGHT

Later.  Closer to home.  Lipsky glances over at David, at the 
wheel, who seems faraway and depressed. 

             LIPSKY
      What are you thinking?

             DAVID
      Tour’s over.

             LIPSKY
      Just hit you? 

             DAVID
      Uh huh.  I’m gonna have to feel all 
      this, instead of just sleepwalk 
      through it.

             LIPSKY
      What do you mean by “sleepwalk?”

             DAVID
      I’ve kind of unplugged myself for the 
      last three weeks.  
      Meeting a whole lot of new people, 
      having to do things, you’re in a 
      constant low-level state of anxiety.  
      And sort of deep, existential, you 
      know: fear, that you feel kind of all 
      the way down to your butthole.  
                                         86.



             LIPSKY
      What are you afraid of?  I mean, 
      what’s the absolute worst thing that 
      could happen?

             DAVID
      The worst?  That I’ll really get to 
      like it.  

             LIPSKY
      The attention?  

             DAVID
      Uh huh.

             LIPSKY
      And what would be so wrong about that?

             DAVID
      I’ll be one of these hideous: “Hey, 
      yet another publication party, and 
      here’s Dave sticking his head into the 
      picture.”  I’d rather be dead.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      Because I don’t want to be seen that 
      way.  Would you?

             LIPSKY
      Well, you’re deriving your 
      satisfaction from talking about your 
      work, as opposed to writing, so 
      paradoxically you’d probably get less 
      done.

             DAVID
      That’s right.  And there’s nothing 
      more grotesque than somebody who’s 
      going around, “I’m a writer, I’m a 
      writer.”  

Is that a dig at Lipsky?  Lipsky thinks so.

                                         87.

             DAVID
      I don’t mind appearing in Rolling 
      Stone, but I don’t want to appear in 
      Rolling Stone as somebody who wants to 
      be in Rolling Stone.  You know what I 
      mean? If you see me like, you know, a 
      guest on a game show in a couple of 
      years...  

Lipsky laughs.  Pause.  David is pensive again.

             DAVID
      To have written a book about how 
      seductive image is, and how many ways 
      there are to get seduced off any kind 
      of meaningful path, because of the way 
      the culture is now...?  What if I 
      become this parody of that very thing?  
      Hm?  What then? 

Lipsky looks at David, who stares straight ahead, his eyes 
maybe filling with tears.  They drive in silence.

EXT. DAVID'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The Grand Am pulls up, its headlights the only artificial 
light.  The Davids get out and remove their bags.  Inside, 
the dogs are barking in anticipation.

             DAVID
      I hear ya, I hear ya, boys.  Hold on, 
      I’m a comin’.

David unlocks the door and the dogs greet him and Lipsky 
exuberantly.  David kneels so that the dogs lick his face. 

             DAVID
      I’m never leavin’ you again, baby, I 
      swear, I swear.  

David gets some mail out of the box marked “DFW.”

INT. DAVID’S HOUSE (CONTINUOUS)

David tosses today’s mail on top of a mound collected by the 
dog-walker who has left a note with a message Lipsky sees: 
“LA Times called.”  David looks around the carpet.

             DAVID
      Shit Check.  (discovers)  Ah!  Eureka!

He goes to the kitchen to get stuff to clean with.

                                         88.

             DAVID
      God, it’s good to be home.  Nothing 
      like a little excremental work...  
      Make sure your Rolling Stone readers 
      learn about this. 

The dogs sheepishly watch David clean up their shit.

             DAVID
      Happens to the best of us, eh, boys?

INT. DAVID’S KITCHEN 

Lipsky glances at a typewritten itinerary of the past days 
that’s held on the refrigerator by a Chicago Cubs magnet.  
David takes it off and crumples it.

             DAVID
      Don’t need that anymore.

He tosses it into the trash.

LATER.  The chilliness caused by David’s irrational jealousy 
further abates.  The mood swing is confusing.

             DAVID
      (remembers)  Oh, there were those 
      songs I wanted to play for you...

             LIPSKY
      Oh, yeah!

David goes through his CDs.  He plays one.  

             DAVID
      First, this is Eno.  

             LIPSKY
      What’s the name of it again?

             DAVID
      “The Big Ship.”  Off an album called 
      Another Green World.

They listen.  David softly sings along.  He ejects the disc 
and puts in the second one.

             DAVID
      OK, now this is Bush.  “Glycerine.” 

They listen.   

             DAVID
      See?  Pure Eno!  A direct steal.

                                         89.

             LIPSKY
      Wow, you’re right.

LATER.  The dogs are asleep, snoring.  Exhausted, the Davids 
lounge around the living room.  Music playing.  Tape running.

             LIPSKY
      Look, I’m leaving in the morning and 
      I’ve got to ask you... this rumor...

             DAVID
      Oh, come on, the heroin thing again?  
      It isn’t true.  Why is that so hard 
      for you to believe?

             LIPSKY
      The reason that it’s hard is that 
      there’s so much about drugs and 
      addiction in the book...

             DAVID
      That doesn’t mean it’s 
      autobiographical, the drug stuff in 
      the book is basically a metaphor.  
      Look at you.  You don’t fucking 
      believe a word I’m saying, do you.  

             LIPSKY
      I didn’t say that.

             DAVID
      I was not and never was a heroin 
      addict.

             LIPSKY
      The rumor I heard... in the late ‘80s, 
      when you were at Harvard, you'd gotten 
      involved with drugs and had some kind 
      of breakdown...

             DAVID
      I don't know if I had a breakdown, I 
      got really really depressed, and had 
      to go on a suicide ward in Boston. I 
      told you that.  It had nothing to do 
      with drugs. I mean, I'm somebody who 
      spent most of his life in libraries. I 
      never lived that kind of dangerous 
      life. I wouldn't stick a needle in my 
      arm.

             LIPSKY
      How do you think that rumor got 
      started?

                                         90.

             DAVID
      I have no idea.  To tell you truly, if 
      you structured this as some “and then 
      he spiraled into some terrible 
      addiction thing,” it would be 
      inaccurate.  It was more like, I got 
      more and more unhappy. And the more 
      unhappy I would get, the more I would 
      notice that I would be drinking a lot 
      more. And there wasn't any joy in the 
      drinking. I used it for anesthesia. 

             LIPSKY
      Were you a falling-down drinker? A 
      waking-up-in-the-curb drinker? 

             DAVID
      No, that's the whole thing. A lot of 
      my reticence about this is it just 
      won't be very good copy. Because I 
      wasn't that way at all!

             LIPSKY
      I'm gonna stop pushing in a second. 

             DAVID
      But I'm also aware that some 
      addictions are sexier than others. I 
      told you: my primary addiction in my 
      entire life has been to television. 
      Television addiction is of far less 
      interest to readers than the idea of 
      heroin, you know, something that 
      confirms this mythos of the writer -

             LIPSKY
      You know I don't believe that myth.

             DAVID
      I know you don't believe that. But I 
      also know that among the things 
      swirling around here is you want the 
      best fucking article you can have! You 
      can write whatever the fuck you want, 
      but the fact of the matter is, it was 
      not a Lost Weekend sort of thing. Nor 
      was it like some lurid, romantic 
      writer-as-alcoholic-type-thing.  What 
      it came down to was I was a twenty-
      eight year-old person who really 
      exhausted a couple other ways to live, 
      you know?  And really taken them to 
      their conclusion.  
      Which for me was a pink room, with no 
      furniture and a drain in the center of 
      the floor.  Which is where they put me 
      for an entire day when they thought I 
      was going to kill myself.  Where you 
      don’t have anything on, and somebody’s 
      observing you through a slot in the 
      wall.  And when that happens to you, 
      you get tremendously willing to 
      examine other alternatives for how to 
      live.  

                                         91.


David stands.

             DAVID
      Now, if you will excuse me, I’m going 
      to bed.  Interview over.  

He walks out of the room, leaving Lipsky behind, his head 
reeling.  Lipsky presses stop on the tape recorder.

INT. DAVID’S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Lipsky, still digesting the conversation, looks at himself in 
the mirror while brushing his teeth.  He spits into the sink.

INT. DAVID’S GUEST ROOM - NIGHT 

Lipsky is in bed, still awake in the moonlight.  The door 
ajar, David knocks and sticks his head in.  He speaks softly, 
in shadow.  He can’t be seen and can’t see Lipsky very well; 
it’s sort of like confession.

             DAVID
      You awake?

             LIPSKY
      Yeah.

             DAVID
      I was just thinking... There's a thing 
      in the book: when people jump out of a 
      burning skyscraper, it's not that 
      they're not afraid of falling anymore, 
      it's that the alternative is so awful. 
      And then you're invited to consider 
      what could be so awful, that leaping 
      to your death seems like an escape 
      from it.  I don't know if you've had 
      any experience with this. It's worse 
      than any kind of physical injury, it 
      may be what in the old days was called 
      a spiritual crisis. 
      Feeling as though every axiom of your 
      life turned out to be false, and there 
      was actually nothing, and you were 
      nothing, and it was all a delusion. 
      And that you were better than everyone 
      else because you saw that it was a 
      delusion, and yet you were worse 
      because you couldn't function. And it 
      was just horrible.  I don’t think we 
      ever change.  I mean, I’m sure there 
      are still those same parts of me.  
      I’ve just got to find a way not to let 
      them drive. Y’know?
        (Pause.)
      It wasn't a chemical imbalance, and it 
      wasn't drugs and alcohol.  It was more 
      just, I think I had lived an 
      incredibly American life. That, “Boy, 
      if I could just achieve X and Y and Z, 
      everything would be OK.” (A beat.)  
      It’s interesting to me the ways we 
      sort of converge and differ.  

                                         92.


             LIPSKY
      Yeah?

             DAVID
      What actors you like and don’t like, 
      what books.  There’s a couple writers 
      I know really well who I’ve known for 
      years.  But this is weird ‘cause I 
      like only met you a couple days ago.  

             LIPSKY
      I know; I feel the same way.

             DAVID
      It’s kind of intense.  

             LIPSKY
      Yeah, it is.

             DAVID
      In a couple of hours, you drive away, 
      get on a plane, this is over.  And I’m 
      back, you know, to knowing about 
      twenty people.  Then I’m going to have 
      to like decompress from getting all 
      this attention.  Because it’s like 
      getting heroin injected into your 
      cortex.  And where I’m going to need 
      balls is to be able to sit there and 
      go through that.  And try to remind 
      myself that, you know... 
      what the reality is, is bein’ thirty-
      four, alone in a room with a piece of 
      paper.  (A beat.) Well, anyway... Good 
      night.

                                         93.

             LIPSKY
      Good night.

David goes.  Lipsky scrambles to get his pad and scribbles 
notes so he won’t forget David at his most revealing.

INT. DAVID'S GUEST ROOM - MORNING

Morning light falls across Lipsky’s face.  He stirs, gets up.

INT. DAVID’S HOUSE

Lipsky heads for the bathroom just as David emerges from it.

             LIPSKY
      Morning.  

             DAVID
      I wouldn’t go in just yet.  I just 
      wreaked some serious havoc in there.

LATER.  Morning Edition is on in the background.  David 
gathers leashes and his dogs.  Lipsky, now dressed, enters 
the living room and puts on his shoes.  

             LIPSKY
      Did you hear?  George Burns died.

             DAVID
      How old was he?

             LIPSKY
      100.

             DAVID
      Wow.  Maybe someone just dispatched 
      him with a club, figuring that was the 
      only way.  (to dogs)  Boys!

EXT. DAVID'S HOUSE - ENVIRONS - MORNING

David and Lipsky are out on a wintry field, walking the dogs.  
Jeeves pees in the snow; Drone sniffs.  

             DAVID
      You get instantaneous production from 
      the Jeevester; Drone’s a much tougher 
      nut.

                                         94.

             LIPSKY
      Beautiful out here.

             DAVID
      You should see: in the spring, when 
      the wind blows, you can see ripples, 
      like water.  Like the ocean, except 
      it’s really green.  I mean, it really 
      is.  Really calm, really pretty.  
      (Pause.) Hungry?

             LIPSKY
      You know me.

They turn back toward the house.  David calls the dogs.

             DAVID
      Jeeves, Drone, come!

             LIPSKY
      Let me take you someplace nice this 
      time.  Remember, it’s on Jann.

INT. MCDONALD’S - DAY

The counter girl bags an enormous amount of food.

             COUNTER GIRL
      Two bacon double cheeseburgers, two 
      large fries, two apple pies, one 
      coffee, small; two super-large Diet 
      Cokes... That comes to...

Lipsky pays for it.

             LIPSKY
      Can I have a receipt, please?

David takes the bags.

             DAVID
      (to the girl)  Not all for us.  We’re 
      from a bus out there.

They leave.  Linger a moment as the girl cranes her head and 
sees them get into the Grand Am.

INT. CAR / EXT. MCDONALD'S PARKING LOT - DAY

David tucks into the takeout bag.

             DAVID
      Sorry, I can’t wait, I’m suddenly 
      starving, I gotta eat something.  

                                         95.

David picks pickles off his bacon double cheeseburger.  
Lipsky makes a mental note.  David sees him.

             DAVID
      Great.  Now the whole world will know 
      what my mother’s known for years: I’m 
      a picky eater.

He takes a bite.

             DAVID
      Mmm.  This shit is bad, but in a 
      really good way.

He sets down the burger, starts up the car and pulls out.

INT. DAVID’S LIVING ROOM - DAY

The dogs are in David and Lipsky’s faces while the men eat.

             DAVID
      (Bible-epic voice)  “They ate.  And it 
      was goood.”  Jeeves, sit!  You see, 
      Jeeves gets very obedient when food is 
      around.  You sit, Drone.  It should be 
      clear by now that you’re not getting 
      any of this.

Drone sits.  David feeds both dogs morsels of his food.

             DAVID
      Good dog! There you go, thatta boy.  
      (to Lipsky) Don’t leave food within 
      their reach - they will eat it.  

Lipsky takes a note.

             DAVID
      Oh, shit, you’re not gonna make me 
      look like one of those insane old 
      women who talk to their dogs, are you?  

             LIPSKY
      Don’t worry.

             DAVID
      I am worried: my dogs’ll be offended.

             LIPSKY
      Your dogs are not gonna read it.

Drone playfully nudges Lipsky to the floor.  

                                         96.

             DAVID
      Wow - he’s never taken to a male like 
      he’s taken to you.  Except for me, 
      that is. 

Jeeves piles on, too, and Lipsky laughs delightedly as he 
rolls around with the dogs.  David watches.

             DAVID
      You want to know what my life is like?  
      That’s what my life is like. 

The phone rings.  David gets it.

             DAVID
      (on the phone)  Hello?  Oh, hey.  

He turns away from Lipsky and lowers his voice but Lipsky can 
still hear him.

             DAVID
      Yeah, I would like to.  I can’t right 
      now.  I’ve got this guy here.

Lipsky is devastated: After all the intimacy they shared, 
Lipsky is just “this guy.”

             DAVID
      The Rolling Stone guy. Yeah.  Well, he 
      should be leaving pretty soon.  Why 
      don’t I just meet you there?  Okay?  
      Great.  See you there.  Bye.

He hangs up.  Lipsky tries not to show his hurt.

             LIPSKY
      I should get out of here, let you get 
      on with your life.

             DAVID
      Just this friend.  This dance I like 
      to go to, with this friend.

             LIPSKY
      You dance?

             DAVID
      Uh huh.  I’ve just discovered in the 
      last few years that I really like it.  
      Although I’m not very good at it.

             LIPSKY
      What kind of dancing?

                                         97.

             DAVID
      The Jerk, The Swim, cheesy 70s disco.

             LIPSKY
      Seriously?

             DAVID
      The nice thing about Bloomington? 
      You’re completely hip if you do that.

             LIPSKY
      Where do you go, a club?

             DAVID
      A black Baptist church.  

             LIPSKY
      Why there?

             DAVID
      Because black Baptists can dance.

             LIPSKY
      Wow.  Dancing.

             DAVID
      I don’t Vogue. That’s the one thing I 
      refuse to do: 

INT. LIPSKY’S WEST END AVE. APT. (2008)

Lipsky, listening to David’s voice, smiles ruefully.

                                  CUT TO:

             DAVID’S VOICE
      (on tape)  I will not Vogue.  It’s 
      cool.  All these people come, and 
      they’ve all got their dancing shoes on 
      and stuff.  And it’s nice. Everybody 
      just, more or less, leaves each other 
      alone.

                              CUT BACK TO:

INT. DAVID’S LIVING ROOM (1996)

The previous scene, continued. 

             DAVID
      Hey, before you leave, I would really 
      like it if maybe we should exchange 
      address data or something.

                                         98.

             LIPSKY
      Absolutely.  (A beat.)  Well, I should 
      get my stuff together.

             DAVID
      And I should start carving an ice 
      sculpture out of my car.  It’s like 
      fucking Antarctica.

David grabs his coat and gloves and goes to his garage.  Soon 
we hear the sound of David scraping ice off his car, which is 
heard throughout the following: 

Lipsky goes from room to room, as if memorizing this time and 
place, softly describing what he sees into his recorder.  
QUICK INTERCUTS between him and the objects he rattles off.

             LIPSKY
      (into the device) Dog stuff.  Throw 
      toys, chew toys.  Crap stains on 
      carpet.  Shark doll on bookcase.  
        (He bumps his head.)
      Low chandelier.  Um, American flag.  
      Surrealist posters.  Alanis.  Coal-
      burning fireplace.  Brick wall.  Fake 
      wood-paneling.  Soda cans.  Lots and 
      lots of ‘em.  Diet Rite.  Looks like a 
      frat; the bookish frat.  Botticelli 
      calendar: Birth of Venus.  Gold and 
      silver chess set.  Postcard of Updike!  
      Cartoon: Comparative anatomy: Brains - 
      Male, Female, Dog.  

INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM

             LIPSKY
	(CONT’D)
      Barney towel used as curtain.  Photo 
      of German philosophers.  Photo collage 
      of his family, the kind kids put in 
      their dorm rooms.  His sister is 
      pretty, looks like a female him.  
      Clothes everywhere: sneakers, stuff on 
      the floor, clothes draped over stuff.  

INT. DAVID’S BATHROOM

             LIPSKY
	(CONT’D)
      Padded toilet seat.  Postcards: 
      Baboons. Clintons.  St. Ignatius: 
      “Lord teach me to be generous. / ...to 
      give and not count the cost, / to toil 
      and not seek for rest / to labor and 
      not ask for reward...”

                                         99.

INT. DAVID’S GUEST ROOM

The scraping is still heard. Lipsky packs tapes, the recorder 
and his belongings.  We see a loafer on the floor he 
overlooks.  About to zip up his bag, he looks inside and sees 
his book, The Art Fair.

INT. DAVID’S GARAGE

Lipsky finds David systematically scraping away at his car.  

             DAVID
      Driving that rental of yours?  The 
      feeling of gliding?  This shit heap 
      dudn’t even have shock absorbers.

             LIPSKY
      What is it?

             DAVID
      ‘85 Nissan Sentra. I know it dudn’t 
      look like much, but, man, this thing 
      starts.  It’s actually a terrible 
      problem.

             LIPSKY
      Why?

             DAVID
      ‘Cause I gotta get a new one but I 
      can’t junk this.

             LIPSKY
      Why not?

             DAVID
      It’s my friend.

             LIPSKY
      David, I, uh...

Pause.  

Lipsky shyly presents David with a copy of his book.

             DAVID
      Oh, hey.  Just happened to have it on 
      you?

             LIPSKY
      I debated with myself whether or not I 
      should I do this.

                                        100.

             DAVID
      Why not?

             LIPSKY
      I don’t know, you don’t think this is 
      like some pathetic, kid-brother sort 
      of thing for me to be doing?

             DAVID
      No.  Thanks, man, I look forward to 
      reading it. 

             LIPSKY
      You’re welcome.  I wrote my address 
      and e-mail on the flyleaf.

             DAVID
      Excellent.  I’ll read it soon as I’m 
      done with the Heinlein and I’ll send 
      you a note. 

             LIPSKY
      Great.

David flips through the book.

             DAVID
      I’ll be curious to see what it’s like 
      being inside your head for a change.  
      I like your cover.

             LIPSKY
      Yeah, me, too.  I had them use the 
      cover art for the British edition.

             DAVID
      You got approval but I - ?(stops 
      himself)  Really nice.

             LIPSKY
      Thanks.

EXT. DAVID'S HOUSE - DAY

Lipsky puts his bag in the Grand Am and slams the trunk.  
David and the dogs have followed him out to his car.

             LIPSKY
      So, all in all, isn’t it reassuring 
      that a lot of people are reading you 
      and saying you’re a really strong 
      writer?

                                        101.

             DAVID
      It’d be very interesting to talk to 
      you in a few years.  

             LIPSKY
      Why do you say that?

             DAVID
      ‘Cause my own experience is that 
      that’s not so.  That the more people 
      think that you’re really good, 
      actually the bigger the fear of being 
      the fraud is.  And that the worst 
      thing about having a lot of attention 
      paid to you, is that you’re afraid of 
      bad attention.  If bad attention hurts 
      you, then the calibre of the weapon 
      that’s pointed at you has gone way up.  
      Like from a .22 to a .45.  But yeah, 
      there’s a part of me that wants a lot 
      of attention.  And that thinks I’m 
      really good, and wants other people to 
      see it.  It’s one of the ways I think 
      we’re sort of alike, you know?

             LIPSKY
      Uh huh.   

             DAVID
      Let’s face it, specimens like us, we 
      could’ve gone pre-med, or Wall Street 
      or something.  And that would have 
      been a much more... American way to 
      go.  You know? 

Lipsky smiles and nods.  Pause.

             LIPSKY
      (in farewell)  Well...

Lipsky’s awkward attempt at a hug - unreciprocated by David - 
turns into a clumsy handshake.  Lipsky gets into the car.  
David stands at his window.

             DAVID
      Trust me: You don’t want to be me.

             LIPSKY
      I don’t?

David shakes his head.

                                        102.

             DAVID
      I’m not sure I want to be me.  
        (A beat.  He smiles.)
      Hey, send my best to “Jann.”

             LIPSKY
      Will do.

Lipsky shuts his door, starts the car and pulls away while 
David calls to his dogs and wrangles them toward the house.

INT. CAR / EXT. DAVID’S HOUSE - BLOOMINGTON

Lipsky watches David in the rearview mirror get smaller and 
smaller until he disappears from view without ever having 
looked back at his visitor.  From the barren, grey, 
midwestern landscape we hear traffic sounds and 

                             SMASH CUT TO: 

EXT. LIPSKY’S W. 77TH ST. APT. BUILDING - DAY (1996)

The urban landscape of Central Park West, near the Museum of 
Natural History.

INT. LIPSKY’S W. 77TH ST. APT. - DAY (1996)

Lipsky is typing at his keyboard.  The doorbell buzzes.

A SHORT TIME LATER  

Lipsky beholds a parcel.  The return address is “David 
Wallace.”  What could it be?  He excitedly slices open the 
box and peels away newspaper to reveal: A single loafer.  And 
a message written on a Chicago Bears note pad: “Yours, I 
presume?”  Accompanied by a smiley face.  Nothing on the 
reverse.  That’s all.  Huh.  Lipsky smiles in bemusement.

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
      When I think of this trip...

INT. BARNES & NOBLE BOOKSTORE (2010)

Lipsky reads from his published book, Although of Course You 
End Up Becoming Yourself, to a nice-sized crowd (including 
Sarah and Bob, his editor).

                                  CUT TO:

             LIPSKY
      (reads) ...I see David and me in the 
      front seat of the car.  

Intercut - flashES back to the car ride, as described.  We 
see them talking animatedly but cannot hear them; all we hear 
is R.E.M. on the radio and the sound of tires on the road.

                                        103.

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
      We are both so young.  He wants 
      something better than he has; I want 
      precisely what he has already. Neither 
      of us knows where our lives are going 
      to go.  It’s nighttime.  It smells 
      like chewing tobacco, soda, and smoke. 
      R.E.M. is playing. And the 
      conversation is the best one I ever 
      had.  

INT. BAPTIST CHURCH DANCE HALL - BLOOMINGTON (1996)

Lipsky imagines, in slow-motion, David dancing the Jerk, 
joyously, sweating like crazy, with members of the Baptist 
church the night Lipsky left, the night that began the rest 
of his life.

             LIPSKY
	(V.O.)
	(CONT’D)
      David thought books existed to stop 
      you from feeling lonely. If I could, 
      I’d say to David that living those 
      days with him reminded me of what life 
      is like, instead of being a relief 
      from it, and I’d say it made me feel 
      much less lonely to read.

The screen suddenly goes black. 

THE END

David Lipsky’s interview with David Foster Wallace was never 
written.  Rolling Stone decided not to publish it after all.

FAUX “OUTTAKES” are intercut during the closing crawl:

I.  INT. CAR / EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

             LIPSKY
      So tell me more about your Alanis 
      Morissette obsession.

             DAVID
      Ah, my Alanis Morissette obsession... 
      followed my Melanie Griffith 
      obsession.

                                        104.

             LIPSKY
      A Melanie Griffith obsession?

             DAVID
      For six years.  Preceded by something 
      I will tell you that I got teased a 
      lot for - you gotta promise you won’t 
      laugh -

             LIPSKY
      Promise.

             DAVID
      - which was a terrible Margaret 
      Thatcher obsession.

             LIPSKY
      You fucking kidding me?

             DAVID
      Hey. I’m opening up to you, man.

             LIPSKY
      I’m sorry, I’m sorry.  When was this 
      Maggie Thatcher obsession?

             DAVID
      All through college.

             LIPSKY
      And how did it manifest itself?

             DAVID
      Posters of Margaret Thatcher, 
      ruminations on Margaret Thatcher...

             LIPSKY
      Sexual?

             DAVID
      Unspecifically sexual.  Sensuous 
      perhaps.

             LIPSKY
      You’re gonna have to be more specific.

             DAVID
      It involved - like having tea with 
      Margaret Thatcher?  Having her really 
      enjoy something I said, lean forward 
      and cover my hand with hers?  “Oh, 
      David, how marvelous!”

Lipsky is cracking up.

II.  INT. DAVID’S HOUSE - NIGHT

                                        105.

             DAVID
      I mean, I didn't really go through 
      puberty till I was like nineteen.

             LIPSKY
      By puberty, you mean, your body 
      getting bigger, 'cause you obviously 
      developed gonads and crap like that, 
      right?

             DAVID
      My voice didn't change till I was 
      nineteen. Had my first wet dream when 
      I was like seventeen. I told everybody 
      about it.

             LIPSKY
      I didn't have a wet dream until I was 
      twenty-two. 

             DAVID
      Pretty late.

             LIPSKY
      I tried to swear off masturbating once 
      for about three months. Or I wasn't 
      going to have one.

             DAVID
      People have wet dreams, even if 
      they're masturbating. Otherwise no one 
      would ever have one.

             LIPSKY
      Well - I thought if I preserved my 
      natural bodily fluids...

             DAVID
      Mr. Lipsky has said, he finally 
      stopped masturbating in order to have 
      a wet dream!

Lipsky is laughing.

III. INT. DAVID’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Replay a scene we saw earlier (when Lipsky excused himself to 
spit out the chewing tobacco). 

             LIPSKY
      You mind if I use your uh...

                                        106.

David points the way to the bathroom.  

             DAVID
      All yours.

Lipsky goes, leaving David with the tape running.  But this 
time, instead of following Lipsky, we break form and stay on 
David:

             DAVID
      (into the recorder)  Now it’s just me 
      and the tape recorder sittin’ here. 
      Drone’s lookin’ at the floor, I’m 
      smokin’, having said I wasn’t going to 
      smoke, I’m smokin’.  Just talkin’ to 
      your tape recorder.

The SCREEN GOES BLACK for the very last time.

