              THE LINE

                 by

              Sang Kyu Kim

Sang Kyu Kim
Creative Artists Agency
2000 Avenue of the Stars
Los Angeles, CA 90067
(424)288-2000

“THE LINE”

FADE IN:

BLACK.

             MALE
	(V.O.)
      My wife told me I hit my son twice 
      that night...

EXT.  DESERT - DAY

The desert sun.  Blood red.  Out of focus.  Blinding.

             MALE
	(V.O.)
      ... She said I busted his lip open.  
      Cut his cheek.  Supposedly, there’s 
      still a mark, but I wouldn’t know.  
      I haven’t seen them since they left 
      that same evening...

The entire desert is still and quiet.  No signs of life, 
human or other.

EXT.  DESERT MOUNTAIN - DAY

An isolated rocky, desert mountain.  It’s more of a tall, 
rock formation that belongs in Yellowstone.

             MALE
	(V.O.)
      ... That was three years ago, and 
      to this very day, I can’t remember 
      ever laying a hand on the boy, let 
      alone anything else.  That’s what 
      bourbon does to you.  At least in 
      my family...

EXT.  DESERT VALLEY - DAY

Sand as far as the eye can see in all directions.  But in the 
foreground is a patch of evening primrose.  Growing out of 
the sand.  A small floral oasis in the middle of nowhere.

             MALE
	(V.O.)
      ... On the way out, my wife told me 
      I was no good.  That I was just 
      like my dad.  Real talk show stuff.  
      I think I threw up around then...

The white flower could be in a botanical garden.  Not a 
desert.

EXT.  SCANT WOODED AREA - DAY

Nearly dead trees clutter together in the middle of the 
desert.  A sign sits beside it.

                                      2.

             MALE
	(V.O.)
      ... I could’ve argued with her.  
      Told her she didn’t know what it 
      was like to be me.  What it was 
      like to have my father.  All that 
      horse shit.  But in the end I 
      didn’t.  Maybe because I was still 
      drunk.  Or maybe because she was 
      just plain right...

A closer look at the sienna sign shows it’s dented and 
dinged.  The paint is faded but it’s still legible to read:

TRAVEL CAUTION

SMUGGLING AND ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION 

MAY BE ENCOUNTERED IN THIS AREA

Wind shakes the sign slightly.

             MALE
	(V.O.)
     ... Who’s to say?  After all, I 
     don’t remember a fucking thing.

INT.  BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

A digital clock reads 2:01 A.M. in a bedroom lit by a single, 
old lamp.  A nearly empty bourbon bottle rests beside it.

A man lies in bed.  HALF-DRUNKEN eyes open.  He’s 42-years-
old with a face that belongs to your local fireman.  Someone 
you feel safe around.  But only if you’re friends.

This is CADE CLOSSIN.

And he continues to gaze at the ceiling.  His smoke alarm to 
be exact.

The red battery light blinks on.  Then off.  On.  Off.

Clossin finishes off the bourbon dregs which isn’t enough.  
The digital clock hits 2:02 A.M.  The alarm BUZZES.

Clossin doesn’t budge.  He has yet to blink.

                                      3.

INT.  BEDROOM - LATER

Clossin at a mirror.  He buttons up his Border Patrol 
uniform.  KNOCK.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - EARLY MORNING

The front door opens to reveal a male in his early 40’s, also 
wearing a Border Patrol uniform underneath a jacket.  One 
look and you can tell he played sports in high school but 
wasn’t as asshole about it.  This is JACK KITTLE.

             KITTLE
      You ready?

             CLOSSIN
      You’re late.

Kittle knows.  It’s past 2 fucking AM.

             KITTLE
      You ready?

Clossin grabs his jacket and walks outside.  The door closes.

EXT.  BORDER TOWN STASH HOUSE - LATE EVENING

Actually a trailer home, surrounded by others that are 
identical.  Decrepit.  Unwelcoming.  Unlivable.  Even for one 
person.

SUPER:

San Luis, Arizona

Less than one mile from the Mexican border

INT.  BORDER TOWN STASH HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Twenty teenage girls crammed together on the floor.  Most are 
from Mexico.  Others further south.  They’ll tell you they’re 
thirteen.  Some older.  But who knows.

Two Latino HUMAN SMUGGLERS, most likely gang members, stare 
at the girls from the side.  It’s a cold, vacant stare 
fathers and brothers would dread.  The girls gaze at the 
floor to avoid eye contact.  KNOCK.

The front door opens to reveal two shadowed men.  The human 
smuggler steps aside.

                                      4.

The men walk into the light.  Clossin and Kittle.  And their 
U.S. Border Patrol uniforms are still partially visible 
through their jackets.

They both look at the Mexican teenage girls who still won’t 
make eye contact.  Suppressed surprise.  This wasn’t what 
they were expecting.

             KITTLE
      You didn’t say anything about 
      underage kids, let alone girls.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1
      Who says we had to?

             CLOSSIN
      Where are they going?

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1
      We have a problem here?

             CLOSSIN
      No.  Where are they going?

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1
      Same as before.

The human smuggler extends an envelope.  Clossin opens it to 
find a stack of $100 bills.  Close to $5000.

Kittle, meanwhile, looks back at the girls who continue to 
stare at the ground.  Except one.  She looks twelve-years-old 
at best.  There’s a Shirley Temple innocence to her.  And she 
looks directly at Kittle.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1
	(CONT’D)
      They added more sensors.  More 
      checkpoints.  Guys who aren’t on 
      the payroll.

             CLOSSIN
        (pockets envelope)
      We know a way around if we leave 
      now.

Clossin turns and notices Kittle fixated on the girls.  The 
Shirley Temple one especially.  Clossin notices her clothes 
are torn.  She has scratches and bruises on her arms and 
neck.  Clossin glances back at Kittle.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Let’s go.

                                      5.

EXT.  BORDER TOWN STASH HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin coldly opens the back of a black van.  The girls, all 
of them with arms folded, hop into the back.  The Shirley 
Temple girl drops a cheap pocketbook purse.  Its contents 
spill out on the ground.

Condoms.

She and many other young girls carry them knowing they could 
be raped by bandits as they cross the desert into America.

Clossin pauses, as the girl looks off to the side.  Her eyes 
slightly watered.  Kittle picks up the condoms and places 
them in the pocketbook.  He returns it to the girl’s hands.

She enters the van.  Clossin feels Kittle staring at him.  
Clossin shuts the van door.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE EVENING

Pitch black.  Outlines of desert hills are barely visible.  A 
pair of headlights from Clossin’s van are in the distance, 
moving across the desert.

INT.  BLACK VAN - LATE EVENING

Clossin is behind the wheel.  He checks his rearview mirror.  
The Shirley Temple girl continues to stare at her feet.

EXT.  TRUCK LOT - LATE EVENING

A place where rigs and 18-wheelers are stored.  Clossin’s van 
enters the gates.

INT.  TRUCK LOT GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

Clossin pulls the van inside what looks like an airplane 
hangar.  He exits.

HUMAN SMUGGLERS immediately head to the back of the van and 
open it.  They don’t even bother greeting Clossin or Kittle.

HUMAN SMUGGLER #2 comes up to Clossin and hands another 
envelope filled with cash.  Final payment for the delivery.  
Human Smuggler #2 walks away when Clossin grabs his arm.

             CLOSSIN
      No more little fucking girls.

                                      6.

Kittle quietly observes.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Getting busted for smuggling adults 
      is one thing.  Underage girls...

Human Smuggler #2 doesn’t reply but doesn’t argue either.  
Clossin lets go of his arm.

Kittle watches the girls being escorted into an adjacent 
office.  Clossin sees the Shirley Temple girl standing with 
the others.  The blinds close.

EXT.  STRIP MALL PARKING LOT - LATE EVENING

Clossin’s pickup truck is parked in the middle of the empty 
lot.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S PICKUP TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Clossin counts up the cash, while Kittle looks out the window 
at nothing.

             CLOSSIN
      They’re going to have to start 
      paying us in twenties...

Done counting, Clossin extends Kittle’s half of the money.  
Kittle stares at the side mirror that’s cracked, distorting 
his reflection.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Hey.

Kittle turns and eyes his share.  Hesitation.  Before 
accepting it.  Kittle doesn’t count it.  He doesn’t put it in 
his pocket.  Clossin starts the truck.

             KITTLE
        (eyes still on money)
      How old do you think they were?

Kittle looks up at Clossin.

             KITTLE
	(CONT’D)
      Fourteen?  Thirteen?

Clossin thinks they’re younger but won’t say it.

             CLOSSIN
      These beaners are animals.  What 
      they do is their business.

             KITTLE
      This ain’t drugs, Clossin.  Ain’t 
      even guns.

Kittle just eyes him.  It’s not judgmental but a look from 
one friend to another.  This isn’t right.

                                      7.

             CLOSSIN
      Look, I just need you for one more 
      job.  Then I’ll have enough to 
      leave this behind.

             KITTLE
      What’s so important that you need 
      this money?

He holds up the dirty cash.  Clossin debates telling Kittle.

             CLOSSIN
      ... One more job, Jack.

Kittle takes a moment and inspects his stack of cash.

             KITTLE
      I’ve learned to hate these people 
      over the years.  Made my job 
      easier.  But now...

             CLOSSIN
      For all we know those girls are 
      heading for a better life than they 
      had in Mexico.

Kittle absorbs the words he’s probably told himself since he 
joined the Border Patrol.  He looks out at the side mirror.  
The crack goes right down the middle of his reflection.

The dashboard.  Kittle’s hand places his share of the money 
on it.

             KITTLE
      You can keep rationalizing things.  
      But I can’t.  Not anymore.

He exits, leaving Clossin alone.

INT.  STRIP CLUB - LATE EVENING

The type that’s in your small hometown.  The one with all the 
girls you went to school with that are now 45-year-old 
grandmothers.

                                      8.

Ignoring the women, Clossin sits at the bar, as the bartender 
refills his glass for the fifth time.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BATHROOM - LATE EVENING

Steam.  The shower’s been running for an hour.

An intoxicated Clossin lies in the tub.  Fully clothed.  
Clossin gazes at something in his hand.  A wallet sized 
portrait of himself, his wife, a twelve-year-old son and an 
eight-year-old daughter taken several years ago.

The drain.  Clossin’s family photo appears and swirls around 
it.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - MORNING

It’s a modest two bedroom home for middle class families.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

In a towel and hungover, Clossin sits at a desk writing an 
address on a colored, stamped envelope.  He then picks up 
something.  A BIRTHDAY CARD for his son.  He opens it up and 
writes something inside.

For most, it’s a personal message.  With him, it’s:

“Love, Dad”

Clossin reaches into his duffel bag and pulls out the 
envelope of cash given by the smugglers.  He takes out $2500 
and places it inside the card.

INT.  BANK - MORNING

In a Border Patrol uniform, Clossin walks up to a teller.

             CLOSSIN
      I want to split this deposit 
      equally between the two college 
      funds.

Clossin lowers an envelope filled with cash from his 
smuggling job.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      What’s the contribution limit?

                                      9.

             TELLER
      $250,000.

             CLOSSIN
      How close am I?

The teller types into her computer.

             TELLER
      Five thousand five hundred on one 
      account.  Four thousand eight 
      hundred on the other.

EXT.  AMERICAN/MEXICAN BORDER - DAY

The American side.  A 14-foot tall, steel wall separates the 
two countries.  The Border Patrol SUV drives down a dirt road 
alongside it.

I/E.  BORDER PATROL SUV - CONTINUOUS

Clossin’s behind the wheel.  To his right is the wall 
separating the two countries.

And in the distance the wall ends.  Abruptly.  Exposing open 
space where anyone can simply walk across into 
America/Mexico.

As Clossin approaches the end of the wall, Mexican kids 
emerge.  Teenagers.  All boys.  Clossin casually raises the 
windows.

Just as the boys hurl ROCKS at the SUV.  Most of them hit the 
protective metal grate covering the side windows.

PLUNK!  PLUNK!  PLUNK!  Clossin calmly drives.  Used to it 
all.

Across the border, he spots a 19-year-old Mexican male on a 
hilltop.  He’s got binoculars and a submachine gun around his 
shoulder.  He’s a CARTEL SCOUT, monitoring Border Patrol 
routes.  He WAVES at Clossin.

             RADIO
	(O.S.)
      2-3-5, do you copy?

Clossin grabs his radio.

             CLOSSIN
      This is 2-3-5.

                                      10.

             RADIO
	(O.S.)
      We have a report of a dead body in 
      a safe house off Avenue B and 
      County 19th.  Police believe it’s a 
      migrant.

Clossin hates these cases.  Tedious.

             CLOSSIN
      Copy, I’m on my way.

EXT.  RURAL SAFE HOUSE - DAY

Wide open fields.  A place where you’d expect to find crop 
circles.  Local police cars, two Border Patrol SUVs and an 
ambulance are outside, as Clossin pulls up and exits.

INT.  RURAL SAFE HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin enters to see a police officer named, MORTENSEN, 
talking to his partner and two Border Patrol agents who look 
like cops who pull you over just to fuck with you.  Their 
names are STEVEN TEDESCO and EDWARD VILLEGAS.

             MORTENSEN
      Clossin, you’ve gained a few 
      pounds.  Got that hundred you owe 
      me, you fat fuck?

             CLOSSIN
      Go fuck yourself.

This is how they always say, “Hi.”  Clossin eyes Tedesco and 
Villegas.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I thought they only called me over.

             TEDESCO
      They did.  But then they thought 
      you might drive past a bar on the 
      way here.

Chuckles.  Even Clossin.

             CLOSSIN
      Your wife still fucking that 
      wetback gardener?

The laughing subsides.

                                      11.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I heard she could work at Rosetta 
      Stone now with all that Mexican in 
      her mouth.

Tedesco goes after Clossin and is held back by the others.

             VILLEGAS
      You better walk away, Clossin.

             CLOSSIN
      Come on, Villegas.  You turned in 
      your Spic card in high school, when 
      you wanted to get with all the 
      white girls.

Mortensen pulls Clossin away. 

             MORTENSEN
      Body’s this way.

Mortensen walks Clossin to the back of the abandoned house.

             MORTENSEN
	(CONT’D)
      I thought you were still suspended.

             CLOSSIN
      I made a deal.  Have to go to AA 
      once a week.

Mortensen stops at a covered corpse.

             MORTENSEN
      My wife used to go to AA.

             CLOSSIN
      How’d that work for her?

             MORTENSEN
        (bending down)
      Great.  We’re separated.

Mortensen uncovers the corpse.  Clossin’s face relaxes.

It’s the Mexican, Shirley Temple girl.  Her face beaten.  Her 
neck bruised and crushed.  Half-naked.

             MORTENSEN
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      Looks like another rape case.  
      There were signs of a struggle.  
      Probably tried to run, that’s when 
      she got strangled.

Mortensen looks up at Clossin who needs a moment.

                                      12.

             CLOSSIN
      ... Did she have anything on her?

             MORTENSEN
      Just a small hand bag containing 
      some photos and condoms.

             CLOSSIN
      Any ID?

             MORTENSEN
        (shakes his head)
      That’s why we called you.

             CLOSSIN
      We’ll take her in.
        (eyes girl’s face)
      Going to cost taxpayers a hundred 
      grand to get her identified.

EXT.  YUMA BORDER PATROL STATION - DAY

A sign outside reads:

U.S Customs and Border Protection

Border Patrol Station

Yuma, Arizona

Behind the sign is a number of beige buildings behind a 
fence.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S BORDER PATROL SUV - CONTINUOUS

An ALREADY intoxicated Clossin is parked in the lot.  He 
takes a long drink from a small bourbon bottle, trying to 
forget the Shirley Temple girl.

             CLOSSIN
     It’s alright...

It isn’t.  He drinks again.  Guzzling it down until he chokes 
on it.  Cough.  He catches his breath.  He then sees an 
ambulance in the distance.  Unloading the covered body of the 
Shirley Temple girl.

Clossin quietly watches.

He hurls the bottle against the windshield.  CRACK.  Clossin 
punches the steering wheel before trying to rip it off.

                                      13.

Giving up, Clossin smacks the wheel one last time before 
sitting back, out of breath.  He can barely see straight.  
Suddenly, his head lands on the wheel and stays there.  
Unconscious.

The SUV’s horn blares throughout the parking lot.

INT.  YUMA STATION INFIRMARY - DAY

A disoriented Clossin regains consciousness only to find 
himself in an infirmary bed, connected to an IV.  Other 
migrants lie in beds being treated for heat exhaustion.

A man sits beside him.  He’s in his 60’s and could be talking 
about diabetes in a commercial.  But he’s clearly a man in 
charge.  His name is PATRICK HOYLAND, a senior Border Patrol 
agent.

             CLOSSIN
      How long have I been here?

             HOYLAND
      Close to six hours.

             CLOSSIN
      Almost the end of my shift.

Hoyland’s not amused, as the clicking of heels gets their 
attention.  A woman in her 30s approaches with a noticeable 
LIMP.  A limp she was born with that has more authority than 
your normal walk.  This is AGENT JAMI HUBBARD.

She belongs to the Border Corruption Task Force agency.  And 
Clossin recognizes her.  Not in a good way.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Agent Clossin.

             CLOSSIN
      Where’s my uniform?  Hey, can 
      someone remove this IV?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Just leave it.

             CLOSSIN
      Can I just pull this thing out--

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I said fucking leave it.

Clossin freezes.  She demands respect and gets it.

                                      14.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      I heard you stopped going to 
      counseling.

             CLOSSIN
      ... I was sick.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      For three straight sessions?

Clossin doesn’t respond.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      Well, you can explain it all the 
      Corruption Task Force committee.

             HOYLAND
        (rises)
      Can we talk?

Agent Hubbard nods and steps aside with Hoyland.  They 
exchange a few words before she exits.  Hoyland sits back 
down next to Clossin.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT’D)
      You know the only reason you’re 
      still on this job is because of me?  
      People like her wanted you long 
      gone, but I’ve been covering your 
      ass.  And this is how you repay me?

Clossin has a snappy response in mind but bites his tongue.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT’D)
      You’re a fucking joke to everyone, 
      and I don’t know how I can explain 
      this.

             CLOSSIN
      Who says you have to?

Hoyland leans forward.

             HOYLAND
      Hey, if this is it, tell me.  Tell 
      me right now.  Because I don’t see 
      you changing, let alone wanting to 
      change.

Clossin doesn’t say a word.  Hoyland sits back in his chair.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT’D)
      You’ve already lost a lot to this 
      shit.  Don’t lose everything else.

                                      15.

             CLOSSIN
      Everything else?  What else do I 
      got?

Hoyland sees Clossin’s hurting no matter how hard he tries to 
mask it.

             HOYLAND
      I’ve worked here long enough to see 
      it all.  Almost done it all.  
      That’s why I stand by you guys and 
      will continue to do so.  Just don’t 
      make me look like a fucking idiot.

Hoyland leaves Clossin who lies quietly like a scolded child.

INT.  YUMA STATION HALLWAY - EARLY EVENING

Carrying a duffel bag, Clossin walks in plain clothes to head 
home.  He looks like he hasn’t slept in a week.

Border Patrol agents glance at him like a leper.  One of them 
is Kittle.  He almost says something but decides against it.  
It’s a professional walk of shame.

Clossin then sees several Latino migrants being escorted to 
the detention center.  They’re dirty and exhausted from 
walking the desert.

As they walk by, Clossin makes eye contact with a Latino 
male.  He has the same, tired eyes as Clossin.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Clossin lies in bed staring at his smoke alarm.  The red 
light blinks on and off.

The digital clock hits 2:01 A.M.  The alarm BUZZES.

Clossin remains in bed, not even reacting.  BUZZ!  BUZZ!  
BUZZ!  Instead, he looks at the water damaged photo of his 
children.  He eyes his son whose image is now CREASED.

In his other hand are the receipts to their college funds.  
Almost to their limits.  Almost.

The smoke alarm light.  On.  Off.  Do the smuggling job.  
Don’t do the smuggling job.  Clossin has some doubt for the 
first time.  But he thinks of his children.  Children he’s 
hurt.

                                      16.

The digital alarm clock BUZZES away.  Until Clossin’s hand 
shuts it off.

INT.  BORDER TOWN SAFE HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

A smuggler opens the door, as Clossin enters.  He sees what’s 
before him.  A group of twelve Mexican adults.  No children.  
Human Smuggler #1 extends an envelope of cash.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1 
      Where’s your partner?

Clossin thinks about Kittle’s reasons for backing out of the 
jobs.  The same reasons he mocked.  He takes the envelope.

             CLOSSIN
      One of the girls from last night 
      was found dead this morning.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1
      Once we send them off, it’s out of 
      our hands.

Clossin looks at the new migrants.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #1
	(CONT’D)
      For the most part, they end up 
      better off.  Trust me.

Words Clossin used to rationalize his actions to Kittle.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE EVENING

Clossin’s smuggling van goes down a dirt trail.

INT.  SMUGGLING VAN - LATE EVENING

Even with the headlights, visibility is low, but Clossin 
knows these roads too well.  He turns on his radio for Border 
Patrol transmissions.

             RADIO
      Omaha, 6-2, owe you a brew, that’s 
      a nineteen.
        (base agent)
      This time pay the fuck up.

Clossin focuses on the road.

                                      17.

             RADIO
	(CONT’D)
        (different agent)
      -- got a possible forty-six.
        (base agent)
      Confirmed sensor activation.
        (field agent, running)
      On foot, I see at least five.  
      Possibly up to seven bundles.  
      They’re going into the canyons.

Clossin listens carefully.  They could be close.

             RADIO
	(CONT’D)
        (base agent)
      Omaha is on their way.  Two minutes 
      out.  They’ll light up your 
      runners.

Clossin turns down the volume on the radio, as he still 
drives.  Then he hears it.  A Black Hawk helicopter HUMMING 
in the distance.  Clossin’s foot slams on the brake.

EXT.  DESERT - CONTINUOUS

The van skids to a halt.

INT.  SMUGGLING VAN - CONTINUOUS

Clossin shuts off the headlights and engine.  The HUM of the 
Black Hawk helicopter gets louder, as it flies overhead.  Its 
spotlight illuminates the ground below.  It just misses 
Clossin’s van.  He turns up the radio volume again.

             RADIO
        (Black Hawk pilot)
      We got visual on one of the 
      runners.  They’re scattering.  A 
      few went into the wash just south 
      of the trail.
        (field agent)
      I see them...

Sounds of the field agent running on the radio.  Possibly 
toward Clossin.

Headlights still OFF, Clossin starts the engine and puts the 
van in reverse, back the way he came.

Even without the headlights, he can navigate the obscured 
desert trail.

                                      18.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE EVENING

Clossin’s smuggling van drives through the darkness.  It’s 
distinguishable only by its dust cloud and old engine 
RUMBLING.

INT.  SMUGGLING VAN - CONTINUOUS

Clossin struggles to recognize his surroundings.  The radio 
continues to transmit Border Patrol chatter.

             CLOSSIN
      Where the fuck am I?

It’s getting BUMPY and dangerous.  A LARGE BUMP.  Clossin 
turns on his headlights.

A rock formation.

He quickly swerves and loses control of the van.  Left, 
right, left, right.  The migrants fall off their seats.  
Clossin does his best to regain control.  And as soon as he 
does...

The rear of a PARKED VAN.

Clossin doesn’t have time to brake.  SMASH!

His van comes to a complete and sudden stop.

EXT.  DESERT - CONTINUOUS

A headlight busted, smoke rises from Clossin’s van engine.

INT.  SMUGGLING VAN - CONTINUOUS

Dazed, Clossin lifts his head from the steering wheel, as 
blood drips from the bridge of his nose.  Some migrants in 
the back groan in pain.

Clossin shakes his head to get his bearings, when he fixates 
on what’s before him.

Another van.  Just like his.  Completely SHOT UP.

EXT.  SMUGGLING VAN - CONTINUOUS

Still shaking off the cobwebs, Clossin exits with a gun and 
flashlight, aimed at the shot up van.

                                      19.

His Border Patrol radio continues to play in the background.

Clossin carefully makes his way to the driver side window.  
He’s ready to fire at anything, when he spots a dead Mexican 
driver riddled with bullets, face down on the wheel.

The back of the van.  Clossin stares at the ajar doors before 
opening them.

He stops breathing.

Inside is a group of Mexican migrants, male and female, 
adults and children.  All shot up.  And all completely 
GUTTED.

A twig SNAPS behind him.

Clossin turns, gun ready, to see two migrant men from his van 
staring at the massacre.

             CLOSSIN
        (in Spanish)
      Get back inside the van!  Go!

The frightened migrants obey.  Clossin returns his eyes to 
the massacre.  He tries to register what’s happened, when 
THUD, THUD...  Clossin grips his gun.  SILENCE.  THUD...  
It’s coming from UNDER the corpses.  Under the floor.

Clossin cautiously enters the van and walks amongst the 
bodies.  He feels around and finds edges to a floor panel 
that’s been cut out.  He lifts it up and finds a hidden 
compartment door.

Clossin lifts the latch with his gun.  Slowly at first.  Then 
quickly.  He’s ready to gun down whatever’s inside.

Instead, he slowly lowers his gun.

Inside is a barely conscious, pale, 10-year-old Mexican boy.  
And he’s been shot in the side and has lost a lot of blood.

He weakly reaches out to Clossin.

Overwhelmed, Clossin doesn’t know what to do.  He looks back 
at his van.  A van full of migrants.  He then notices the 
dark paint from his van scraped along the rear of the shot up 
van.

Rolando’s bloody hand continues to reach out to Clossin.  One 
look at the boy, and you can tell he’s wise beyond his years.  
Out of necessity.  This is ROLANDO CABRAL.

                                      20.

             ROLANDO
        (in Spanish)
      ... Please...

Clossin takes a breath.  Then extends his hand.  For the 
compartment door.  He closes it.

             ROLANDO
	(CONT’D)
      No--

INT.  SMUGGLING VAN - CONTINUOUS

Clossin enters and starts the engine.  He’s ready to drive 
away, but his eyes fix on the shot up van.  He can’t leave.

INT.  SHOT UP VAN - MOMENTS LATER

The rear doors to the shot up van quickly open.  Hands open 
the compartment holding Rolando who looks up to see Clossin.  
While reaching for Rolando, Clossin KICKS something into the 
compartment.  Something shaped like a MARBLE.

Clossin carries Rolando out and closes up the compartment.

             ROLANDO
      Gabriela...

A frail Rolando reaches out for someone still inside.  
Someone now dead.

I/E.  SMUGGLING VAN - LATE EVENING

The already frightened migrants are taken aback, when they 
see Clossin holding the wounded Rolando.

             CLOSSIN
        (in Spanish)
      Make room!

Clossin lies Rolando down.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
        (in Spanish)
      I need you to keep an eye on him.  
      Talk to him.  Keep him awake.

Clossin hops out of the van.  He uses his boot to cover up 
his tire tracks and footprints.  CHUD, CHUD, CHUD...

                                      21.

In the distance, a light beam flashes down from a Border 
Patrol Black Hawk.  Clossin rushes to brush away more 
footprints but it’s too late.  A GLOW of light not far off.

Headlights.  From Border Patrol SUVs.  Coming towards him.  
Clossin rushes back into his van.  He starts the engine and 
pulls away.

EXT.  ISOLATED ROAD - EARLY MORNING

Around 4 A.M.  Clossin’s smuggling van drives past. 

I/E.  SMUGGLING VAN - CONTINUOUS

Clossin checks his fuel levels, when--

             MIGRANT
	(O.S.)
      The boy’s not breathing!

The van immediately brakes to the side of the road.  Clossin 
hurries to Rolando and performs CPR.

             MIGRANT
	(CONT’D)
      He needs a doctor.

Clossin checks on Rolando.  Still not breathing.  CPR.  The 
rear doors open.  Migrants run out.

             CLOSSIN
      Hey!

The remaining ones jump out and dart off.  It’s a problem but 
Rolando dying is a bigger one.  CPR.  Rolando coughs.  
Clossin looks down at a dying Rolando whose eyes are barely 
open.  Looking directly back at him.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - EARLY MORNING

The front door bursts open.  Clossin rushes inside and lowers 
a barely conscious Rolando onto the floor.

He rushes for his first aid kit to stop the bleeding.  Beyond 
pale, Rolando’s lost too much blood.  He needs a transfusion.

             CLOSSIN
      Fuck it.

Clossin anxiously pulls out his cellphone and dials a number.

                                      22.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, pick up...
        (someone answers)
      It’s Clossin.

INT.  TRUCK LOT GARAGE - EARLY MORNING

Human smugglers waiting for Clossin’s shipment stand amongst 
themselves.  One of them checks his watch.  It’s way too 
late.  He nods to Human Smuggler #2 who grabs his cellphone.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
        (in Spanish)
      He’s a no show.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

An unconscious, shirtless Rolando lies on the bed, his side 
freshly bandaged.  A 60-year-old male checks his pulse.  He’s 
your childhood doctor you didn’t fear.  This is DR. GENE 
LALLY.

He looks up at Clossin, who wears a BANDAGE on the bridge of 
nose, and gives a nod.  Rolando’s going to be okay.

Dr. Lally packs up his things and proceeds to the front door.  
Clossin extends an envelope with a small stack of cash.

             CLOSSIN
      I don’t need to tell you, but this 
      is strictly between you and me.

             DR. LALLY
      Call me if the boy doesn’t get 
      better.

Dr. Lally exits.  Clossin turns and eyes the bedroom.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Clossin looks at an unconscious Rolando lying on his bed.  
Who did this and what did they want?

Clossin rifles through Rolando’s pockets.  He finds caffeine 
pills and alcohol wipes.  Nothing of value.  Clossin takes 
off Rolando’s shoes and inspects them.  Nothing.

He picks up Rolando’s bloody shirt.  No pockets.  He notices 
how much blood is on it.

                                      23.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin stops at a door.  On it are drawings made by 
children.  He eyes them before opening the door.  It sticks.  
He puts his shoulder into it.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SECOND BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The door opens.  Clossin steps inside and looks around.

It’s his children’s bedroom.  Untouched since they left.  And 
never been entered.  For three years.

Clossin walks to the dresser and opens it.  Half of his son’s 
t-shirts were removed in haste, when they left him.  Half 
remain.  He grabs one.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

With Rolando still unconscious, Clossin gingerly lifts up his 
head and puts his son’s t-shirt on him.  Just like a father 
would do for a child who was asleep.  Clossin carefully 
lowers Rolando back down on the bed.

And just looks at him.

There’s blood smeared on his cheek.  Clossin grabs a nearby 
napkin and pours some bottled water on it.  He gently rubs at 
the blood.

It won’t come off.

He adds more water to the napkin, when Rolando stirs.  
Clossin quietly watches, as Rolando slowly opens his eyes.

Startled, Rolando tries to squirm out of bed.

             CLOSSIN
        (in Spanish)
      Easy, easy!

Clossin will speak in Spanish to Rolando and other migrants 
unless noted.  Unaware of his surroundings, Rolando still 
tries to desperately break free thinking he’s in danger.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m not going to hurt you... hey...

Rolando’s like a caged animal.  Clossin grabs his shoulders 
and gives him a small shake.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Hey!

Rolando relaxes for a moment, wincing at the pain.  He then 
notices his side that’s all bandaged up.

                                      24.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I got you out of that van.  Patched 
      you up.  Remember?

Rolando doesn’t respond but doesn’t resist either.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      What’s your name?

No response.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Do you know what happened?

Maintaining eye contact, Rolando remains mute.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, everyone in that van was 
      killed.

Rolando’s tough exterior shows a crack.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Did you hear me, they’re all dead--

             ROLANDO
      I heard you!

Clossin’s thrown off by the sudden, emotional outburst.  
Reluctant tears stream down Rolando’s face.  He hates not 
being able to hold them back.

Clossin realizes Rolando lost someone in that van.  Someone 
close.

EXT.  DESERT CRIME SCENE - MORNING

The shot up van.  Crime scene tape ropes off the area.  An 
area now filled with Border Patrol agents and local 
authorities.

Hoyland and another BORDER PATROL AGENT gaze inside the shot 
up van.  Viewing the massacred bodies in daylight makes it 
even more horrific.

             HOYLAND
      How many are we talking?

                                      25.

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
      Including the driver, twenty-two.

             HOYLAND
      I want those bodies examined right 
      away.  We need to know if they were 
      carrying any forty-six.

Tire tracks in front of the van.  Hoyland and the Border 
Patrol agent crouch down.

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
      We found another set thirty feet 
      behind the van along with three 
      sets of footprints.  Two coming 
      from the forward vehicle.

The rear of the shot up van.  Specifically, the dent created 
by Clossin’s van.

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
	(CONT’D)
      A third vehicle appeared to have 
      collided with the van here.  We 
      found tire tracks leading to this 
      collision point and then driving 
      away due South.  We have agents 
      tracking them currently.

             HOYLAND
      Any footprints from this third 
      vehicle?

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
      One set that’s pretty clear.  The 
      others seem to be brushed away.  
      Could’ve been two to three people 
      total from this vehicle.  But 
      that’s not the biggest thing.

The Border Patrol agent points out a blood trail left by 
Rolando.  And it leads straight to where the rear of 
Clossin’s van was.

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
	(CONT’D)
      Someone was taken from the van.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Clossin’s on his cellphone, keeping his eye on Rolando who 
still lies in his bedroom.

                                      26.

             CLOSSIN
      I’ve seen it before.  Mules shot 
      up.  Cut open.  Rival cartel 
      ripping off another one over stupid 
      shit.  Probably territory.

INT.  INNER CITY CLINIC OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Dr. Lally sits at his desk.

             DR. LALLY
      You think the kid’s carrying?

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             CLOSSIN
      I don’t know.  But no cartel’s 
      going to come after him for a 
      brick.  Especially if they don’t 
      even know he was there.

             DR. LALLY
      What about you?  Can they find 
      identify you at the crime scene?

             CLOSSIN
      ... Eventually...

His choices have finally caught up to him.  He paces.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I hid the van someplace safe to buy 
      time, but I left behind too much.  
      It’s only a matter of time...

Clossin takes a breath.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I have to talk to Hoyland.  Don’t 
      know if he can do anything now, but 
      I have to clear this up before it 
      gets out of hand.

             DR. LALLY
      You going to tell him about the 
      kid?

Clossin glances at Rolando.

             CLOSSIN
      Hoyland doesn’t need to know about 
      him.  Kid’s been through enough.  
      And you won’t be mentioned either.

                                      27.

             DR. LALLY
      I don’t recommend moving the boy.  
      He lost a lot of blood.

             CLOSSIN
      How long should I wait?

             DR. LALLY
      Ideally, several days at least.

Great.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - MORNING

A zip tie restrains Rolando’s second wrist to the bed post.

             CLOSSIN
      As soon as you’re feeling better, 
      I’ll take you to the border.  Make 
      sure you get back home safely.

Rolando doesn’t even make eye contact, as the TV plays.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, it’s over.  You’re going to be 
      okay.

             ROLANDO
      Like the men who were in the back 
      of your van?

He remembers.  Clossin uncaps a bottle of water and brings it 
to Rolando’s mouth.  He doesn’t acknowledge it.

             CLOSSIN
      It’s the last drink you’ll have for 
      a few hours.

Rolando looks over.  Okay.  Clossin brings the water bottle 
to his lips, as he drinks.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      You’re welcome.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BORDER PATROL SUV - MORNING

The windshield is still cracked, as he drives.  He gets on 
the radio.

             CLOSSIN
      This is 2-3-5.

                                      28.

             RADIO
	(O.S.)
      Go ahead, 2-3-5.

             CLOSSIN
      You know where Hoyland’s at 
      currently?

             RADIO
	(O.S.)
      He’s in the desert.  Reported 
      massacre.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S BORDER PATROL SUV - MORNING

Clossin drives through the desert looking for the location of 
the massacre.  He then spots Border Patrol and local police 
vehicles in the distance.

Clossin pulls up to a Border Patrol agent waving from his 
parked SUV.  The agent’s that guy who always wants to talk 
when you could care less.  His name is RAMPLING.

             RAMPLING
      Hey, Cade.  You bring coffee?

             CLOSSIN
      Why would I bring coffee?

             RAMPLING
      I asked anyone coming up to bring 
      some.

             CLOSSIN
      Is Hoyland up there?

             RAMPLING
      He was.  Don’t know if he still is.  
      Fucking cold this morning.

Clossin eyes the shot up van and the tape surrounding it.

             CLOSSIN
        (distracted)
      It’s the fucking desert, Rampling.

Clossin rolls up the window and drives up the dirt hill 
toward the crime scene.

EXT.  DESERT CRIME SCENE - MORNING

Clossin exits his SUV and observes the authorities THOROUGHLY 
searching the SURROUNDING areas for more evidence.

                                      29.

The tire tracks, footprints and paint left behind by his 
smuggling van have already been marked off and taken for 
analyzing.

Clossin walks to the shot up van and sees the bodies have 
been moved.  The blood, however, remains.  Looking around, 
Clossin enters the rear of the van.

INT.  SHOT UP VAN - CONTINUOUS

Clossin carefully makes his way to the secret compartment 
that authorities haven’t found.  Looking over his shoulder, 
Clossin lifts up the fake flooring and opens the compartment.

Inside is blood left behind by Rolando.  He shines a small 
light inside to see if anything was left behind.  Nothing.  
Until he notices something tucked in the corner.

The small, round, black ball he unknowingly kicked in 
earlier.  It’s the size of a marble.  Clossin picks it up.

EXT.  DESERT CRIME SCENE - MORNING

Clossin drives back down toward Rampling who’s got his 
coffee.  He stops and lowers his window.

             CLOSSIN
      Hey, you carry one of those NLAIM 
      paintball guns?

             RAMPLING
      Yeah, ever since I was assigned to 
      the front line full time.

             CLOSSIN
      Let me see it.

Rampling removes a carbine paintball rifle from his SUV that 
looks like the real thing.  Clossin removes the magazine 
containing the paintballs.  He inspects one.  It’s identical 
to the one Clossin removed from the shot up van.

             RAMPLING
      That shit will tag any runners and 
      make them glow in the dark.  BBs 
      can’t hide for shit once they’re 
      marked.  All my friends have been 
      asking me for a case of these 
      because it’s not available to the 
      public.

Clossin returns the paintball back to the rifle and hands it 
back to Rampling.

                                      30.

             CLOSSIN
      Enjoy that coffee.

Rampling nods, as Clossin drives off.

EXT.  FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - MORNING

Clossin’s SUV is parked outside.

INT.  FAST FOOD RESTAURANT RESTROOM - CONTINUOUS

Clossin enters the single person restroom.  He locks it and 
shuts off the light.  BLACK.  Some ruffling sounds.  Then the 
sound of his foot STOMPING down on something.

GLOW.

Clossin crouches to the crushed paintball that glows GREEN 
now.  A paintball ONLY AVAILABLE to the Border Patrol.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - DAY

Gagged and restrained, Rolando watches, “The Steve Harvey 
Show.”  He awkwardly shifts his body to get more comfortable, 
when he hears a small SNAP.

He looks at the headboard to notice a small CRACK close to 
where his wrist is restrained.

INT.  YUMA STATION MORGUE - DAY

Clossin and a CORONER walk amongst the tables holding all the 
massacred bodies, some covered.  With the fluorescent 
lighting, Clossin can see the brutality he didn’t before.

A storage rack opens and a body tray is pulled out.  A 9-year-
old girl, whose face is covered, rests on it.  Slashed open 
violently across her stomach.

             CORONER
      Twenty-two bodies.  Twenty-two 
      bodies cut open.

             CLOSSIN
      Did you find anything out of the 
      ordinary?

                                      31.

             CORONER
      Everything seemed to match the 
      patterns to similar cases we’ve had 
      in the past.

Clossin spots something.  A plastic evidence bag next to the 
corpse.  And inside is a faded photograph of a young girl and 
boy.  Rolando.

Clossin flips over the bag to see the back of the photo.  
Someone wrote, “Gabriela and Rolando, 2010,” along with a San 
Diego address.  This is Rolando’s sister.  Clossin gazes at 
the covered face.

             CLOSSIN
      Is it alright if I...

The coroner nods.  Clossin uncovers the corpse’s face.  It’s 
the same girl in the photo.  Gabriela.  Hunted animals are 
handled with more respect.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
        (eyes on Gabriela)
      So no evidence that might say it 
      wasn’t a rival cartel?

             CORONER
      Not that I can see.

A dead end.  Maybe Border Patrol had nothing to do with it 
after all.

             CORONER
	(CONT’D)
      The only thing out of the ordinary 
      is that whatever these guys were 
      looking for was never found.

Clossin looks up.  What?

             CLOSSIN
      You said every body was gutted.

             CORONER
      They were.  And not a single one 
      had any evidence of drugs or 
      plastic residue from balloons.

Rolando was the SOLE mule.

                                      32.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - DAY

TV still on, Rolando continues to jerk his arm to break free.  
The crack in the headboard gets larger with each tug.  Then 
SNAP.

A closet opens.  He looks for a shoe for his bare foot.  They 
all belong to Clossin.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SECOND BEDROOM - DAY

The door opens and Rolando examines Clossin’s kids’ room.  
There are toys, posters and other items that tell him there 
might be shoes his size.

He opens a closet and finds several pairs of sneakers.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S KITCHEN - LATER

Fully clothed in Clossin’s son’s clothing, Rolando quickly 
opens the fridge.  There are two bottles of water and a pizza 
box.  Rolando opens it to find a moldy slice inside.

He anxiously goes through the cabinets.  The man owns no 
food.  Suddenly, Rolando hunches over in pain, holding his 
stomach.  The balloon he swallowed.  The pain subsides.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - LATER

The front door.  It opens.  Rolando stares at the suburban, 
American neighborhood.  And leaves.

INT.  YUMA STATION HALLWAY - DAY

Clossin walks briskly, trying to head home to Rolando.

             MALE
	(O.S.)
      Clossin...

Clossin turns to see Hoyland, holding a number of reports 
just outside a briefing room.  Other agents enter, as Clossin 
grudgingly walks over.  Hoyland notices the bandage on his 
nose.

             HOYLAND
      You alright?

             CLOSSIN
      Slipped in the tub.

             HOYLAND
      You were looking for me?

With the new clues, Clossin doesn’t want to divulge anything.

                                      33.

             CLOSSIN
      ... I wanted to thank you for 
      setting me straight the other day.  
      I needed it.

             HOYLAND
      You don’t have to thank me.  Come 
      on in.  We need all hands on deck.

Hoyland enters, as Clossin reluctantly follows.

INT.  YUMA STATION BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

Clossin enters and takes a seat in the full room.  There are 
reports in front of every seat.  Hoyland steps to the front 
with other senior agents.  And Agent Hubbard.  Eye contact 
with Clossin.

             HOYLAND
      Okay, let’s get started.  As some 
      of you already heard, we found an 
      entire van of migrants shot dead 
      and cut open in the desert this 
      morning.  All signs indicate it’s 
      cartels fighting over prime drug 
      routes... 

Clossin flips through the report and sees photos of the 
corpses.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT’D)
      ... Based on the tire tracks, we’re 
      looking for two types of vehicles.  
      Two of them are SUVs, either a 
      Chevy Tahoe or Suburban.  Color 
      unknown.  Late nineties.  The other 
      is a van.  Possibly a Chevrolet 
      Express or Ford E-Series.  Black 
      with sizable damage to the front.  
      Also late nineties...

Clossin sees the sample photos of the van that pretty much 
match what he drove.  Another page has his footprints, tire 
tracks and the paint left behind from his smuggling van.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT'D)
      ... At least one individual was in 
      this black van.  

                                      34.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT'D)
      And we believe that person took 
      someone from the scene...

Clossin looks up from the report.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT’D)
      ... Someone who may be the sole 
      mule carrying contraband.  And 
      someone who may still be alive.

The entire Border Patrol is now after Clossin and Rolando.

EXT.  RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

Rolando walks quickly, looking over his shoulder.  He doesn’t 
know where to go.  A bell RINGS.  There’s an elementary 
school nearby.

Taking cover behind a bush, Rolando watches kids leaving 
school and heading for their buses or parents’ cars.  Some 
kids talking and laughing approach, when he feels STOMACH 
PAINS again.

Rolando sneaks away around the side of a house to the back.

EXT.  RESIDENTIAL HOUSE BACKYARD - DAY

Rolando tiptoes, when he hears a female voice from inside the 
house.  Through a screen door, Rolando views a woman - 30s - 
preparing snacks for her children, while on the phone.

Pizza rolls, tater tots, chips.

The doorbell RINGS.  The woman exits her kitchen for the 
front door.  Rolando approaches the screen door.  No one else 
is in the kitchen.  He enters.

INT.  RESIDENTIAL HOUSE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Rolando stuffs every bit of food he can into his mouth, while 
the rest go in his pockets.

INT.  RESIDENTIAL HOUSE FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Still on the phone, the woman signs for a package delivered 
by UPS.

                                      35.

INT.  RESIDENTIAL HOUSE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Rolando hears the front door close.  He stuffs his mouth with 
some more food and turns to leave.

Only to run into a man - 30s - entering the screen door.

             MALE
      Who are you?  What’re you doing 
      here?

Rolando’s frozen.  The woman enters with the package and 
screams.  Rolando takes off for the door but the man grabs 
him.

             MALE
	(CONT’D)
      Call the police!

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - SUNSET

Clossin runs up to unlock the door.  It’s already unlocked.  
Clossin places his hand on his gun.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Clossin cautiously enters with gun raised.

             CLOSSIN
      Rolando?

INT.  CLOSSIN’S BEDROOM - SUNSET

Clossin enters to see Rolando’s broken free.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin darts out and gets his hand on his pickup door, when 
a gun jabs into his side.  Clossin can’t even turn to see who 
it is.

             MALE
	(O.S.)
      Get in.

Someone opens the rear door.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S PICKUP TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin slides into the rear seat, as an armed Latino male 
sits beside him.  He frisks Clossin and removes his gun.

                                      36.

Another male enters and sits behind the wheel.  He turns to 
reveal himself.  Human Smuggler #2.

             CLOSSIN
      I can explain--

The ARMED SMUGGLER sitting beside him smashes his gun against 
Clossin’s bandaged nose.  Tears form, as blood seeps through 
the bandage.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
      What happened to the shipment?

             CLOSSIN
      I lost it...

Human Smuggler #2 calmly stares him down.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      ... Border Patrol was responding to 
      some runners.  Had to drive without 
      my lights.  Ran off the road.  I 
      was dazed.  They ran off.

Human Smuggler #2 points at Clossin’s injured nose.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
      Is that where you got hurt?

             CLOSSIN
      Yeah.

Human Smuggler #2 nods at the Armed Smuggler who again 
punches the injured nose with his gun.  Blood.  Clossin has 
to breathe out of his mouth.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
      Where’s the van?

             CLOSSIN
      It’s stashed at an abandoned safe 
      house in Lucky Lou Estates.  Just 
      around the corner from Iglesia 
      Monte Sinai.

Human Smuggler #2 glares at Clossin who braces himself for 
another punch.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I was going to come by later, 
      reimburse you.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
      This is later.

                                      37.

             CLOSSIN
      The money’s in the glove box.

Human Smuggler #2 opens the glove compartment.  A thick 
envelope.  Inside is a large stack of $100 bills.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
      How much is in here?

             CLOSSIN
      All I have in cash.  Ten thousand.

Human Smuggler #2 tosses it to the Armed Smuggler.

             HUMAN SMUGGLER #2
      Make it twenty.  Then we decide 
      whether or not to turn you over to 
      the Border Corruption Task Force.

Not able to breathe without pain, Clossin just nods.  The 
human smugglers exit.  Clossin gingerly feels his nose which 
is probably broken.

EXT.  DESERT CRIME SCENE - SUNSET

The shot up van is no longer there, but yellow police tape 
still ropes off the crime scene.  Not a soul is around until 
headlights illuminate the area.

The lights get brighter, as an unseen car pulls up and stops.  
The sound of someone exiting the vehicle and taking a few 
steps forward.

A shadow of a man stretches across the crime scene.

The yellow police tape.  A hand lifts it up, and the unseen 
male crosses underneath.  He crouches down near the tire 
tracks left by the van and Clossin.

The same person then inspects the footprints marked off as 
evidence.  The male finally looks up toward his car.  The 
headlights illuminate his face.

The man is Mexican and overweight by 40 pounds.  Because his 
fat conceals any wrinkles, he can be in his late 30s or early 
50s.  This guy could easily be your building’s maintenance 
guy.  The one with the constant smile.

He goes only by MANZANO.

And he focuses on something not far off.  A few feet away, 
there is more evidence marked on the dirt road.  Dried blood 
streaks left by Rolando, when he was moved.

                                      38.

INT.  YUMA STATION HALLWAY - EVENING

Agent Tedesco escorts a restrained Rolando through a hallway 
for the detention center.

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION CENTER - EVENING

Rolando and other detained migrants are on their knees facing 
a wall.  Agents Tedesco and Villegas frisk them.  Rolando 
winces when they touch his side.

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION CENTER - LATER

Rolando sits with Tedesco who fills out paperwork and speaks 
to him in Spanish.

             TEDESCO
      Do you have a legal document to 
      live in the United States?

Rolando just shakes his head.

             TEDESCO
	(CONT’D)
      Did you make arrangements with 
      someone to guide you here?

Head shake.  A lie.

             TEDESCO
	(CONT’D)
      The main reason you came to the 
      U.S.?

             ROLANDO
      ... Family.

A truth.  As Tedesco fills out the report, Rolando winces.  
He holds his STOMACH which has gotten worse.

             TEDESCO
      You okay?

Rolando musters up his strength to mask the pain.  He nods.

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION CELL - EVENING

Standing room only.  Male migrants’ bodies fill the tight 
area.  A sign on the wall reads:

Maximum Occupancy: 48

100 migrants stand in the cell.  Double the capacity.

                                      39.

Some have been there for days and teeter against other 
bodies.  Others can barely breathe.  A migrant weakly gazes 
to his right.

Beside them is a cell occupied only by two Mexican cartel 
members.  Alone, comfortable and arranged.

Agent Tedesco and Villegas escort Rolando and one other 
migrant to the overcrowded cell.  Villegas unlocks it.  A 
detained migrant reaches out for them desperately.

             DETAINED MIGRANT
        (in Spanish)
      Sir, please...

The agents ignore him, as Tedesco grabs the new migrant.  He 
rummages through his pockets and shoes, taking whatever cash 
is on him.

             DETAINED MIGRANT
	(CONT’D)
        (in Spanish)
      ... Some of us have been here two 
      days without food or water...

Tedesco and Villegas proceed to shove the new migrant into 
the packed cell.  Pained screams from inside.

             TEDESCO
      Shut the fuck up in there.

Rolando sees a teenage boy grimace in pain, his arm bent the 
wrong way.  Then Rolando hunches over.  Holding his stomach.

             DETAINED MIGRANT
        (in Spanish, struggling)
      ... People need medical care!  
      There are children here!

             VILLEGAS
        (in Spanish)
      This is third time I picked you up 
      this week, Chavela.  Think about 
      that next time you want to fucking 
      cross.

Villegas grabs a pained Rolando who tries to run.

EXT.  YUMA STATION PARKING LOT - EVENING

Clossin exits his SUV and runs for the station.

                                      40.

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION CENTER - EVENING

Clossin rushes in and checks the still overcrowded cell for 
Rolando.  The migrants can barely breathe let alone move.  
Clossin cranes his neck and sees Rolando about three people 
deep.  Bent over.  Ready to pass a swallowed balloon.

A Border Patrol agent - mid 30s - is on duty, reading a book.  
He’s the bullied kid who sided with the bully later to save 
his own ass.  His name is FENNESSEY.

             CLOSSIN
      Hey Fennessey, you got the keys?

             FENNESSEY
        (still reading)
      Yeah.

             CLOSSIN
      Mind opening this up?

             FENNESSEY
      What for?

             CLOSSIN
      These people can barely breathe.

             FENNESSEY
      They’re fine.

Clossin marches up to Fennessey who still hasn’t looked up 
from his book.

             CLOSSIN
      Just give me the keys.

             FENNESSEY
      Go fuck up somewhere else, Clossin.

Clossin grabs Fennessey and slams him against the wall.

             FENNESSEY
	(CONT’D)
      Okay, okay.  Here.

Clossin takes the extended keys.  He unlocks the cell with 
the cartel members, then the overcrowded one.

             CLOSSIN
      Okay, let’s go.

The migrants are hesitant out of fear.

                                      41.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, move.
        (to cartel members)
      I expect no trouble.

             DETAINED MIGRANT
        (in English)
      Thank you.

The migrants move into the free cell.  Rolando, however, is 
sweating profusely and is about to fall over.  Clossin 
catches him.

INT.  YUMA STATION HALLWAY - EVENING

Rolando can barely walk, as Clossin desperately looks for a 
restroom.

             CLOSSIN
      Hang in there, Rolando.

Clossin finds one.

INT.  YUMA STATION RESTROOM - EVENING

Clossin helps Rolando inside, and locks the door.  Rolando 
falls to a knee.  Diarrhea pours out of him.  Clossin quickly 
takes Rolando to a stall and helps him onto the toilet.

Rolando struggles, as he pushes and pushes, letting out an 
agonizing grunt.  Clossin holds his hand.  Rolando squeezes 
it, making his flesh whiten.

A long GRUNT.  Release.

Rolando collapses forward onto Clossin for an unintentional 
embrace.  It takes a moment, but Clossin pats Rolando’s back.

             CLOSSIN
      You okay?

Rolando sits up and nods.  Clossin gestures for him to stand 
up.

Clossin looks into the toilet.  Grimacing, he reaches inside 
and pulls out something.  Three, small packed balloons.

Clossin rushes to the sink and rinses them off.  Rolando 
stands nearby.  Clossin pulls out a small switchblade and 
cuts into a balloon.  He carefully peels it open.  The 
muscles in his face relax.  So do Rolando’s.

                                      42.

In Clossin’s hand is the opened balloon.  Packed with JADEITE 
gemstones.  Value: $3,000,000/carat.

EXT.  INNER CITY CLINIC - EVENING

The moment when businesses are about to lock up.

The clinic sits in a strip mall and looks like it wouldn’t 
take insurance.  You wouldn’t go there unless your life 
depended on it.  Even then you might pause.

INT.  INNER CITY CLINIC - EVENING

It’s empty.  A wall clock reads 9:50 P.M.  Dr. Lally goes 
through a patient chart at the front desk, as an ASSISTANT 
types on her computer.

             DR. LALLY
        (checks his watch)
      Give it another five minutes, and 
      let’s lock up.

Dr. Lally turns to leave, when the door opens and a pair of 
boots step onto the mat just inside.  BING.  The electronic 
tone to say there’s a patient.  Manzano.

             MANZANO
      Evening, you open?

             DR. LALLY
      Just made it.  Last customer of the 
      day.

             MANZANO
      Customer.  I prefer patient.

A warm smile from Manzano.

             DR. LALLY
      Sandra here will get you started 
      with some paperwork, and I’ll see 
      you in a bit.

             MANZANO
      I’m afraid my needs aren’t medical.

Dr. Lally’s confused.

             DR. LALLY
      What can I help you with?

                                      43.

Just then, a FEMALE PATIENT enters.  BING.  She stands behind 
Manzano thinking there’s a line.  He steps aside.

             MANZANO
      Go ahead.

The Female Patient checks in with the assistant.

             DR. LALLY
      Is this something you need to 
      discuss in private?

             MANZANO
      It would’ve been preferable.  But 
      you work long shifts, M.D.

Dr. Lally knows Manzano’s up to no good.  He gestures for him 
to come to the back.

             DR. LALLY
      Come on, I’ll check you out.  
      Answer anything you need--

             MANZANO
        (not going anywhere)
      I’d like to know all the patients 
      you’ve treated over the last thirty-
      six hours.

             DR. LALLY
      You know I can’t do that.  That’s 
      illegal.

             MANZANO
      Then tell me all the patients you 
      saw illegally.

Dr. Lally knows he can’t talk himself out of this.  The 
assistant and the Female Patient notice something’s off.

             ASSISTANT
      Is everything okay, Dr.--

             MANZANO
        (eyes on Dr. Lally)
      Everything’s fine.

Manzano notices a bowl of M&M’s.  He grabs a handful and 
rolls them in his palm. 

             MANZANO
	(CONT’D)
      They always claimed these melt in 
      your mouth and not in your hands.

Manzano shows his palm that was holding the M&M’s.  There are 
little patches of orange and blue from the candy shell.

                                      44.

             ASSISTANT
      I think they meant the chocolate 
      inside.  Not the candy shell.

             MANZANO
      But that’s not what they say in the 
      commercials.

BING.  Another MALE PATIENT enters and stands behind Manzano 
who keeps his eyes on Dr. Lally.

             DR. LALLY
      I’m sorry.  But I can’t help you.  
      Now if you don’t mind...

Manzano calmly pulls out a SILENCED gun and holds it by his 
side.  The Female Patient SCREAMS.  Dr. Lally and his 
assistant are frozen.  The Male Patient runs for the doors.

Manzano calmly turns and fires two rapid shots that hit the 
back and head.  Blood splatters onto the frosted, opaque 
doors.

SCREAMS.  DUCKING.  RUNNING.

Manzano shoots the Female Patient, Assistant and Dr. Lally in 
accurate shots.  All to the head.

SILENCE.

Manzano places the gun back under his belt.  His belly 
appears for a brief instance.

He walks up to Dr. Lally’s body and rummages through his 
pockets.  A wallet, keys.  A cellphone.  He goes through 
recent calls and checks out the phone numbers.  They’re all 
at normal times, except one.

He eyes one call received at 3:58 A.M. just last night.  He 
pockets the phone, when he notices something on his palm.

The orange and blue stains from the M&M’s.  He wipes his 
hands on his jacket and exits.  BING.

INT.  YUMA STATION INFIRMARY - EVENING

Rolando is one of several migrants connected to an IV to be 
rehydrated.  Clossin sits beside him much like Hoyland did 
for him earlier.

                                      45.

             ROLANDO
      Are you still going to take me to 
      the border?

             CLOSSIN
      ... No.  I’m going to find out who 
      did this.  Make sure you’re safe.

             ROLANDO
      Am I safe here?

             CLOSSIN
      No one knows you were in that van.  
      You’re okay.

That eases Rolando a bit.

             ROLANDO
      How did you know my name?

Clossin doesn’t remember saying it.

             ROLANDO
	(CONT’D)
      You said it earlier.  In the 
      hallway.

Clossin reaches into his pocket and extends something.

A plastic bag.  Inside is the photo of Rolando and his 
sister.  Thinking it was lost forever, Rolando slowly reaches 
for it.  He then looks at his sister in the photo.

Rolando looks up at Clossin.  It’s a major sign of trust.  
Tears.  For the first time, Rolando allows himself to be 10-
years-old.

Clossin hangs his head.  And he’s even more determined to 
find the people responsible.

INT.  YUMA STATION RESEARCH ROOM - EVENING

Clossin sits at a computer.  Beside him is the report on the 
massacre, opened to the ballistics results.  The weapons used 
in the massacre were an 870 model shotgun, an MP5 submachine 
gun and an UMP submachine gun.

He types the weapons into the computer and hits enter.  A 
list of 5 Border Patrol cases come up where these weapons 
were seized.

Clossin’s about to click on print, when his hand TREMORS.  He 
reaches into his pocket and pulls out a flask.  He doesn’t 
want to drink.  But has to.

                                      46.

INT.  YUMA STATION ARMORY - EVENING

Clossin walks up to a Border Patrol agent who’s behind a 
counter.  He’s in his late 20s and someone you’d want your 
daughter/sister to date.  His name is COLIN WESTMORE.

             CLOSSIN
      Hey, could you check the status of 
      these weapons?

Clossin hands over the printouts of the case reports.  
Westmore peruses them quickly and hands them back.

             WESTMORE
      Yeah.  We don’t have them.

You know just off the top of your head?

             CLOSSIN
      Why don’t you check your computer 
      and make sure.

             WESTMORE
      I already did.  Several months ago.

Westmore looks around and finds a business card.  He hands it 
to Clossin.  The name on the card is, “Agent Jami Hubbard.”

             WESTMORE
	(O.S.)
	(CONT’D)
      She’s a Border Corruption Task 
      Force agent, a real ball breaker 
      with this limp--

             CLOSSIN
      I know who she is.

             WESTMORE
      She bugged me about it for weeks.

             CLOSSIN
      A total of eighteen weapons were 
      seized in five busts.  And we don’t 
      have a single one?

             WESTMORE
      According to our logs, they were 
      all sent back to DHS in Washington 
      to be destroyed.  It’s not 
      uncommon.

Clossin’s frustrated with the dead end.

             CLOSSIN
      Print me out those transactions.

                                      47.

INT.  YUMA STATION BRIEFING ROOM - EVENING

Clossin’s alone flipping through the armory logs and case 
reports, when he notices something.  The agents who were on 
one of the cases.

“S. Tedesco, E. Villegas”

Clossin flips to the next case report.  The same names are on 
that report.  And the others.  Leaning forward, he checks one 
last thing.  The senior agent who signed off on ALL the 
reports.  They’re all the same.

“P. Hoyland”

He then checks the senior agent who approved the seized 
weapons to be destroyed in Washington.

“P. Hoyland”

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION CENTER - EVENING

The cell holding the two Mexican cartel members.  The door 
opens.  Clossin.  He eyes the one heavily tatted up.  The 
leader between the two.

             CLOSSIN
      You.  We need to talk.

INT.  YUMA STATION INTERROGATION ROOM - EVENING

Clossin sits with the restrained cartel member.  He’s in his 
late 20s and has more intelligence in his eyes than evil.  He 
goes by FLORIDO.  Clossin examines his criminal record.

             CLOSSIN
      Got quite a resume.

             FLORIDO
      I know Microsoft Office, too.

Clossin could react sternly but knows he can get further with 
a wry smile.  Florido smiles back.  I’m funny, right?

             CLOSSIN
        (still smiling)
      What about guns?

             FLORIDO
      What about them?

                                      48.

             CLOSSIN
      What do you know about the Border 
      Patrol running guns to the cartels?

             FLORIDO
      That’s illegal activity.  Wouldn’t 
      know anything about that.

             CLOSSIN
      You got family in Mexico, Florido?

Florido’s smile fades.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Because you’re not going back to 
      see them.  Not with this.

He raises Florido’s criminal record.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      You help me, I think about looking 
      the other way.  Just this once.

             FLORIDO
      How do I know I have your word?

             CLOSSIN
      You don’t.  But what choice you 
      got?

Florido’s been duped by Border Patrol before.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Come on, I laughed at your joke.

Florido’s still not sure but decides to risk it.

             FLORIDO
      A lot of BP run guns to the 
      cartels.  You know that.

             CLOSSIN
      But something went wrong recently.

Florido sees Clossin’s in the know.  Enough that he can’t be 
vague with his answers.

             FLORIDO
      Some BP started raising prices for 
      the guns.  Cartel told them to fuck 
      off.  Next thing you know there are 
      more busts on drug routes that 
      should be free and clear.

                                      49.

             CLOSSIN
      So the cartel cut them off the 
      payroll completely?

             FLORIDO
      Not before stiffing your homies on 
      one last huge shipment.

             CLOSSIN
      You got any names?

             FLORIDO
      BP has it setup like the cartels so 
      you don’t know shit.

             CLOSSIN
      How much was owed?

             FLORIDO
      Somewhere north of fifty mill.

Clossin sees the pieces coming together.

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION AREA - EVENING

Fennessey and another Border Patrol agent escort a group of 
migrants out of their cells to be deported.  Clossin enters 
with Florido.

             CLOSSIN
      Don’t forget this guy.

             FENNESSEY
      You sure, I checked this guy’s 
      record--

             CLOSSIN
      It’s clear.

Fennessey grudgingly takes Florido.  A small nod to Clossin 
for keeping his word.

INT.  YUMA STATION INFIRMARY - EVENING

Clossin walks over to Rolando’s bed.  He’s sleeping.  Clossin 
looks at him for a moment like a father to a son.  He nudges 
him awake.

             CLOSSIN
      Let’s go home.

                                      50.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - LATE EVENING

Clossin’s pickup parks in the driveway.  He gets out and 
opens the passenger side door.  Out comes Rolando concealed 
in a large jacket.  Holding a pizza box and a plastic grocery 
bag, Clossin hurries him inside.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - LATE EVENING

Rolando sits on the sofa.  Clossin hangs up his jacket and 
walks over with the pizza box.  He opens it up, and Rolando 
grabs the huge New York style slice.  It flops awkwardly, 
making the cheese slide off.

             CLOSSIN
      You’re supposed to fold it.

Rolando does.  From the tip to the crust, as opposed to the 
middle of the slice.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      No, the other way...

Rolando takes a bite regardless.  It’s his first pizza, and 
it’s better than imagined.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      ... Never mind.

Clossin goes to the window air conditioning unit and removes 
a panel.  He pulls out a standard issue Border Patrol sock 
that been tied from his duffel bag.  He unties it and checks 
the contents.  The jadeites.

He ties up the sock again and places them inside the air 
conditioning unit and seals it back up.

Clossin returns to Rolando and gets some soda cans from the 
plastic bag.  He pops one open and hands it to Rolando who 
takes a sip.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      You’re halfway home to getting your 
      Green Card.

A smile that’s shared.

             ROLANDO
      I’m sorry I stole your son’s 
      clothes.

             CLOSSIN
      ... It’s okay.

                                      51.

             ROLANDO
      Is he away on vacation?

             CLOSSIN
      ... Yeah.  He’s away with his 
      mother and sister.

Rolando looks down thinking of Gabriela.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Was it just you two coming up 
      north?

Rolando nods.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      What about your parents?

             ROLANDO
      My mother died when we were young.  
      My father... he was shot over a 
      gambling debt.

             CLOSSIN
      So it was just you and your sister?

             ROLANDO
      We lived on the streets with other 
      kids in Los Olivos.  Police would 
      beat us all the time.  Two kids 
      died last month.  That’s when we 
      decided to come up north.

             CLOSSIN
      And the price of admission was 
      swallowing that balloon.

             ROLANDO
        (nodding)
      My mother had a sister.  She lived 
      in San Diego.  We were going to try 
      to find her.

Rolando pulls out the photo of him and Gabriela and hands it 
to Clossin.  He points out the address written on the back.

             CLOSSIN
        (eyeing the address)
      So you wanted to come up here just 
      to see family.

             ROLANDO
      Not see them.  Be with them.

Something Clossin wishes with his own family.  He hands the 
photo back.

                                      52.

             ROLANDO
	(CONT’D)
      So when is your family coming back?

             CLOSSIN
      ... Soon.

Clossin lowers his half-eaten slice and stands.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Tomorrow morning, I’m going to make 
      a call.  Get protection for both of 
      us.  The people who did this won’t 
      be able to hurt you.

Clossin starts to walk away.

             ROLANDO
	(O.S.)
      Thank you.

Clossin stops and turns.  He eyes Rolando before walking 
away.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin opens a cupboard and finds a bourbon bottle.  He 
pours some into a plastic glass meant more for soda.  He 
raises it to his lips and PAUSES.

He stares into the glass.  And dumps it into the sink.

Clossin then reaches into his pocket and pulls out something.  
The business card to the Border Corruption Task Force agent, 
Jami Hubbard.

EXT.  RESIDENTIAL STREET - LATE EVENING

A street lined with small, Spanish style homes.

SUPER:

Lucky Lou Estates, Arizona

Around the corner from Iglesia Monte Sinai

Each home looks just like the last.  Even the one that’s 
supposed to be abandoned.  Police cars and Border Patrol 
vehicles are in its driveway.

                                      53.

The owner of the home is outside with authorities, while 
Border Patrol agents are in the back.  They examine Clossin’s 
smuggling van.  Especially the dent and scraped black paint 
on the front.  A match.

One agent crouches down by the passenger side door.  His hand 
runs across a crack on the side mirror that’s all too 
familiar.

The agent looks up.  Jack Kittle.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - MORNING

Sunny.  The bluest sky without a single cloud.  A mailman 
walks to the door.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Mail slides through the slot and falls to the floor.  Clossin 
who’s brushing his teeth sees the mail and walks over.

Bills, junk, his son’s birthday card.  On the front, someone 
has written, “Return to Sender.”  Clossin looks at it 
pensively.  It’s not a surprise but was hoping otherwise.

Rolando still sleeps peacefully.  Probably the first time in 
awhile.  Clossin turns to finish washing up, when KNOCK.  The 
loud kind made only by the police.

Rolando wakes up.

Clossin grabs his gun from his hanged up holster and gestures 
Rolando to hide in the bedroom.  He then discreetly looks out 
the window.  Kittle.  KNOCK.

Clossin unlocks the door.  Immediately, Kittle barges inside, 
knocking the gun from Clossin’s hand.  Kittle takes a 
surprised Clossin and restrains him against the wall like a 
perp.

Kittle picks up Clossin’s gun and handcuffs him.

             CLOSSIN
      What the fuck, Jack...

             KITTLE
      We found the van.  And I’m taking 
      you in.

             CLOSSIN
      Listen to me.  You can’t do that--

                                      54.

             KITTLE
      They’re inspecting every inch of 
      that van as we speak, and it’s only 
      a matter of fucking time before 
      they trace it back to you and me.  
      And I’m not going down for that 
      shit in the desert--

             CLOSSIN
      I had nothing to do with the 
      massacre--

             KITTLE
      Your fucking van was there--

             CLOSSIN
      I was on a job--

Kittle grabs Clossin and pushes him toward the door.

             KITTLE
      You can tell it all to Hoyland--

             CLOSSIN
      Hoyland’s the one behind the whole 
      thing!

Clossin wriggles himself free.  Kittle steps back, gun aimed 
at Clossin.  He heard him but doesn’t know what to believe.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      He was working with Tedesco and 
      Villegas, running guns to the 
      cartel--

             KITTLE
      Stop fucking with me--

             CLOSSIN
      Just fucking listen!

Kittle keeps his gun on Clossin.  But listens.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I looked up all the cases that 
      seized weapons matching those used 
      in the massacre.  When I went to 
      inspect those guns, I found out 
      they were shipped to DHS to be 
      destroyed.

             KITTLE
      Standard operating procedure.

                                      55.

             CLOSSIN
      Yeah.  Until I called a buddy in 
      Washington.  DHS not only didn’t 
      get these weapons, but they had no 
      record of Yuma Station ever 
      shipping them.

Kittle slowly starts to believe Clossin.

             KITTLE
      So how is this related to what 
      happened in the desert?

             CLOSSIN
      The cartel stiffed them on a 
      shipment they never paid for.  A 
      fuck you for raising prices on 
      them.

Kittle sees the picture forming.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      When Hoyland heard the cartel was 
      sending a major payment up north to 
      associates, they decided to steal 
      it and make it look like a rival 
      cartel.  Even used weapons from 
      prior busts to frame them.

             KITTLE
      But they never found anything in 
      that van.

             CLOSSIN
      Because I did.

Kittle takes a breath.

             KITTLE
      Can you prove all this?  Clear my 
      name?

             CLOSSIN
      And then some.

             KITTLE
      That’s too bad.

BLAM!  In complete shock, Clossin looks down at the wound on 
his shoulder.  The bedroom door opens.  Rolando.

             CLOSSIN
      Get out of there!

                                      56.

BLAM!  Rolando moves just in time, as the bullet splinters 
the bedroom door.

Still handcuffed, Clossin charges into Kittle, as both fall 
to the ground.  The gun drops to the floor.

Clossin headbutts Kittle, stunning him.  Clossin goes for the 
gun but has a hard time picking it up due to the handcuffs.

Kittle reaches behind his back for Clossin’s gun.  Clossin 
kicks it away.  Kittle jumps on Clossin and digs his fingers 
into the bullet wound.  Scream.

Kittle punches Clossin repeatedly across the face.  He 
reaches for his gun.  Only to have another hand pick it up.

Rolando.  Kittle raises his hands.

             KITTLE
        (in Spanish)
      Hey, it’s okay.  I didn’t know who 
      you were at first.  I’m here to 
      protect you.

Rolando aims the gun right at him.  Clossin is barely 
conscious as blood seeps from his shoulder.

             KITTLE
	(CONT’D)
        (in Spanish)
      Just hand over the gun.  I’ll keep 
      you safe.

Kittle suddenly pulls a knife from his jacket and lunges 
forward to kill Rolando.  BLAM!  Kittle goes down.  Rolando 
rushes over to Clossin.

             CLOSSIN
      ... We have to get out of here...

Rolando helps Clossin up.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Grab his keys.

Rolando finds the keys on Kittle and unlocks the handcuffs.  
Clossin heads to the air conditioning window unit and pulls 
out the jadeites, when RING.  It’s coming from Kittle.

Clossin searches his pockets and finds a cellphone.  The 
caller ID shows up as, “Patrick Hoyland.”  Clossin ANSWERS.

             HOYLAND
	(O.S.)
      Is it done?

                                      57.

EXT.  HOYLAND’S BACK YARD - CONTINUOUS

Hoyland waters his garden.

             CLOSSIN
	(O.S.)
      Is this you looking out for me?

Hoyland freezes.

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             HOYLAND
      Someone’s got to.

             CLOSSIN
      I’m taking you down.  All of you.

             HOYLAND
      You’re in over your head, kid.  

             CLOSSIN
      Then you shouldn’t have any problem 
      apprehending me.  Especially a 
      fucking joke like me.

Clossin hears police sirens in the distance.  Hoyland can 
hear them over the phone.

             HOYLAND
      You’re not going to get out of this 
      alive.

             CLOSSIN
      What else do I got?

Clossin hangs up.  He quickly stuffs the copies of case files 
into a duffel bag along with an envelope of cash and his gun.  
On his way out, he grabs one last thing.  The mail.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - MORNING

Rolando helps Clossin to his pickup.

             ROLANDO
      Can you drive?

             CLOSSIN
      Get in.

Rolando enters the truck.  Clossin winces in pain, when a 
concerned NEIGHBOR emerges.  Eye contact.  

                                      58.

Police SIRENS continue to wail in the distance.  Clossin 
enters the truck and pulls out of the driveway.

INT.  MANZANO’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Manzano drives, checking the addresses, when he spots 
Clossin’s truck leaving.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S PICKUP TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Nursing the gunshot wound, Clossin tries to drive within the 
speed limit.  Unbeknownst to him, Manzano’s car follows 
without any hurry.

INT.  MANZANO’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Manzano pulls his gun from his jacket.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S PICKUP TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Clossin stops behind a car at a stop light.  Police sirens 
are still heard in the distance.

             ROLANDO
      We have to get you to a hospital.

Manzano’s car has pulled up behind theirs.

             CLOSSIN
      No.  That man was Border Patrol.  I 
      know a doctor who can help...

Rolando gets it now.  Meanwhile, Manzano gets out of his car 
and approaches.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      We have to find a place to hide--

Clossin turns to see Manzano standing outside his window.  
Gun aimed right at him.  BLAM!  Clossin ducks and slams on 
the gas, as the window shatters.  His truck pushes the car in 
front out of the way.

BLAM!  The rear windshield ruptures.  Head down, Clossin does 
his best to drive, as he goes up on the curb and runs over a 
street sign.  

BLAM!  This bullet fractures the front windshield making it 
difficult to see through.  Clossin turns around a corner to 
evade the gunfire.

                                      59.

EXT.  MANZANO’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Manzano hears the police sirens getting louder.  He calmly 
raises his gun and fires at the innocent driver in the other 
car.  He turns to his car and drives off.

EXT.  MOTEL - MORNING

One of those cheap motels you pass by to look for better 
options.  The sign reads:

“El Camino Motel”

Clossin is barely hanging on.

             CLOSSIN
      My bag...

Rolando grabs it.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      There’s a card in there.

Rolando finds the birthday card meant for Clossin’s son.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Open it.

Rolando opens the envelope.  He finds the birthday card and 
the $2500 in cash.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      This place houses illegals.  They 
      won’t ask you any questions.

Rolando exits to get a room.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Rolando helps Clossin inside.  He collapses onto the floor.  
Rolando digs into his pocket to get his phone.

             ROLANDO
      Call your doctor.

Clossin finds Dr. Lally’s number and dials it.

                                      60.

INT.  MANZANO’S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Having a handful of M&M’s, Manzano drives, when a cellphone 
rings.  Dr. Lally’s phone.  The caller ID comes up with 
Clossin’s number.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Clossin hears the phone ringing.  It’s about to go to 
voicemail, when CLICK.  Someone’s answered.

             CLOSSIN
      Doc, I need your help...

Clossin realizes he should’ve waited to hear Dr. Lally’s 
voice first.  Silence on the other end.  Clossin hangs up and 
drops the phone.  He struggles to get on his feet.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      He can track the cellphone signal.  
      We have to get out of here.

Clossin collapses.

INT.  MOTEL OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Rolando runs in, as the Latino MOTEL CLERK watches a game 
show on a cheap TV.  They speak in Spanish.

             ROLANDO
      I need a doctor.  Now.

             MOTEL CLERK
      Call 9-1-1.

             ROLANDO
      I need one who won’t ask questions.

The motel clerk wants no trouble.

             MOTEL CLERK
      I can’t help you--

             ROLANDO
      I know what you do here.  And I 
      know you can get a doctor who can 
      help.  Please.

Rolando throws down a $100 bill onto the counter.

                                      61.

EXT.  CLOSSIN’S HOUSE - LATE EVENING

Border Patrol and local police vehicles are present.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Kittle’s corpse.  Hoyland stands over it when a police 
officer walks up.  He holds out a phone with a photo of 
Clossin and Rolando getting into his truck.

             POLICE OFFICER
      A neighbor snapped this quickly, 
      when they drove off.

             HOYLAND
      We get any word on his pickup?

             POLICE OFFICER
      Nothing yet.

Tedesco enters.

             TEDESCO
      A witness said there was a gunman 
      shooting at Clossin.  Shot up his 
      truck badly and a bystander in the 
      other car.  We’re thinking this 
      guy’s cartel.  Could be associated 
      with the shooting at that clinic 
      the other night.

Hoyland can feel the noose tightening.  He holds up Clossin 
and Rolando’s photo.

             HOYLAND
      I want this photo everywhere.

INT.  MOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Rolando enters with a Latino doctor - late 40s - named 
MONTIEL to see Clossin barely conscious.  Montiel rushes over 
and starts to unbutton his shirt.  Clossin grabs his hand.

             CLOSSIN
      We have to leave.

             MONTIEL
      You can’t be moved.

             CLOSSIN
      Someone is coming here right now to 
      kill us.

INT.  MOTEL OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The motel clerk is with a new CUSTOMER and his wife.  His TV 
plays the local news.

                                      62.

             MOTEL CLERK
      How many beds?

             CUSTOMER
      One is fine.

The motel clerk gets the key to a new room, when he freezes.  
On the news is the photo of Clossin and Rolando.  He picks up 
the phone.

EXT.  MOTEL - MORNING

Montiel and Rolando help carry Clossin outside.

             CLOSSIN
      My truck’s behind the building.

They hurry to it.  Montiel lies Clossin in the back seat, as 
Rolando joins him.  Montiel gets behind the wheel and starts 
to back out, when SMASH.

Manzano’s car.

Clossin weakly pulls out his gun, as Manzano exits with a 
submachine gun.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Get us out of here!

Montiel tries to gather his senses.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Fucking go!

Manzano fires away, as Montiel slams on the gas.  The car 
goes in reverse and nails a parked car.

Clossin sits up and gets off a few shots.  Manzano doesn’t 
flinch as he tears up the car with more gunfire.  Clossin 
takes Rolando to the floor mats and covers him up.

A police car arrives.

Manzano turns and unloads on the cop behind the wheel.  His 
partner jumps out and hides behind a parked car.

                                      63.

Manzano walks toward the police officer, firing in short 
bursts.  The police officer pops up to get off a shot.  He 
misses but Manzano doesn’t, hitting the cop in the chest.

Manzano walks up to the officer to see he had a bulletproof 
vest.  He aims his submachine gun at the officer.  BLAM!  
Manzano takes a shot in the leg.

Manzano turns to see a debilitated Clossin get off another 
shot.  Manzano leaps behind his car.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S PICKUP TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Clossin notices Manzano’s down.

             CLOSSIN
      Drive!

Montiel turns the truck to leave the lot.  They head for the 
exit, when Manzano rises.  He teeters but is ready to unload.

Manzano pulls the trigger, when BLAM, BLAM, BLAM, BLAM!  
Clossin sees Manzano get riddled.  By the police officer he 
saved.  Montiel speeds by, as the officer gets to his feet.

EXT.  MOTEL - CONTINUOUS

The police officer runs after the truck into the street.  He 
stops and aims, when he makes eye contact with Clossin.  The 
officer could take a shot at the guy who saved his life.  
Instead he lowers his gun.

The officer returns to Manzano.  He lies dead in the lot.  
His hand covered in red and yellow M&M stains.

EXT.  DESERT RANCH - LATE AFTERNOON

A small, isolated ranch house with a wooden fence that keeps 
in two horses.

INT.  DESERT RANCH - CONTINUOUS

Clossin wakes up and flinches, expecting danger.  He 
immediately winces at his wounded shoulder.

             FEMALE
	(O.S.)
      I bet that hurt.

                                      64.

A 60-year-old, Native American woman sits nearby, eyes on a 
newspaper.  She’s the woman who would give out the best candy 
during Halloween.  Her name is KALISKA.

             KALISKA
      You thirsty?

Clossin nods.  Kaliska puts the paper down and provides some 
water.  Clossin sips it with a grimace and looks around.  He 
sees migrants resting on their journey, staring at him.  Some 
look worn, having been lost in the desert for days.

             CLOSSIN
      Where’s Rolando?

             KALISKA
      He’s outside playing with one of 
      the other boys.  If it wasn’t for 
      him, I wasn’t going to take you in.

Kaliska shows the newspaper displaying Clossin’s photo with 
the headline:

“Manhunt for Border Patrol Agent”

Clossin checks his shoulder that’s all bandaged.

             KALISKA
	(CONT’D)
      Montiel got the bullet out.

             CLOSSIN
      Montiel?

             KALISKA
      The doctor you nearly got killed.

             CLOSSIN
      Is he okay?

             KALISKA
      It’s not the first time he’s been 
      shot at.

Kaliska offers Clossin a plate of food, when he sees some 
migrants who have been beaten.

             CLOSSIN
      What happened to them?

             KALISKA
      Minutemen thinking they’re Border 
      Patrol.  They go around puncturing 
      water containers we leave out for 
      migrants.

                                      65.

Clossin looks around.

             CLOSSIN
      This place looks familiar.

             KALISKA
      You and your buddies raided us 
      once.  Roughed up several guests 
      and threatened to shut us down.

Clossin remembers now.

             KALISKA
	(CONT’D)
      Good thing you didn’t.

Kaliska walks off and gives food to others.  Clossin 
painfully sits up to eat.  Someone extends a bottle of water.  
It’s the Detained Migrant who pleaded for medical care in the 
crammed cell.  He accepts the water with a nod.

EXT.  DESERT SHACK - SUNSET

Clossin makes his way outside and squints at the sunlight.  
Rolando tosses rocks with another boy, when he spots Clossin 
and runs over.

             ROLANDO
      You look like shit.

             CLOSSIN
      If you’re going to stay in this 
      country, you should learn to speak 
      English.

             ROLANDO
      So what do we do now?

Clossin eyes his shot up truck, hidden with some shrubs.

             CLOSSIN
      We get a new vehicle.  Then we make 
      a phone call.

EXT.  MOTEL - EVENING

Hoyland talks in front of news cameras.

             HOYLAND
      Cade Clossin is extremely 
      dangerous.  

                                      66.

             HOYLAND
	(CONT'D)
      He’s already murdered one Border 
      Patrol agent who tried to apprehend 
      him, and another police officer was 
      murdered this afternoon.

             REPORTER
      Is it true he may be responsible 
      for the recent massacre in the 
      desert?

             HOYLAND
      We believe he’s working with a 
      rival cartel in a battle over 
      territory that’s now seeped into 
      our own backyard.  I have to stress 
      that no one should try to apprehend 
      Cade Clossin.  An innocent 
      bystander has already been killed, 
      and he’s in possession of a 
      Hispanic boy who may be a hostage. 

             REPORTER
      Has use of deadly force been 
      authorized?

             HOYLAND
      Yes, it has.

EXT.  STRIP MALL PARKING LOT - MORNING

Clossin hot wires a sedan and drives off with Rolando.

EXT.  ABANDONED GAS STATION - DAY

A place in the middle of nowhere.  Desert surrounds the area.  
Clossin’s sedan is parked by a pay phone.

Holding the Border Corruption Task Force agent’s business 
card, Clossin dials a number.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

A cellphone rings on a desk.  Agent Hubbard limps in.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      This is Hubbard.

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             CLOSSIN
      I missed another AA session.

                                      67.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Agent Clossin?

             CLOSSIN
      I heard you were looking for some 
      missing guns.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      ... Where are you?

The pay phone at the abandoned gas station dangles.  Call 
still continuing.  Clossin’s sedan pulls away.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      Hello?

Agent Hubbard hears Clossin’s car driving off.  She covers 
her phone.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      Hey, Jack?

JACK, her assistant enters her office.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      I want you to trace a call for me.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S SEDAN - LATE AFTERNOON

Agent Hubbard drives down a remote desert road, when she 
spots the abandoned gas station Clossin called from.

EXT.  ABANDONED GAS STATION - LATE AFTERNOON

Agent Hubbard pulls up and exits.  She sees the pay phone 
still dangling.  She returns the phone back on the receiver.  
Seconds pass.

RING...  She looks around.  The gas station office is 
completely empty.  Around is wide open desert.  RING...  She 
picks it up.

             CLOSSIN
	(O.S.)
      Are you alone?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Yes.

             CLOSSIN
	(O.S.)
      If I see any other cars or 
      choppers, you’ll never hear from me 
      again.

                                      68.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      What do you want?

             CLOSSIN
	(O.S.)
      Head directly east from the road.

It’s the desert.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      For how long?

CLICK.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE AFTERNOON

Agent Hubbard’s vehicle heads east.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S SEDAN - CONTINUOUS

She looks for any sign of Clossin, but there’s nothing.  Not 
even cacti.  Then in the distance, she sees a blurred speck.  
As she gets closer, it slowly comes into focus.  A car.  And 
Clossin’s behind it, gun aimed at her.

As her car closes in, Clossin raises his gun in the air.  
BLAM!  Agent Hubbard’s car comes to a halt.

             CLOSSIN
      Hands out the window!

Agent Hubbard obeys.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Open the door and get out.  Slowly.

Agent Hubbard exits her car, hands raised.  Gun on her, 
Clossin approaches and takes the gun from her holster.  He 
steps back and tosses it, as they stare each other down.  She 
notices Rolando sitting in the car.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Just thought you should know, I’m 
      recommending your termination to 
      the committee.

             CLOSSIN
      Was it something I said?

                                      69.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      That and the fact that you’re 
      wanted for murdering a federal 
      employee of the Department of 
      Homeland Security.

             CLOSSIN
      That was the boy.

Agent Hubbard glances at Rolando.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      We’re innocent in all this.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I don’t think that’ll be admissable 
      in court.

A large, manila envelope lands in front of Agent Hubbard.

             CLOSSIN
      But that might be.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      What is that?

             CLOSSIN
      Pieces to a puzzle you were trying 
      to solve.  A puzzle that’ll tell 
      you who’s really behind all this.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Why trust me?

             CLOSSIN
      You wanted me out of BP for years 
      because I wasn’t fit to serve.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      And that makes me trustworthy?

             CLOSSIN
      No, it makes you right.

Agent Hubbard doesn’t trust Clossin either but has to look 
into this.  Hands still up, she takes slow steps forward and 
picks up the envelope.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Inside, you’ll find the main 
      players involved.  But there are 
      probably others.  Local 
      authorities.  Government officials.  
      People in your department.

                                      70.

Clossin and Agent Hubbard look miniscule in the vast desert.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      So whatever you do, do it fast.  
      And be careful.

Gun on Agent Hubbard, Clossin backs his way toward his car 
and drives off.  Agent Hubbard stands alone in the desert 
with the envelope of evidence.

INT.  PUBLIC PARKING GARAGE - SUNSET

Clossin boosts a new SUV with Rolando nearby.

             ROLANDO
      You’re good at this.

             CLOSSIN
      Almost like a real Mexican.

EXT.  DESERT - SUNSET

Clossin’s SUV drives into the desert.  It finds a rocky, 
canyon where it’ll stay concealed.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Clossin reaches into a fast food bag and hands Rolando a 
burger.  Clossin takes a bite of his, as he unpackages a 
prepaid cellphone.

He then eyes the desert sunset.  It’s something he’s seen 
hundreds of times but never appreciated.  Rolando watches the 
sun about to disappear in the horizon, when he sees the 
birthday card in the duffel bag at his feet.

             ROLANDO
      Was that birthday card for your 
      son?

             CLOSSIN
      It’s his birthday tomorrow.

             ROLANDO
      I thought you said they were on 
      vacation.

Clossin could continue to lie to Rolando.  But he’s tired.

                                      71.

             CLOSSIN
      ... They left me.  Several years 
      ago.

             ROLANDO
      They found out you were a jerk?

A smile, as Clossin looks at the sunset.  The grin fades.

             CLOSSIN
      My wife said I hit my boy.

Rolando’s surprised by Clossin’s honesty.

             ROLANDO
      You don’t know if you did?

             CLOSSIN
      ... I don’t remember.  I was too 
      drunk.

             ROLANDO
      My father drank a lot after mom 
      died.  He wasn’t the same after 
      that.

Clossin can see Rolando’s been through something similar.

             ROLANDO
	(CONT’D)
      Why don’t you just visit him 
      instead of sending a card?

             CLOSSIN
      Because they don’t want to see me.

             ROLANDO
      You know where they live.  You can 
      go see them anytime.  Apologize--

             CLOSSIN
      Trust me, they don’t want that--

             ROLANDO
      How do you know, it’s been years--

             CLOSSIN
      Because they fucking said so.  Are 
      you going to just keep asking 
      stupid questions all night?

Clossin hangs his head.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      ... I’m sorry.

It’s probably the first time he’s said it in awhile.  Rolando 
silently accepts his apology.

                                      72.

             ROLANDO
      Your job was to keep people like me 
      out.

             CLOSSIN
      That’s right.

             ROLANDO
      Because it made you feel safer.

             CLOSSIN
      Something like that.

             ROLANDO
      I didn’t come up to hurt anybody.

             CLOSSIN
      Real bang up job on that.
        (takes bite of burger)
      Just goes to show you, people 
      always find a way.

             ROLANDO
      Not always.

Clossin’s learned this with Rolando and can’t refute it.

             ROLANDO
	(CONT’D)
      At least I hope my aunt doesn’t 
      feel that way.  I’m sure she has a 
      family of her own to worry about.  
      Another mouth to feed is the last 
      thing on her mind...

Rolando gazes at the sunset.

             ROLANDO
	(CONT’D)
      But I have to find out either way.

Clossin sees what lengths Rolando will go to see his family.  
Lengths he can’t take even though he can see his family 
anytime.

EXT.  DESERT - EVENING

A clear night with a full moon.

                                      73.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Rolando’s asleep in the back seat.  Clossin puts his jacket 
over him to keep him warm.

He looks out into the desert thinking of Rolando’s words.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Agent Hubbard sits at her desk going through Clossin’s 
photocopies of files.  She compares them with her own 
findings.  It checks out.

RING.  She answers her cellphone.

             CLOSSIN
	(O.S.)
      So what did you find?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Confirmation.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Clossin takes a relieved breath.

             CLOSSIN
      So now what?

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I need to round up several people.  
      People outside law enforcement that 
      can provide protection.  Then you 
      turn yourself in to me.  You go on 
      the record and testify.

             CLOSSIN
      I’ll give you whatever you need.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      These reports are good but they’re 
      not enough to take down everyone 
      involved.  You’ll have to explain 
      everything.  Including the reason 
      you were in the desert the night of 
      the massacre.

             CLOSSIN
      I know.

                                      74.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      It’ll cost your job.  Maybe more.

             CLOSSIN
      When do you think you can arrange 
      protection?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I’ll need the evening.

             CLOSSIN
      Do it soon.  I don’t think BP or 
      the police are going to try to 
      bring me in alive.

Clossin hangs up.  Rolando continues to sleep in the back.  
Clossin picks up his son’s birthday card sitting on the 
passenger seat.  He looks at the address on the envelope.

6394 S. Pulaski Rd. #6

Chicago, IL 60632

INT.  PUBLIC PARKING GARAGE - LATE EVENING

Hoyland, Tedesco, Villegas, other Border Patrol agents and 
local police stand by Clossin’s stolen sedan.

             LOCAL POLICE OFFICER
      A woman reported her SUV being 
      stolen on level three.

             HOYLAND
      We got security cameras?

             LOCAL POLICE OFFICER
      We’ve confirmed it’s your guy.  And 
      the Hispanic boy was with him as 
      well.

             HOYLAND
      Thank you.

The police officer returns to his partner who fills out a 
report.  Hoyland steps away with Tedesco and Villegas.

             TEDESCO
      They can be anywhere.

             VILLEGAS
      He has to be reaching out to 
      people.  He can’t get out of this 
      without help.

                                      75.

             HOYLAND
      I’ve talked to our friends in the 
      Task Force agency.  They got a 
      close eye on their agents.

             TEDESCO
      It’s only a matter of time before 
      he finds someone not on the 
      payroll.

             LOCAL POLICE OFFICER
	(O.S.)
      Agent Hoyland?

The local police officer walks over.

             LOCAL POLICE OFFICER
	(CONT’D)
      You should see this.

I/E.  POLICE CAR - LATE EVENING

The police computer inside the car displays surveillance 
footage at an intersection.  The stolen SUV is at the stop 
light.

             HOYLAND
      When was this?

             LOCAL POLICE OFFICER
      8:09 P.M.  Just a few miles from 
      here.

             HOYLAND
      When was the SUV stolen?

             LOCAL POLICE OFFICER
      Somewhere between two to four in 
      the afternoon.

             HOYLAND
      He’s been staying local.

EXT.  DESERT - SUNRISE

The sun just starts to peek over the horizon.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Clossin and Rolando are asleep.  CHUD, CHUD, CHUD...  A 
helicopter.

                                      76.

             CLOSSIN
      Wake up.

A groggy Rolando gets up.  Clossin cranes his neck to check 
the sky.  He doesn’t see anything, but the sound of the 
helicopter gets louder.  Clossin starts the engine.

CHUD, CHUD, CHUD...

INT.  BORDER PATROL BLACK HAWK - CONTINUOUS

Border Patrol pilots scan the desert for any sign of Clossin.  
They approach the rock formations.  And they see Clossin’s 
SUV.  It takes off.

             BLACK HAWK PILOT
      We got visual of an SUV heading 
      south, south east.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Clossin has his foot down completely on the gas.  The SUV 
approaches 70 mph on the ROCKY terrain.  BUMP.  Even with 
seat belts, Clossin and Rolando fly upward.

EXT.  DESERT - CONTINUOUS

Sun rising in the distance, Clossin’s SUV rumbles away, as 
the Black Hawk helicopter easily keeps up.

EXT.  DIRT ROAD - SUNRISE

Border Patrol SUVs, one driven by Villegas, take off into the 
desert to intercept Clossin.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - SUNRISE

Clossin’s SUV dusts along the rocky desert, when he notices 
several dust clouds ahead honing in from the side.  Multiple 
Border Patrol SUVs.  Clossin eyes tight rock formations not 
meant for vehicles.

             CLOSSIN
      Hold on.

The SUV takes a sharp turn into the narrow rock formation.  
Two of the three Border Patrol SUVs make it through with a 
few scrapes, while the third smashes into it.

                                      77.

Clossin’s SUV weaves through the narrow, rocky pass, barely 
making a scratch.  The Border Patrol SUVs aren’t so lucky, as 
they pinball side to side.

Ahead, the narrow path opens up to reveal a cliff with a 15 
foot drop.  Rolando sees it, and his eyes go wide.

Clossin skillfully negotiates the turn as the rear wheel 
barely holds onto the road.  The first Border Patrol SUV 
pursuing slams on the brakes, but it flies off and lands hard 
on the rocks.

The other Border Patrol SUV driven by Villegas makes it 
halfway through the turn until the rear wheels fly off the 
edge.  The SUV tips slowly back and forth, until it falls off 
the small cliff.

EXT.  DESERT - MORNING

Black Hawk still with him, Clossin’s SUV drives for the 
horizon.  The wheels run over buried sensors.

INT.  YUMA STATION CENTRAL COMMAND - CONTINUOUS

A BORDER PATROL AGENT checks a console that lights up.  
Monitors tracking remote cameras in the area pick up 
Clossin’s SUV. 

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
      He’s heading for the border.  About 
      two miles out.  Notifying Mexican 
      Border Patrol.

INT.  BORDER PATROL SUV - CONTINUOUS

In the desert, Tedesco drives while Hoyland makes sure his 
gun’s loaded.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - MORNING

Clossin races for the border, when more Border Patrol SUVs 
appear in pursuit.

The engine POPS and smoke appears.  He can’t even look out 
the windshield.  He sticks his head out the window.  He sees 
the familiar concrete wall separating the two countries he 
patrolled daily.

                                      78.

EXT.  MEXICAN HILLTOP - CONTINUOUS

Binocular view of the Border Patrol chase.  They lower to 
reveal an armed CARTEL SCOUT.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Clossin can’t put his foot down any harder on the gas.  The 
car’s losing speed.  Border Patrol SUVs hone in.  Clossin 
looks out the window to see better.  The concrete wall.

             CLOSSIN
      Shit!

Clossin veers left.  The front, right corner of the SUV 
sparks against the wall.  He races along it trying to get to 
the section of the wall that ends abruptly.

Ahead, Border Patrol SUVs race to cut him off at the same 
point.  He shakes the steering wheel.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Fucking move.

INT.  HOYLAND’S BORDER PATROL SUV - CONTINUOUS

Tedesco goes at full speed.  It’s clear they’ll intercept 
Clossin before he reaches the end of the wall.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

Rolando sees they’re not going to make it.

Just then, teenage Mexican boys appear with rocks.  The same 
ones that pelted Clossin on a daily basis.  Clossin braces 
himself.  The Mexican boys rear back and hurl the stones.  
Right at the Border Patrol SUVs.

I/E.  BORDER PATROL SUV - CONTINUOUS

Tedesco’s about to take out Clossin’s SUV.  A large rock 
SHATTERS his windshield.  Stunned, Tedesco loses control.

I/E.  CLOSSIN’S SEDAN - CONTINUOUS

Still racing forward, Clossin and Rolando brace themselves 
for Tedesco’s SUV.  It swerves away at the last second and 
hits the wall.

                                      79.

The end of the wall.  Clossin turns around it toward Mexico, 
when a Border Patrol SUV hits him from behind, making 
Clossin’s SUV fishtail.

Out of control, Clossin does enough to avoid a large tree.  
But the Border Patrol SUV doesn’t.

Clossin looks behind him to see they’re in the clear.  He 
turns his head back.  A Mexican Border Patrol sedan blocks 
their path.

Clossin steers quickly to avoid it only to drive into a 
small, stone house.

Air bags deployed, Clossin and Rolando are in a daze.

Mexican citizens approach the car, as Clossin tries to start 
the SUV to no avail.  He sees Mexican Border Patrol running 
toward them.  More SIRENS in the distance.

Clossin grabs his duffel bag.  He and Rolando emerge from the 
vehicle and head for the small village.  The Mexican Border 
Patrol agents chase after them, as more arrive.

EXT.  MEXICAN VILLAGE - MORNING

Clossin and Rolando run in between the small homes with the 
Mexican Border Patrol not far behind.

BLAM!  A bullet hits the side of a house.

Clossin stumbles.  Rolando helps him up.

They continue to run without looking back, when they 
encounter a large crowd, shopping at numerous street vendors.

             CLOSSIN
      Stay close!

Clossin and Rolando run through the crowd.  The crowd is 
thick at points, as Clossin hits his wounded shoulder against 
a person.  That’s when he notices Rolando is nowhere in 
sight.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Rolando!

Clossin backtracks.  Four Mexican males, who are CARTEL 
SCOUTS in their late teens and early 20s, have caught 
Rolando.  They are armed with submachine guns and ready to 
use them.

                                      80.

Mexican Border Patrol run up.  The cartel scouts aim their 
guns at them.  The Mexican Border Patrol freeze, as the 
cartel scouts back away with Rolando.

Outgunned and outnumbered, Clossin has to watch.

EXT.  MEXICAN BORDER TOWN - DAY

It’s another world.  Police rough up a man they pull from a 
car in broad daylight.  A male in his early 20s walks with a 
submachine gun and casually enters a van that drives off.

It’s a town run by the cartel, where no one’s safe.  Let 
alone an American Border Patrol agent wanted for murder.

A street vendor, selling cheap clothing by an alley, argues 
with customers over the price.  Head buried in his jacket, 
Clossin quickly walks by and takes a baseball cap and 
sunglasses.

Clossin puts them on immediately and briskly walks the 
streets with his head down.

A payphone.  Clossin dials a number.  RING... RING...  
Someone picks up on the other end.

             CLOSSIN
      I can’t talk for long.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(O.S.)
      Where are you?

             CLOSSIN
      Mexico.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S SEDAN - CONTINUOUS

Agent Hubbard pulls her car to the side.  That’s the worst 
news she could get.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I have my people ready, but I can’t 
      go into Mexico without 
      authorization from their government 
      and ours.  My cover will be blown 
      then.

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

Clossin’s mind is elsewhere.

                                      81.

             CLOSSIN
      ... I lost the boy.

Agent Hubbard doesn’t know what to say.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      We were running from the Mexican 
      Border Patrol, when some cartel 
      scouts picked him up.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      You have to find a way to get 
      across the border.  I can meet you 
      then and protect you--

             CLOSSIN
      I have to find him--

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      The cartel won’t hand him over.  
      He’s probably already dead--

             CLOSSIN
      Then I’ll bring his dead body back!

Clossin looks around to see if anyone noticed his raised 
voice.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      We can convict these guys on what 
      you found and your testimony.  But 
      if you go after this boy and don’t 
      make it...

Clossin hears her out.  She’s absolutely right.  He sees a 
Mexican police car turning the corner.

             CLOSSIN
      I’m going after Rolando.

As the Mexican police car approaches, Clossin hangs up.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I’m risking my life here, too!  
      Hello?  Hello?!

No one’s at the payphone, as the Mexican police car passes.

EXT.  PRODUCE TRUCK - DAY

Clossin approaches the driver.

                                      82.

             CLOSSIN
      I’m going to Los Olivos.

INT.  PRODUCE TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Clossin sits in the back of the decrepit pickup truck 
transporting fruit.  It’s a bumpy ride on a mostly dirt road.

He looks out into the Mexico landscape.  He sees the beauty 
in the mountains and hills.  A family just outside a village 
washes vegetables.  Two of the kids wave with smiles.  
Clossin waves back.

Clossin then sees a group of adults playing soccer on a dirt 
field.  It’s the worst field he’s ever seen, but these guys 
could care less, as friends and family cheer them on.

EXT.  STREET - DAY

The pickup has stopped, and Clossin hops off.  He asks for 
directions, and the driver points where to go.  Hand shake.

EXT.  HOMELESS TENT VILLAGE - DAY

Clossin stops at the sight before him.  There are about 
twenty tents just outside a downtown area.  All inhabited by 
children of all ages.  Not one adult is around.

Clossin walks amongst them.  The kids barely acknowledge him.  
He stops and crouches down to a young girl who plays with a 
dirty doll.

             CLOSSIN
      Excuse me.  Did you know a boy 
      named Rolando?  He used to live 
      here with his sister, Gabriela.

The girl continues to play with her doll.

             BOY
	(O.S.)
      She can’t hear you.

Clossin looks up to see a boy - 16 - before him.  He’s 
uneducated but smarter than most.  His name is SILVERIO.

             CLOSSIN
      Can you help me?  Did you know a 
      kid named Rolando?

Silverio doesn’t respond, not sure if he can trust Clossin.

                                      83.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      He’s in danger.  I’m trying to find 
      him.  He used to live here with his 
      sister, right?

Silverio nods.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      He left last week to go to America.  
      Where did he get his coyote?

Silverio doesn’t want to get involved.  Clossin reaches into 
his pocket and holds out a $50 bill.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      This is important.

EXT.  APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Clossin approaches the small two story building.  There’s a 
man in his early 20s outside, drinking beer.  A weapon 
clearly lies on a table and under his belt.  He’s a man that 
belongs to a cartel and goes by GIO.

Clossin walks up to him.  Some words are exchanged.  Gio 
shoves Clossin and pulls his gun.  Clossin immediately 
disarms him and puts a gun to his head.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Three cartel members sit at a table counting American money 
and placing them in individual envelopes.  Another checks the 
envelopes and nods.  He’s clearly the leader, by his actions 
and tattoos.  He goes by HUERTA.  KNOCK.

             HUERTA
      What?

             GIO
	(O.S.)
      It’s Gio.

Huerta gestures for one of his men to check it out.  He looks 
out the peephole to see Gio.  Alone. 

Huerta’s man opens the door, and it flies open knocking him 
over.  Clossin enters with Gio at gunpoint and kicks the door 
closed.

The cartel members rise and draw their guns, but one man 
doesn’t.  He doesn’t have to.  Huerta.

             HUERTA
      You okay there, Gio?

Gio tries to stay calm, as Clossin digs his gun into this 
temple.

                                      84.

             HUERTA
	(CONT’D)
      You know you’re standing next to a 
      celebrity.  Turn on the tv, read 
      the news, you’ll see his face.  
      Obviously, you don’t stay up to 
      date with current events.

             CLOSSIN
      I just want the boy.

             HUERTA
      The boy.

             CLOSSIN
      You had a boy mule a large payment 
      up north--

             HUERTA
      A payment that never got to its 
      destination.

             CLOSSIN
      It wasn’t his fault.

             HUERTA
      No.  According to BP, it’s yours.

             CLOSSIN
      You think if I stole from the 
      cartel, I’d be coming here asking 
      for him?

Huerta just eyes Clossin.

             HUERTA
      The last man who lost a major 
      shipment was cut up into pieces and 
      mailed to every known family 
      member.  What he lost was worth 
      half of what I sent up north.

Clossin sees Huerta is a man that fears nothing except his 
own guys.

             HUERTA
	(CONT’D)
      The only reason I’m still alive is 
      because I have friends high up.  

                                      85.

             HUERTA
	(CONT’D)
      And they bought me three days to 
      retrieve what was lost.  Two days 
      have gone by.  And yesterday I find 
      out I lost my best man.
        (leans forward)
      Yet you ask for my opinion on your 
      motive or lack thereof.  As if I 
      fucking care.

Huerta rises and walks toward Clossin.  Stare down.

             CLOSSIN
      I have the jadeites.

             HUERTA
      So you want the boy in exchange.  
      Is that it?  You think that’s how 
      it works down here?

             CLOSSIN
      I had nothing to do with what 
      happened in the desert--

Huerta suddenly raises his gun and shoots Gio in the head.  
Blood spurts onto a stunned Clossin.  He tries to shoot 
Huerta, but the other cartel members disarm and beat Clossin.

Huerta goes back to his seat and sips his beer.  The cartel 
members frisk Clossin before dragging him over on his knees.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I can get you names.  Tell you 
      exactly who stole from you.

             HUERTA
      We can get them ourselves.

             CLOSSIN
      The boy’s innocent in all this.  
      Just let him go.

             HUERTA
      You think I have that authority?  
      I’m one of thousands.  I don’t even 
      know who I work for half the time.  
      I’m replaceable.  Just like Gio.  
      Unless I retrieve the jadeites.

Clossin knows this information is the only thing that will 
keep him alive.

             HUERTA
	(CONT’D)
      Tell me where they are.

                                      86.

             CLOSSIN
      ... No.

Huerta nods at his men.  One man grabs Clossin’s hand and 
holds it out.  The other pulls out a knife.  And digs the tip 
completely underneath the thumbnail.  He lifts it up quickly.

SCREAM.  The tip of the blade lowers onto the flesh that held 
the thumbnail.  The pain is unbearable.

             HUERTA
      Are you going to tell me?

             CLOSSIN
      ... No.

The knife presses the down on the flesh.  Fresh blood.

             HUERTA
      Where are they?

             CLOSSIN
      Fuck you.

Huerta nods at his men.  They extend Clossin’s index finger.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      No!

The blade slides underneath the index fingernail.

             MALE
	(O.S.)
      What the fuck is going on here?

Huerta and his men turn.  It’s the gang member Clossin helped 
return to Mexico in exchange for information.  Florido.

             FLORIDO
      What the fuck is this?

             HUERTA
      He says he has the jadeites but 
      won’t tell us where it is.

Florido walks up to Clossin.  Recognition.

             FLORIDO
        (in English)
      Why are you here, boss?

             CLOSSIN
        (in English)
      I’m here for the boy.  I’ll give 
      you the jadeites in exchange--

Huerta punches Clossin across the face.

                                      87.

             HUERTA
      This is the bastard who stole from 
      us in the first place.  He thinks 
      he can just walk in here and make 
      demands--

             CLOSSIN
        (to Florido in English)
      I didn’t steal anything.  That’s 
      why I asked you those questions.  
      It was others in BP.  The guys who 
      got stiffed on the last shipment--

             HUERTA
        (punching Clossin)
      Shut the fuck up!

Florido eyes Clossin.  What he said does track but he’s got 
his own loyalties to the cartel.  He needs a tie breaker.  
Gio’s dead body.

             FLORIDO
      Did he kill my homie?

             HUERTA
      No.  I did.  The fucker was 
      useless, let the son of a bitch in--

Florido pulls his gun and shoots Huerta down.  He then looks 
over at Clossin.

             FLORIDO
      Where are they?

EXT.  WOODED AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

Florido and other cartel members stand guard, as Clossin digs 
up his duffel bag.  He pulls out the tied sock and hands it 
to Florido who opens it up.  Jadeites fall into his palm.

             FLORIDO
      Stay here.  In ten minutes, a car 
      will drop off the boy.

Florido starts to walk away with the other cartel members.

             CLOSSIN
      How do I know I have your word?

                                      88.

             FLORIDO
      You don’t.  But what choice you 
      got?

Clossin’s words to him before.  A smile.  Florido and his men 
walk away.  Clossin stands alone in the woods.

EXT.  WOODED AREA - LATER

Clossin impatiently checks his watch.  He’s been lied to.  
Then he hears someone approaching.  He readies himself in 
case it’s not Rolando.  But it is.  Rolando sees Clossin and 
runs up to him.  An embrace.

             CLOSSIN
      You okay?

Rolando nods.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      We have to go.

             ROLANDO
      Where?

             CLOSSIN
      North.

EXT.  YUMA STATION PARKING LOT - AFTERNOON

Hoyland walks with other SENIOR BORDER PATROL AGENTS to his 
SUV.

             HOYLAND
      Until we have authorization to 
      enter Mexico, I want every man 
      possible on that border.  Clossin 
      knows our routes and sensor layout, 
      so we need people covering the 
      areas that are light on patrol.

EXT.  AMERICAN/MEXICAN BORDER - AFTERNOON

Border Patrol SUVs patrol the border.  Agents on ATVs also 
roam the desert, while others are on horseback through the 
rockier terrain.

EXT.  MEXICAN TOWN - LATE AFTERNOON

In an alley, Clossin’s on a prepaid cellphone.

                                      89.

             CLOSSIN
      I got the boy.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S SUV - CONTINUOUS

A relieved Agent Hubbard sits with two other men in plain 
clothes, one of them driving.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Where are you?

             CLOSSIN
	(O.S.)
      Las Flores.

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m heading up north tonight.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      There’s an abandoned Border Patrol 
      station several miles northwest of 
      the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife 
      Refuge.

             CLOSSIN
      I know where it is.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      My agents and I will be there 
      throughout the night.  Once you 
      know where you’ll be crossing, you 
      call me, and we’ll come get you.

             CLOSSIN
      How hot is it on the border?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      They’re monitoring every possible 
      inch.

             CLOSSIN
      I’ll call you tonight.

Clossin hangs up.

EXT.  MEXICO HILLSIDE - SUNSET

A border town in Mexico.  Specifically:

SUPER:

                                      90.

Altar, Mexico

50 miles from the U.S. border

Small, decrepit houses pepper a hillside much like the 
Hollywood Hills.  Just poorer.  Two Mexican men play cards on 
a cheap table underneath a mesquite tree.

A small, makeshift storefront sells bottles of water, alcohol 
wipes, cheap sneakers and caffeine pills to potential 
migrants.

A concealed Clossin and Rolando approach a man standing on a 
corner, a COYOTE.

             ROLANDO
     We’re looking for a ride north.

The coyote eyes Clossin.  He doesn’t recognize him but sees 
he’s white.  And that’s enough.  He looks back at Rolando.

             COYOTE
     Two thousand for you.

             ROLANDO
     What about him?

The coyote shakes his head.

             CLOSSIN
     I’ve got cash.  American.

             COYOTE
     How much?

Clossin reveals a wad of cash.  The coyote inspects it before 
looking up at Clossin.

EXT.  ALTAR MIGRANT SHELTER - EVENING

The sun has gone down completely.

Migrants enter the back of a worn out van and fill up three, 
narrow, vertical rows of seats.  One on each side of the van, 
and one in the middle.

Rolando and Clossin are the last ones to enter.  The migrants 
eye Clossin with suspicion.  The van doors close, and it 
drives off.

                                      91.

EXT.  MEXICAN DIRT ROAD - EVENING

The van drives down the unlit, dirt road.  The headlights 
illuminate the dust cloud obscuring the van’s wheels.

EXT.  MEXICAN CHECKPOINT - EVENING

Still miles away from the border, the migrant van pulls up to 
a cheap, wooden booth you see at old, parking garages.

I/E.  VAN - CONTINUOUS

The driver hands over an envelope of necessary documents.  
The Mexican checkpoint officer opens the envelope to find a 
wad of cash.  Clossin and Rolando eye the transaction.  The 
checkpoint officer waves the van through.

EXT.  MEXICAN DESERT - EVENING

Desolate and totally pitch black.  In the distance, the van 
only distinguished by its headlights drives by.

INT.  VAN - CONTINUOUS

The driver shuts off his lights.

             DRIVER
      Another mile before we hit the 
      border and the sensors.  We go on 
      foot from there.

Clossin grabs his duffel bag, as Rolando and the migrants 
ready their belongings.

EXT.  DESERT - EVENING

The van comes to a stop.  The driver opens the rear doors.  
Clossin and the migrants filter out.  Rolando struggles with 
two large containers of water.

             CLOSSIN
      Leave it, we’re only going to the 
      border.

Rolando drops the water, when an argument distracts them.  
It’s the driver and a female migrant.

             FEMALE MIGRANT
      We paid in full already!

                                      92.

             DRIVER
      That was just payment to the 
      border.  You want to go any further 
      it’s another thousand.

             FEMALE MIGRANT
      That wasn’t the deal.

             DRIVER
      It is now.

Clossin approaches.

             CLOSSIN
      What’s the problem?

             DRIVER
      Border Patrol’s increased their 
      numbers recently.  The price has 
      gone up.

             MALE MIGRANT #1
      We don’t have that kind of money.

             MALE MIGRANT #2
      You know how long it took to come 
      up with that much?!

Male Migrant #2 grabs the driver angrily.  The driver pulls a 
gun, forcing everyone to back off.  Clossin stays back with 
Rolando.

             DRIVER
      Anyone have the money to go 
      further?

No one does.  Gun on the migrants, the driver enters the van 
and drives off.  Some of the migrants slap the van and run 
after it.

Other migrants look off at the dark American desert that goes 
on forever.  Some cry in despair.  Clossin sympathizes but 
he’s got his own problems.

             CLOSSIN
      Let’s go.

             ROLANDO
      What about them?  They have no shot 
      out there by themselves.

                                      93.

             CLOSSIN
      We’ve got everybody looking for us.  
      We take them along, and we’re 
      asking to be caught. 

             ROLANDO
      There are bandits and militia out 
      there.  Many have been killed--

             CLOSSIN
      It’s not my problem or yours.

The migrants start to walk off to America.  Clossin pulls his 
cellphone to call Agent Hubbard.  He then sees a migrant 
woman with her 7-year-old daughter.  The daughter looks back 
at Clossin.  He thinks of the Shirley Temple girl.

Clossin holds the cellphone to his ear.  RING.  Agent Hubbard 
picks up.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I’m about to cross.

INT.  AGENT HUBBARD’S BORDER PATROL SUV - CONTINUOUS

Agent Hubbard sits in the parked SUV with the other men.  
Just outside is the abandoned Border Patrol station.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Where?

INTERCUT PHONE CONVERSATION:

             CLOSSIN
      About eight miles west from where 
      Carretera Federal 2 meets the 
      border.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I’ll be there in thirty minutes.

Clossin eyes the young girl heading for America with her 
mother.

             CLOSSIN
      Don’t bother.


             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
	What?
      I’ll meet you at the abandoned 
      station.

                                      94.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      What’s going on?

             CLOSSIN
      Something I don’t fucking 
      understand.

He hangs up.  Agent Hubbard’s beyond frustrated.

Migrants head off, when Clossin walks to the front of the 
group.  The migrant leading the way stops and eyes him.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      There are sensors all over that 
      sector.  You want to go west for a 
      mile then head up north.  It’ll 
      take longer, but you’ll avoid the 
      UGS.

The male migrant can tell Clossin’s sincere.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      I can take you past the sensors, 
      then you’re on your own.

The migrant looks at the others.  What choice do they have?   
A nod.  Clossin looks back at the group and at Rolando.  Then 
LEADS them.

EXT.  AMERICAN/MEXICAN BORDER - LATE EVENING

A sign that’s written in Spanish and English:

      BOUNDARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION

A barbed wire fence separates the two countries.

             CLOSSIN
     Who has the cutters?

A woman steps up with them in hand.  Clossin cuts an opening.  
A glow just over the hill to the left.  From headlights.  
Clossin hangs back and gets low to the ground.  He gestures 
the others to do the same.

A Border Patrol SUV drives past.  Several migrants get up.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
     No, wait.

                                      95.

The migrants freeze.  Seconds pass, when the Border Patrol 
SUV returns with a spotlight on the fence.  The light hovers 
over their heads, as the migrants take cover in the tall, 
dead grass.  Clossin and the others hold their breath.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Just give it a few seconds.

They do.  The spotlight turns off.  The Border Patrol leaves.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Now.

Clossin helps the others open the breach and assists them 
through.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Go.  We have a few minutes before 
      the next patrol.

The migrants rush through, as Rolando brings up the rear.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE EVENING

Clossin leads the migrants through the dark desert.  A woman 
falls.  Others help her up.  Clossin checks on her.

             CLOSSIN
      Do you have any water?

She shakes her head.  Clossin gestures Rolando for some water 
which he provides.  She drinks.  It’s almost empty.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Where’s the rest?

             ROLANDO
      You told me to leave it.

             CLOSSIN
      Who needs water?

More than half the migrants raise their hands.

EXT.  DESERT - LATER

Clossin leads the migrants to a blue tarp surrounded by 
desert shrubs.  He lifts it up to reveal plastic, gallon 
containers of water.  All punctured.

Clossin lifts one of the punctured containers.  Water drips 
from it.  This was done recently.

                                      96.

             CLOSSIN
      Everyone stay close and be quiet.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE EVENING

Clossin leads the migrants to a new location with another 
tarp.  Several of the migrants are hurting.  Clossin lifts up 
the tarp.  The full water containers haven’t been touched.

             CLOSSIN
      Quickly, we have to keep moving--

A bat hits Clossin in the gut.  Clossin falls.  Migrants run, 
as men emerge from the darkness, tackling a few to the 
ground.  They’re dressed like fanatic paintballers, but 
they’re armed with real guns.  They’re militia MINUTEMEN.

MINUTEMAN #1 kicks at the woman with the young daughter.  
She’s covering up her child, as a boot strikes her side.  
Rolando comes to her aide only to be BACKHANDED.

Concealed in shadows, Clossin gets up and disarms MINUTEMAN 
#2.  He takes Minuteman #2’s gun and presses it against his 
head.  Gun cock.  The attackers turn.

             MINUTEMAN #1
      Drop the fucking gun, carnie.

             CLOSSIN
        (still in shadow)
      I ain’t a fucking carnie.

A flashlight shines on Clossin’s face.

             MINUTEMAN #1
      It’s that guy.

             CLOSSIN
      I think you all better move along.  
      Head back home.

             MINUTEMAN #1
      Or what?  You’re going to shoot 
      him?

             CLOSSIN
      You’ve seen the news.  You think 
      I’m going to think twice about 
      shooting a Monday morning vigilante 
      quarterback?

             MINUTEMAN #1
      Fuck this.

Minuteman #1 raises his gun.  Clossin immediately fires his 
gun past Minuteman #2’s ear, deafening him.

                                      97.

             MINUTEMAN #2
      Fuck!

Clossin eyes Minuteman #1.  Don’t try me.

             MINUTEMAN #2
	(CONT’D)
      You all just going to stand there?!  
      What the fuck!

             MINUTEMAN #1
      Shut the fuck up!

Minuteman #1 and Clossin stare each other down.

             CLOSSIN
      I’ll let your man go, when we’re 
      away from here.  You follow us, 
      I’ll have better aim.

             MINUTEMAN #1
      ... Let’s go.

Minuteman #1 walks away with others.  Gun still on Minuteman 
#2, Clossin looks to the other migrants who cower on the 
ground.

             CLOSSIN
      Get your water.  Those guys are 
      going to call the Border Patrol.

The migrants grab whatever water containers they can.  
Clossin looks over at Rolando who helps the migrant mother 
and daughter up.

EXT.  DESERT MOUNTAINS - LATE EVENING

Clossin stops on a hilltop overlooking the desert.  He sees 
the abandoned Border Patrol checkpoint.  He leans in to 
Minuteman #2 who’s now blindfolded.

             CLOSSIN
      You run in the direction I send 
      you.  You look back, I shoot you.  
      Understand?

             MINUTEMAN #2
      Yeah.

Clossin shoves him away, and he runs off.  Clossin eyes the 
migrants.

                                      98.

             CLOSSIN
      This is our stop.  You’ll want to 
      keep heading east.  Go through 
      those hills.  They’re dangerous, 
      but Border Patrol can’t get up 
      there even on horses.

             MALE MIGRANT 
      Thank you.

He shakes Clossin’s hand and gestures to the others.  They 
head off.  Each one nods at Clossin, as they pass.  They 
wouldn’t have made it this far without him.

Rolando walks up to Clossin.  They look at the abandoned 
Border Patrol station in the distance.  CHUD... CHUD... 
CHUD... the familiar sound of the BP Black Hawk.  Clossin 
checks his cellphone.  He has NO SIGNAL.

EXT.  ABANDONED BORDER PATROL STATION - LATE EVENING

Clossin and Rolando quietly approach.  He tries a door, but 
it’s chained.  Clossin moves around the building to the next 
door.  It opens.

EXT.  DESERT - LATE EVENING

Border Patrol agents on horseback talk with Minuteman #2.  He 
points in the direction of the abandoned Border Patrol 
station.

INT.  ABANDONED BORDER PATROL STATION - CONTINUOUS

Clossin and Rolando enter, as their steps echo throughout the 
space.  Clossin turns on a flashlight.  The place is half-
filled with office furniture in random placement.

             CLOSSIN
      She said she’d be here.

The Black Hawk rumbling gets louder.  Clossin checks his 
phone.  Still no signal.  Footsteps.  Clossin gestures 
Rolando to hide under a desk.

Clossin crouches beside an open doorway.  Someone approaches.  
Clossin grabs the man and slams him against the wall, gun at 
his head.

             MALE
	(O.S.)
      Don’t shoot.

             CLOSSIN
      Who are you?

Flashlights beam on them.  Agent Hubbard steps forward with 
another man, guns on Clossin.  She relaxes.

                                      99.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Who is this?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Your protection.

             CLOSSIN
      You trust them?

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      They’re my brothers.

Clossin lowers his gun.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      Border Patrol’s swarming this area.  
      We have to go now.

Just then HEADLIGHTS flash against their face.  Multiple 
ones.

EXT.  ABANDONED BORDER PATROL STATION - CONTINUOUS

Border Patrol vehicles arrive and agents exit with weapons 
aimed at the entrances.  Hoyland exits one vehicle with 
Tedesco and Villegas, as more vehicles arrive.

             HOYLAND
      I want agents at every exit.  I’m 
      taking a small team inside.  I 
      don’t want anyone else coming in 
      until I give the go ahead.

Hoyland looks at his men which total five.  Men that are in 
on the scheme.

INT.  ABANDONED BORDER PATROL STATION - CONTINUOUS

Clossin looks at Agent Hubbard.  It’s too late.

             CLOSSIN
      We have to go out there.


                                     100.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
	What?
      Not every agent outside is on 
      Hoyland’s payroll.  You handcuff me 
      and the boy and take us out at 
      gunpoint.  You tell them you 
      apprehended us, it’s the only way--

BANG!  BANG!  The chained doors are SMASHED open.  Agents 
cautiously enter.  Then Hoyland.  Clossin and the others duck 
down.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      We have to find a way out.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      We’ll split up.  I’ll stay with 
      Clossin and the boy.  You find 
      anything, text it to me.

Staying low, Agent Hubbard’s brothers scurry off, while 
Clossin, Rolando and Agent Hubbard head toward the back.

INT.  ABANDONED STATION BACK ENTRANCE - LATE EVENING

Clossin sees the back door.  He tries to open it but it’s 
locked.  He pulls out his gun.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      They’ll hear us.

             CLOSSIN
      It’s the only way out.

Clossin shoots at the lock.

EXT.  ABANDONED STATION BACK ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

Border Patrol agents guarding the door react to the gun shots 
and fire back.

INT.  ABANDONED STATION BACK ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

Clossin and the others duck down, as bullets zing by.

INT.  ABANDONED BORDER PATROL STATION - CONTINUOUS

Hoyland points at Tedesco and Villegas to go right.  Hoyland 
takes the other two agents to the left to flank Clossin.

                                     101.

INT.  ABANDONED STATION BACK ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

On the floor, Clossin covers Rolando as bullets fly over 
them.  They scamper along the floor until they turn a corner.  
Clossin helps Rolando to his feet to run, when Tedesco and 
Villegas appear.

BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  Gunfire.

Clossin and Agent Hubbard fire away and fatally hit Villegas 
in the neck.  Tedesco fires away with a submachine gun and 
GUNS DOWN Agent Hubbard.

Clossin grabs Rolando and pushes through a nearby door.

Hoyland and the other agents catch up to Tedesco.

             TEDESCO
      They went in there.

INT.  ABANDONED CHECKPOINT GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

It’s a large garage that holds about thirty outdated and 
damaged Border Patrol vehicles.  Clossin and Rolando hide 
behind an SUV.  He checks his gun and sees he’s only got two 
bullets left.

Hoyland and his men peek into the doorway.  He tries a light 
switch.  Nothing.

He gestures for them to split up.  Tedesco takes the left.  
The other two agents go up the middle separately, and Hoyland 
splits right.

Clossin and Rolando continue to sneak from vehicle to 
vehicle, as they look for a way out.

One agent sees them and fires.  BLAM!  The bullet shatters 
the window to a Border Patrol SUV.  Clossin takes Rolando and 
hurries behind another SUV.  The Task Force agent unloads.

Clossin waits for a pause in the gunfire.  He rises and fires 
his final two bullets.  Both tag the agent, and he goes down.

Clossin tosses the empty gun and moves Rolando behind another 
vehicle.

Hoyland, Tedesco and the other agent move in and find the 
dead agent.  Tedesco then nods at something.  Clossin’s gun.  
He’s unarmed.  Hoyland picks up the agent’s submachine gun.

Clossin and Rolando find themselves in a corner.  With no 
door.  Rolando sees the pursuer’s shadows closing in.

                                     102.

Clossin then notices something in one of the Border Patrol 
SUVs.  A standard issue Border Patrol UMP submachine gun.  
Clossin tries to open the door but it’s locked.  He elbows 
the window.

Tedesco hears it and starts to run toward them.

             ROLANDO
      He’s coming!

Clossin grabs the gun in time.  Tedesco thought he was 
unarmed.  Clossin pulls the trigger.  BLAM!  Tedesco goes 
down.  The other agent appears just around the SUV.  Clossin 
shoots again.  BLAM!  The other agent falls back, dead.

From behind, Hoyland grabs Rolando and puts a gun to his 
head.

             HOYLAND
      Put the gun down, Cade.

Clossin keeps his gun on Hoyland.

             CLOSSIN
      Why?  You’re going to kill us 
      either way.

             HOYLAND
      What are you going to do?  Shoot 
      me?  Then what?

Scuffling.  It’s Agent Hubbard, shot and weakened.  She’s 
held up by her brothers who have their guns on Hoyland.

             CLOSSIN
      It’s over, Hoyland.

Hoyland knows it’s true but won’t lower his gun.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      You can’t cover this up.

             HOYLAND
      I’ve been covering your ass for 
      years, and this is how you repay 
      me.

             CLOSSIN
      I’m a fucking joke, remember?

             HOYLAND
      Yeah... a real fuck up...

             CLOSSIN
      Let the kid go.

Clossin spots Hoyland’s finger actually pressing against the 
trigger.

                                     103.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Let him go, Hoyland!

             HOYLAND
      What else do I got?!

             CLOSSIN
      Down, Rolando!

Hoyland’s finger’s about to pull the trigger.  Clossin aims 
high and fires three bullets.  They each hit Hoyland in the 
chest, and he falls backward.

Rolando runs off to Agent Hubbard and her brothers.  Clossin 
walks up to Hoyland and kicks away his gun.  He had a 
bulletproof vest on, and Clossin purposely aimed for it and 
not the head.  He wants him alive.

EXT.  ABANDONED BORDER PATROL STATION - SUNRISE

Border Patrol agents have their guns ready on the main door.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(O.S.)
      This is agent Jami Hubbard with the 
      Border Corruption Task Force.  I’m 
      coming out with Cade Clossin and 
      Patrick Hoyland.  Do not fire.

The agents look at each other, as they keep their weapons 
ready.  The door opens.  Weapons holstered, Agent Hubbard’s 
brother leads a handcuffed Clossin and Hoyland outside.  
Agent Hubbard’s other brother helps her out with Rolando.

The agents observe in confusion.  Hoyland?  Clossin eyes the 
agents staring back.  He looks at them with conviction, 
without fear.  He then looks at Rolando.  It’s over.

INT.  YUMA STATION INTERROGATION ROOM - MORNING

Arm in a sling, Agent Hubbard sits with a handcuffed Clossin, 
as he talks to senior Border Patrol and Task Force agents.  
Agent Hubbard shows them case files that Clossin uncovered.

In a neighboring interrogation room, Rolando speaks to 
another set of agents.  Their side of the story is being 
heard.

                                     104.

INT.  HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

With an armed Border Corruption Task Force agent keeping 
watch, Hoyland recovers from his wounds.  His wife is beside 
him, holding his hand.

Just then senior Border Corruption Task Force agents enter.  
The look on their faces say it all.  Hoyland’s done.

Series of arrests:

-- Two local Yuma policemen are rounded up and escorted from 
their station.

-- A Border Patrol agent is arrested from the locker room, 
while changing into his uniform.

-- And lastly, unrelated to the gun running scheme, the human 
smugglers Clossin worked with are raided and arrested from 
their truck garage.  Children who were about to be trafficked 
quietly watch.

INT.  HOTEL HALLWAY - EVENING

An armed guard stands outside the door.  Agent Hubbard 
escorts Clossin to the room.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - EVENING

Clossin and Agent Hubbard enter to see Rolando, lying on the 
bed watching television.  He gets up and runs to Clossin.  
Embrace.  Agent Hubbard quietly watches.

Clossin glances at the TV.  It’s the national news, and a 
SENIOR BORDER PATROL agent is talking to reporters.

             SENIOR BORDER PATROL AGENT
      Once the facts come out as we get 
      closer to trial, people will find 
      that Cade Clossin was not only 
      innocent throughout all this, but 
      he was also the man who brought 
      those who were guilty to justice...

Clossin can only feel vindication.

INT.  YUMA STATION LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Clossin is in plain clothes.  He cleans out his locker and 
places items in a cardboard box.  He looks at his uniform 
hanging in the locker and the Border Patrol badge on it.

                                     105.

He leaves it in there.  The locker closes.

INT.  YUMA STATION HALLWAY - DAY

Clossin walks down the hallway one last time.  A Border 
Patrol agents stops.

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
      Hey, good luck to you.

             CLOSSIN
        (handshake)
      Thanks.

             FEMALE
	(O.S.)
      Clossin...

Clossin turns.  It’s Agent Hubbard with her signature limp, 
arm still in a sling but her other wounds have healed.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      Got a second?

INT.  YUMA STATION OFFICE - DAY

Clossin and Agent Hubbard enter.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I heard you returned to counseling.

             CLOSSIN
      I did.  Still don’t think it’ll 
      work.

Agent Hubbard smiles.  Some things don’t change.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      I’m going to do my best to help you 
      avoid jail time for the 
      trafficking.

             CLOSSIN
      I appreciate it, but a part of me 
      doesn’t want you to.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      You’ll be glad to know we saved a 
      number of children in the arrest.

Clossin nods.  It still doesn’t make up for the ones that 
were lost due to him.

                                     106.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
	(CONT’D)
      I’ll let you know when the trial 
      dates are set.  Until then, I don’t 
      recommend you going on any trips.

             CLOSSIN
      Where would I go?

Clossin shows the GPS ankle bracelet he has on.

             AGENT JAMI HUBBARD
      We contacted Rolando’s extended 
      family.  They’re on their way.  
      Considering the circumstances, 
      we’re going to expedite the process 
      so he can get asylum.

Clossin nods, happy to hear the news.

             CLOSSIN
      Where is he?

INT.  YUMA STATION DETENTION AREA - DAY

Carrying his box, Clossin enters.  He glances at the migrants 
locked up and sees them differently now.

Rolando sits in a waiting area by himself.  Clossin enters 
and sits next to him.  Rolando hands him a brown, grocery 
bag.  Clossin reaches inside and pulls out his son’s shirt 
that Rolando wore.  Washed and neatly folded.

             CLOSSIN
      You sure you don’t want it?

             ROLANDO
      It’s not mine.

Clossin returns the shirt to the bag.

             CLOSSIN
      So this is it.  The reason you came 
      all the way up here.

Rolando’s clearly nervous.

             ROLANDO
      What if my aunt doesn’t want me?

             CLOSSIN
      You won’t be sent back to Mexico.

                                     107.

His aunt is all the family he’s got left.  A BORDER PATROL 
AGENT enters.

             BORDER PATROL AGENT
      Your family’s here.

A nervous Rolando nods.  Clossin gets up.

             ROLANDO
      Can you stay?

             CLOSSIN
      ... Sure.

Clossin sits back down.  Seconds pass.  Then the door opens.  
Rolando’s AUNT appears.  As soon as she sees Rolando, she 
hurries to him with open arms.  Embrace.  Her husband and two 
children enter and observe.  Along with Clossin.

             ROLANDO’S AUNT
      You look just like your mother.

She kisses him.  Rolando cries.

             ROLANDO’S AUNT
	(CONT’D)
      Meet your uncle and cousins.

She gestures over her husband and children.  Picking up his 
box, Clossin quietly gets up and walks to the door.  He looks 
back at Rolando fully engrossed with his family.  His dream 
came true.

INT.  YUMA STATION HALLWAY - DAY

Carrying his box, Clossin walks down the hallway, thinking of 
Rolando.  He may never see him again.

             ROLANDO
	(O.S.)
      Senor Clossin...

Clossin turns to see Rolando walking up to him.  He hands him 
an envelope.

Clossin opens it.  It’s the photo of Rolando and his sister.  
He knows how much it means to Rolando and tries to hand it 
back.

             CLOSSIN
      I can’t...

             ROLANDO
      It’s just a loan.  Until your kids 
      come back from vacation.

Clossin’s touched and almost gets away without showing it.

                                     108.

             CLOSSIN
      That may be awhile.

             ROLANDO
      Maybe not.

             CLOSSIN
      ... Thank you.

             ROLANDO
      Will you stay in touch?

             CLOSSIN
      Probably not.

They share a smile.  Rolando’s grin fades.

             ROLANDO
        (in English)
      Good bye.

Rolando tears up.  Clossin’s able to hold his back.  Barely.

             CLOSSIN
      You’ll need to learn more English 
      than that.

The smiles return.

             CLOSSIN
	(CONT’D)
      Get back in there.  You’ll see me 
      again.

Rolando slowly turns and walks back to his family.  He looks 
back at Clossin one last time before disappearing into the 
room.  Clossin stands alone in the hallway.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S CAR - DAY

Sitting in the Yuma Station parking lot, Clossin enters and 
sits quietly.  He looks inside the box.  There’s the birthday 
card for his son.  He eyes the address on the envelope.

INT.  CLOSSIN’S SECOND BEDROOM - EVENING

His son’s dresser opens.  He returns the folded t-shirt and 
pants.  He then places the shoes in the closet.  He eyes his 
children’s clothing.  And it hits him.  Everything he’s been 
in denial about.  Everything he’s rationalized.

                                     109.

INT.  BEDROOM - EVENING

The digital clock reads 11:52 P.M.  Clossin lies in bed with 
his eyes open, gazing at his smoke alarm battery light once 
again.  On.  Off.  On.  Off.

He looks at the photo of Rolando and Gabriela.  He came all 
this way not to see his family.  But to be with them.

Clossin suddenly rises.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - EVENING

Clossin’s sedan drives past.

             CLOSSIN
	(V.O.)
      My son was born on a Thursday and 
      was named after his grandfather, 
      Kent...

His car takes the exit for Phoenix Sky Harbor International 
Airport.

INT.  AIRPLANE - MORNING

Head propped on an airline pillow, Clossin watches the 
sunrise in the horizon.

             CLOSSIN
	(V.O.)
      ... He’d seen me hit his mother 
      several times.  Most of the time, 
      he’d hide in his room.  But on 
      another Thursday, he’d seen 
      enough...

I/E.  O’HARE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - MORNING

Clossin exits the gate with his duffel bag.

             CLOSSIN
	(V.O.)
      ... Kent tried to protect his 
      mother.  He punched his own father.  
      Even got in front of his mom, 
      hoping his father wouldn’t hit him.  
      He was wrong...

Clossin stands outside, as a cab pulls up.

                                     110.

EXT.  CHICAGO RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

A taxi stops before a brick apartment building that has only 
six units.  Clossin exits.

INT.  CHICAGO APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Clossin enters the foyer.  He checks the unit number on the 
birthday card envelope.  The last name matches that on the 
respective buzzer.

             CLOSSIN
	(V.O.)
      ... For three years, his mother 
      would explain to him that his 
      father didn’t know what he was 
      doing.  That he was drunk.  That he 
      couldn’t even remember that 
      night...

Clossin takes a breath.  He raises his finger to press the 
buzzer.  It pauses just an inch away.  Press.

He waits for any kind of response.  Nothing.  Figures.  He 
turns to leave, when--

BUZZ!

Clossin stares at the door that will now open if he pulls.  
The continuous BUZZ keeps going.  Clossin feels all kinds of 
emotions.  Nerves.  Fear.  Excitement.  Doubt.

             CLOSSIN
	(V.O.)
      ... But the truth was...

His hand reaches for the door.

BLACK.

             CLOSSIN
	(V.O.)
      ... He remembered it all.

The BUZZ stops.

                             FADE TO BLACK:

