      The Shark Is Not Working

       The story of the making of "Jaws"

               Written by

             Richard Cordiner

Aaron Kaplan & Sean Perrone
Kaplan/Perrone Entertainment
310-273-8106

Verve
310-558-2424

LEGAL NOTICE

Although the following story dramatizes events surrounding 
the making of Steven Spielberg’s “Jaws”, in all scenes 
depicting the production of the film, crew members and 
equipment will be visible at all times.

No scenes from the film will be duplicated, and no lines of 
dialogue from the “Jaws” screenplay will be spoken. 

THANK YOU

"When I think of Jaws I think of courage and stupidity. And I 
think of both of those things existing underwater."

- Steven Spielberg

EXT. SANTA MONICA MOUNTAINS - DAY

Barren, sun-baked slopes rising above Los Angeles.

Perched atop Mount Lee, gleaming white letters on a scorched 
earth background shimmer in the hazy heat.

The Hollywood sign. Magnificent, full of promise.

SUPER: 1964

EXT. NORTH BEACHWOOD DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

A rattletrap Cadillac Series 62 convertible, all rust patches 
and dents, cruises down the long road.

INT. CADILLAC - CONTINUOUS

Behind the wheel, a TEENAGE KID nattily attired in blue 
sports coat, black pants, scarf. He stares at the Hollywood 
sign in the distance as if taking in a deity.

STEVE SPIELBERG, aged 16 years.

EXT. LANKERSHIM BOULEVARD - MOMENTS LATER

The entrance to Universal Studios. Steve slows the Cadillac, 
gets a good look... carries on driving.

EXT. LANKERSHIM BOULEVARD - MOMENTS LATER

Steve parks way out of sight, starts the long walk back.

EXT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - MOMENTS LATER

A bored, heavy-set GUARD (40s) sits in the small gate house 
at the studio entrance.

Steve appears at the window, brimming with enthusiasm.

             STEVE
      Hey there! I’m Steve Spielberg, 
      here to see Chuck Silvers.

The guard checks a register.

             GUARD
      Editorial department. Down to the 
      right, second building.

                                      2.

Steve pauses at the gate, basking in the enormity of the 
world that lies beyond. He turns back to the guard.

             STEVE
      I’m gonna make movies here one day.

The guard stares blankly. Awkward beat.

             STEVE
      Well, see you around!

Steve notices big muddy tracks on the ground, the aftermath 
of construction. He gives the mud a wide birth, careful not 
to get any on his highly polished shoes...

A black Lincoln blasts by, spraying mud all over him.

             GUARD
      Watch out for the mud, Selznick.

EXT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS BACKLOT - MOMENTS LATER

Steve searches frantically for a restroom, desperate to get 
cleaned up before someone spots him.

A studio tour tram full of TOURISTS pulls up. Tourists pull 
out their cameras, start snapping photos.

             TOURIST #1
      Is he famous?

             TOURIST #2
      Nah, just some kid.

The tourists snap away, capturing Steve’s embarrassment in a 
thousand family photos. The tram drives off.

INT. RESTROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Steve attempts to clean the mud off with water and tissues. 
He just smears it around, making it worse.

INT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

CHUCK SILVERS (42), an avuncular little man, leads Steve 
through a maze of corridors. Steve’s wide-eyed, desperately 
trying to take in every little detail.

                                      3.

             CHUCK
      There’s a certain amount of scut 
      work you can do that’s not involved 
      with the union -- take calls, tear 
      purchase orders, run errands. It’s 
      unpaid so you’re officially a guest 
      of the studio, understood?

             STEVE
      Yes, sir.

Chuck stares at the kid in the mud-flecked clothes, all 
nervous energy and earnest enthusiasm. There’s something 
about him, but Chuck can’t put his finger on what.

             CHUCK
      Why movies, son?

Steve pauses, struggles to find the words.

             STEVE
      I can’t really explain it, sir. 
      From the first time I picked up my 
      dad’s Super-8 and looked through 
      the lens, I knew there was nothing 
      else in this world for me.

Chuck considers this, smiles.

             CHUCK
      That’s about as good a reason as 
      I’ve ever heard.
        (re: the mud)
      What happened here, then?

INT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Steve runs various errands with intense eagerness, going 
about his duties with boundless energy.

EXT. UNIVERSAL BACKLOT - DAY

Steve walks down a street that’s been dressed to look like 
downtown New York. He stares around in wonder. To him this is 
pure magic, a world where dreams come true.

EXT. SOUND STAGE - DAY

CREW MEMBERS exit a sound stage. Steve waits until they’re 
out of sight before approaching the building.

                                      4.

INT. SOUND STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Steve cracks open the door. His eyes widen in amazement. 
Lights, cameras, ACTORS! He creeps inside, skulking through 
the shadows to get a better look...

His young heart skips a beat.

Standing in front of the set lights, visible only by that 
unmistakable silhouette, is none other than ALFRED HITCHCOCK! 
The great director looks pensive, philosophical.

             STEVE
        (under his breath)
      The Master!

Steve watches from the darkness, analyzing every movement, 
every gesture of his hero. Savoring every detail...

An ASSISTANT DIRECTOR storms over.

             ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
      Closed set kid, you gotta leave.

             STEVE
      But I was just --

             ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
      Scram!

Steve’s marched out. He steals one last glance at Hitchcock 
before the door slams in his face.

MONTAGE - VARIOUS

Steve gets thrown off more sets, kicked out of offices, 
screamed at, and generally ignored.

Montage ends with Steve sitting alone on the lot, eating a 
packed lunch, watching people come and go. An outcast peering 
in on a world he desperately wants to be a part of.

             STEVE
	(PRE-LAP)
      The sad part of the story is I 
      should’ve had this Orson Welles 
      sandbox, this great playpen to 
      learn about filmmaking, and all the 
      opportunity in the world to use it. 
      But it wasn’t like that. Truth is, 
      it was a very bad experience.

                              DISSOLVE TO:

                                      5.

INT. CHATEAU MARMONT, WEST HOLLYWOOD - DAY

SUPER: 1974 (TEN YEARS LATER)

STEVE SPIELBERG (26) recounts the story to a REPORTER. This 
isn’t the Spielberg you’re picturing. This is a clean-shaven 
kid with tousled hair, big sunglasses, and a self-awareness 
so far beyond his tender years, it’s almost eerie.

             REPORTER
      The critics love Sugarland.

Steve gazes out the window, lost in the past.

             STEVE
      Sorry?

             REPORTER
      Getting such glowing reviews for 
      your first feature? Looking back, 
      you must feel vindicated.

Steve turns, looks directly at the reporter.

             STEVE
      Critical recognition’s great, but 
      I’m more interested in audience 
      appeal. I don’t want to be another 
      Antonioni or Fellini -- I want the 
      world to enjoy my films.

EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD - DAY

Los Angeles, 1974. Blue skies, sunshine, palm trees; 
billboards like works of art, painted masterpieces urging us 
to drink, smoke, listen to rock ’n’ roll. The hippie culture 
has waned, giving way to atomized individualism.

Steve cruises down the road in a green convertible Mercedes, 
Kung-Fu Fighting on the stereo. GIRLS in mini-skirts stare as 
he passes by, but Steve looks away, self-conscious.

EXT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Same guard from ten years ago in the gate house, less hair, 
but otherwise unchanged. Steve’s Mercedes pulls up.

             GUARD
      Mr. Spielberg, how are you today?

The gate’s arm lifts and Steve guns onto the lot, parking in 
a reserved space. Accepted at last!

                                      6.

INT. DICK’S OFFICE - DAY

Steve with DICK ZANUCK (40), second generation movie mogul. 
Blonde and tan with boundless energy, what this guy doesn’t 
know about filmmaking isn’t worth knowing.

Dick reads aloud to Steve from a copy of The New Yorker.

             DICK
      “One is apt to fear for the second 
      film of a promising young director, 
      but for once the anxiety was 
      unnecessary. Spielberg could be 
      that rarity amongst directors: a 
      natural born entertainer, the new 
      generation’s Howard Hawks.”

Steve’s sheepish, but glowing from the praise.

             DICK
      The whole studio’s buzzing, kid. 
      They think Sugarland’s gonna win 
      the Academy Award for best 
      everything. The test screening’s in 
      San José next week, on a double-
      header with Paper Moon.

             STEVE
      Paper Moon? I love Bogdanovich!

             DICK
      Screw him, this is about you. 
      You’re the hottest new talent in 
      the business, and this picture’s 
      gonna prove it to the world.

Steve takes in his mentor with great fondness. The bond 
clearly runs deep between these two.

             STEVE
      I owe you a lot, Dick.

             DICK
      Bullshit, you earned this.

Steve nods, but there’s uncertainty in his eyes. Dick checks 
his gold wristwatch, realizes the time.

             DICK
      I’m late for a lunch across town.

             STEVE
      Mind if I make a quick call?

                                      7.

             DICK
      You’re a features director, kid. Do 
      whatever the hell you want!

Dick punches Steve’s arm playfully, exits.

Steve sits at the desk, reaches for the phone. A large block 
of pages by the phone catches his eye.

On the top sheet is one word, floating in white space:

“JAWS”

INT. THE BISTRO, BEVERLY HILLS - DAY

Elegant decor, beautiful food, high-powered clientele.

Dick sits at a table with his partner DAVID BROWN (51) and 
PETER BENCHLEY (34). David’s the elegance to Dick’s energy, a 
bow-tied gentleman with a bushy white mustache; Peter’s tall 
and awkward, with a palpable air of superiority.

             DAVID
      We love the book, Peter. We think 
      it’ll make a great movie.

             PETER
      This is all rather exciting.
        (hesitant)
      How are you going to make it, 
      exactly? Has this kind of thing 
      ever been done before?

             DICK
      That’s what we’re here to discuss.

DICK RICHARDS (38) enters, heads for their table. With two 
Dicks in this scene, we’ll refer to Dick Richards by his full 
name for clarity; plus, this Dick’s insane.

             DICK
      Peter, allow me to introduce Dick 
      Richards, one of the finest action 
      directors in the business.
        (to Dick Richards)
      Dick, this is Peter Benchley -- 
      author of Jaws.

Dick Richards pumps Peter’s hand vigorously.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Great to meet you, Pete. Your book 
      penetrated me deeply.

                                      8.

             PETER
      It’s Peter. And sorry about that.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Don’t be. Not for a second.

Dick Richards sits at the table.

             DICK
      Dick, why don’t you start?

Dick Richards stares at them for an intense beat. He’s full 
of weird energy, incredibly intense.

             DICK RICHARDS
      First off, I don’t see this as a 
      Hollywood picture. It’s the subtext 
      I gravitated to, man battling his 
      own inherently animalistic nature. 
      That’s what the whale represents.

             PETER
      Shark.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Come again?

             PETER
      Shark. You said whale.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Quite right. It must be massive, 
      over-powering; a great phallus 
      rising up from the depths. I want 
      the audience to feel violated when 
      they leave the theater, as if the 
      whale has exploded inside them.

             DICK/DAVID
      Shark.

Dick, David and Peter exchange concerned looks.

             DICK RICHARDS
      The whale represents our deepest 
      repressions, our darkest fantasies. 
      It’s sexual and violent.

             DICK/DAVID/PETER
      Shark.

Concern turns to exhaustion at the table. Oblivious, Dick 
Richards continues his sweaty pitch.

                                      9.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Fundamentally, this isn’t a story 
      about man versus whale. It’s about 
      whale and man as one, surging with 
      instincts too powerful to resist.

Dick Richards holds up his left hand, fingers splayed.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Whale.

Holds up his right hand.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Man.

Dick Richards brings his hands together, fingers locking 
tightly, knuckles whitening.

             DICK RICHARDS
      Man and whale as --

Dick leaps up from the table, unable to take anymore.

             DICK
      For Christ’s sake, man, it’s a 
      fucking SHARK!

EXT. THE BISTRO, BEVERLY HILLS - MOMENTS LATER

A shell-shocked Peter Benchley climbs into a cab and drives 
away. Dick and David watch him go.

             DICK
      Friedkin?

             DAVID
      Booked. So’s Peckinpah, Roeg, 
      Coppola... there’s no one.

Dick’s struck by an idea.

             DICK
      What about the kid?

David considers this prospect, clearly intrigued.

             DAVID
      You think he’s ready?

                                      10.

EXT. BEACH HOUSE - DAY

A lopsided A-frame on Nicholas Beach, down the road from 
trendy Malibu. YOUNG FILMMAKERS grill steaks, drink wine and 
smoke joints as they stare at TOPLESS SUNBATHERS.

Amongst those present are four young lions taking Hollywood 
by storm: BRIAN DE PALMA (34), JOHN MILIUS (30), MARTIN 
SCORSESE (32), and GEORGE LUCAS (30). And then there’s Steve, 
the youngest, sipping a Coke, listening intently.

             DE PALMA
      I’m telling you, this town’s got no 
      idea what audiences want anymore. 
      This is the great unknown, they’re 
      looking to us for guidance.

             MILIUS
      For now, maybe.

             DE PALMA
      You’re paranoid, John!

             MILIUS
      You think they’re just gonna give 
      up, play golf? The gates have swung 
      open, the citadel may look empty -- 
      but it’s just an illusion. Soon as 
      they figure out how to make money 
      without us, we’re fucked.

             SCORSESE
      The inherent dichotomy between the 
      economic imperatives of capitalism 
      and the bravery of true artistic 
      endeavor. It’s a dichotomy, is what 
      it is. We’re facing a dichotomy.

             DE PALMA
      The studios need us more than we 
      need them. All they know is movies, 
      they’ve got no idea how to make 
      films. This is our time.

             STEVE
      What if people want movies?

They all turn, look at Steve.

             STEVE
      Artistic expression’s all well and 
      good, but don’t you wanna reach 
      normal, everyday folks -- the kind 
      of people you grew up with?

                                      11.

             DE PALMA
      No offense, Steve, but you’re part 
      of the system.

             STEVE
      What’s that supposed to mean?

             DE PALMA
      You’re a studio guy, always talking 
      about grosses and shit.

             MILIUS
      Hell, Stevie’s more conservative 
      than the fucking suits! Didn’t they 
      have to talk you out of giving 
      Sugarland a happy ending?

Steve’s clearly offended, but nobody seems to notice except 
George Lucas. De Palma drains his wine.

             DE PALMA
      Screw this, let’s go for a swim.

They all set off down the beach towards the ocean, except for 
Steve, who hangs back. George notices.

             GEORGE
      You coming, Stevie?

             STEVE
      I don’t like the water.

George nods, understands.

             GEORGE
      Never know what’s down there, huh?

George runs off to catch up with the others. Steve sits down 
in the sand alone, deep in thought.

EXT. STEVE’S HOME - NIGHT

A modest single-level house on a quiet street.

INT. STEVE’S HOME - CONTINUOUS

A Spartan shrine to filmmaking. Movie posters provide the 
only decor, film reels are stacked precariously everywhere, a 
projector stands where the couch should be.

Steve enters the small kitchen, opens the fridge. Nothing 
inside but Twinkies, Oreos, milk.

                                      12.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Steve sits cross-legged on the floor, wearing white crew 
socks and T-shirt, dunking Twinkies in milk, watching movies. 
The only light comes from the projector, bathing his boyish 
face in a soft blue glow. Lost in the magic.

INT. BOARDROOM, UNIVERSAL TOWERS - DAY

Dick and David sit at a large table. Seated opposite are 
studio president LEW WASSERMAN (60), immaculately dressed in 
an Italian suit, eyes hidden by huge dark glasses; NED TANEN 
(43), looks like he’s carved from granite; and SID SHEINBERG 
(33), a tall Texan with a calm and contemplative air.

             DICK
      Well fellas, whaddya think?

Ned glares at Dick and David. Tense beat, then:

             NED
      Have you lost your fucking minds? 
      This isn’t some art house bullshit, 
      it’s a major production!

Lew glances at Ned, silencing him. Thinks it over.

             LEW
      Maybe we’d be better off with a 
      safe pair of hands, someone who’s 
      done this kind of thing before.

             DICK
      All due respect, Lew, but that’s 
      precisely what we don’t want. The 
      kid can bring something fresh, a 
      visual excitement we haven’t seen.

Lew turns to Sid, a simple gesture that wounds Ned deeply. 
Sid shrugs his broad shoulders.

             SID
      Everyone loves Sugarland. And he 
      did great on Duel. Swap the truck 
      for a shark, it’s the same story.

             DICK
      You see? The kid’s a proven entity, 
      he’s already made this picture!

Dick’s distorted reflection stares back at him from the twin 
surfaces of Lew’s huge dark glasses.

                                      13.

             LEW
      It’s a B-movie horror flick, at 
      best. We don’t even know if the 
      book’s gonna hit.

Lew walks quickly out. Dick and David aren’t sure what just 
happened, turn to Sid.

             DICK
      So... do we have our guy?

             SID
      We’ve got Hindenburg, Airport ‘75 
      and Earthquake in play. Bottom 
      line, this just isn’t a priority. 
      You want the kid? Go get him.

Dick and David beam. Ned simmers with rage, turns to Sid.

             NED
      This is a giant fucking mistake.

Ned storms out, slams the door. Dick and David look a little 
shell-shocked. They go to leave.

             SID
      Just do it the Universal way, 
      gentlemen. On time, and in budget.

Dick and David nod, exit.

EXT. HOTEL BEL AIR - DAY

A pink palace in the wooded wealth of Bel Air.

INT. HOTEL BEL AIR - CONTINUOUS

An airy dreamscape filled with colorful flowers and antiques. 
Dick and David sit opposite Steve, staring expectantly at him 
over a well-worn copy of the Jaws manuscript.

             DICK
      Well, kid, whaddya say?

Steve slides the manuscript across the table.

             STEVE
      I’m gonna pass, fellas.

Dick and David are caught unawares.

                                      14.

             DAVID
      May we ask why, Steven?

             STEVE
      This isn’t the picture I wanna do 
      next. I’m talking to Fox about this 
      UFO story, something I’ve wanted to 
      do for ten years.

             DICK
      Science fiction?! There’s no 
      audience in it, kid!

             STEVE
      What about 2001?

             DICK
      The exception that proves the rule!

             STEVE
      My buddy George and I think it’s a 
      genre ripe for reinvention.

             DAVID
      So we make Universal an offer. You 
      do Jaws for them, they do your UFO 
      project for you.

             DICK
      Universal loves you, kid. We don’t 
      need Fox.

Steve shifts uncomfortably. He looks like a kid trying to 
find an excuse to get out of gym class.

             DAVID
      Is there something else, Steven?

             STEVE
      I didn’t like the book.

             DAVID
      Neither did we, we’ll fix it in 
      adaptation.

             DICK
      We’ll get the best writer in town.

             STEVE
      I already did Duel. An Everyman 
      being stalked by a mindless killing 
      machine... it feels like the same 
      story. They’ve both got four 
      letters!

                                      15.

             DAVID
      We didn’t make that connection. 
      This has real characters, subtext.

             DICK
      It takes place on the ocean.

             STEVE
      I just don’t want to get typecast 
      as an action guy at the start of my 
      career. I need to show range.

             DAVID
      We think this could be something 
      special, Steven. No one’s ever done 
      this picture before.

Steve steels his resolve.

             STEVE
      Sorry, fellas. I’m not the guy.

Dick and David look crestfallen. Steve looks guilty, then 
suddenly worried.

             STEVE
      You’re still coming to San José for 
      the test screening, right?

             DICK
      Sure thing, kid. See you there.

Steve exits. Dick and David sit in silence for a long beat, 
wondering what the hell to do next.

             DICK
      We could change it to a whale?

David bursts into nervous laughter.

EXT. MOVIE THEATER, SAN JOSÉ - NIGHT

A line of MOVIEGOERS outside the theater. Next to posters for 
Paper Moon, another poster with text only:

TONIGHT’S SPECIAL PREVIEW:
“THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS”

Three black limousines pull up outside the theater. Steve 
emerges from the first, flanked by Dick and David; a 
delegation of UNIVERSAL EXECS emerge from the other two cars.

Dick wraps an arm around Steve’s shoulders.

                                      16.

             DICK
      This is your coming out party, kid. 
      Savor this moment, coz it’ll never 
      feel like this again.

Steve nods, clearly nervous. They head into the theater.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - LATER

The AUDIENCE sit in the dark, watching Paper Moon. Wedged 
between Dick and David, Steve looks increasingly nervous as 
the moment of truth draws near. He glances at the Universal 
execs seated nearby, staring implacably at the screen.

LATER

Paper Moon ends, lights come up. A slick MARKETING EXEC in an 
expensive suit stands, addresses the audience.

             MARKETING EXEC
      Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. 
      I hope you’re still with us?

The audience murmurs. Steve squirms.

             MARKETING EXEC
      You’re getting two movies for the 
      price of one tonight. What you’re 
      about to see isn’t finished, there 
      may be a little work to do here and 
      there, music to be added in, that 
      kind of thing, but we’d love to 
      know your thoughts. You’ve all been 
      given a card with a few simple 
      questions to answer, and we’ll be 
      collecting them on your way out of 
      the theater. Remember, there are no 
      wrong answers; we just want your 
      honest opinion. Thank you.

The exec sits. Steve sinks in his seat. The lights go down, 
and The Sugarland Express begins.

MOMENTS LATER

Goldie Hawn romps about on the big screen, and the audience 
are lapping it up. Dick beams at Steve.

             DICK
      You did it, kid. They love it!

                                      17.

Steve starts to relax. His dream is so close to becoming a 
reality, he can practically taste it...

LATER

The tone of the movie has shifted from a comical caper to 
something more serious, and the audience looks perplexed. The 
laughter has stopped, replaced with stony silence.

Steve glances around and knows in that instant that he’s lost 
them. A few rows away, the Universal executives mutter to one 
another, looking gravely concerned.

INT. MOVIE THEATER LOBBY - NIGHT

The audience storms out, depositing their completed cards in 
a collection box. One WOMAN is actually in tears; others have 
blue murder in their eyes.

Steve walks out of the theater, shell-shocked. He sees a card 
lying on the floor and picks it up. Scrawled across the card 
in huge angry letters is one word:

SUCKED!!!

Steve sees the Universal execs march quickly out, muttering 
to one another, shaking their heads.

INT. DICK’S OFFICE - DAY

Dick and Steve sit opposite one another. Tense beat.

             DICK
      Test screenings are bullshit kid, 
      everyone knows that.

             STEVE
      Does the studio know?

Dick’s silence speaks volumes. Steve looks devastated.

             DICK
      Maybe it’s the title? So many 
      movies fail coz of bad titles... or 
      maybe it’s Goldie? Audiences love 
      her, but they’ve never seen her in 
      a serious picture before.

Steve churns it over, desperately looking for angles. He 
speaks quickly, masking growing panic.

                                      18.

             STEVE
      I can fix this. There’s seven 
      minutes in there I can cut, maybe 
      more. And I need to shift some 
      scenes around, the rhythm’s off.
        (beat)
      Tell them I can fix this, Dick.

Dick places a reassuring hand on his shoulder.

             DICK
      Relax, kid. David and I leave for 
      Cannes tomorrow, but we’ll figure 
      this out when we’re back. And don’t 
      worry -- the studio’s still behind 
      this, one hundred percent.

Steve nods, clearly not convinced. Exits.

             DICK
      We are so fucked.

INT. DINER - NIGHT

Busy diner. Elton John’s Don’t Let The Sun Go Down On Me 
playing on the jukebox. Steve sits at a table opposite George 
Lucas, looking like the sun has well and truly set.

             STEVE
      The studio’s shifting the release 
      to avoid The Exorcist.

             GEORGE
      Maybe they’re just trying to give 
      it every chance to succeed?

             STEVE
      And they’re opening wide, two 
      hundred and fifty screens out of 
      the gate.

             GEORGE
      That’s not necessarily bad.

             STEVE
      C’mon, George, you know what that 
      means! They’re trying to recoup 
      their money before word of mouth 
      gets out.

             GEORGE
      The reviews were great.

                                      19.

             STEVE
      Studios don’t give a damn about 
      reviews, all they care about is the 
      gross! It was that goddamn ending, 
      I should’ve known the audiences 
      wouldn’t go for it! Who wants to 
      see a young couple being punished 
      for trying to be a family? This 
      could bury me, George!

A WAITRESS walks up, refills their coffees. George waits 
until she’s out of earshot.

             GEORGE
      Maybe you should build the bridge 
      in front of you before they burn 
      the one behind.

Beat as Steve processes.

             STEVE
      What, that dumb shark thing?

             GEORGE
      If the book hits, you’ve got a 
      built-in audience. And there’s the 
      parallels with Duel...
        (realizes)
      They’ve both got four letters!

             STEVE
      That’s exactly my point! C’mon 
      George, who wants to be known as 
      the truck-and-shark director?

             GEORGE
      That actually sounds really cool.

             STEVE
      It’s a B-movie! The fellas already 
      think I’m this studio brat, this’ll 
      just confirm it. I thought we were 
      supposed to change things?

George strokes his beard, considers his response carefully.

             GEORGE
      If Fellini was playing in Sioux 
      City, Iowa, people would flock next 
      door to see The Gnome-Mobile. We’re 
      filmmakers, not revolutionaries.

Steve stares into his coffee, a man looking into the abyss.

                                      20.

             GEORGE
      All I’m saying is, you could be 
      underestimating this. Anyone who’s 
      ever gone swimming and wondered 
      what’s down there can relate.

George leans in, looks Steve dead in the eyes.

             GEORGE
      Get this thing right, and this 
      picture could do for the ocean what 
      Psycho did for the shower.

INT. OFFICE, 20TH CENTURY FOX STUDIOS - DAY

Steve pitches his UFO story to FOX EXECS. The office walls 
are decorated with posters of the studio’s hits: The King And 
I, The Sound Of Music, Planet Of The Apes.

             STEVE
      There’s a horizon line right across 
      the middle of the screen. You’re 
      looking into infinity, it’s night, 
      the sky’s black and full of stars, 
      and you see these UFOs, these 
      spaceships. And some of them are 
      really big. And then from below the 
      horizon line, there’s one that 
      fills a third of the screen... and 
      you realize that it’s just the 
      turret, this thing goes right off 
      the frame, must be five miles wide! 
      And it’s got these red and blue 
      lights running along its sides... 

Steve trails off. The Fox execs stare blankly. Beat.

             FOX EXEC #1
      We’re not sure how receptive our 
      audience will be to science fiction 
      right now, Steven.

             FOX EXEC #2
      The moon landing was five years 
      ago. And that Skylab thing NASA 
      just launched... it feels like the 
      whole space thing may be over.

             FOX EXEC #3
      We could be done with space.

Steve visibly deflates.

                                      21.

             FOX EXEC #1
      We’d still love to work with you, 
      Steve. Be sure and let us know if 
      you have anything else.

And at that moment, Steve realizes his career’s in serious 
trouble. He gets up, walks out of the room.

INT. STEVE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steve tosses and turns in bed, unable to sleep. The fact that 
he sleeps on a waterbed doesn’t help, every movement causing 
the bed to slosh and squelch beneath him.

INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Steve enters, heads to the fridge. He pulls out a carton of 
milk and takes a long drink...

Spits it out everywhere. It’s gone bad.

He hurls the carton of milk across the room. It explodes 
against the wall, sending rivulets of white running down over 
a framed poster for Duel hanging there.

Steve stares at the Duel poster, featuring an image of Dennis 
Weaver frozen in a silent scream, with the truck looming over 
him like some mechanical monster.

For the briefest second, Steve sees what looks like a shark’s 
teeth in the grille of the truck.

EXT. LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY

A cab pulls up outside the airport. Steve climbs out.

INT. PLANE - NIGHT

Steve reads the Jaws pages with utter voracity, using a 
pencil to scribble in the margins.

EXT. HOTEL DU CAP, FRENCH RIVIERA - DAY

A huge pearly-white château set in twenty-two acres of 
tropical gardens. Deferential palms cool its flushed facade, 
a dazzling beach stretches before it.

                                      22.

INT. CABANA, BEACH - CONTINUOUS

A cabana overlooking a stretch of beautiful sandy beach. Dick 
flicks through Variety, David’s engrossed in a novel.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      How would we make the damn thing?

Dick and David are startled to see their prodigy, who looks 
like he hasn’t slept in days.

             DICK
      What the hell are you doing here, 
      kid? You look like shit.

             STEVE
      Jaws. How would we make it?

Dick gestures to an empty seat in the cabana.

             DICK
      Let’s talk.

LATER

Dick, David and Steve sit in the cabana, engaged in intense 
discussion. The energy is palpable.

             DICK
      We could hire a shark trainer. Get 
      a great white to perform stunts in 
      long shots with a dummy, then use 
      miniatures for the close-ups.

             STEVE
      Can you train a great white?

             DICK
      Those killer whales in Sea World 
      can snatch a fish outta David’s 
      mouth without harming a whisker of 
      that beautiful mustache.

             DAVID
      For the love of all things holy, 
      don’t mention whales.

             DICK
      How hard can it be? We’ll ask 
      around, get the world’s greatest 
      shark experts.

Steve considers this, lays down his terms.

                                      23.

             STEVE
      If I do this, we shoot it at sea. 
      No studio tanks, we need this to be 
      as authentic as possible.

             DAVID
      That’ll blow the budget. No one’s 
      ever shot a major motion picture at 
      sea before.

             STEVE
      And I want a life-size shark.

Dick and David shoot each other a concerned look.

             DICK
      Whoa, let’s talk about this --

             STEVE
      Life-size, Dick. It’s the only way 
      we’ll get the audience to buy into 
      this. No miniatures.

Dick and David realize the kid’s not gonna budge.

             DAVID
      We’ll talk to the studio, see what 
      can be done.

Steve lays down his final condition.

             STEVE
      We stick to the novel’s basic 
      concept, man versus beast. Lose all 
      the subplots. I want this film to 
      be a great adventure, something the 
      folks I grew up around will flock 
      to the theaters to see.

Dick breaks into a broad smile.

             DICK
      Whatever you say, kid.

Dick claps a hand on Steve’s shoulder, gives it a squeeze. 
Dick and David exit the cabana, walking back up the beach 
towards the hotel.

The sun dips below the horizon, the sky bleeds red. Steve 
sits in the cabana staring out over the Mediterranean Ocean, 
a vast blue expanse stretching into infinity.

It seems to call out, daring him to take his best shot.

INT. SOUND STAGE - DAY

CREW MEMBERS construct a set under the watchful eye of JOE 
ALVES (38), production designer. Joe’s a wiry former race car 
driver, short and muscular, with intense energy.

                                      24.

             JOE
      C’mon guys, let’s keep it moving! 
      We gotta get this up quick, we’re 
      behind schedule here!

Joe spots someone watching from the shadows.

             JOE
      Let’s take five, fellas.

Joe walks away, leaving the crew members puzzled.

MOMENTS LATER

Joe and Steve sit in a corner of the sound stage on upturned 
crates. Joe processes what he’s just heard before speaking in 
a slow and deliberate manner, every word measured.

             JOE
      Let me get this straight. You want 
      to build a fully functional, twenty-
      five foot great white shark that’ll 
      work underwater -- and you want to 
      shoot on the ocean?

             STEVE
      That’s correct.

             JOE
      The actual ocean. At sea.

             STEVE
      Sounds like fun, right?

             JOE
      It sounds like a fucking nightmare, 
      Steve. Even if you find someone who 
      can build the shark, you can’t 
      control the ocean! It’ll take hours 
      to set up a single shot, you’ll be 
      drifting out of position all day! 
      Not to mention the weather, changes 
      in light, all that equipment and 
      crew exposed to the elements... 
      have you got any idea what you’re 
      getting yourself into?

             STEVE
      Not entirely. That’s why I need 
      people I can trust, Joe.

Joe shakes his head, stunned at his friend’s audacity.

                                      25.

             STEVE
      The studio thinks sets just pop up 
      by themselves, costumes fall off a 
      rack, props magically appear. They 
      don’t understand that the entire 
      visual unity of a film springs from 
      one special craftsman’s mastery of 
      his art -- but I do, Joe.
        (beat)
      I can’t do this without you, pal. 
      You’re the only one.

Joe’s body language remains negative, but Steve can sense the 
curiosity bubbling beneath the surface.

INT. COMEDY CLUB - NIGHT

A dingy club with a thick layer of smoke hanging in the air 
and DRUNKEN PATRONS at tables. On stage, CARL GOTTLIEB (36), 
a big teddy bear, goes through his stand-up routine.

             CARL
      I went to the doctor the other day, 
      I said “Doc, I’ve got a problem. I 
      can’t get an erection for my wife 
      anymore.” Doc says “Bring her in to 
      see me tomorrow.” So I go back the 
      next day with my wife, the Doc 
      tells her to undress. “Uh-huh,” he 
      says, “I see.” He tells her to put 
      her clothes back on, then he takes 
      me aside. I say “Doc, what’s wrong 
      with me?” He says “Nothing -- she 
      didn’t give me an erection either.”

Scattered laughter. Carl’s about to continue when he spots a 
familiar face seated at a corner table.

LATER

STAFF clear tables, sweep up. At the bar, Carl nurses a beer 
and considers Steve’s request.

             STEVE
      Well, Carl, what do you say?

Carl shifts uncomfortably, unsure how to respond.

                                      26.

             CARL
      I dunno, Stevie. It’s a hell of an 
      offer, but I’m a TV writer. This is 
      features you’re talking about!

             STEVE
      You’re perfect, I need someone who 
      can inject some humor into this.

             CARL
      I thought this was a horror?

             STEVE
      We gotta make the audience care 
      about these guys. The characters in 
      Benchley’s book are so unlikable, 
      you’re practically rooting for them 
      to get eaten one by one!

Carl wrestles with his own sense of worth on one hand, and 
the opportunity of a lifetime on the other.

             STEVE
      I can’t do this without you, pal. 
      You’re the only one.

INT. VERNA’S POOL HOUSE - DAY

A small pool house that’s been converted into an editing 
suite. Steel film racks line every wall, and an editing table 
with a mounted projector takes center stage.

Steve stands opposite VERNA FIELDS (56), one of the finest 
editors in the business: short, stout, permanently on a diet, 
with thick glasses and a finely tuned bullshit radar.

             STEVE
      I can’t do this without you, Verna. 
      You’re the only one.

Verna stares at Steve through her thick glasses, eyeballs 
comically magnified.

             VERNA
      Cut the crap, Stevie, this 
      grapefruit diet’s making me cranky. 
      You want me to edit this thing, or 
      not?

             STEVE
      Uh... would you?

                                      27.

             VERNA
      Bring me a cheeseburger, I’ll carry 
      your firstborn child.

Steve grabs Verna, hugging her tight.

INT. SFX DEPARTMENT, UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Steve and Joe meet with a succession of SFX GUYS to discuss 
building the shark. In quick cuts:

             SFX GUY #1
      A realistic photo-double great 
      white shark that can swim, attack a 
      boat, and be shot from all angles?

             SFX GUY #2
      Impossible, it can’t be done.

             SFX GUY #3
      Even if we could build it, it’ll 
      fry when it goes in the water.

Each SFX guy offers up a more realistic alternative.

             SFX GUY #1
      We could do it in miniatures.

             SFX GUY #2
      Real sharks in long shots, a model 
      in a tank for close-ups.

             SFX GUY #3
      Full animation, matted into the 
      picture so it’ll match.

             STEVE
      Animation?! We’re not making a 
      Disney movie here, this has to look 
      real! There’s gotta be a way...

Back to the first SFX guy, who gives them a reality check.

             SFX GUY #1
      You’re asking for something that’s 
      never been done before, in seventy-
      five years of filmmaking.

Steve and Joe meet with one last SFX GUY, who considers their 
request carefully before responding.

                                      28.

             SFX GUY #4
      There is one guy... Bob Mattey. 
      Built the squid in 20,000 Leagues 
      Under The Sea, closest anyone’s got 
      to what you’re asking for. But he 
      retired, a long time ago.

Steve leans forward, intense.

             STEVE
      Where can we find him?

EXT. SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS - DAY

High up in the mountains, a log cabin standing on a little 
knoll. Steve’s Mercedes parked outside.

INT. BOB MATTEY’S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Steve and Joe watch as BOB MATTEY (66), tiny, half-blind, 
shuffles about his home searching for his glasses. They shoot 
each other a hesitant look: this is the guy?!

             BOB
      Now where in the hell did I put 
      ’em? I’m always losing the damn 
      things...

Steve spots a pair of glasses perched on a 12-inch model of 
King Kong. He hands them to Bob, who puts them on to find 
himself staring at a baby-faced kid where there should be a 
big-time movie director. Bob goes wide-eyed.

             BOB
      You’re a director? This business 
      sure is changing!

Steve takes in the tiny, bespectacled old man before them 
with very little confidence.

             STEVE
      Well, Bob... can you do it?

Steve braces himself for the inevitable response.

             BOB
      It’s the movies, we can do 
      anything.

Steve and Joe exchange a surprised look.

                                      29.

             STEVE
      A free-swimming, full-scale model 
      that’ll work underwater?

             JOE
      The actual ocean. At sea.

Bob shrugs his meek shoulders, no big deal.

             BOB
      I don’t see why not?

             JOE
        (whispers to Steve)
      I think he’s gone senile.

             STEVE
      Are you sure about this, Bob? 
      Everyone else we’ve spoken to says 
      it’s impossible!

Bob smiles warmly, like a kind grandpa about to hand out 
boiled candy to a couple of eager kids.

             BOB
      Let me show you boys something.

INT. BOB’S GARAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Bob’s garage is filled with dusty movie props from a bygone 
era: Werewolves, man-eating plants, rubber scorpions, puppets 
and costumes. Steve looks around in amazement at the effects 
he fell in love with as a child, now collecting dust.

             STEVE
      This stuff is unreal! Did you make 
      all this, Bob?

             BOB
      Every last one of ’em. Started 
      working for my old man when I was 
      sixteen years old. ’Course, things 
      were a little different back then; 
      we didn’t have all these fancy new 
      technologies you boys’ve got.

Bob searches through all the junk for an elusive object.

             BOB
      Now where did I put it...
        (spots something)
      Ah-ha!

                                      30.

Bob produces a large black control box, flips a switch. The 
junk piled up all around shudders, boxes and props shaking as 
something beneath stirs to life... 

A 15-foot model alligator bursts out, jaws creaking open and 
clamping shut, dust pluming off its scaly body.

Joe leaps out of the way as the alligator lurches at him.

             JOE
      Holy shit, grandpa’s for real.

INT. BUNGALOW, UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Carl tacks scene cards on the wall, Joe works on storyboards, 
and Steve makes a very important phone call.

             STEVE
      Hello, is this Ron Taylor? My 
      name’s Steve Spielberg, I’m a film 
      director working on a new picture 
      about a great white. You worked on 
      a documentary with Pete Gimble?

INT. RON TAYLOR’S HOME - NIGHT

RON TAYLOR (39), a tough-looking Australian, drinks a beer 
whilst talking on the phone.

             RON
      What can I do for you, Steve?

INTERCUT AS NECESSARY

             STEVE
      We’d like to use some real footage 
      in the film for authenticity, and 
      there’s a scene where our shark 
      attacks a cage with a diver inside.

             RON
      Whiteys don’t usually attack cages, 
      they prefer to attack bait.

             STEVE
      You’d really be helping us out, 
      sir. It’s the key to the whole 
      picture, the climatic struggle 
      between man and beast.

Ron considers the request, takes a slug from his beer.

                                      31.

             RON
      We’ll give it a shot.

             STEVE
      That’s great! Oh, our shark’s a 
      twenty-five footer -- so the bigger 
      you can get them, the better.

Ron spits his beer out all over the place. Steve winces on 
the other end of the line.

             RON
      Our sharks are twelve-to-fifteen 
      footers Mr. Spielberg, the scale’s 
      gonna be way off!

Steve pauses, stumped. Inspiration strikes.

             STEVE
      If we can’t make the sharks 
      bigger... how about making the 
      actor smaller?

EXT. GREAT BARRIER REEF, AUSTRALIA - DAY

The world’s largest coral reef, 1,200 miles of stunning coral 
and sparkling ocean. Breathtakingly beautiful.

BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Ron Taylor and his wife VALLERIE attempt to talk CARL RIZZO 
(36), a little person in full diving gear, into a specially-
designed miniature cage. Carl’s white with fear.

             RON
      It’s reinforced steel, mate, 
      perfectly safe. Nothing’s gonna get 
      through this sucker.

Ron bangs on the miniature cage’s bars, causing the entire 
thing to rattle unconvincingly. Carl gulps.

             VALLERIE
      If you get scared, just pull on the 
      chord and we’ll haul you right out.

             CARL RIZZO
      I usually double for kids riding 
      horses, that kind of thing!

                                      32.

             RON
      Horse riding’s a lot more dangerous 
      than this, mate. Those fish down 
      there aren’t interested in you, you 
      wouldn’t even be a snack.

             CARL RIZZO
      Okay, this isn’t helping!

             RON
      I’ll be right down there with ya, 
      nothing’s gonna happen.

Ron fixes on his mask, grabs the camera, and dives into the 
water. Carl steps tentatively towards the cage.

             CARL RIZZO
      I don’t get paid enough for this.

The cage is lowered into the water off the side of the boat. 
Carl climbs tentatively into the cage...

The huge head of a great white shark rises above the spray, 
black maw gaping!

Carl screams as the shark attacks the cage, triangular teeth 
splintering against metal.

             VALLERIE
      Holy-moly!

The shark gets caught in the lines between the cage and the 
boat. Its tail whips above the surface as it crashes into the 
boat in a frenzy, sending Carl flying.

             VALLERIE
      It’s trapped, stay clear!

Wood splits, taut nylon lines pop like thread, scraps of 
steel and wood flying through the air, and the cage and winch 
vanish in a boiling, foaming swirl.

Vallerie struggles to catch her breath.

             VALLERIE
      That was unreal! Poor thing really 
      got caught up there.
        (looks around)
      Carl?

Carl’s nowhere to be seen. Ron bursts out of the water and 
climbs aboard the boat, camera in hand.

                                      33.

             RON
      Jeez, you shoulda seen the sucker 
      goin’ at that cage!
        (then)
      Where’s the little fella?

INT. CABIN, BOAT - MOMENTS LATER

Ron and Vallerie crouch outside the toilet in the boat’s tiny 
interior. Ron tries the door: Locked.

             RON
      Carl, you in there mate?

             CARL RIZZO
	(O.S.)
      Stay the hell away from me!

Ron examines the lock on the door, turns to Vallerie.

             RON
      Get me a butter knife, babe.

INT. BUNGALOW, UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Steve, Carl and Joe review the footage. On TV, the shark 
twists like crazy over the empty cage.

             STEVE
      We have to use it.

             CARL
      He wasn’t in the cage, Steve.

Steve watches the shark on TV break free, the empty cage 
drifting into the ocean’s murky depths.

             STEVE
      A great white shark just rewrote 
      the end to our movie. Looks like 
      Hooper survives.

INT. SID’S OFFICE, UNIVERSAL TOWERS - DAY

Steve, Dick and David meet with Sid Sheinberg and Ned Tanen.

             DICK
      Okay fellas, we’re here. What’s up? 
      You increasing the budget?

Sid looks solemn, Ned strangely pleased. Tense beat.

                                      34.

             SID
      Our contract with the Screen 
      Actors’ Guild is set to expire, and 
      certain elements of the existing 
      contract are likely to be deemed 
      unacceptable to the union’s new 
      leadership. The studio’s decreed no 
      new productions start unless they 
      can wrap by July 1st to avoid the 
      possibility of a strike.

             DAVID
      There goes our fall release.

             NED
      The hell it does. We want to start 
      principal photography on April 10, 
      wrap by end of June.

Steve almost chokes.

             STEVE
      It’s mid-March! We don’t have a 
      script yet, a location -- I haven’t 
      even started casting!

             DICK
      Why don’t we start once the new 
      contract’s finalized, aim for a 
      summer release next year?

             SID
      The book’s selling now, but who 
      knows if it’s got legs? We need to 
      keep up the momentum.

             STEVE
      You’ve gotta be joking.
        (to Dick/David)
      Tell me they’re joking, fellas.

Dick and David remain silent.

             STEVE
      You need to find someone else.

Ned breaks into a smile. Dick leaps out of his seat.

             DICK
      Can we have a moment, fellas?

Dick and David pull Steve aside. Ned attempts to eavesdrop as 
they talk in hushed voices.

                                      35.

             DICK
      This has to happen kid, and it has 
      to happen now.

             STEVE
      No one can make this film in that 
      time frame. I’m sorry, fellas.

Dick and David can feel their project slipping away. Dick 
knows he has to act fast.

             DICK
      This isn’t a film, kid -- it’s a 
      movie. And with you at the helm, we 
      can turn it into a primal scream.

The words sink in. Steve turns back to Sid and Ned.

             STEVE
      May 1st. That’ll give us fifty-five 
      days to get it in the can.

Ned’s face falls. Sid thinks it over, shrugs.

             SID
      We can live with that.

INT. BUNGALOW, UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Steve outlines the new plan to Joe and Carl.

             STEVE
      If we get all the land scenes shot 
      by early June, that’ll give us 
      three weeks at sea.

             CARL
      What are we gonna shoot? We don’t 
      have a script yet!

             STEVE
      We’ll write on the fly, with Verna 
      editing on-site. Where are we on 
      locations?

             JOE
      Down to the Eastern Seaboard, 
      scouting next week.

             STEVE
      Then all we need is our cast.

                                      36.

             JOE
      Aren’t you forgetting something?
        (off Steve’s look)
      The shark?

Steve’s face drops as he remembers the small problem of a 
working 25-foot white shark.

             BOB
	(O.S.)
      Did somebody say “shark?”

Bob Mattey stands in the doorway, holding a shoe box. He 
enters, lays the box on the table.

Steve watches intently as Bob opens the shoe box and takes 
out a small model, lovingly welded out of steel and copper: a 
platform base with a crane-like arm, attached to which is a 
wonderfully detailed 12-inch great white shark.

             BOB
      The platform sits on the seabed, 
      with a trolley running on steel 
      rails; the crane attaches to the 
      trolley, giving us about seventy 
      feet of movement in a straight 
      line. The bucket-pivot lets us move 
      the shark up, down, left, right. 
      It’ll weigh around twelve tons, 
      take a crew of fifteen to operate, 
      but it should do the trick.

Bob hands Steve the model. Steve plays with the shark, moving 
it up and down on the tiny mechanical arm.

             STEVE
      Can you build it by early June?

Bob smiles, delivers a line that’ll become his trademark.

             BOB
      It’s the movies, we can do 
      anything.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

A palatial mansion high in the hills, luxury cars outside.

INT. MANSION - CONTINUOUS

A party full of Hollywood’s movers and shakers. Steve, Dick 
and David engaged in intense discussion.

                                      37.

             DICK
      The studio’s pushing Charlton for 
      Chief Brody.

             STEVE
      Charlton just saved a jetliner in 
      Airport ‘75, and he’s about to save 
      Los Angeles in Earthquake. He’s a 
      goddamn superhero! I need Brody to 
      be relatable, an Everyman.

             DICK
      They’ve got him under contract for 
      two more pictures. They think we 
      need a star to carry this thing.

             STEVE
      The shark’s the star.

             DAVID
      We’ll talk to them.

             DICK
      Who’re you looking at for Hooper?

             STEVE
      My buddy George suggested Ricky 
      Dreyfuss, we’re meeting next week. 
      Quint’s proving a bigger problem.

             DAVID
      How about Robert Shaw? We used him 
      on The Sting, he’d make a great 
      Quint. And the timing’s perfect, 
      he’s finishing a run on Broadway. 
      The man’s one hell of an actor.

             STEVE
      Great, let’s set a meeting.

Dick shoots David a look. David realizes his mistake.

             DICK
      Just to forewarn you, kid. Robert’s 
      a little... intense.

             STEVE
      That’s exactly what I need, someone 
      the audience will buy as a worthy 
      opponent for the shark!

             DICK
      No, you don’t understand --

                                      38.

             ROY
	(O.S.)
      What’s up, fellas?

Steve, Dick and David turn to see ROY SCHEIDER (42). Roy’s 
laid back, not an ounce of fat; the lean physique and natural 
confidence of a former amateur boxer.

             DICK
      Roy, you know Steve Spielberg?

             ROY
      Not personally. Great to meet you, 
      Steve. Loved Duel.

Steve and Roy shake hands. Something about Roy has Steve 
perplexed, lost in deep thought.

             ROY
      So, what’s this about a shark?

Dick, David and Steve say nothing. It’s an awkward silence 
that makes Roy feel very self-conscious.

             ROY
      I’ll let you get back to it.

Steve watches Roy walk away... and it suddenly clicks.

EXT. MANSION - CONTINUOUS

Steve tears out of the house. He glances around frantically, 
sees Roy climbing into a car.

             STEVE
      Roy! Roy, wait up!

Steve runs to Roy’s car. Roy winds down the window, confused. 
Steve catches his breath, then:

             STEVE
      Do you get seasick, Roy?

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Steve and Carl with RICKY DREYFUSS (26). Ricky’s short, fun-
loving, and full of kinetic energy. Without the beard or wire-
rim glasses, he looks nothing like Hooper.

             RICKY
      I hated the book.

                                      39.

             STEVE
      We all do. Carl’s gonna fix it.

             RICKY
      The character does nothing for me. 
      He’s boiler-plate exposition, 
      boring as hell. Shark-this, shark-
      that, blah-blah-fucking-blah.

             STEVE
      That’s all gonna change, Ricky. We 
      see Hooper as the voice of 
      scientific reason in a town that 
      cares more about tourist dollars 
      than protecting its own citizens. 
      Your character elevates this whole 
      picture from a formulaic monster 
      movie to something with a clearly 
      defined social perspective.

Ricky lowers his voice, almost conspiratorial.

             RICKY
      I just saw myself in Duddy Kravitz, 
      and I was awful. I need to choose 
      my next role very carefully, or my 
      career is well and truly fucked.

Ricky goes to leave. Reaches the door when Steve speaks.

             STEVE
      Growing up in Scottsdale, Arizona, 
      I felt like an alien. I was the 
      only Jewish kid in school, a skinny 
      runt with a big schnozz the other 
      kids used to call “Spielbug”. Spent 
      most of my days trying to keep my 
      face out of the drinking fountain. 
      I longed for Saturday, when my dad 
      would drop me at the Kiva Theater 
      on Main Street for the double-
      header. I’d sit in the dark staring 
      up at that big screen, and feel... 
      connected. Then one day, I realized 
      something: I never saw myself in 
      those movies. There were no Jewish 
      heroes embodying our rich tradition 
      of intellectual enquiry, respect 
      for learning, intense involvement 
      with morality and law.

Ricky hangs by the door, listening intently. Steve turns to 
look directly at him, delivers the killer line.

             STEVE
      Those kids out there, the ones like 
      me? They need heroes too.

                                      40.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT

Skyscrapers reaching skyward to test God. In the streets 
below, people fight over yellow cabs.

INT. VIVIAN BEAUMONT THEATER - CONTINUOUS

Steve and Carl sit in the AUDIENCE, watching ACTORS on stage. 
Steve tracks one ACTOR in particular, analyzing every 
movement, every gesture.

INT. DRESSING ROOM, VIVIAN BEAUMONT THEATER - LATER

Steve and Carl wait in the small dressing room, empty booze 
bottles covering every available surface.

             CARL
      The guy sure likes a drink.

The door blows open and in walks ROBERT SHAW (46), a steel-
gazed mass of wiry muscle who seems to be fighting a constant 
urge to give you a severe beating, then buy you a frothy 
drink in a dented tankard, then give you another beating. 

Unlike the character we’ll remember him by, Shaw’s clean-
shaven and speaks with a cut-glass English accent. He marches 
past Steve and Carl, grabs a bottle of whiskey, pours a large 
measure into a chipped cup, drains it. Beat, then:

             SHAW
      I hate the book.

             STEVE
      We all do, sir. Carl’s the writer, 
      he’s gonna fix it.

Shaw turns on Carl.

             SHAW
      Oh? And what have you written?

             CARL
        (flustered)
      Well, I’ve mostly worked in TV --

             SHAW
      I’ve written for Lawrence Olivier.

Shaw turns his withering gaze on Steve, piercing blue eyes 
scanning for weaknesses.

                                      41.

             SHAW
      And you’re the director?

             STEVE
      Yes, sir.

             SHAW
      The boy king. Your last film was 
      The Sugarland Express?

             STEVE
      That’s correct.

             SHAW
      And this fish film is your shot at 
      redemption, is that it?

Steve’s stunned.

             STEVE
      Listen, Mr. Shaw --

             SHAW
      Good evening, gentlemen.

Shaw turns away, conversation over. He pours another drink, 
sinks into a chair. Steve and Carl go to leave. Steve stops 
at the door, turns back to Shaw.

             STEVE
      This might look like some dumb 
      monster movie, Mr. Shaw. And I may 
      look like a kid fresh out of film 
      school. But mark my words, what we 
      do here is gonna change the 
      industry forever. You can be part 
      of that, or live with regret for 
      the rest of your life.

Steve and Carl exit. Shaw has a strange look about him. He 
drains his whiskey, pours another.

EXT. VIVIAN BEAUMONT THEATER - MOMENTS LATER

Steve and Carl emerge from the theater.

             CARL
      Guy’s a real charmer.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Pitch-black. The shrill ring of a telephone. Steve fumbles in 
the dark for the receiver, answers.

                                      42.

             STEVE
      It’s three in the morning.

             DICK
	(V.O.)
      Shaw’s in.

Steve sits up in bed, turns on the light.

             STEVE
      Are you sure about this?

             DICK
	(V.O.)
      His agent just called. You’ve got 
      your cast, kid.

The phone goes dead.

EXT. MARTHA’S VINEYARD - DAY

Picturesque, unspoiled. Victorian gingerbread houses, quiet 
streets, not a McDonald’s in sight.

BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Joe and Steve tour around the island’s beautiful coastline. 
Steve takes in the scene.

             JOE
      Twenty-five feet down to a sandy 
      bottom, sheltered bays giving us an 
      unbroken horizon with no land in 
      sight, manageable tides, all within 
      forty-five minutes of hotels that 
      can house a hundred crew.

Steve gazes at the coastline, speckled with fishing villages 
and New England clapboard houses.

             STEVE
      This is it. This is Amity.

Relief washes over Joe. They’ve found their location!

             JOE
      There’s one more thing to see.

EXT. SHIPYARD - EVENING

Steve stares at a 42-foot lobster boat sitting in the dock. 
The name “Warlock” is painted on its stern.

                                      43.

             STEVE
      What am I looking at?

             JOE
      You don’t see it? It’s the Orca.
        (reverential)
      This is Quint’s boat.

Steve stares quizzically at the mint-condition boat, trying 
to picture it as the shark hunter’s grimy vessel.

             STEVE
      Nothing a few coats of blood and 
      fish guts won’t fix.

EXT. LOT, SAN FERNANDO VALLEY - DAY

Sun beats down on a dirt lot, home to a huge warehouse. Cars 
parked outside, including Steve’s Mercedes.

INT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Steve stands in the cavernous space with George Lucas, John 
Milius and Brian De Palma, staring up at a 25-foot shark with 
a creamy yellow plastic exterior mounted on scaffolding above 
them. Bob Mattey talks them through his creation.

             BOB
      Neoprene foam cells, non-absorbent, 
      with a polyurethane skin and nylon 
      stretch material. Tubular steel 
      skeleton, flexible joints, thirty 
      pneumatic rams driving the moving 
      parts. We haven’t painted yet, on 
      account of wanting to get the mix 
      right -- shark skin has a texture 
      like a cat’s tongue, so we’ll sand-
      blast between layers to create the 
      right look and make sure water 
      doesn’t bead unrealistically.

Bob hits a switch on a control panel and the shark’s jaws 
grind open and closed like an outsized bear trap.

             BOB
      Well, what do you think?

                                      44.

Steve stares at the monster, lost for words. Bob smiles.

             BOB
      I’ll give you boys a moment.

Bob exits the warehouse, leaving the guys alone. De Palma 
gazes up at the shark.

             DE PALMA
      This is, without doubt, the most 
      ridiculous thing I’ve ever seen.

Steve’s stunned.

             STEVE
      What’s wrong with it?

             MILIUS
      They’ve overdone it, Stevie. It’s 
      totally unrealistic, we’re like 
      human tacos to that thing.

             STEVE
      No they haven’t, the ichthyologist 
      said this is exactly what it would 
      look like!

             DE PALMA
      Ichthy-whatever-the-fuck, it looks 
      totally fake. Sorry, pal.

Steve’s heart sinks. De Palma and Milius walk out of the 
warehouse, leaving Steve and George alone. George climbs the 
ladder to get a better look, peers into the shark’s mouth.

             GEORGE
      Hey, you gotta check this out! You 
      can see the pistons!

Steve gets an idea. He races to the control panel and hits a 
switch, causing the shark’s jaws to close on George.

             GEORGE
      Aaaarrrgggh, it’s got me!

George’s exposed feet kick like crazy, hanging comically out 
of the shark’s mouth. Steve laughs hysterically.

             GEORGE
      C’mon Steve, lemme outta here!

             STEVE
      Okay, okay, relax.

                                      45.

Steve flips the switch to open the mouth. Nothing.

             GEORGE
      Open it, these rubber teeth hurt!

Steve flips the switch again, but the shark’s jaws remain 
clamped stubbornly shut.

             STEVE
      I think it’s broken!

             GEORGE
      What?!

Steve races up the ladder and grabs George’s legs, trying to 
pull him out of the mouth. The shark seems to be watching, 
black eyes staring stubbornly at Steve.

             GEORGE
      Help! HELP!

Steve tugs. George kicks. The shark stares, defiant. An 
almighty struggle and George finally breaks free. They tumble 
down the ladder, collapsing to the floor.

Steve and George look at each other in shock, then up at the 
shark. It looks like it’s smiling at them.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Bob sits in a deck chair, basking in the sun. He startles as 
Steve and George bolt out of the warehouse and leap into 
Steve’s Mercedes.

             STEVE
      Gotta run, Bob. Great job!

Steve fires up the car’s engine.

             GEORGE
      Let’s hope it works better on set.

They peel out in a cloud of dust.

EXT. FERRY - DAY

Crossing the narrow stretch of Nantucket Sound separating 
Massachusetts mainland from Martha’s Vineyard.

Steve stands on the bow, watching the island come into view.

                                      46.

EXT. EDGARTOWN, MARTHA’S VINEYARD - DAY

Seaport village with stately white houses and quiet streets.

INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Jaws HQ. CREW MEMBERS install desks, phones and Xerox 
machines; walls are covered in maps of the island, locations 
circled in red marker, pins stuck everywhere.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Steve and Joe hang a small sign over the porch, a tastefully 
painted set of shark jaws and the text:

“JAWS” PRODUCTION OFFICE, A 
ZANUCK/BROWN COMPANY, FOR UNIVERSAL 
STUDIOS

They stare up at it proudly.

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      That’s a zoning violation.

Steve and Joe turn to see a local SELECTMAN, full of self-
importance, watching from the street.

             JOE
      Sorry?

             SELECTMAN
      That sign. Remove it immediately, 
      or you’ll be shut you down for non-
      conformity use.

Steve and Joe glance up at the tiny, unobtrusive sign.

             STEVE
      Are you being serious?

             SELECTMAN
      No, this is me joking. Take the 
      damn thing down.

Joe shakes his head, takes the sign down. The selectman 
struts off, order restored in his tiny world.

             JOE
      That’s some welcome party.

Steve watches the selectman walk away and realizes in that 
moment: they’re in alien territory, here.

                                      47.

EXT. LOG CABIN - NIGHT

A large log cabin at the end of a private road, on a knoll 
overlooking the ocean.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Carl sets up his typewriter in a corner of the room, starts 
tacking scene cards up on the walls.

INT. VERNA’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Verna watches like a hawk as two CREW MEMBERS sets up an 
editing table and mounted projector.

INT. DINING ROOM - LATER

Steve, Joe, Carl, Verna, Roy and Ricky at the dinner table, 
eating a feast of broiled lobster. Ricky’s grown a beard and 
has transformed into Hooper; Roy’s super-relaxed.

Steve takes in the team he’ll rely on in the coming months. 
He’s feeling good, full of confidence.

             STEVE
      Fifty-five days, guys. Fifty-five 
      days that’ll change everything.

             RICKY
      Let’s hope for the better.

             ROY
      What’s that supposed to mean?

             RICKY
      I thought Duddy Kravitz would be a 
      hit. You never can tell.

Roy considers this, shrugs.

             ROY
      Duddy Kravitz didn’t have a twenty-
      five-foot killer shark.

They eat in silence, warriors gorging on the eve of battle.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Carl at the typewriter, hammering away. Steve sits in a chair 
nearby, reading pages and making notes.

                                      48.

The telephone rings; Steve answers.

             STEVE
      This is Steve.

INT. DICK’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Dick sits at his desk on the phone.

             DICK
      You ready for this, kid?

INTERCUT AS NECESSARY

             STEVE
      Ready as I’ll ever be.

             DICK
      Good. Coz DoubleDay paid half a 
      million for the paperback rights, 
      meaning our little monster flick 
      just shot up the studio’s agenda. 
      Don’t screw this up, kid.

             STEVE
      Is that your idea of a pep talk?

Dick smiles, hangs up. Steve goes back to work.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

SUPER: DAY 1 OF PRINCIPLE PHOTOGRAPHY

Cameras roll. Roy (playing Chief Brody) discovers a severed 
arm on the beach. The arm belongs to a YOUNG WOMAN buried in 
the sand out of shot, looking very uncomfortable.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      Cut!

Steve marches over, examines the scene. Dozens of tiny crabs 
stand around the young woman’s arm, motionless, tiny pincers 
wavering defiantly above their heads.

             STEVE
      The crabs aren’t moving.

             ROY
      Must be with the union.

CREW MEMBERS snigger. Steve snatches a cup of coffee from a 
SOUNDMAN and tips it onto the crabs, sending them scuttling 
and burning the woman’s hand.

                                      49.

             YOUNG WOMAN
	(O.S.)
      Ow!

Steve walks out of shot, all business.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      And... action!

MONTAGE - VARIOUS

The Hollywood circus moves from one location to another, 
shooting scene after scene. Crowds of LOCALS gather at every 
point, watching in endless fascination.

SUPER: DAY 4... DAY 7... DAY 11...

Every night, Steve and team sit around the dinner table, 
discussing story beats; after coffee and desert, Carl goes to 
the typewriter to thrash out the next day’s scenes.

Steve crawls out of bed every morning at dawn, grabs a flask 
of hot tea, and heads outside to the veranda to read the 
latest script pages.

EXT. BOATYARD - DAY

SUPER: DAY 14

An angry mob of EXTRAS dressed as fishermen descend on the 
boatyard and take to the seas to hunt the shark.

Steve makes them go again and again, relentless in his quest 
for the perfect shot.

SPEEDBOAT - LATER

A frustrated FISHERMAN attempts to teach Ricky to bring a 
speedboat into the dock. Ricky keeps misjudging it, slamming 
the boat’s nose into the dock.

WATCHING FROM THE BOATYARD

Two bemused LOCALS watch, shaking their heads.

             LOCAL #1
      Hollywood sure can’t handle boats.

                                      50.

             LOCAL #2
      He seemed much smarter in American 
      Graffiti.

SPEEDBOAT - MOMENTS LATER

The fisherman watches Ricky closely, issues instructions.

             FISHERMAN
      Easy, now... easy... easy...

The speedboat slams into the dock, splintering wood.

             RICKY
      FUCK!

             FISHERMAN
      Okay, let’s try her again.

Ricky spots a MYSTERY MAN watching from the boatyard. It 
looks a little like Robert Shaw, if Robert Shaw lay in the 
sun for days on end, festering in his own filth.

The mystery man shakes his head, stalks off.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve and team eat another magnificent feast. Ricky has 
something on his mind, finally speaks.

             RICKY
      Is Robert Shaw on the island?

             STEVE
      Arrived a few days ago. Why?

             RICKY
      I saw him at the boatyard today. 
      You guys ever catch him in 
      Saville’s Hamlet? Best Claudius 
      ever, un-fucking-believable --
        (off Verna’s look)
      Sorry, Vern.
        (then)
      What’s he like?

Steve and Carl exchange a look. Ricky catches it.

             STEVE
      Shaw? He’s... interesting.

                                      51.

             RICKY
      Interesting, how?

The household COOK enters, clears the plates.

             COOK
      Who’s up for lemon cream pie? It’s 
      my speciality.

             VERNA
      There goes my cholesterol.

The cook exits. Ricky stares at Steve and Carl, waiting.

             RICKY
      Interesting -- how?

The cook returns with the pie. Steve and Carl fill their 
mouths with pie to avoid speaking. Ricky watches them eat, 
growing increasingly suspicious.

EXT. TOWN HALL - DAY

SUPER: DAY 17

Main Street jammed with trucks. CREW MEMBERS and LOCALS 
loiter around, drinking coffee.

INT. TOWN HALL - CONTINUOUS

The scene where the Amity Islanders announce the bounty on 
the shark that killed the Kintner boy. Roy’s in the scene 
with other ACTORS; Ricky’s watching in the background.

             STEVE
      And... action!

The actors erupt in argument, shouting over one another... 
the chilling sound of nails on chalkboard. 

Everyone turns to see Robert Shaw: thick mustache, side 
burns, weatherbeaten skin, oozing menace. His piercing blue 
eyes scan the room.

Steve and Ricky watch behind the cameras, mesmerized.

MOMENTS LATER

Shaw slimes out. Stunned silence as everyone temporarily 
forgets what they’re doing.

                                      52.

             STEVE
      Cut! That’s a print, people!

Spontaneous applause breaks out, everyone showing their 
appreciation for the masterful performance. The only person 
not applauding is Ricky, who looks utterly terrified.

EXT. FISHING VILLAGE - DAY

Insufferably quaint, backed by a hill encrusted with summer 
cottages. You’ve seen this place on postcards.

EXT. DESERTED LOT - CONTINUOUS

CREW MEMBERS carrying planks of wood as Steve and Joe oversee 
the construction of Quint’s home.

             JOE
      Right here, this is where we’ll 
      drive the piles in to support the 
      main structure.

The same selectman we met earlier approaches.

             SELECTMAN
      What the hell’s going on here?!

             JOE
      We’re building a set, we’ve got all 
      the necessary permits.

Joe hands the selectman reams of paperwork. He scans the 
documents, hands them back.

             SELECTMAN
      You wanna build, you gotta adhere 
      to local construction codes.

             JOE
      What codes?

             SELECTMAN
      First, you gotta lay a concrete 
      foundation. Then you gotta double-
      sheath the walls and flooring, put 
      all electrical connections in a 
      metal conduit, and connect all the 
      sewage and waste lines.

             STEVE
      But it’s just a set, it’ll only be 
      up for a couple of days!

                                      53.

             SELECTMAN
      I don’t give a rat-crap how long 
      it’ll be up for, the law’s the law. 
      And you gotta restore the lot to 
      its original condition when you’re 
      done, including all contents.

Steve looks around. The lot’s empty, but for paper cups and 
candy wrappers scattered around.

             STEVE
      It’s empty.

             SELECTMAN
        (points at the ground)
      What the hell do you call that?

             JOE
      You want the trash back?!

             SELECTMAN
      Original. Condition.

Steve thinks fast, turns to the selectman.

             STEVE
      Out of interest, what happens if we 
      don’t lay the foundation?

             SELECTMAN
      We’ll get a court order, tear the 
      damn thing down.

             STEVE
      How long does that usually take?

             SELECTMAN
      Six weeks, maybe less. We can move 
      pretty fast when we need to.

Steve turns to Joe, mischievous glint in his eyes.

             STEVE
      Screw the code. Build it.

             JOE
        (beat, smiles)
      Okay boys, let’s do this!

The crew go to work. The selectman storms off, furious.

             JOE
      Make sure you keep the trash boys, 
      the gentleman wants it back.

EXT. LOT - DAWN

Ricky crosses the lot to a small trailer, knocks on the door.

                                      54.

             VOICE
	(O.S.)
      Come.

INT. TRAILER - CONTINUOUS

Ricky enters to find Shaw reading script pages, drinking what 
looks to be his fourth martini.

             RICKY
      Mr. Shaw? Ricky Dreyfuss, pleasure 
      to finally meet you.

Ricky extends a hand. Shaw reluntantly shakes. Ricky’s thrown 
by how huge Shaw’s hand is, swallowing his own.

             RICKY
      I’m excited we’re working together. 
      I gotta say, your Claudius was the 
      best I’ve ever seen.

             SHAW
      How many have you seen?

             RICKY
        (taken aback)
      Uh... sorry?

             SHAW
      How many actors have you seen play 
      Claudius?

             RICKY
      Well, I guess... four or five?

             SHAW
      I’ve seen sixteen.

Shaw drains his martini, goes back to reading. Ricky stands 
there, unsure what just happened. Exits.

INT. QUINT’S HOME - DAY

SUPER: DAY 27

A grimey slum, fit for a hunter. Shaw boils shark jaws in a 
pot, hands covered in blood as he bullies Ricky relentlessly 
in another virtuoso performance. Steve watches from behind 
the cameras and knows he’s capturing pure gold. 

                                      55.

             STEVE
      Cut! Robert, that was incredible!

Shaw looks at Steve, turns to nearby CREW MEMBERS.

             SHAW
      Somebody get this boy some milk and 
      cookies, he looks famished.

Shaw ruffles Steve’s hair, exits. The crew snigger.

EXT. LOT - MOMENTS LATER

Shaw works his way through a six-pack of beers between takes. 
Ricky spots him, walks over.

             RICKY
      You’ve really got this guy down. 
      You use any special techniques to 
      get into character?

Shaw holds up a huge hand, still slick with fake blood.

             SHAW
      “What if this cursed hand
      Were thicker than itself with 
      brother’s blood?
      Is there not rain enough in the 
      sweet heavens
      To wash it white as snow?”

Shaw crushes his beer can, stalks off. Ricky realizes.

             RICKY
        (under his breath)
      Claudius. Mother-fucker.

EXT. LOT - EVENING

CREW MEMBERS dismantle Quint’s home, returning the lot to its 
original condition. Including the trash.

EXT. LOT - NIGHT

Joe watches as the selectman inspects the empty lot. The 
selectman picks a candy wrapper up off the ground and stares 
at it closely, like a detective examining evidence.

The selectman discards the wrapper and picks up a styrofoam 
cup next. Joe shakes his head in disbelief.

INT. VERNA’S ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Verna edits footage as Steve watches over her shoulder. The 
scenes between Shaw and Ricky sizzle.

                                      56.

             STEVE
      Well, Vern, what do you think? It’s 
      something, right?

             VERNA
      I think you need that shark, Stevie 
      -- because I’m running out of stuff 
      to work with here.

EXT. FERRY - DAY

A passenger ferry approaches Martha’s Vineyard. TWO KIDS 
standing on the deck suddenly burst into tears. Their MOTHER 
rushes over to see what’s wrong.

             MOTHER
      Hey there, what’s the matter --

A 25-foot monster shark sitting on a barge is towed past the 
ferry at eye-level, tarpaulin flapping off its huge body.

The mother gasps, covers her children’s eyes.

EXT. HARBOR - DAY

A disused boat shed sports a crudely painted sign outside:

      SHARK CITY - NO ADMITTANCE!

INT. SHARK CITY - CONTINUOUS

Bob Mattey watches proudly as Steve and Joe examine the now-
painted shark. It looks totally freaking awesome.

             STEVE
      You’ve tested it in the water?

             BOB
      Of course, works perfectly!

Steve gazes lovingly at the star of his movie.

             STEVE
      You ready for the camera, big guy?

The shark stares back at Steve with cold, black eyes.

                                      57.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve, Joe, Carl, Verna, Roy, Ricky and Shaw eat another 
magnificent feast. Ricky steals glances at Shaw, who doesn’t 
acknowledge his existence. Steve raises his glass.

             STEVE
      Three weeks to go, fellas. We’re 
      right on schedule. Here’s to making 
      a primal scream.

Glasses clink around the table. Ricky goes to cheers Shaw, 
but Shaw drains his drink. Steve notices.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 35

A heroic tug boat tows a huge steel construction on flotation 
tanks two miles off the coast of Martha’s Vineyard, to a 
designated spot marked by buoys.

We recognize it from Bob Mattey’s model earlier, a steel 
platform with a crane-like arm attached, but in reality it’s 
frighteningly big and looks very unwieldy.

MOMENTS LATER

RIGGERS and DIVERS let the air out of the flotation tanks. 
The colossal steel structure sinks precariously, leaving only 
the crane-like arm above the water’s surface.

MOMENTS LATER

The Hollywood armada arrives.

There’s the Orca, the rusty centerpiece of the ensemble; 
camera boats; a barge carrying lights, reflectors and cables, 
and a fleet of smaller vessels ferrying CREW MEMBERS.

Finally, a barge arrives carrying a very special cargo 
concealed beneath a black plastic roof. The plastic is pulled 
back to reveal the shark sitting in a cradle, like a 
dangerous prisoner trapped in a barred cell.

SPEEDBOAT - CONTINUOUS

Steve and Joe arrive at the location. Steve takes in the 
sheer scale of the operation for the first time.

                                      58.

             STEVE
      Jesus... this thing is huge.

The shark’s cradle is lifted by crane, and the shark fastened 
to the mechanical arm jutting out of the sea.

The boats are anchored. Crew members board the Orca to set up 
the shot. The electric barge moves in, aiming lights and 
reflectors at the Orca. Steve boards the camera boat, which 
moves into position ready to get the shot.

The mechanical arm lowers the shark into the water, and the 
beast disappears beneath the murky surface.

ORCA - MOMENTS LATER

Ricky and Shaw take their positions.

Roy heads to the stern where a bucket of chum awaits, an oily 
mix of blood and fish guts stagnating in the sun.

             ROY
      I get all the fun jobs, huh?

CAMERA BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Steve gets the signal, the actors are in position.

             STEVE
      And... action!

ORCA

Roy lifts the bucket and starts hurling chum into the water, 
a lit cigarette dangling from his lips.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      Cue the shark!

CAMERA BOAT

Steve stares expectantly at the water, waiting for the star 
of his movie to break its surface. Nothing.

             STEVE
      Cut! Okay, let’s try that again.
        (then)
      And... action!

                                      59.

ORCA

Roy shovels stinky chum into the sea.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      Cue the shark!

CAMERA BOAT

Steve watches the water’s surface. No shark. A tinny voice 
crackles through a nearby radio:

             RADIO
      The shark is not working. Repeat, 
      the shark is not working.

UNDERWATER - MOMENTS LATER

A team of DIVERS swim through the murky water, racing towards 
the ocean floor.

They nearly have a heart attack when they catch first sight 
of the monster lying limply on the seabed.

INT. SHARK CITY - NIGHT

The shark is mounted on tracks. A side panel is removed, 
revealing the multicolored hoses and pneumatic compressors 
inside. Bob runs various tests as Steve and Joe watch.

             BOB
      Seems to be working just fine now. 
      We’ll run some more tests through 
      the night, just to be sure.

Steve and Joe look relieved, walk out.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 36

The steel platform is towed back out to its designated spot, 
and sunk. The shark is hoisted by crane and affixed to the 
mechanical arm. It goes into the water.

CAMERA BOAT - LATER

Steve hangs around, waiting. He uses a two-way radio.

                                      60.

             STEVE
      How are we looking, Bob?

A tinny voice crackles back through the radio:

             BOB
	(V.O.)
      Few technical problems, shouldn’t 
      be too much longer.

INT. ORCA - LATER

Ricky waits for the restroom. A flush, then Shaw emerges. 
Ricky’s instantly hit by the foul stench.

             SHAW
        (doing Claudius again)
      “O, my offence is rank, it smells 
      to heaven.”

Shaw holds the door open for Ricky, smiling. Ricky holds his 
breath, enters. Shaw saunters off, singing to himself.

             SHAW
      Farewell and adieu to you fair 
      Spanish ladies... farewell and 
      adieu to you ladies of Spain...

ORCA - MOMENTS LATER

Ricky emerges from the cabin, ghostly pale. He glares at 
Shaw, drinking a beer on the stern. Shaw raises his beer to 
Ricky in a cheers gesture.

             RICKY
        (under his breath)
      Motherfucker.

From the camera boat, anchored a few feet from the Orca:

             STEVE
      Okay, places everybody!

The actors take their positions. Ricky focuses, prepares to 
deliver his line.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      And...

             SHAW
      Mind your mannerisms, Mr. Hooper.

Ricky startles, his concentration broken.

                                      61.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      ... action!

CAMERA BOAT

Steve watches the water expectantly. Nothing. A tiny voice 
crackles through a nearby radio:

             RADIO
      The shark is not working. Repeat, 
      the shark is not working.

INT. SHARK CITY - NIGHT

The shark’s jaws crank open, sending gallons of seawater 
gushing onto the floor including several flapping fish. Steve 
and Joe watch nervously, awaiting Bob’s diagnosis.

             BOB
      The rig could’ve got damaged in 
      transit, messing up the hydraulics. 
      That’s a relatively easy fix; the 
      other scenario’s a little trickier.

             JOE
      What “other scenario”?

             BOB
      The circuitry might have fried when 
      we put him in the water.

Steve and Joe exchange shocked looks.

             STEVE
      I thought you tested it?!

             BOB
      We did, in a studio tank. Salt 
      water’s a little different.

             JOE
        (to himself)
      Oh man, this is so bad...

             BOB
      Don’t worry! We’ll work through the 
      night, fix him right up.

Steve stares into the shark’s gaping mouth. A few remaining 
fish flap about inside, gills puffing open, slowly dying. He 
turns back to Bob with newfound suspicion.

                                      62.

             STEVE
      You can do this, right, Bob?

Bob smiles reassuringly.

             BOB
      It’s the movies, we can do 
      anything!

For the briefest second, Steve thinks he sees a malevolent 
twinkle in the old man’s bespectacled eyes.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve and the team eat dinner. Shaw’s noticeably absent.

             RICKY
      So, what’s up with Shaw?

             STEVE
      He doesn’t have to eat with us.

             RICKY
      I’m not talking about his dining 
      habits. I’m talking about the fact 
      that he’s a fucking asshole.

Verna shoots Ricky a stern look. Ricky’s indignant.

             STEVE
      Is there a problem between you?

             RICKY
      He’s the one with the problem. 
      Keeps quoting Hamlet at me, trying 
      to get me all riled up.

             ROY
      You don’t like Hamlet?

             RICKY
      The guy’s got issues, beyond the 
      four martinis he puts away before 
      breakfast. He’s unhinged.

Steve knows he has to act quickly.

             STEVE
      Maybe it’s deliberate? The on-
      screen tension between you guys is 
      phenomenal. It’s elevating this to 
      a genuine character piece.

Ricky’s taken aback, clearly hadn’t considered this. He’s 
about to speak, then goes back to eating.

Steve doesn’t notice Roy, who looks a little put out.

                                      63.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 42

The armada takes to the seas. The shark barge arrives, black 
plastic roof concealing the reluctant monster beneath.

INT. SHARK BARGE - MOMENTS LATER

The shark sits in its cradle. Bob fiddles with the control 
deck. Steve boards the barge, approaches.

             STEVE
      Big day today, Bob. You’re sure 
      it’s gonna work?

             BOB
      Don’t worry! There’s always a few 
      little kinks with this sorta thing, 
      we’ve got it under control.

             STEVE
        (suspicious)
      Right. A few kinks.

SPEEDBOAT - MOMENTS LATER

Dick and David approach the colossal fleet sitting in the 
middle of the Nantucket Sound.

             DAVID
      That’s some operation.

             DICK
      Thirty grand a day, it’d better be.

CAMERA BOAT - MOMENTS LATER

Dick, David and Steve watch as the shark is hoisted through 
the air by crane and attached to the mechanical arm.

             DAVID
      Well, would you look at that?

             DICK
      Tell me about it. This Bob Mattey’s 
      really something, ain’t he?

                                      64.

Steve smiles nervously.

             STEVE
      He sure is.

ORCA - MOMENTS LATER

The actors take their positions.

CAMERA BOAT

Steve gets the signal. The air is thick with anticipation. He 
grabs a bull horn, speaks into it:

             STEVE
      And... action!

ORCA

Shaw races to the bowsprit of the Orca, rifle in hand. He 
aims the rifle at the rippling ocean, waiting...

A huge conical head breaks the water’s surface, red mouth 
gaping. The shark is working!

CAMERA BOAT

Steve’s heart lifts... then he notices something strange 
about the monster in the water.

             DICK
      What the hell’s that?

             DAVID
        (stands, looks)
      It looks like a dimple.

True enough, the shark has an enormous dimple in its chin 
that makes it look more funny than frightening. Steve visibly 
deflates. David notices, tries to comfort him.

             DAVID
      It’s... very frightening.

                                      65.

ORCA

Ricky, Roy and Shaw stare at the gormless, dimpled shark 
bobbing up and down in the water.

             RICKY
      If we had any sense, we’d all bail 
      out now.

INT. SHARK CITY - NIGHT

The shark is mounted on tracks, dripping wet. Steve and Joe 
watch Bob examine the huge dimple in its chin.

             BOB
      We must’ve put him into the dive 
      early, hit the platform.

             STEVE
      How long will it take to fix?

             BOB
      Couple of days ought to do. It’s 
      just like popping out a fender.

Steve stares at the monster, increasingly worried.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve, Dick and David at the dinner table.

             DAVID
      How much do we have?

             STEVE
      We’ve got all the land scenes.

             DICK
      We don’t have any shark?!

             STEVE
      We’ll get back on track. There’s 
      always a few little kinks with this 
      sort of thing.

             DICK
      We’re not doubting your abilities 
      kid, it’s the union we’re worried 
      about! A strike could kill us.

                                      66.

             DAVID
      And there’s the budget to consider. 
      Tourist season’s started, the cost 
      of filming here will sky-rocket.

Steve feels their confidence slipping away by the second. He 
knows he has to act quickly to smooth things over.

             STEVE
      I want to show you something.

INT. VERNA’S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Steve, Dick and David watch as Verna runs scenes between Shaw 
and Ricky on the editing table’s projector.

             DAVID
      That man is one hell of an actor.

             DICK
      I’ll say. You really believe he 
      hates the kid, right?

Steve smiles uncomfortably.

             STEVE
      Uh, yeah. Hell of an actor.

The footage on the projector ends. Dick and David stare at 
Steve proudly, seek to reassure him.

             DAVID
      We’ll talk to the studio.

They go to leave. Dick’s struck by an idea.

             DICK
      You know, Benchley’s here next 
      week. He’s a little put out at some 
      of your comments about the book. 
      How about giving him a small cameo 
      to patch things up? Could be some 
      good PR in it for us.

             STEVE
      Sure thing, Dick. Great idea.

Dick clamps a hand on Steve’s shoulder.

             DICK
      Keep up the good work, kid.

                                      67.

Dick and David exit. Steve breathes a sigh of relief, then 
notices Verna staring at him in judgement.

             VERNA
      So when do I get some shark footage 
      to work with, huh?

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Steve and Carl hatch a new plan.

             STEVE
      The shark’s out of commission for a 
      few days, and this place is 
      crawling with tourists. Let’s turn 
      this situation to our advantage.

             CARL
      You mean... the beach scene?

Steve smiles. Joe enters, looks worried.

             JOE
      We just got the film tests back 
      from the lab. The shark’s teeth are 
      too white.

Steve takes a deep breath, maintains his composure.

             STEVE
      Tell Bob to fix the teeth whilst 
      he’s doing the dimple.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

FOUR HUNDRED EXTRAS run out of the water on cue, screaming 
their lungs out, trampling each other. Steve coordinates the 
huge operation with calm focus, take after take.

A small biplane flies over the beach, trailing a banner with 
the DoubleDay logo and the text:

      GOING SWIMMING? READ “JAWS” FIRST!

MOMENTS LATER

Steve chats to enthusiastic LOCALS between takes, many of 
whom are wearing Jaws T-shirts. Roy approaches.

             ROY
      Steve, you got a second?

They walk off together.

                                      68.

             ROY
      You think Brody’s too boring?

             STEVE
        (beat, taken aback)
      What makes you say that?

             ROY
      That stuff you said at dinner, 
      about the chemistry between Ricky 
      and Robert. I just don’t wanna be 
      the straight man, I’m supposed to 
      be the star of this movie.

             STEVE
      Trust me, Roy. Carl’s got a new 
      ending that’ll make Brody look like 
      Dirty Harry. Don’t worry.

Roy breaks into a big grin.

             ROY
      Sounds great! Thanks, Steve.

Roy walks off, back to his easygoing self. For the briefest 
second, Steve looks to be showing the strain.

LATER

Peter Benchley, playing the part of a reporter, holds a 
microphone and talks to a camera.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      Cut!

Steve walks up, claps a hand on Peter’s shoulder.

             STEVE
      Pete, you’re a natural!

             PETER
      It’s Peter. And thank you.

Steve takes Peter aside.

             STEVE
      I want to run something by you. 
      It’s about the ending.

             PETER
      Oh? What about it?

                                      69.

             STEVE
      The book’s ending is a real downer. 
      The shark gets tangled up in the 
      boat and drowns. It’s not dramatic, 
      and I need a big finish.

Peter’s clearly offended, but Steve doesn’t notice.

             PETER
      That’s a little harsh, but you’re 
      entitled to your opinion. What do 
      you propose instead?

             STEVE
      Brody shoves a tank of compressed 
      air in the shark’s mouth and shoots 
      it with a rifle, blowing it up.

Beat as Peter considers this, then:

             PETER
      That is the most preposterous thing 
      I’ve ever heard.

             STEVE
      Sure, but do you think it’s a good 
      ending for the movie?

             PETER
      It’s absurd, Steven! Nobody will 
      ever believe it.

             STEVE
      If I’ve got them for two hours, 
      they’ll believe anything for those 
      two minutes. I want the audience on 
      their feet screaming, “Yes! This is 
      what this monster deserves!”

Peter shakes his head, realizes the futility of it.

             PETER
      It’s your movie.

             STEVE
      Thanks, Pete. Your opinion really 
      means a lot to me.

Steve walks off. Peter bristles.

LATER

Steve sits opposite a REPORTER, doing an interview.

             REPORTER
      How faithful is the movie to 
      Benchley’s novel?

             STEVE
      Our characters are much more 
      likeable. The book’s characters, 
      you’re practically rooting for them 
      to get eaten one by one. Oh, and 
      the ending! Our ending will be much 
      bigger -- more dramatic.

                                      70.

                                  CUT TO:

The same reporter, now interviewing Peter Benchley.

             REPORTER
      Spielberg says your book’s a piece 
      of shit, and the characters suck.

The words cut Peter like a knife.

             PETER
      Spielberg is a twenty-six year old 
      kid who learned about life from 
      watching movies. He knows, flatly, 
      nothing about character. Mark my 
      words, one day Steven Spielberg 
      will be known as the most famous 
      second-unit director in America.

INT. SID’S OFFICE, UNIVERSAL TOWERS - DAY

Dick and David sit opposite Sid Sheinberg and Ned Tanen. You 
could cut the tension in the air with a knife.

             DICK
      He really said that?

Ned tosses Dick a newspaper.

             NED
      You got any idea how embarrassing 
      this is for the studio, having our 
      director and author bad-mouthing 
      each other in the newspapers?

             DAVID
      We’ll fix it, Ned.

                                      71.

             NED
      Bet your ass you’re gonna fix it! 
      And what’s this crap I hear about 
      the shark not working? How the hell 
      are we gonna make a monster movie 
      without a goddamn monster?!

Dick and David shift uncomfortably.

             NED
      You pushed for the kid. You better 
      pray he can handle this.

Ned storms out. Dick and David look shellshocked.

             SID
      So, how’s it going out there?

             DICK/DAVID
      A few kinks.

             SID
      Kinks, or dimples?

Dick and David shoot each other a concerned look.

             DICK
      Listen, Sid --

             SID
      Relax, Dick. The Guild signed the 
      new contract last night.

             DICK
      You mean... no strike?

             SID
      We just bought ourselves a stay of 
      execution, gentlemen.

Relief washes through Dick and David.

             DICK
      That’s fantastic news, Sid!

             DAVID
      Now we can finish this picture 
      without the sword of Damacles 
      hanging over our heads.

Dick and David go to leave.

                                      72.

             SID
      Remember the Universal way? On 
      time, and in budget.
        (then)
      Get it under control.

Dick and David nod, exit.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 52

The steel platform is sunk. The shark goes into the water. 
The boats are moved into position and anchored.

CAMERA BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Steve gets the nod, everything is in place.

             STEVE
      And... action!

Steve spots a series of white dots on the horizon.

             STEVE
      Cut! What the hell’s that?

A HIRED HAND looks up.

             HIRED HAND
      Sailboat season’s started.

The white dots blossom into sailboats before Steve’s eyes.

             STEVE
      We can’t have other boats in shot, 
      the Orca’s gotta look completely 
      isolated out here!

             JOE
      Are there gonna be many more?

             HIRED HAND
      You kidding? It’s the Americas Cup, 
      we’re in the base leg of the 
      Nantucket to Cape Cod run here.

Joe simmers.

             JOE
      Of course we are.

MOMENTS LATER

The sailboats encircle the Hollywood fleet, SAILORS onboard 
taking a good look at the curious spectacle.

                                      73.

             STEVE
      Mind staying out of shot, fellas? 
      We’re trying to shoot a movie here!

             SAILOR #1
      You don’t own the ocean, pal!

             SAILOR #2
      Fuck off back to Hollywood!

Steve smiles, waves.

             STEVE
      Thanks, fellas. Appreciate it.

CAMERA BOAT - LATER

Steve and team wait for the sailboats to pass. There are 
dozens of them, all around.

LATER

The last of the sailboats finally disappears... just as the 
sun sinks below the horizon.

             STEVE
      That’s it for today, fellas.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 59

The Hollywood armada sits in the Nantucket Sound, bobbing up 
and down on the waves. Sailboats everywhere.

INT. CABIN, ORCA - CONTINUOUS

Ricky enters the cabin, where sandwiches have been laid out 
on the table. He picks one up, starts eating.

Shaw enters. He picks up a sandwich and stuffs it into his 
mouth, eyes fixed on Ricky as he chews and swallows.

Ricky takes another sandwich, eating quickly. Shaw responds, 
picking up another and devouring it.

                                      74.

Both men start jamming sandwiches into their mouths, chewing 
as fast as they can in a truly bizarre display of machismo. 
Ricky starts choking, coughing up doughy clumps.

Shaw smiles victoriously. He walks out, whistling.

CAMERA BOAT - LATER

The sailboats finally clear. Steve springs into action.

             STEVE
      Okay, let’s do this!

The shark goes into the water. Steve gets the signal.

             STEVE
      And... action!

The shark surges out of the water like a monster from hell... 
and remains stuck there, hanging in midair.

             STEVE
      God damn it!

The familiar voice crackles through a nearby radio:

             RADIO
      The shark is not working. Repeat, 
      the shark is not working.

Steve grabs the radio, furious.

             STEVE
      C’mon, Bob! We gotta get it working 
      before the sailboats...
        (notices)
      ... come...
        (flat)
      ... back.

The sailboats are back in view.

ORCA - LATER

Steve sits alone on the bowsprit. The sailboats fade away, 
along with the last rays of daylight.

             STEVE
      That’s it for today, fellas.

                                      75.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 65

Hollywood all at sea. Sailboats everywhere.

Crew members hang around on the boats, bored. A golf ball 
whizzes by, sailing into the ocean.

ORCA - CONTINUOUS

Steve and actors tee off on the stern. Ricky’s up, sends a 
golf ball soaring into the sea.

             STEVE
      Nice shot, Ricky!

             RICKY
      Used to caddy for my old man.

Ricky hands the club to Shaw. Shaw drops a ball on the deck 
and casually wallops it twice as far as Ricky’s.

             STEVE
      Whoa.

Shaw hands back the club back to Ricky, smiling.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 71

The crew continue to wait for the sailboats to pass. They’re 
growing increasingly restless, frustrated.

The loud CRACK of a shotgun startles them.

ORCA - CONTINUOUS

Steve and the actors have graduated to skeet shooting off the 
Orca’s stern. Steve misses one skeet, hits the other.

             STEVE
      Okay, Ricky. You’re up.

Ricky takes the rifle and aims out to sea, acutely aware of 
Shaw’s penetrating gaze. He breathes deep.

             RICKY
      Pull!

                                      76.

Two skeets fly out over the ocean. Ricky fires twice, misses 
both. Shaw chuckles with laughter. Ricky bristles.

             STEVE
      Better luck next time, Ricky.

Steve reloads the rifle, hands it to Shaw. Shaw stares at 
Ricky, who looks very nervous. For the briefest moment, Ricky 
isn’t sure where Shaw will aim the gun...

             SHAW
        (eyes on Ricky)
      Pull.

The skeets fly out to sea. Shaw blasts both to smithereens, 
then hands the gun back to Ricky.

             RICKY
      You really get off on putting other 
      people down, don’t you?

             SHAW
      I do not compete to put others 
      down, Mr. Hooper. I compete because 
      victory is utterly consoling to me.

             ROY
      C’mon fellas, play nice.

Steve reloads the rifle, unaware of the disapproving looks 
from crew members on the other boats.

             STEVE
      Roy, you’re up.

Joe boards the Orca, approaches Steve.

             JOE
      You need to stop this, now.

             STEVE
      Stop what? I’m trying to keep up 
      morale here!

             JOE
      Listen to me, Stevie. The crew 
      respect you, you’re the youngest 
      director they’ve ever worked with -- 
      but you’re still a kid, on a small 
      boat, holding a loaded gun.

Steve relents, hands Joe the rifle. He gazes at the horizon, 
which is still covered in sailboats.

                                      77.

             STEVE
      Let’s turn around, shoot from 
      another angle.

             JOE
      It’ll take too long. We gotta raise 
      all the anchors, move the boats, 
      nail them all down again before the 
      tide changes our orientation.

             STEVE
      We need to get something! We’ve got 
      less than two minutes of usable 
      footage in three weeks.

Steve goes to leave. Joe delivers the killer blow.

             JOE
      The shark’s not working.

Steve absorbs the news, barely maintains composure.

             STEVE
      Use the barrels instead.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve sits at the dinner table with Dick and David. The 
atmosphere is tense, to say the least.

             DICK
      Maybe we should shut down, come 
      back in September when the tourists 
      and sailboats have gone?

             STEVE
      Is that the studio talking?

             DICK
      This is me talking, kid! The 
      budget’s out of control, no one’s 
      seeing any dailies. People are 
      starting to ask questions.

             STEVE
      No one sees anything until it’s 
      ready.

             DAVID
      It’s not such a bad idea, Steven. 
      Bob and his team can stay put, get 
      the shark working correctly.

                                      78.

             DICK
      We’ll push for a Christmas release. 
      We can sell it to the studio, the 
      book’s a best seller.

             STEVE
      I can do this, fellas.
        (beat, desperate)
      Have you heard our new ending?

Dick and David share a concerned glance, clearly starting to 
question whether their prodigy’s losing his mind.

MONTAGE - VARIOUS

The shark refuses to cooperate. It rises too far out of the 
water and skids unconvincingly along the surface; it goes 
cross-eyed, jaws stuck open; it sinks completely and has to 
be rescued by divers. Bob has an excuse every time:

             BOB
      Electrolysis and salt air must’ve 
      burned out the sensors.

             BOB
      Kelp and seaweed messed up the 
      pneumatic pistons.

             BOB
      Barnacles on the platform.

Every night, the shark is hauled out of the water and 
studied. Paint peels, minor scratches become gaping wounds, 
the neoprene flesh absorbs water and swells, needing to be 
dried out with oil-fired burners and blowers.

Roy kills time topping up his tan or swimming in the ocean, 
Ricky grows increasingly frustrated, Shaw drinks.

Steve and crew hang around for hours on end to get just a few 
seconds of footage, and the days roll agonizingly by.

SUPER: DAY 75... 81... 84... 89... 96...

INT. VERNA’S ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve shows Brian De Palma, John Milius, Martin Scorsese and 
George Lucas the dailies on Verna’s projector. The 
animatronic fish looks utterly ridiculous in every scene.

The footage ends. The atmosphere is like a wake.

                                      79.

             STEVE
      Well fellas, what d’you think? 
      Don’t pull any punches, give it to 
      me straight.

No one wants to be first to speak. Finally:

             MILIUS
      It’s... interesting. Kind of like 
      an aquatic samurai movie.

             SCORSESE
      I like the scene with the girl. The 
      mixture of sexuality and violence, 
      that patriarchal myth... it’s like 
      a subliminal rape, with the shark 
      as the offending phallus.

Steve turns to Brian De Palma, who’s wearing a knowing look.

             STEVE
      Any thoughts here, Brian?

             DE PALMA
      What do you want me to say, Stevie?

             STEVE
      I wanna know what you think.

             DE PALMA
      Honestly? I think you just fucked 
      your career.

             STEVE
        (offended)
      Thanks for the support.

             DE PALMA
      What the hell did you expect? We’re 
      trying to change this business, 
      make films that actually matter -- 
      and you’re out here shooting King 
      Kong on the fucking ocean!

             SCORSESE
      King Kong, that’s exactly what I 
      was thinking! The scene with the 
      girl, it reminds me of King Kong. 
      Except this girl gets eaten.

De Palma, Milius and Scorsese exit. George pats Steve on the 
shoulder, then follows the others out.

                                      80.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 106

The fleet bobs on the vast expanse of blue nothingness. They 
look small, insignificant, completely lost.

ORCA - CONTINUOUS

Shaw sits in the sun, drinking steadily. Ricky sulks nearby. 
Roy climbs aboard after a swim.

INT. CABIN, ORCA - CONTINUOUS

Roy enters to find a CATERER laying out sandwiches.

             ROY
        (clearly disappointed)
      Same again, huh?

The caterer exits. Roy reluctantly grabs a sandwich.

CAMERA BOAT - LATER

Steve, Dick and David wait for the monster to breach...

The enormous beast rises up out of the ocean in slow-motion, 
jaws gaping, black eyes rolling to white...

A huge CREAKING sound...

The shark collapses back into the ocean, sinks from view. 
Steve storms off, leaving Dick and David alone.

             DICK
      I think our careers just sank with 
      that metal fish, Davie Boy.

Bubbles rise up from the murky depths, pop on the surface.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve, Joe, Carl and Verna eat together in silence. The only 
sound is the scrape of cutlery against plates.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Steve, Joe, Carl and Verna watch Richard Nixon delivering his 
resignation on TV. We see snippets of Nixon’s speech:

                                      81.

             NIXON
	(TV)
      I would have preferred to carry 
      through to the finish, whatever the 
      personal agony it would have 
      involved...

             NIXON
	(TV)
      I have never been a quitter...

             NIXON
	(TV)
      To continue to fight through the 
      months ahead for my personal 
      vindication would almost totally 
      absorb the time and attention of 
      both the President and Congress...

Steve watches the historic event as if every word is directed 
specifically at him. Verna sneers.

             VERNA
      Scumbag’s turning it into an 
      affirmation of character, you 
      believe that?

             JOE
      Maybe so. But you gotta admit, 
      there’s something to be said for 
      knowing when you’re beaten.

Joe walks out. Steve’s eyes remain fixed on the TV.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 115

The crew prepares one of the climatic moments in the picture, 
an angry shark attacking the Orca.

A complicated arrangement of underwater cables affixes the 
Orca to the tug boat, whilst several cameras aboard the Orca 
are set up to capture the action from multiple angles.

CAMERA BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Steve gets the signal.

             STEVE
      And... action!

The tug boat tows the Orca around violently, causing it to 
lurch around on the sea.

The actors are thrown around the grimy vessel as they battle 
the imaginary monster beneath the water.

Steve watches as the Orca takes a pounding.

                                      82.

             STEVE
      You sure it’s gonna hold?

             JOE
      It’s fine, we reinforced the --

CRACK! A table-sized hole rips out of the Orca’s hull beneath 
the water line, and the boat starts to sink.

             JOE
      Fuck.

ORCA

CREW MEMBERS rush around in panic, desperately trying to save 
expensive cameras loaded with precious film.

CAMERA BOAT

Steve watches as water gushes into the Orca’s hull. The boat 
is going down, and fast.

             STEVE
      Get the actors off the boat!
        (grabs a bull horn)
      GET THE ACTORS OFF THE BOAT!

ORCA

A SOUND MAN holds a boom mic above his head as the water 
races in, surging around his feet.

             SOUND MAN
      Fuck the actors, save the sound 
      department!

Ricky and Roy jump into the ocean, swim to the other boats.

Shaw remains aboard, straightening his clothes as if 
preparing to meet his maker. He sinks slowly into the water, 
drinking from a bottle of whiskey as he goes under.

The Orca goes down, taking the cameras with it.

                                      83.

EXT. DOCK - LATER

The half-sunk Orca is towed into the dock.

The cameras are rushed off the boat, magazines removed and 
placed in buckets of cold water. The buckets are loaded into 
waiting cars; the cars peel quickly out.

Steve watches, a distant look about him. Joe approaches.

             JOE
      We’re rushing the film to a lab in 
      New York. As long as it’s kept wet, 
      the emulsion could survive.

Steve walks away.

INT. STEVE’S BEDROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Steve, dressed in a suit, checks himself over in the mirror. 
He still has that distant, slightly haunted look about him.

A knock on the door. Joe enters.

             JOE
      Lab just called. We’re good.

Steve straightens his tie, stares at his reflection.

             JOE
      Stevie, did you hear what I said? 
      The film survived, no re-shoot.

Steve doesn’t respond. Joe exits, closing the door.

INT. BALLROOM, HARBOR VIEW HOTEL - NIGHT

Martha’s Vineyard’s most illustrious RESIDENTS are out in all 
their finery for a banquet in Hollywood’s honor. Steve, 
Ricky, Roy and Robert Shaw put on a brave face as a local 
OFFICIAL makes a speech to the room.

             OFFICIAL
      Three months ago, our humble island 
      became home to a group of very 
      special visitors. And I’m happy to 
      say, it seems they like the place 
      so much, they’ve decided to stay!

Everyone laughs, except Steve and the actors. Shaw pours 
himself another drink, pounds it.

                                      84.

             OFFICIAL
      Seriously, it’s been a real honor 
      for us to host such an auspicious 
      group. We’re truly blessed you 
      chose our home to shoot your movie, 
      and we wish you all the best in 
      finishing up real soon. God knows, 
      you seem to need it!

More laughter, then the sound of applause brings silence. 
Everyone turns to see Robert Shaw on his feet, clapping very 
loudly. He raises his glass, drains it, and staggers off.

Steve watches Shaw leave. He turns back to Ricky and Roy, 
eating their dinners in silence.

             STEVE
      I know this hasn’t been easy, 
      fellas. But I just wanted to say, 
      you’re doing an incredible job.

             ROY
      Cut the crap, Steve. When are we 
      gonna be done with this?

Steve’s pause says everything.

             STEVE
      Honestly, I don’t know. If we can 
      just get the damn shark to work --

Steve’s hit squarely in the face by a handful of mashed 
potato. Ricky wipes his hand on his trousers, goes back to 
eating as if it never happened.

Steve scoops up his own mash and hurls it at Ricky. Ricky 
ducks, and the mash hits the selectman Steve and Joe had two 
run-ins with earlier. He glares at them, furious.

Roy’s more accurate: he nails Ricky and Steve simultaneously 
with fistfuls of food from his own plate.

Ricky races to the desert tray, starts pelting Steve and Roy 
with cake and diced fruit.

The diners watch in disbelief as a frenzied food fight 
erupts. It may look like harmless fun, but the expressions on 
the three men’s faces tells a different story.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Steve walks down a deserted street, his face and suit covered 
in dried food. He comes across a book store.

                                      85.

In the book store’s window, an elaborate display features 
dozens of copies of Jaws and a poster of the shark rising up 
from the depths. The poster reads:

THE EXPLOSIVE BEST SELLER!
SOON TO BE A MAJOR MOTION PICTURE!

Steve looks suddenly enraged. He picks up a nearby trash can 
and hurls it at the window. It bounces off the glass and back 
into him, knocking him into the street.

Lights turn on in nearby houses. Voices can be heard, people 
coming outside to see what’s going on.

Steve runs off into the darkness.

EXT. FERRY - DAY

Sid Sheinberg and Ned Tanen stand on deck, watching Martha’s 
Vineyard come into view.

INT. DINING ROOM, LOG CABIN - NIGHT

Dick and David sit opposite Sid and Ned. Sid remains his 
usual implacable self, but Ned’s glowering.

             SID
      The studio’s becoming concerned, 
      gentlemen.

             NED
      That’s the understatement of the 
      goddamn century! We’re hemorrhaging 
      money on this fucking picture, what 
      the hell’s taking so long?!

             DICK
      No one’s ever budgeted for a shark, 
      Ned. We’re doing something that’s 
      never been done before.

             NED
      We’re not trying to make history 
      here, we’re trying to make fucking 
      money! Have you got any idea what 
      they’re saying about us back at the 
      studio? We’re a running joke!

             DAVID
      Okay, let’s talk about this --

                                      86.

             NED
      I’m through talking. We’re pulling 
      the plug, that’s it!

             SID
      I didn’t agree to that.

Ned spins around, stares at Sid in disbelief.

             NED
      You’re going against me?

             SID
      This isn’t about you and me. I 
      believe in the kid, I think he’ll 
      give us one hell of a movie.

Ned glares furiously at Sid for a long, intense beat.

             NED
      You’d better be willing to stake 
      your career on that, Sid.

Ned storms out of the room.

EXT. LOG CABIN - CONTINUOUS

Steve sits on the porch staring at the ocean, a thousand 
slithers of moonlight rippling on its surface.

Ned tears out of the house, storms past Steve, climbs into a 
waiting car. The car peels out in a cloud of dust.

Dick exits the house, takes a seat beside Steve.

             STEVE
      Any words of advice?

Dick stares at the dark ocean in the distance.

             DICK
      As long as there’s film, keep those 
      cameras rolling. If we stop, they 
      may not let us start back up again.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 124

The shark rises out of the water like a limp dick, skids 
comically along the surface, and collapses onto the Orca. It 
couldn’t look more fake.

                                      87.

SHARK BARGE - MOMENTS LATER

Bob stands at the control center fiddling with levers, trying 
to get the shark to mount the Orca properly.

Joe boards the barge, approaches Bob.

             JOE
      The shark looks like shit, Bob.

             BOB
      We probably should’ve gone for the 
      more expensive motor.

             JOE
        (taken aback)
      Come again?

             BOB
      The motor driving it out of the 
      water only cost $9,000. There was a 
      more expensive option, but we were 
      trying to keep costs down.

             JOE
      How much was the other motor?

             BOB
      $27,000.

Joe turns red with rage.

             JOE
      Are you telling me we can’t make 
      this shot because you were trying 
      to save a lousy $18,000?! This shot 
      is the fucking movie!

             BOB
      We may have underestimated things.
        (off Joe’s look)
      No one’s ever done this kind of 
      thing before.

Joe simmers, but there are no words. He storms off.

INT. CABIN, ORCA - MOMENTS LATER

Roy enters to find the same spread of sandwiches as every 
other day. A strange look comes over him.

He picks up the entire tray, exits.

                                      88.

CAMERA BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Joe returns to the camera boat, approaches Steve.

             JOE
      We need to print what we’ve got.

             STEVE
      This shot’s the movie.

             JOE
      Stevie, you gotta trust me on this. 
      We can be out here until Christmas, 
      it won’t get any better. We need to 
      print what we’ve got, and move on.

The shark rises pathetically out of the water again, 
collapsing on the half-sunk Orca. It looks exhausted, much 
like the young director watching.

             STEVE
      Screw it, print the damn --

A ruckus, lots of raised voices and shouting.

ORCA - CONTINUOUS

Roy has the caterer in a choke hold and is forcing sandwiches 
down his throat. The caterer is turning blue.

             ROY
      We’re out here four fucking months, 
      waiting for a fucking shark that 
      won’t fucking work, and we have to 
      eat the same fucking shit day after 
      day?! Eat! Eat it, you fuck!

Steve and Joe board the Orca and rush over, pulling Roy off 
the caterer. The caterer slumps to the ground, breathlessly 
coughing up clumps of sandwich.

             STEVE
      What the hell, Roy?! Walk it off! 
      Just walk it off, okay?

Roy turns on Steve, his face a mask of pure rage.

             ROY
      Walk it off? Walk it off?! WE’RE ON 
      A FUCKING BOAT!

Roy storms off. Steve turns to the rest of the crew members, 
who’ve formed a tight circle around him.

                                      89.

             STEVE
      It’s under control, fellas. 
      Everything’s under control, okay?

The crew members stare at Steve, still standing in a circle 
around him. The situation feels suddenly threatening.

             STEVE
      Everything’s under control.

The crew disperse, go their separate ways.

             NED
	(PRE-LAP)
      This is officially out of control.

INT. BOARDROOM, UNIVERSAL TOWERS - DAY

Lew Wasserman sits at the head of the table flanked by Sid, 
Ned, and a trio of STUDIO EXECS.

             NED
      We’re three times over budget with 
      no end in sight. Spielberg’s just a 
      kid, he can’t handle this. He’s 
      lost all respect, there’s a goddamn 
      mutiny taking place out there!

             STUDIO EXEC #1
      Should’ve shot in the tank.

             STUDIO EXEC #2 
      With a more experienced director.

             STUDIO EXEC #3
      Someone who’s done this kind of 
      picture before.

Ned turns to Lew.

             NED
      We’ll never make our money back, 
      Lew. We need to pull the plug now, 
      rethink this thing.

Lew’s huge sunglasses conceal any reaction. Beat.

             LEW
      Do we know how to do it better?

Ned and the execs shift uncomfortably, courage dissipating 
instantly. No one has the balls to answer, until:

                                      90.

             SID
      No.

Lew thinks it over. He shrugs.

             LEW
      Then let them keep going.

Lew exits. Beat, then Ned and the other execs file out. Sid 
remains, a half-smile playing on his lips.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 138

Bob and his team continue working on the shark, trying to get 
it to mount the Orca correctly. A tinny voice:

             RADIO
      The shark is not working. Repeat, 
      the shark is not working.

CAMERA BOAT - LATER

The crew have taken to fishing for sand sharks, gutting them, 
and using their guts to catch more, their own twisted revenge 
on an entire species. Steve approaches.

             STEVE
      Little fishing, huh fellas?

The crew’s eyes are vacant. They haul another sand shark 
aboard and cut it open. Dark blood and silver entrails spill 
out and creep towards Steve, who takes a step back. Steve 
turns to leave, and that’s when he hears it:

“Spielbug.”

             STEVE
      What did you say?

The crew continue with the ritualistic killing in silence.

Steve approaches Joe.

             STEVE
        (re: the crew)
      What’s got into them?

Joe looks over at the crew, then back at Steve.

             JOE
      They’ve got nothing left, Stevie. 
      None of us have.

                                      91.

ORCA - LATER

Steve sits alone on the bowsprit, staring out over the ocean. 
It looks like a sheet of steel, utterly impenetrable. In that 
moment, he knows it has defeated him.

Robert Shaw approaches. Long beat as both men gaze out over 
the ocean, lost in their own thoughts.

             STEVE
      We’ll never finish this movie. I 
      made a mistake. No one’s ever gone 
      a hundred days over before, let 
      alone some kid whose last picture 
      failed at the box office.

Shaw adjusts his cap, stares out over the ocean.

             SHAW
      A long time ago, a young director, 
      not much older than yourself, 
      offered me the role of William the 
      Conqueror. William the Bastard, 
      they called him; first Norman King 
      of England, descendant of Viking 
      raiders. Defeated Harold Godwinson 
      in the Battle of Hastings, 1066. I 
      was just starting out, looking for 
      my break, and here’s the lead in a 
      major TV drama. I turned it down, 
      because I wanted to play Harold.

             STEVE
      Why didn’t you want the lead?

             SHAW
      Harold died on the battlefield from 
      an arrow through the eye. No one 
      remembers William, because nothing 
      happened to him.

Shaw turns, looks Steve dead in the eyes.

             SHAW
      No man wants to be remembered by 
      his ashes, Mr. Spielberg.

Shaw walks off, leaving Steve alone with the sea. A strange 
look comes over Steve, a steely determination.

                                      92.

EXT. BEACH - DAWN

TWELVE MEN in two groups of six run back and forth, hauling 
ropes. The ropes lead out to sea, where they’re attached to a 
harness around the waist of a stunt woman, SUSAN BACKLINIE 
(26). Susan screams as she’s dragged through the ocean in one 
direction after another by the men on the beach.

Steve stands waist-high in the cold ocean, just behind the 
cameraman capturing the action.

             STEVE
      Cut! Let’s go again.

The crew on the beach stop running. Susan walks into shallow 
water. She’s wearing a pair of cut-off Levi’s with a harness 
attached, and looks to be in some pain.

             STEVE
      You okay, Susan?

             SUSAN
      This harness kinda hurts. You think 
      the boys can go a little easier 
      next time around?

             STEVE
      You got it.

Susan smiles flirtatiously; Steve smiles back. He walks out 
of the water, up to the men on the beach.

             STEVE
      There’s supposed to be a monster 
      shark out there, fellas. Put your 
      backs into this one, okay?

Susan takes her position. Steve grabs one of the ropes.

             STEVE
      And... action!

Steve gives the rope an almighty tug, jerking a shocked Susan 
beneath the water’s surface.

MONTAGE - VARIOUS

Steve presses on. He uses the barrels to represent the shark, 
shooting entire sequences of scintillating action without so 
much as a dorsal fin in sight.

Carl hammers away at the typewriter all night long. Steve 
sits nearby, crossing out lines of dialogue, adding new ones.

                                      93.

They shoot the famous Indianapolis scene. Shaw is absolutely 
electric, nailing a perfect performance in one take.

Bob works away on the shark, replacing its motor with a 
bigger one. Armed with the new motor, the shark bursts out of 
the water at full force and mounts the Orca...

ORCA - DAY

... where it starts to devour Shaw. Shaw slides into the 
gaping jaws, stabbing repeatedly at the shark’s huge conical 
head as it shakes him like a rag doll.

CAMERA BOAT

Steve watches the action, a mad gleam in his eyes.

             STEVE
      More thrashing! More power!

Joe approaches, a concerned look on his face.

             JOE
      We shouldn’t push it Stevie, it 
      isn’t safe --

             STEVE
      MORE THRASHING! MORE POWER! GET 
      THOSE JAWS WORKING HARDER, 
      GODDAMNIT!

ORCA

Shaw cackles with glee, stabbing the beast repeatedly in the 
head as he eggs Steve on.

EXT. SEA - DAY

SUPER: DAY 163

The Hollywood fleet takes to the ocean for the last time. A 
dozen barrels filled with red paint and slimy squid, labelled 
“BLOOD & GUTS”, are rigged with explosives.

Nothing remains of the Orca except its crow’s nest jutting 
out of the water. Roy crawls out, rifle in hand.

CAMERA BOAT - CONTINUOUS

Steve watches as the final shot is set up. Joe approaches.

                                      94.

             JOE
      Just thought you should know, 
      they’re planning on drowning you 
      once we’ve got the last shot.

             STEVE
      Very funny.

             JOE
      Don’t say I didn’t warn you.

Joe walks off. Steve notices every member of the crew is 
glaring malevolently at him.

CROW’S NEST - MOMENTS LATER

Roy aims his rifle at the ocean.

             STEVE
	(O.S.)
      And... action!

EXT. SEA - CONTINUOUS

BOOM! The barrels explode, a huge mushroom of red pluming 
into the air. The blast is so intense, it knocks a CAMERAMAN 
off the camera boat and into the gunk-infested sea.

The crew watch vacantly, red paint and squid showering down 
all around, dripping down their faces like war paint.

They hear the roar of a speedboat’s engine.

SPEEDBOAT - CONTINUOUS

Steve tears away from the scene. He turns to the crew and 
pumps a fist into the air.

             STEVE
      I shall NOT return!

The crew stare back, faces covered in fake blood. Their eyes 
never leave Steve as they fade into the background.

                                      95.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

In the back of the car, Steve gazes out of the window at the 
billboards, traffic, cars, people; an overpowering amount of 
visual stimuli after months spent at sea.

INT. HOTEL BAR - NIGHT

Steve sits alone at the bar, sipping a Coke. The BARTENDER 
dries glasses. No one else around.

Ricky enters, sits down next to Steve.

             RICKY
      Whiskey, straight up.

The bartender pours Ricky’s drink, hands it to him.

             STEVE
      It’s over. It’s finally over.

Ricky takes a slug of whiskey.

             RICKY
      Motherfucker. It’s over.

             STEVE
      It’s over.

             RICKY
      Motherfucker. MOTHERFUCKER, it’s 
      OVER! MOTHERFUCKER!

             STEVE
      MOTHERFUCKER, IT’S OVER!

             RICKY
      MOTHERFUCKER! MOTHERFUCKER!

The bartender’s about to interject, but something inside 
tells him these two guys need this. Ricky and Steve shout the 
same words over and over, lost in the moment.

EXT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Same guard as usual sits in the gate house. Steve pulls up in 
his Mercedes. The gate’s arm remains down.

             STEVE
      Can you open the gate, Henry?

                                      96.

Slowly, the guard raises the gate’s arm. He stares at Steve 
in a disapproving manner.

Steve guns onto the lot to find his usual parking space has 
been given to someone else.

EXT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS BACKLOT - DAY

Steve notices PEOPLE staring at him. They shake their heads, 
voices lowering to whispers as he passes.

INT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS COMMISSARY - DAY

Steve carries his tray of food to a busy table and takes a 
seat. EVERYONE at the table immediately finishes their lunch, 
gets up and walks away. Steve stares around, shocked.

INT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS TANK - DAY

Steve peers into the tank through a small window. Inside, 
cameras are set up underwater around a cage containing an 
ACTOR in full diving gear.

             STEVE
      And... action!

The shark lurches through the water, battering into a cage. 
It reverses back, lurching forward again.

INT. SOUND STAGE - DAY

Cavernous empty space. The shark stands in the middle of the 
sound stage, mounted on its tracks.

Footsteps echo throughout the huge space. Steve walks up to 
the shark, stares into its dead black eyes.

He turns away and walks out.

INT. VERNA’S POOL HOUSE - DAY

Verna stares at the footage playing on the mounted projector, 
Steve sitting beside her. She sighs.

             VERNA
      I don’t know what to tell you, 
      Stevie. I’m looking for scraps in 
      outtakes, but it’s not there. We 
      just don’t have enough shark.

                                      97.

Steve stares at the actors rushing around on the Orca, 
battling a monster that isn’t there.

INT. SCREENING ROOM, UNIVERSAL STUDIOS - DAY

Lew Wasserman sits in a velvet seat, staring implacably at 
the movie playing on the giant projector. Sid and Ned sit on 
either side, Dick and David in the row behind.

The lights come up. Lew takes off his huge dark glasses for 
the first time, rubs his eyes.

             DICK
      Well, Lew, what do you think? 
      There’s still some major underwater 
      scenes to add, and we don’t have 
      John Williams’s score yet, but...

Dick trails off. Lew gazes blankly at the screen.

             LEW
      It’s okay.

Lew walks out. Ned gloats.

             NED
      You just blew ten million dollars 
      on turkey of the year.

Ned exits. Sid turns to Dick and David, all business.

             SID
      I suggest you go get the rest of 
      this movie, gentlemen.

INT. JOHN WILLIAMS’S HOME - DAY

An elegantly decorated home with a grand piano. At the piano 
sits JOHN WILLIAMS (42), scholarly, bespectacled, balding. 
Steve sits in a chair nearby.

             JOHN
      I wanted a classic piece of 
      suspense music, something that can 
      become synonymous with approaching 
      danger. Grinding away at you, just 
      as a shark would... instinctual, 
      relentless, unstoppable.

John uses just two fingers to play a simple, alternating 
ostinato: DUN-DUN-DUN-DUN-DUN-DUN...

                                      98.

Steve bursts into laughter.

             STEVE
      That’s great, John. Seriously, what 
      have you got?

John stares at Steve, surprised.

             JOHN
      But... that’s it, Steven. That’s 
      the shark.

Steve’s face drops.

ORCA - DAY

Steve stands on the bow staring out to sea, waiting for the 
shark to be ready. He grabs a two-way radio.

             STEVE
      How are we looking, Bob?

A tinny voice crackles back:

             BOB
	(V.O.)
      Few technical problems, shouldn’t 
      be too much longer.

Steve turns to Dick and David. Their faces are covered in red 
paint and bits of squid. Dick shrugs.

             DICK
      Test screenings are bullshit kid, 
      everyone knows that.

             STEVE
      Does the studio know?

Dick shrugs, causing a piece of squid to slime off his face. 
Steve notices George Lucas sitting on the stern, gutting sand 
sharks with a vacant look in his eyes.

             STEVE
      George? What are you doing here?

George pulls out the shark’s shiny entrails.

             GEORGE
      Get it right, Stevie, and this 
      thing could do for the ocean what 
      Psycho did for the shower.

                              JUMP CUT TO:

                                      99.

INT. STEVE’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Steve lurches awake, covered in sweat. The waterbed squelches 
and sloshes beneath him. He gets up, walks out.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Steve enters, goes to a drawer. Removes a shiny object.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Steve walks up to the waterbed. He raises a knife above his 
head, glinting in the moonlight...

Steve plunges the knife into the bed, stabbing repeatedly. 
Water sprays out, gushing onto the floor.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Steve sits in the dark, his face bathed in the glow of the 
projector dominating the room.

On screen, the famous shower scene from Psycho. Janet Leigh 
screams as the silhouetted figure tears back the curtain; the 
music screeches as the knife flashes again and again.

Steve watches. A strange look comes over him.

INT. JOHN WILLIAMS’S BEDROOM - NIGHT

John Williams is asleep in bed when the phone rings. He 
fumbles for the receiver, answers.

             JOHN
      Hello?

             STEVE
	(V.O.)
      John? It’s me.

John checks the clock on the bedside table.

             JOHN
      Steven? Why are you calling me at 
      four in the morning?

Silence on the other end of the line.

             JOHN
      Steven, are you there?

                                     100.

Another beat, then:

             STEVE
	(V.O.)
      Play that music again.

INT. VERNA’S POOL HOUSE - DAY

Verna startles as Steve bursts into the pool house, alive 
with nervous energy.

             STEVE
      How many times do you see Janet 
      Leigh getting stabbed in Psycho?

             VERNA
      How the hell should I know?

             STEVE
      Zero. You never actually see the 
      knife going in, that’s the whole 
      point! We’ll hold it back, use the 
      music to suggest its presence, let 
      their imaginations do the rest. 
      Everybody knows what it’s like to 
      go swimming and wonder what’s down 
      there... man, this is huge!

Steve fixes Verna an intensely earnest stare, as if he’s 
revealing the secrets of the universe.

             STEVE
      It’s not what we see that frightens 
      us. It’s what we don’t see.
        (beat)
      Don’t show the shark, Vern!

Verna stares at Steve like he’s lost his mind.

             VERNA
      Have you taken something?

MONTAGE - VERNA’S POOL HOUSE

A series of quick shots as Steve and Verna go to work.

Dozens of cans of film are analyzed, strips of celluloid 
pulled out, inspected and marked.

             STEVE
      No shots in the first half, we’re 
      taking it all out.

                                     101.

They snip and splice with insane focus, taking the entire 
first half of the movie apart.

LATER

Steve and Verna work away, tirelessly.

             VERNA
      Roy’s tan gets darker, it’s not 
      matching up between cuts. And the 
      sky keeps changing color.

Steve thinks fast, hopped up on caffeine and adrenaline.

             STEVE
      Take it apart, use the barrels.

             VERNA
      You sure about this? We’ve hardly 
      got any shark in there!

             STEVE
      We’ll use the music instead.
        (off Verna’s look)
      It’s scarier that way.

Verna nods, continues cutting. Slowly but surely, the movie 
we know and love takes shape...

EXT. MEDALLION THEATER, DALLAS - NIGHT

A long queue of MOVIEGOERS wait in line to buy tickets for 
The Towering Inferno.

Next to the poster for Inferno, another poster featuring an 
image cribbed from the Jaws paperback of a crude shark rising 
from the murky depths, with no title.

The moviegoers stare at the poster, curious.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

Steve, Dick and David pull up outside the theater. David 
stares out of the window at the crowds.

             DAVID
      Would you look at all these people. 
      I wonder what’s playing?

Dick shoots David a look.

             DAVID
      Oh, right! Of course.

Steve, Dick and David climb out of the limo. Dick wraps an 
arm around Steve’s shoulder.

                                     102.

             DICK
      You ready for this, kid?

Steve nods. They head inside.

INT. MEDALLION THEATER - LATER

The AUDIENCE sit in the dark as The Towering Inferno plays.

Seated amongst them are several of the people we’ve come to 
know over the course of this journey: Peter Benchley; Joe, 
Carl and Verna; Ricky, Roy and Robert Shaw, now clean-shaven 
and clear-eyed; Bob Mattey; Sid Sheinberg; Brian De Palma, 
John Milius, Martin Scorsese, George Lucas.

And then there’s Steve, wedged between Dick and David.

The Towering Inferno ends and the credits roll. The moment of 
truth has arrived.

The opening notes of John Williams’s famous ostinato throb 
through the speakers, enveloping everything...

MOMENTS LATER

The audience watch in silence as the girl, Christie, is 
dragged underwater by an unseen force. She screams, gargles 
on water, prays for mercy... and is gone.

Steve glances at the blank expressions staring up at the big 
screen. He begins to fear the worst.

MOMENTS LATER

The audience watch as the Kintner boy is dragged beneath the 
water, the ocean turns red. Again, Steve awaits the reaction; 
the audience stare blankly at the screen.

In the row in front of Steve, a YOUNG MAN gets up and walks 
quickly out of the theater.

Steve slinks out of his seat, following him.

                                     103.

INT. LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Steve watches as the young man throws up all over the lobby 
carpet.

Once he’s finished, the man turns around and walks back into 
the theater, right past Steve.

Steve follows him back inside...

INT. MEDALLION THEATER - CONTINUOUS

... and that’s when he hears the first scream.

Terrifying, guttural, a bloodcurdling sound. Seconds later, 
it’s joined by another. And another. Another.

Soon the entire audience is shrieking hysterically, too 
terrified to keep watching, unable to look away. As the movie 
plays, we move through the dark theater finding:

1) Dick and David, pinching themselves in disbelief as the 
screams keep coming.

2) Joe, Carl and Verna, gazing proudly at the masterpiece of 
suspense they’ve helped create.

3) Ricky, Roy and Robert Shaw, watching themselves on-screen 
and realizing the audience are right there with them.

4) Bob Mattey, smiling as the audience jump out of their 
seats every time the shark appears.

5) Peter Benchley, witnessing the audience leap to their feet 
and punch the air as Brody shoots the gas tank in the shark’s 
mouth, blowing it to smithereens.

6) Sid Sheinberg, realizing he has a monster on his hands in 
more ways than one.

7) Brian De Palma, John Milius, Martin Scorsese and George 
Lucas, staring up at the screen, knowing nothing will ever be 
the same again.

AT THE BACK OF THE THEATER

Steve watches the audience scream, laugh, cheer and applaud 
as they go through that ancient and primal ritual we’ll never 
fully understand: being lost in a good story.

And he knows, right there and then.

                                     104.

EXT. MEDALLION THEATER, DALLAS - NIGHT

The audience emerge into the night sweating, exhilarated, 
chattering excitedly. Steve walks out, dazed. Brian De Palma, 
John Milius, Martin Scorsese and George Lucas approach.

             DE PALMA
      Congratulations, Stevie. You just 
      made it twice as difficult for us 
      to make real films.

De Palma smiles; Steve smiles back, understands. They go to 
leave, then George turns back to Steve.

             GEORGE
      You’ve inspired me, you know that? 
      I’m gonna write that script I’ve 
      been talking about. I even thought 
      of a cool title: Star Wars.

             STEVE
      That’s a great title, Georgie.

George walks away. Steve turns around and sees Robert Shaw, 
standing alone on the sidewalk.

Both men stare at each other, soldiers who survived on the 
battlefield together.

             SHAW
      It looks like you’ve found your 
      arrow, Mr. Spielberg.

Shaw tips his cap and walks off into the night, anonymous, 
alone. Steve watches him go. He smiles.

UNDERWATER - NIGHT

Camera moves slowly along the seabed, gliding through the 
murky waters. Corals waver as we pass over them. Fish scuttle 
off in fear. That familiar ostinato plays.

             VOICEOVER
      There is a creature alive today 
      that has survived millions of years 
      of evolution. Without change. 
      Without passion. And without logic. 
      It lives to kill. A mindless eating 
      machine. It will attack and 
      devour... anything.

                                     105.

Pan up to reveal the silhouette of a NAKED GIRL swimming on 
the water’s surface. We approach her and the music grows 
louder, more intense, tempo increasing.

             VOICEOVER
      It is as if God created the devil. 
      And gave him... Jaws.

EXT. WATER’S SURFACE - CONTINUOUS

The actress Susan Backlinie screams as she’s jerked below the 
surface of the water by a terrifying unseen force.

             VOICEOVER
      From the best-selling novel... 
      Jaws. Rated PG. May be too intense 
      for younger children.

                                PULL BACK:

INT. DICK’S OFFICE - DAY

Dick and Steve watch the trailer end on the TV. It resolves 
on that iconic image: the shark surging upward, mouth full of 
shard-like teeth, heading for a naked girl swimming on the 
water’s surface. Title in huge red letters above.

             DICK
      The studio’s putting everything 
      into the marketing, it’s a goddamn 
      blitzkrieg. A million dollars on TV 
      spots, can you believe that?

Steve stares at the screen, lost in thought.

             DICK
      Did you hear me, kid? I just said 
      your movie’s gonna change the 
      business forever, and you look like 
      you’re not sure whether that’s a 
      good thing!

Steve finally looks up at his mentor.

             STEVE
      That’s because I’m not.

EXT. UNIVERSAL STUDIOS BACKLOT - MOMENTS LATER

Steve walks alone through the lot, drawing admiring stares.

                                     106.

As he’s leaving the lot, Steve spots a group of CREW MEMBERS 
exiting a sound stage. He walks up, opens the door.

INT. SOUND STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Lights, cameras, ACTORS, CREW. Steve enters, walks through 
the darkness to get a better look...

ALFRED HITCHCOCK, sits in the director’s chair: older, 
heavier, looking tired, yet still with a magnetic quality; a 
poignancy in every fiber of his being.

Steve watches every move, analyzing every detail. And then, 
almost as if he can feel the eyes on the back of his bulbous 
head, Hitchcock begins to slowly turn around...

A SECURITY GUARD spots Steve, approaches.

             SECURITY GUARD
      Closed set, sir. I’m gonna have to 
      ask you to leave.

Just before their eyes meet, Hitchcock is interrupted by a 
question from his ASSISTANT DIRECTOR.

             SECURITY GUARD
      Sir?

Steve smiles.


             STEVE
      Sure. No problem.

Steve turns around and walks off the sound stage, into the 
blinding light outside.

The assistant director sees what just happened and rushes 
over to the security guard, ashen-faced.

             ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
      What the hell are you doing? Don’t 
      you who that was?!

The security guard shrugs as we...

                             FADE TO BLACK,

And the following text scrolls over the screen:

Jaws opened on 20 June, 1975.

Sixty-four days later, it surpassed The Godfather to become 
the most successful film in motion picture history.

                                     107.

Jaws is often credited with inventing the concept of the 
summer blockbuster, a tradition that continues to this day, 
changing the way movies were made forever.

In October 1975, Universal Studios offered Steven Spielberg 
the opportunity to direct the sequel.

He declined.

