            The Woman in Black

                 by
              Jane Goldman

       Based on the novel by Susan Hill

           Second draft 8.3.10


EXT. GIFFORD ARMS INN. DAY.
A welcoming-looking VICTORIAN INN in a rural market square. 
Outside, A MARKET is in swing. VILLAGERS bustle to and fro.

In the gabled roof of the inn, an attic window is open, 
curtains billowing in the breeze.

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ATTIC ROOM. DAY

A sparsely decorated but pleasant-enough country childs 
bedroom - three small beds, a rocking horse, a window-seat 
beneath the open window.

THREE LITTLE GIRLS, 8, 10 and 11, and dressed in simple mid-
period Victorian dresses and pinafores, sit on the floor 
playing tea party.

TEDDY BEARS and PORCELAIN DOLLS are seated, picnic-style, 
on a KERCHIEF as the girls cheerfully prepare them make-
believe cups of tea in a china TEA SET. 

Outside, we can hear the chatter of the market-day crowd.

Without warning, the three girls stop and look up 
simultaneously, their eyes fixed on something across the 
room, their faces suddenly, disturbingly, blank. 

With steady, synchronised movement, the girls stand.

The things they had been holding - china tea cups, dolls - 
drop from their hands and laps, and fall to the floor. 

In eerily perfect unison, the girls turn away from us to 
face the window. 

As one, they step daintily towards the window, oblivious as 
they knock over toys, crush little china plates.

They climb onto the window seat and stand in the frame of 
the open window, silhouetted against the bright sky. 

Then, they jump. 

INT. ARTHURS HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY.

Staring blankly at himself in a washstand mirror, ARTHUR 
KIPPS, 27, uses a cut-throat RAZOR to shave. His shirt is 
clean, hair neat, but he has a distracted, distant look. 

He wipes his face with a washcloth

From O.S. We hear a soft womans voice. 

             FEMALE VOICE
      Hello, angel.

Arthur closes his eyes a moment, finishes wiping his face, 
then turns slowly, wanting to prolong the moment.

The room is empty. No one but Arthur here. 

Behind him is a LADIES DRESSING TABLE. A brush, comb, hand-
mirror, perfume and powder are laid out neatly, along with 
a dish of SUNFLOWER SEEDS.

Beside the dressing table is a BIRDCAGE. From within, a 
MYNAH BIRD looks at Arthur, its head cocked.

He moves towards it carefully.

             ARTHUR
        (whispering to the bird)
      Again. Say it again. 

Silence. Then the bird speaks, in a perfect imitation of 
Arthurs own voice. 

             MYNAH BIRD
        (in Arthurs voice)
      Say it again.

Arthur and the bird stare one another out. 

             MYNAH BIRD
        (in Arthurs voice)
      Not my voice. Wretched bird. 

Arthur shakes his head in bleak amusement and feeds the 
bird a couple of sunflower seeds. 

             ARTHUR
      I could just forget to remind 
      Nanny to feed you while Im gone, 
      you know. 

Arthur turns his back on the bird and busies himself 
closing a SUITCASE that is lying on the bed nearby. 

Now we hear a different voice OS, this time coming from 
outside the room. It belongs to Arthurs sons NANNY, 50s.

             NANNY
      Mr. Kipps? 

             ARTHUR
      Ill be there in a moment! 

Arthur slips on a waistcoat and moves to the NIGHTSTAND. He 
opens a drawer and brings out a HIP FLASK. He shakes it 
near his ear, and slips it into his trouser pocket. 

From on top of the nightstand he picks up a FOB WATCH. 
Observant aficionados of Victorian mourning jewelry might 
note that the fob is woven from STRAWBERRY-BLONDE HAIR. 

Arthur clicks open the cover of the watch. On the inside is 
a portrait of a YOUNG WOMAN with hair the same colour.

             ARTHUR
      Time to go. 

He snaps the cover shut. 

INT. ARTHUR'S HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM. DAY.

A sheet of paper bearing a child's DRAWING: a stick-figure 
man waving to a stick-figure child outside a house. Below, 
an uneven square contains the word Tuesday.

Over this we hear a childs voice. It belongs to Arthurs 
son EDWARD, 6.

             EDWARD
      Do you like it, Daddy?

             ARTHUR
      Very much.

Arthur sits in an armchair holding the drawing which, we 
notice, is bound together with other pictures by a ribbon. 
Edward, frail and tiny, perches on the arm of the chair. 

             EDWARD
      You didnt look at it properly.

             ARTHUR
      Of course I did. Nanny, have you 
      seen this? Edward made me a 
      calendar.

Nanny, just now entering the room holding Arthurs COAT, 
stops and regards Arthur with genuine surprise.

             NANNY
      My goodness you look dapper, Mr 
      Kipps.
        (catching herself)
      Not that I meant to imply -

Arthur smiles weakly, waves away her apology. Edward 
squirms impatiently for attention, pokes the calendar.

             EDWARD
      You can cross off the days til 
      were back together.

Arthur leafs through the other three pages... Wednesday and 
Thursday have just a named box. 

             ARTHUR
      I will.

The final page, Friday, also bears a drawing: a stick-
figure man carrying a stick-figure child. Beside them is a 
large train, clouds of steam billowing from its engine.  

The stick-mans face has a straight line for a mouth, a 
grave expression in contrast to the childs big smile. 

Arthur peers at this, his attention caught now.

             ARTHUR
      Why do I look so sad?

             EDWARD
      Thats what your face looks like. 

             ARTHUR
      Oh it is, is it?

He scoops Edward up onto his lap, into his arms and growls 
mock-crossly, playfully tipping him backwards - an attempt 
at playful rough-and-tumble that we get the impression 
doesnt happen very often. 

They both laugh. But when the laughter dies, Edward 
suddenly looks serious.

             EDWARD
      I wish you didnt have to go away 
      from me.

             NANNY
        (warning, dont start)
      Edward...

Arthur leans in to whisper to him.

             ARTHUR
      Me too. But well have the whole 
      weekend in the countryside.
        (flipping through the 
         calendar)
      See... Tomorrow, then Thursday, 
      then were together again. Not 
      long at all.
        (looking at the last 
         drawing)
      Which reminds me - Nanny, I must 
      give you the train tickets before 
      I go. Dont let me forget.

             NANNY
      I... Mr Kipps, may I have a word?

She gestures at Edward: not with him in the room. 

             ARTHUR
      Can you fetch Daddys hat from 
      the stand, please? The brown one? 


Edward trots away obediently. Alone now, Nanny looks grave.
             NANNY
      Are you sure about this? Edward 
      travelling in his condition? The 
      doctor said - 

             ARTHUR
      And I suppose the doctor reckons 
      all this smog is just the thing 
      for a bad chest, does he? 

             NANNY
      Sir...

             ARTHUR
      Getting out of London will do him 
      the power of good. Youll see. 

             NANNY
      Yes sir. 

Edward runs in carrying Arthurs HAT. He is out of breath. 

             ARTHUR
      Dont run, darling! Dont run.

Arthur scoops him up and holds him close.

EXT. LONDON STREETS. DAY.

A Hansom cab clatters through a thick, unpleasant smog. 

INT. HANSOM CAB. DAY.

Arthur leans against the window, suitcase at his feet. 
Outside, visibility through the smog is virtually zero. 

Over this, we hear MR BENTLEY, 60s, head of Arthurs firm.

             MR. BENTLEY
      I dont want you to regard this 
      assignment as any sort of short 
      straw, Kipps. I want you to view 
      it as... an opportunity.

INT. MR BENTLEYS OFFICE. DAY. 

An austere room. Arthur sits across from Bentley, a hulking 
desk between them, a sheaf of paperwork in Arthurs hands.

             ARTHUR
        (leafing through it)
      The late Mrs. Alice Drablow. 

             ARTHUR
      Lived in India the last twenty 
      six years. Widow. One son, died 
      in early childhood. Leaving her 
      estate to charity... Sounds 
      straightforward enough.

             BENTLEY
      Come on, Kipps. Im sure youve 
      heard the talk among the clerks. 
      The likely disarray of her 
      paperwork... She left the country 
      rather suddenly. And her home has 
      been empty ever since. 

             ARTHUR
      Im sure I can tolerate a little 
      dust, sir...

             BENTLEY
      Im sure you can.
        (beat)
      I expect you to gather any 
      documents of importance, retrieve 
      the deeds for Eel Marsh House 
      from the local solicitor, Mr 
      Jerome. And resolve any matters 
      that might hinder a sale.  

             ARTHUR
      And do you expect there to be... 
      such matters?

             BENTLEY
      You have read the paperwork?

             ARTHUR
        (lying)
      Of course.

             BENTLEY
      Then youll be aware that all 
      past attempts at a sale have 
      ended in failure. 

             ARTHUR
      Yes... Well, Im quite sure that 
      three days will be sufficient to 
      get to the heart of it.

Bentley regards Arthur with a mixture of doubt and pity. He 
stands - Arthur follows suit - and hands over an envelope. 

             BENTLEY
      A key to the house. And funds to 
      cover your expenses. 

             ARTHUR
      Thank you, sir.


             BENTLEY
      Im aware that these last years 
      have been difficult for you, 
      Kipps. Im heartened to see the 
      effort youve made today...

He gestures up and down, indicating Arthurs appearance. 

             BENTLEY
      And Im hoping that youll seize 
      this chance to prove your 
      dedication to pursuing a future 
      with this firm. 

             ARTHUR
      My son is receiving medical 
      treatment that I can scarcely 
      fund even on my present wage, Mr 
      Bentley. I cant afford to 
      consider a future without it. 

             BENTLEY
      You have my sympathy. But we 
      cannot afford to carry cargo. And 
      Im increasingly concerned that 
      cargo is what you have become.
        (a beat)
      You have an opportunity to prove 
      me wrong. Make use of it.  

INT. LAW FIRM CORRIDOR. DAY.

Arthur leaves Bentleys office, smarting. 

Farther down the hall a group of well-dressed young LEGAL 
CLERKS are gathered, talking and laughing. At the sound of 
Arthur closing Bentleys door behind him, they look over, 
their chatter suspended.

Arthur ignores them and walks towards the exit. 

EXT. TRAIN. DUSK. 

Daylight begins to fade and rain falls lightly as a STEAM 
TRAIN cuts through the countryside. 

INT. TRAIN. DUSK.

Inside the train, Arthur shares a carriage with a LITTLE 
BOY, 4, and his exceptionally pretty NURSEMAID, 20s. 

Its brightly lit in here, cosy.

Arthur holds a NEWSPAPER but doesnt read it, only stares 
out of the window, his mind wandering. 

The child watches him. As if sensing this, Arthur glances 
over. Smiles vaguely. The boy beams back.

Arthur pulls a face and the boy dissolves into giggles.  

Arthur raises his newspaper before the girl notices, then, 
when shes looking away, lowers it to reveal another funny 
face. More giggles. Arthur hurriedly hides again.

             NURSEMAID
        (flirtatious)
      Its rare to see a man who has 
      such a way with children. 

The boy bounces, wanting Arthur to play more. He complies.

             NURSEMAID
      Hes a charmer, isnt he?
      ...Hope to have one of my own 
      just like him one day.

Finally, Arthur makes eye contact with her.

             ARTHUR
      Hes not yours?

             NURSEMAID
        (Im available)
      Im his nursemaid. 

Arthur smiles, nods politely and begins to read the 
newspaper, oblivious to the girls irritation at his total 
lack of interest in her.

EXT. COUNTRY STATION. NIGHT.

Its dark, and the rain heavier, as Arthur carries the 
nursemaids CASE and his own onto the lonely, windswept 
platform. 

Then he lifts the boy from the train and passes him to her.

             NURSEMAID 
      Thank you.

The childs face lights up as, down the platform, he spots 
his waiting FATHER and MOTHER. He wriggles from his nurse, 
runs to them and is happily scooped up in the mans arms. 

Arthur watches wistfully as they leave.

Moments later, the train pulls away, the warm glow of the  
carriage interiors and smiling PASSENGERS within flashing 
past, then finally gone. 

...And Arthur is left entirely alone on the empty platform 
in the darkness and rain. 


Nearby, a CHALK BOARD reads: 

Last train for the Northeast: 9 OClock.

Rain sluices down over the board, beginning to wash the 
letters away.

Arthur opens his POCKET WATCH and looks at the time in 
dismay before closing it again and sitting down on the 
solitary BENCH here, drawing his coat around him and 
holding his newspaper ineffectually over his head.

He opens his pocket watch again, but this time to look not 
at the watch face, but at the portrait.

EXT. COUNTRY STATION. NIGHT.

The chalk board is bare now, just empty blackness, slick 
with rain. In the distance, we hear an approaching TRAIN.

Arthur is drenched, his now sodden - nearly disintegrated - 
newspaper discarded by his side.

Momentarily, the train arrives with a piercing WHISTLE, 
filling the damp air with a cloud of STEAM. 

This train is considerably shorter than the London train, 
squat and plain. Inside, the carriages are unlit. Its not 
just unwelcoming, its almost foreboding.

Arthur moves through the steam and opens the door to a 
darkened carriage with a mixture of relief and trepidation.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE. NIGHT.

The grim little train moves through an endless stretch of 
deserted countryside. No houses, no lights, not a living 
soul for miles around. Were in the middle of nowhere.

INT. UNWELCOMING TRAIN. NIGHT.

Alone in a carriage, Arthur sleeps as the train rattles on.

The train whistle SHRIEKS, continuing for just a little too 
long... and we realise that the sound has mutated into 
something that sounds very much like a womans SCREAM. 

INT. ARTHURS HOUSE - UPPER HALL. NIGHT. 

The womans piercing scream continues. A younger Arthur 
paces anxiously, listens at a closed door, paces again.

The screaming ceases and Arthur rushes to the door, 
listening nervously. Silence. Then the cry of A BABY. 
Arthur breaks into a broad grin. 

As this new cry dies down we hear movement and low VOICES 
from within. Finally the door is opened by a DOCTOR, 30s.  

             DOCTOR
      Mr. Kipps...

             ARTHUR
      Is it...? May I...?
        (barging past)
      Stella? 

             DOCTOR
      Mr. Kipps.

INT. ARTHURS HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Arthurs attention is instantly stolen by the sight of 
Nanny standing by the door, holding a swaddled BABY. 

             NANNY
      Its a boy.

Arthur reaches out instinctively, too enraptured to notice 
her odd expression and tone. Gently, she hands it to him. 

The baby stares at Arthur, and Arthur stares back in awe.

             ARTHUR
      Hello little one! Hello...
      Edward. You definitely are an 
      Edward, arent you?... Dont you 
      think, Stella? 

In the bed beyond, Arthurs wife STELLA, 20, is propped 
against a pillow, her head bowed, long strawberry blonde 
hair hanging loose and damp with sweat. 

She doesnt respond.

Arthur looks to the sombre-faced doctor, to nanny, and then 
back to the bed again. He reacts in queasy horror and now 
we see what else he has seen, what he failed to see before:

The bottom half of the sheet is drenched in blood. 

             DOCTOR
      Im so sorry, Mr Kipps. 

Arthur clutches the baby close as the doctor leans Stella 
back, revealing her lifeless face, and draws the sheet up. 

Over this image we hear another piercing SHRIEK...

INT. UNWELCOMING TRAIN. NIGHT.

...The train whistle wakes Arthur from his nightmare.

He wipes the film of sweat from his forehead, shakes 
himself properly awake and looks around to register that 
the train is stationary, stopped at another station.

As it begins to move again, the door to Arthurs carriage 
opens and a man enters: SAMUEL DAILY, 58, ostentatiously 
well-dressed. Accompanying him is his little dog, SPIDER.

             ARTHUR
      Good evening.

Daily nods back at him, and for a while they ride on in 
silence as, outside, the rain lashes the train windows.

             ARTHUR
      Headed for Crythin Gifford?

             DAILY
      Be in trouble if I werent. Its 
      the last stop on the line 
      tonight. 

             ARTHUR
        (extending his hand)
      Arthur Kipps.

             DAILY
      Samuel Daily.

Arthur pets the dog. 

             ARTHUR
      Hello, boy.

             DAILY
      Her names Spider. 

             ARTHUR
      I see. 

Arthur stares out of the window. Silence now - just the 
rain lashing against the glass and the occasional shriek of 
the whistle. 

Arthur sighs, happier not talking, but knowing he should 
take the opportunity to learn what he can.

             ARTHUR
      Lived in Crythin Giford long?

             DAILY
      All my life. For my sins. 

             ARTHUR
      Then I wonder if you might be 
      able to tell me anything about 
      Eel Marsh house? Im the 
      solicitor charged with handling 
      the estate of the late Mrs Alice 
      Drablow.

             DAILY
      Died, did she? And youre 
      instructed to dispose of the 
      place, I suppose. Well... 
      property is my trade, and Ill 
      tell you this much for nowt: 
      Youll not find a local buyer. 

             ARTHUR
      Really? Whys that?

             DAILY
        (shrugging)
      None wanted it before, so why 
      would things change now? 

Arthur smiles thinly, disappointed.

             ARTHUR
      For a moment there, Mr Daily, I 
      thought you were going to be the 
      answer to my prayers.

             DAILY
      If youre looking for that, try 
      the fella upstairs.

             ARTHUR
      Oh Ive tried. Believe me.  

Something in Dailys face softens. Silence. And then:

             DAILY
      Staying at the Gifford Arms?

Arthur nods.

             DAILY
      Then allow me to take you there 
      on my way home. Crythin Giffords 
      not the kind of place youll find 
      a cab.

EXT. GIFFORD ARMS. NIGHT. 

Dailys impressive AUTOMOBILE pulls up outside the Gifford 
Arms, the inn we saw earlier. Arthur climbs out, wrestling 
with his suitcase. 


Daily hands him a BUSINESS CARD and shouts to be heard over the rain. 

             DAILY
      Why dont you join my wife and I 
      for some supper tomorrow evening, 
      Mr Kipps. Seven OClock, if that 
      suits? We dont get many new 
      faces round this way, wed 
      welcome the company. 

Arthur opens his mouth to protest, but its too late - 
Daily has slammed the car door closed. He pulls away.

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ENTRANCE HALL. NIGHT.

The inn-keeper, MR FISHER, late 30s, is waiting at the 
door. He watches Daily drive off.  

             FISHER
      Friend of yours? 

             ARTHUR
      We just met.

             FISHER
      Well, I hope he hasnt given you 
      the wrong impression of Crythin 
      Gifford, Mr...? 

             ARTHUR
      Kipps. Arthur Kipps. Id like a 
      room please? 

Fisher opens a LEDGER and runs his finger down a page, his 
non-response leaving an awkward silence which Arthur, now a 
little irritated, tries to fill.

             ARTHUR
      On the contrary, Mr Daily was 
      most hospitable.  

             FISHER
      First automobile in Crythin 
      Gifford. And the last, if the 
      locals have any say in the 
      matter.
        (closing the ledger)
      Im sorry Mr Kipps, it seems 
      were packed to the rafters. 

Arthur looks at him, puzzled. O.S., we hear muted 
conversation from the bar, three or four people at most. 

             ARTHUR
      But... my offices telegraphed 
      ahead and we were assured --

The inn-keepers wife - MRS FISHER, mid 30s - enters.

             MRS FISHER
      Evening sir!

             FISHER
      I was just telling this gentleman 
      that unfortunately we have no 
      room at all. 

She looks confused, then gestures to the bar with a weary, 
resigned look. 

             MRS FISHER
      Those loafers too soused to walk 
      home again? 
        (to Arthur)
      Well we cant have you out on the 
      streets now, can we? 
        (to Mr Fisher)
      What about the attic room?

             FISHER
      We can give you something for the 
      night. But youll have to leave 
      in the morning. Thats booked 
      too. For the rest of the week.  

Mrs Fisher, now utterly bemused, looks at her husband.

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - UPPER HALL. NIGHT.

Arthur follows Mrs Fisher down the narrow hall.

             MRS FISHER
      Im sure we can find something 
      for tomorrow, if you need. Long 
      journey ahead of you, is it?

             ARTHUR
      Oh no, Im not... Id planned to 
      remain here until Friday at 
      least. And I was hoping to find a 
      second room for the weekend. My 
      son and his nanny are travelling 
      up to join me.

             MRS FISHER
      I see... Thats... People pass 
      through on their way up North, 
      usually... If a holidays what 
      youre after, sir, youd honestly 
      be better off further inland. 

At the end of the hall is a BIRDCAGE, a SHAWL thrown over 
it for the night. Arthur stops beside it. 


We may notice, although Arthur doesnt, that there is a PHOTOGRAPH on the wall here: Mr and Mrs Fisher with their 
daughters, the girls from the ill-fated tea party.


             ARTHUR
      What kind of bird do you have?

             MRS FISHER
      Mynah bird. Hope you dont mind 
      it. Lot of folk find them 
      unsettling. The mimicry and all. 

             ARTHUR
      No, no. I like them well enough. 
      My wife had one. 

             MRS FISHER
      What happened to it?

             ARTHUR
      Nothing.

Mrs Fisher realises what he means. She looks away.

             ARTHUR
      Theyre a fine bird. 

             MRS FISHER
      That they are. Nice to have 
      someone to talk to.

Now its Arthurs turn to read the upspoken, feel awkward.  
But in the silence, theres a moment of connection. 

             MRS FISHER
      Its this way.

Arthur follows her up a tiny, narrow staircase towards a  
tiny landing, a single door. 

             MRS FISHER
      How old is your son?

             ARTHUR
      Six.

Mrs Fisher fumbles with a large bunch of KEYS; struggles to 
unlock the door and to fight a wave of emotion.  

             MRS FISHER
      Lovely age.
        (a beat)
      Im afraid this room doesnt get 
      used very often. Itll do for the 
      night though, eh?

INT. HOTEL BEDROOM. NIGHT. 

In his pyjamas, Arthur sits on a bed - there are three in 
here - and surveys the room. Its undoubtedly the one we 
saw the three little girls in at the beginning, but many 
years have since passed. Its bare now, the curtains faded 
and tattered, the small bedsteads rusted, paint peeling 
from the walls. 

In the corner is a pile of items covered by dusty SHEETS. 

Arthur opens his case and gets out Edward's calendar and 
his hip flask. 

He takes a long drink while staring at the calendar. 

He takes a pen from his pocket and draws a mark through the 
box marked Tuesday. Then he rolls up the calendar and 
tucks it into the inside pocket of his COAT, which is 
hanging over the back of a nearby chair. 

He climbs into bed and reaches out to extinguish the 
BEDSIDE OIL LAMP. Before he does, his fingertips come to 
rest briefly on the fob watch, which lies beside it.

             ARTHUR
      Goodnight.

Finally, he turns out the light.

Arthurs eyes close, then open again. 

In the darkness, the white sheets covering the pile of 
hidden items are still visible. Intriguing, unsettling. 

Curiosity piqued, Arthur turns the light on again, gets up 
and pulls off a sheet... to be greeted by an alarming old 
ROCKING HORSE, the paint peeling unpleasantly from its 
grimacing face. 

Beside it is a box of long-neglected DOLLS and TOYS. 

Looking again at the disturbing face of the rocking-horse, 
Arthur throws the sheet back over it and returns to bed. 

EXT. JEROME'S OFFICES. DAY

Arthur stands outside a small office on a winding country 
lane. The sign above the door reads: JEROME & SON. And 
underneath in smaller letters: Solicitors. 

Arthur checks a piece of paper in his hand, then checks his 
watch before trying the door, for what we assume is not the 
first time. It's locked. Theres nobody here. 

He looks up and down the street. Its mainly residential, 
apart from a small POST OFFICE next door, and deserted, 
aside from some children in a front garden across the road.  

They are VICTORIA HARDY, 7 and her brothers TOM, 8, and 
CHARLIE, 5. They stare curiously at Arthur through the gaps 
in their picket fence. 

Behind them, their father GERALD HARDY, 30s, stares equally 
curiously through a front window.

Arthur smiles at the children. 

They dont smile back. 

Seconds later, Gerald Hardy emerges from indoors, fixing 
Arthur with a suspicious look. He shouts across the road.

             HARDY
      Yes? Can I help you?

             ARTHUR
      Do you happen to know where I 
      might find Mr Jerome?

Hardy shrugs and shakes his head before protectively 
pulling his children away from the fence.

Arthur goes to call after him, but is distracted by a sound 
from the stairwell leading down to the cellar below 
Jeromes office. He looks down to see:

MRS JEROME, 30s, emerging from the cellar, looking anxious. 

             MRS JEROME
      Mr Kipps?

             ARTHUR
      Yes?



Mrs Jerome locks and bolts the cellar door behind her and 
begins to ascend the stairs.

             MRS JEROME
      My husband was just on his way to 
      see you at the Gifford Arms. 

She lets herself into the door leading to her home above 
the office, and closes it behind her, leaving Arthur alone.

Arthur pauses to absorb this abrupt exchange before walking 
away. He glances back over his shoulder at the cellar door. 
Something about it makes him feel uneasy. 

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ENTRANCE HALL. DAY.

Fisher is deep in conversation with a man in his early 40s. 
He is, in fact, JEROME. Mrs Fisher stands nearby listening, 
a sad, distant look on her face. 

The conversation dies abruptly the moment Arthur arrives, 
as Fisher appears to point him out. 

             JEROME

      Mr Kipps. 

             ARTHUR
      Mr Jerome? I just came from your 
      office. We must have walked 
      directly past one another.

             JEROME
      I made it clear to your firm that 
      there was no need for you to make 
      the journey.

Waving away what he takes to be an apology.

             ARTHUR
      Please, its of no concern. It 
      was only a few minutes walk. 

             JEROME
      The journey to Crythin Gifford, 
      Mr Kipps. No need at all. We 
      could have sent all the relevant 
      documents to London.  

Arthur is lost for words as Jerome thrusts a FILE at him.

             JEROME
      In any event, youll find 
      everything you need in here. 
      Mr. Fisher tells me youre 
      leaving today. 

             ARTHUR
      No, I need to -
        (to Fisher)
      Your wife said -

He looks to Mrs Fisher, who avoids his gaze, awkward.

             FISHER
      Im afraid she was mistaken, Mr 
      Kipps. Its market day tomorrow. 
      Were entirely full.

             ARTHUR
      This is... Im going to have to 
      contact my employers. Do you have 
      a telephone?


Fisher and Jerome look at Arthur incredulously.    
             FISHER
      Not even your friend Mr Daily has 
      a telephone, sir. Youll not find 
      one in Crythin Gifford. 

             ARTHUR
      Then Ill send a telegram. Which 
      way is the post office? 

             JEROME
      Youll find it directly next door 
      to my own premises.

Arthur turns to leave. Jerome falls into step beside him.

             JEROME
      ...But its closed on a Wednesday 
      morning. 
        (a beat)
      The London train leaves in half 
      an hour. My colleague Keckwick is 
      waiting outside with your 
      luggage.

At the entrance, Mr Jerome opens the door for Arthur and 
politely gestures for him to go first. Arthur steps out.

             JEROME
      Pleasure to meet you, Mr. Kipps.

And with that, Jerome closes the door on him. 

EXT. GIFFORD ARMS. DAY.

Arthur stands before the closed door, speechless. 

The square has become busier now, VILLAGE FOLK busying 
themselves with preparations for the market. 

Not far from the entrance, a PONY AND TRAP is waiting. 
Sitting atop it is KECKWICK, 42, a weather-beaten man in 
threadbare country clothes. 

Arthurs suitcase is on the back of the trap.

Fighting his anger, Arthur climbs up beside Keckwick. 

             ARTHUR
      Mr Keckwick? Change of plans. Im 
      not catching the train. I need to 
      get to Eel Marsh House.

             KECKWICK
      Jerome paid me to take you to the 
      station.


Arthur fishes in his pocket and produces the envelope Bentley gave him. He offers Keckwick a COIN from it.

Keckwick stares at it, unimpressed, and gestures to the 
envelope.

             KECKWICK
      Make it six and Ill think about 
      it. 

             ARTHUR
      Six shillings? 

Keckwicks face tells us that hes serious. Arthur digs 
resentfully into the envelope and hands over the cash.

             ARTHUR
      Youre fortunate my firm provided 
      me with expenses.

             KECKWICK
      Think youll find youre the 
      fortunate one, Mr Kipps. Youll 
      not find anyone else willing to 
      take you to Eel Marsh House.

EXT. CRYTHIN GIFFORD. DAY.

Arthur and Keckwick ride silently through the town. 
VILLAGERS stop to stare at Arthur as the trap passes. There 
are many weathered old faces here, giving Arthur - and us - 
an uneasy sense of rural 'otherness'. 

We pass an empty SCHOOL, its iron gates rusted and 
padlocked, its yard overgrown. But we don't linger on these 
details, nor imply any significance.

In fact, Arthurs attention is taken up with a bag of 
ROTTING APPLES that sits between them, attracting flies. 

             ARTHUR
      Not planning to eat those, are 
      you?

             KECKWICK
      For the pony. 

They ride on in silence.

EXT. MARSHES. DAY

At the end of a road, the pony trap arrives at the start of 
a causeway - a narrow path snaking across an incredible 
vista of shining marshland, with EEL MARSH HOUSE, perched 
on its little island, lying at its distant end. 


Arthur reacts in awe.

             KECKWICK
      Nine Lives Causeway. Lucky the 
      tides out.

             ARTHUR
      How many hours a day is it 
      passable?

             KECKWICK
      Couple in the morning. Couple 
      later on. 

Arthur gives a low whistle.

             ARTHUR
      Well theres something that might 
      put off a prospective buyer.

             KECKWICK
      Fewer if a frets up.

             ARTHUR
      You mean the sea mists?

             KECKWICK
      Come in without any warning. The 
      tide too. One minute the roads 
      there, next - under water. People 
      have drowned on that causeway. 
      And the marshes are even worse.   

             ARTHUR
      Worse than drowning. 

Keckwick fixes Arthur with a look, then picks up one of his 
moldy apples and tosses it onto the apparently solid ground 
beside the causeway. 

Within seconds, it has been sucked down, swallowed. Gone 
without a trace. And likewise Arthurs amusement. 

             KECKWICK
      Ask them what they reckon.

He points ahead to where a TALL WOODEN CROSS is erected in 
the marsh, a few feet from the causeway. 

Silence reigns once again as they ride on, broken only by 
the eerie WHOOPS of the birds circling overhead.

EXT. EEL MARSH ISLAND. DAY.

Keckwick halts the trap at the beginning of the driveway 
leading up to Eel Marsh house. Arthur looks at him, 
puzzled, and nods towards the house.


             ARTHUR      Shall we...?

But Keckwick doesnt move. He points up toward the house.

             KECKWICK
      Storehouse is to the East by the 
      kitchen garden. Should still be 
      some oil in there for the lamps. 

             ARTHUR
      I didnt realise you knew the 
      house so well Mr Keckwick. 
      Perhaps you could show me around. 

             KECKWICK
      My father worked here all his 
      life. Ill be back for you at 
      five. Before the tide comes in. 
      Plenty of time to get to the 
      station for the late train.

Arthur stares at Keckwick, realises that he really isnt 
going to go any closer, and climbs off the trap, unable to 
keep from laughing at the absurdity of the string of 
obstructions he is meeting.

             ARTHUR
      Despite Mr Jeromes apparent 
      keenness to run me out of town, I 
      wont be leaving Crythin Gifford 
      until my work is done.

Arthur turns to walk toward Eel Marsh House but, 
remembering something, he turns back, waving the file that 
Jerome gave him earlier.

             ARTHUR
      Oh, and he forgot to put the 
      deeds to the house in here. 
      Collect them from him on your way 
      to fetch me? 

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - GROUNDS. DAY.

The sound of the pony and trap recedes further and further 
as Arthur walks up the drive, carrying his bag. He notes 
that, to the East, close to the marshes, a GNARLED TREE 
stands beside the ruins of an old GATE KEEPERS COTTAGE. 
Beyond that lies a crumbling FAMILY GRAVEYARD.

But his attention is drawn away again by the imposing sight 
of EEL MARSH HOUSE itself looming up ahead of him. Vast, 
grey and magnificent against the open sky and marshland. 


EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

Silence now, but for the birds. Arthur lets himself in. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. DAY.

A dark entrance hall. Arthur inches along the wall until he 
finds a LAMP. He fumbles with it, but it doesnt light. 

He opens the first door he finds.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM. DAY.

Faint rectangles of daylight glow around the shuttered 
windows, but still we cant make out much detail in here. 

Arthur tries another WALL LAMP. Nothing. 

Something - it sounds like a pile of papers - falls to the 
floor as Arthur fumbles with a DESK-LAMP. This too fails. 

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

Arthur walks around the East side of the house, past a 
barren KITCHEN-GARDEN...

EXT. STOREHOUSE. DAY.

Arthur arrives at the STOREHOUSE that Keckwick mentioned. 

He swats the cobwebs from the handle of the warped and 
dilapidated storehouse door and tries it. The years have 
wedged it tightly shut. 

Eventually, he shoulders it open.

INT. STOREHOUSE. DAY.

The daylight from outside provides just enough illumination 
for Arthur, and us, to survey the contents of the room. 

A pile of LOGS are stacked against one wall, and against 
the other a plethora of GARDENING TOOLS, SPORTING EQUIPMENT 
for cricket, badminton and croquet and VARIOUS CONTAINERS. 

Spying what he needs, Arthur grabs a canister of LAMP OIL.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

As Arthur walks back past the kitchen garden, carrying his 
canister, he stops, unsettled. Carried on the wind is 
something that sounds unmistakably like CHILDRENS VOICES.


Arthur squints towards the marshes, but can see nothing 
untoward. Nevertheless, the sound of voices persists.  

Still carrying his canister, he walks towards the marshes.

             ARTHUR
      Hello?

EXT. EEL MARSH ISLAND - GROUNDS. DAY.

Uneasy, Arthur walks past the graveyard, out to the end of 
the drive, following the sound. 

In the upper window of the ruined Gate Keepers cottage we 
may notice - though some may not - a WOMAN IN BLACK looking 
out over the marshes. 

Looking out to the marshes himself, Arthur doesnt see her. 

The childrens voices are louder here, more distinct. But 
no children are to be seen. He is alone. Or is he?

Suddenly, as if sensing that someone is watching him, 
Arthur turns uneasily to look behind him. 

But there is no one there. 

In an increasing state of discomfort, Arthur turns and 
begins to walk briskly back toward the house. 

As he passes the cottage, he again fails to see what we 
see, clearly this time, although again fleetingly: the 
Woman in Black at the window. She is dressed in the formal 
funeral garb of the mid-1800s, her bonnet and mourning veil 
concealing her face in a way that makes us nervous as to 
what might be under there.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

Arthur opens the front door, the haste in his movements 
conveying an intangible desire to get indoors fast. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. DAY.

Arthur closes the door behind him, hesitates a moment, then 
bolts it shut. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM. DAY.

Canister of oil in hand, Arthur stumbles into the darkened 
room and makes for the closest window. He throws open the 
shutters and peers outside, but the grounds are still 
deserted. 

We may make out a slight tremble in Arthurs hand as he 
uses the canister of oil to fill the desk lamp. 

He lights it...

And surveys the now-illuminated room, an untidy testament 
to Mrs Drablow's unstable mental state. The entire surface 
of the desk is covered with LETTERS and DOCUMENTS. Nearby 
is a DECANTER of brandy and TWO GLASSES, thick with dust. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - KITCHEN. DAY.

DIRTY WATER chokes in noisy spurts from a faucet into a 
long-unused SINK. Somewhere distant, in the walls of the 
house, pipes THUMP and RATTLE in complaint. 

Arthur, pumping the handle, sighs and abandons his efforts. 
The kitchen is bleak, under three decades of dust. On the 
counter is the decanter and a glass from the drawing room. 

Arthur grabs an old DISHCLOTH and beats it on the counter, 
sending thick clouds of DUST dancing in the shafts of light 
that stream through the grimy windows. 

He wipes the glass, pours a large brandy and drains it. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. DAY.

Arthur climbs the stairs. The walls here are dotted with 
PORTRAITS and PHOTOGRAPHS. He glances at them as he walks. 

A formal portrait of MR AND MRS DRABLOW AND THEIR SON, 6.

A formal portrait of THE SON, alone.

A SCHOOL PHOTOGRAPH: Eleven neatly-dressed CHILDREN of 
varying ages stand posed for the camera outside the village 
school. Behind them stands their TEACHER. She wears a pale 
dress, and in contrast to the solemnity of the children, 
she is smiling.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. DAY.

Arthur walks the upper hallway, trying each door in turn. 
The first on his left reveals a completely EMPTY ROOM, 
devoid of furniture or window-dressings. 

The second opens into ANOTHER EMPTY ROOM.

The third door, at the very end of the hallway, is firmly 
locked shut. Eventually Arthur gives up trying to open it.

He returns down the other side of the hall. The first door 
reveals a BATHROOM, its curtains closed. 


Shafts of light slant in from above through exposed slats 
where a section of the roof has succumbed to the elements. 
He enters.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BATHROOM. DAY.

Arthur opens the curtains... the window affords a clear 
view of the graveyard, tree, cottage and marshes beyond.

Arthur peers out, scanning the landscape. He sees nothing 
untoward, but tenses a little when he hears a SCRABBLING 
noise from somewhere nearby.

He freezes. Nothing. Then the noise again. Arthur presses 
his ear to the wall dividing this room from the not-yet-
investigated room next door.

A long pause, then the noise. Its definitely in there. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. DAY.

Outside the closed door to the next room, Arthur gathers 
himself and turns the handle. The door fails to open, but 
this time the noise from within is not so much a scrabbling 
as a sudden THUMP. Arthur jumps back.

Gingerly, he turns the KEY that is in the lock beneath the 
handle. Almost immediately, another THUMP.

Arthur opens the door... to discover a BEDROOM. The 
curtains drawn. Dark, but for the same shafts of light 
through the ruined roof. And silent. He steps in.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY.

The shafts of daylight shine onto a dresser crowded with 
medicinal-looking BOTTLES. Dimly, we can also see a bureau 
that, like the desk downstairs, is covered with PAPERS. 

Arthur stands very still, eyes darting around the room. The 
SCRABBLING noise is louder now, frantic, low to the ground. 

Arthur scans the ill-lit floor.

A noise - though not the same noise as the one he heard 
before, this time a HIGH-PITCHED SQUEALING - leads Arthur 
deeper into the room, to the FIREPLACE where he finds:

A NEST filled with BABY BIRDS. Their beaks are wide open in 
the hope of receiving food. Eight wide, dark, gaping holes, 
out of proportion with their tiny bodies. 

Arthur exhales, relieved. 

Then he notices: one RUNTISH BABY BIRD has fallen out of 
the nest and is writhing on the hearthstone. Its both 
pitiful and creepy in its naked vulnerability.

Arthur bends down and replaces it in the nest.

Suddenly, an almighty FLURRY - this is the noise he heard 
before - and a BIRD flies past Arthur, THUMPING into the 
wall behind him. It drops to the ground, stunned. 

Arthur reacts, shocked but - again - relieved. He looks up 
to the gaping ceiling, where the bird must have got in, 
then back at the bird itself.

Arthur moves to the window, where he pulls open the 
curtains...

Arthur steps back in alarm. 

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Arthurs distant, elevated POV, but still we plainly see:

In the tree by the cottage, the Woman in Black hangs by a 
rope around her neck. Silhouetted against the sky, her dead 
form sways grotesquely in the wind.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY.

Arthur closes his eyes tightly, certain his mind is playing 
tricks on him again. 

Sure enough, when he opens them, the distant tree is bare.

Arthur grasps the handles of the sash window and, with some 
effort, wrestles it open.

He looks back at the bird. Gestures to the open window.

             ARTHUR
      Go on. 

It doesnt move.

The baby birds scream for food. 

Arthur gestures at them, addresses the bird again.

             ARTHUR
      Youve got mouths to feed.  

Then he points again at the window. 

             ARTHUR
      Off you go. 


INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM. DAY.

Arthur is settled at the chaotic writing desk, beginning to 
stack the reams of scattered paperwork into piles, a large 
tumbler of brandy at hand.

Occasionally, he pauses to take a drink, or to stoop to 
pick up papers that have fallen to the floor. 

Suddenly the silence is interrupted by the unmistakable 
sound, in the far distance, of A PONY AND TRAP. 

Arthur glances up at the large WALL CLOCK mounted nearby. 
The hands are motionless. Stopped at eight o clock. 

Arthur checks his pocket watch. Its ten to three. 

The sound of the pony and trap is still distant, but 
growing louder. 

Confused, Arthur moves to the window and peers out.

Outside, a light MIST has begun to descend. Obscuring the 
view of the driveway and the marshes beyond. 

But as Arthur stands here, the steady rhythm of hooves and 
wheels is replaced by a CLATTERING. Arthur freezes.

A HORSE whinnies in panic, a MAN shouts for help, a WOMAN 
and a CHILD scream. 

Arthur rises and makes for the door.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

Arthur bursts out into the daylight and begins to sprint 
through the mist. Out here, the catastrophic sounds coming 
from the marsh beyond are even louder.

             ARTHUR
      Keckwick?

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - GROUNDS. DAY.

Horrified, Arthur runs blindly down the driveway into the 
white nothingness ahead, towards the anguished cries.

             ARTHUR
      Keckwick!

EXT. NINE LIVES CAUSEWAY. DAY.

The mist seems to be getting thicker, and Arthur begins to 
move ahead a little more gingerly.


The mainland is entirely obscured from view, and the only 
visible landmark is the faint, indistinct outline of the 
wooden cross out in the marsh. Soon, this too is swallowed 
by the thickening mist.

But now the cries abate and there is only a ghastly SUCKING 
NOISE.

Then silence.

Arthur stops, chilled to the core.

And looking down, he notes with dismay that he can no 
longer see the ground beneath him. 

Reluctantly he looks back... only to find that the mist is 
all around now: he can see nothing in any direction. 

Treading carefully, Arthur steels himself and continues to 
move through the whiteness towards the mainland. 

EXT. JEROME'S OFFICE. DAY.

Only a trace of the sea mist hangs in the air here, as 
Arthur arrives outside Jerome's office.

INT. JEROMES OFFICE. DAY.

The door is unlocked. Arthur bursts in, but no one is here.

             ARTHUR
      Mr. Jerome?

No response... beside a faint SHUFFLING noise from beneath 
the floorboards. 

Arthur stoops to peer through a crack in the floorboards, 
but before he can investigate further, Jerome enters from a 
back room. He is both shocked and displeased to see Arthur. 

             ARTHUR
      Theres been an accident on Nine 
      Lives Causeway! Its Keckwick - 

             JEROME
      Mr. Kipps?? Why are you...

             ARTHUR
      I had him take me to Eel Marsh. 
      He was coming back for me. We 
      must fetch help! It sounded as if 
      he had others with him, too - a 
      child! 

Jerome sits down at his desk, starts fussing with papers.


             JEROME
      He would never risk it. His own 
      father died crossing the causeway 
      during a fret. 
        (beat)
      You shouldnt have gone, Mr 
      Kipps. 

Arthur stares at Jerome in mute confusion. Before he can 
find words to express his disbelief, theres a KNOCK at the 
door, announcing the arrival of Keckwick. 

Arthurs eyes widen. Keckwick looks equally puzzled. 

             KECKWICK
      I was on my way to fetch you. 
      Came to collect the deeds first, 
      like you asked. 

             JEROME
      I thought more of you, Keckwick. 
      How much did he pay you? 

             ARTHUR
      Mr Jerome, are you quite mad?! 
      Someone - if not Keckwick, 
      someone - met with great 
      misfortune out on the marshes not 
      thirty minutes ago! And you -

At this, Keckwick falters and turns away.

             JEROME
      No, not thirty minutes ago, Mr 
      Kipps. Thirty years ago.  

Jerome busies himself again. Arthur stares at him agape. 

             ARTHUR
      What are you talking about?

             KECKWICK
      Twenty seven. To be precise. 
      Showed you the cross out on the 
      marsh this morning, didnt I? 

Arthur stares from one to the other in disbelief.

             ARTHUR
      Ghost stories. Wonderful. 

             JEROME
      Take a look at your own paperwork 
      if you doubt it. Mrs Drablow was 
      the only survivor. Threw herself 
      clear, onto the causeway. The 
      others, the little Drablow boy... 

             JEROME
      They never even made it out of 
      the trap before it sank. 

             KECKWICK
      Werent even able to have a 
      proper funeral. Still out there, 
      they are.

EXT. JEROMES OFFICE. DAY.

The street is empty, but for the Hardy children playing 
quietly in their front yard.

Arthur strides purposefully next door to the Post Office.

A sign on the door reads: CLOSED.

Inside, we can see the POST-MISTRESS, 50s, pottering 
around, clearing up for the day. 

Arthur knocks urgently at the window. The woman waves her 
hands sternly, points to the sign. He shouts to be heard. 

             ARTHUR
      Could you direct me to the police 
      station?

The woman points vaguely and returns to her chores.

EXT. POLICE STATION. DAY.

An establishing shot of a small rural police station.

INT. POLICE STATION. DAY.

Arthur stands across a counter from an old policeman, P.C. 
ROBERT COLLINS, 60, who fills in a form very, very slowly, 
his calm demeanor providing stark contrast to Arthurs 
state of agitation.

             PC COLLINS
      No ones used Nine Lives Causeway 
      for years, sir. No one visits Eel 
      Marsh House - its empty. 

             ARTHUR
      I know what I heard, Constable. 

             PC COLLINS
      At any rate, we cant get anyone 
      out there until this fret lifts. 

             ARTHUR
      But - 


Collins raises his hand, indicating for Arthur to wait. He 
writes some more, painfully slowly, until - from somewhere 
in a back room - a BELL rings. He downs his pen.

             PC COLLINS
      Excuse me one moment, sir.

Arthur cant hide his frustration as, very slowly, Collins 
shuffles away into a back room. 

Just the sound of a clock TICKING now, as Arthur waits. 

Momentarily, the front door opens to reveal Tom Hardy. The 
boy looks to the empty desk, then at Arthur.

             ARTHUR
      Hell be back in just a moment, I 
      think. Is everything alright?

The boy shakes his head. With a growing sense of dread, 
Arthur looks behind the boy to see that, hanging back a few 
feet behind him are the younger boy, Charlie, and their 
sister Victoria. The girl looks horribly ill. 

Arthur leaps to his feet.

             ARTHUR
      What happened?

Charlie and Victoria step in silently. The little girl is 
deathly pale and stares straight at Arthur; a blank, 
glazed, wide-eyed stare. None of the children speak.

Tom points at his sister. 

The girls eyes stay locked onto Arthurs as he drops to 
his knees and takes her gently by the arms.

             ARTHUR
      Whats the matter?
        (off her silence)
      Whats your name? Can you tell me 
      your name?

             TOM
      Her names Victoria Hardy.

             ARTHUR
      Can you tell me whats wrong, 
      Victoria? Did something bad 
      happen?

             TOM
      She drank some lye. Our mam was 
      out.

             CHARLIE
      Its wash day.

             ARTHUR
      Lye? Oh god... 
        (shouting)
      Constable! 

             TOM
      Is she going to die?

             ARTHUR
      Constable! 

             CHARLIE
      My cat died. He went to heaven.

             ARTHUR
      We need a doctor! 
        (softly, to Victoria)
      Its alright, darling. Its going 
      to be alright.

Eyes still fixed on Arthur, her face remaining 
expressionless, the little girls jaw falls slack, and a 
stream of THICK, BLOODY VOMIT spills from her mouth and 
spatters down her front and onto the floor. 

EXT. GIFFORD ARMS. DAY.

Arthur sits on a bench in the market square, shell-shocked, 
oblivious to the stares of the ELDERLY VILLAGERS who pass. 

He draws his flask from his inside pocket and goes to drink 
from it, not caring who sees, only to find that its empty.

He looks over at the Gifford Arms. Nothing else for it. 
Reluctantly, he gets up and heads towards the entrance. 

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ENTRANCE HALL. DAY.

The entrance hall is deserted. 

             ARTHUR
      Hello?

Receiving no reply, he walks through to the bar room. 

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - PUBLIC ROOM. DAY.

The bar room is deserted, too. Not a soul here.

             ARTHUR
      Hello?

In the empty silence, Arthur can now hear a sound coming 
from upstairs. Its faint, but sounds distinctly like a 
woman sobbing.

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ENTRANCE HALL. DAY.

Arthur wanders uneasily back into the entrance hall. The 
sound of sobbing is louder here, coming from upstairs.

             ARTHUR
      Mrs Fisher?

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - UPPER HALL. DAY.

Arthur makes his way down the hall, towards the sound...

It is a moment before he realises that it is coming from 
the birdcage.

Grimly fascinated, he stares at the mynah bird within. Its 
beak is open, utterly human-sounding sobs coming from it. 

Now for the first time Arthur notices the family photograph 
on the wall here. The sobbing continues as he stares at it. 

             MRS FISHER
      Mr Kipps?

Arthur turns, a little startled, to see Mrs Fisher emerging 
from a nearby bedroom, carrying a pile of folded sheets. 

The bird continues its horrible imitation of her crying. 

Theres nothing either of them can say. 

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - PUBLIC ROOM. DAY.

Mrs Fisher pours Arthur a large brandy. 

             MRS FISHER
      Say when.

He stares at her. The glass fills. Still he says nothing. 
She stares back, still pouring. Her look says she 
understands. 

She walks back to the bar, replaces the bottle and begins 
to busy herself wiping dust from the other bottles. 

             MRS FISHER
      There was nothing you could have 
      done, you know. 

             ARTHUR
      Who can say? If Id acted faster. 
      Noticed her when I passed by... 

             MRS FISHER
      If you hadnt done this or that. 
      Or been distracted. 

             MRS FISHER
      If the events of the day had 
      shifted by only a minute. 
      Everything would be different. 

He looks over to meet her gaze. 

             MRS FISHER
      Trust me, Mr Kipps, thinking that 
      way can drive you to madness.

He drains his glass dry and tips it in her direction.

             ARTHUR
      Or drink. Join me for one?

             MRS FISHER
      Its getting late. Youll miss 
      the London train. 

             ARTHUR
      Im not leaving Crythin Gifford 
      just yet. I still have work to do 
      here. Mores the pity.  

             MRS FISHER
      My husband will be back soon.

Behind the bar, Mrs Fisher stands stock still. Shes not 
going to be serving any more drinks. Arthur shakes his head 
in amused resignation and stands to put on his coat.

             ARTHUR
      I dont think Ive ever met a 
      publican so hell bent on avoiding 
      custom as your husband. 

             MRS FISHER
      He means well, I assure you. 

Arthur smiles wistfully at her as he places a handful of 
coins on the bar and turns to leave. He is surprised when 
Mrs Fisher catches his arm, a little too tightly.

             MRS FISHER
      Mr Kipps, Sir... Eel Marsh house 
      is a dangerous place. You said 
      you have a son?

             ARTHUR
      Yes...

             MRS FISHER
      Go home to him. Cherish him. 

Arthur is taken aback by her odd change of mood, this 
strange statement. He wrests his arm from her grip.

             ARTHUR
      Believe me, Mrs Fisher, I 
      wouldnt be here if it werent 
      for the fact that I love my son. 

EXT. MARKET SQUARE - DAY.

A few VILLAGERS, most elderly, toddle through the square. 

Arthur stops one, a sullen ELDERLY MAN. Though his hair is 
mostly grey, we can tell that he was once red-haired. 

             ARTHUR
      Can you tell me the quickest way 
      to Alton Hall?

             ELDERLY MAN
      By motorcar, apparently.

The two stare one another out for a beat. 

Then the old man relents, pointing his WALKING STICK 
towards a churchyard - beyond it are open fields and a 
distant MANOR HOUSE - and walks away.

EXT. CRYTHIN GIFFORD CHURCHYARD. DAY.

Arthur walks at a brisk pace through the churchyard, past 
row upon row of GRAVES, many with recently-placed FLOWERS. 
He pays them no mind until he notices:

On one is a weather-beaten TEDDY BEAR. Threadbare and 
bleached silvery grey by years in the elements.

Arthur pauses, overcome with sadness. Then he walks on, now 
uneasily noticing details on the other plots he passes.

One reads: ANNIE BROWN May 25th 1861 - January 23rd 1872. 
The headstone bears the carved image of a lamb. 

On the next grave, a shrivelled DAISY CHAIN is draped over 
the headstone. 

On the next, a sleeping CHERUB STATUE and the inscription: 
Taken from us too young

The one next to that, someone has left a small WOODEN TOY 
TRAIN.

Though we put no emphasis on this, the observant among us 
may note that all these graves bear the same date of death: 
January 23rd 1872.

Unsettled, Arthur checks his watch and picks up his pace. 

EXT. PICTURESQUE LANE. DUSK.

Arthur stops at a set of wrought iron GATES. 

Behind them is a sweeping drive, leading up to a MANOR 
HOUSE. Arthur opens the gates and sets off up the drive. 

EXT. DAILYS HOUSE - GROUNDS. DUSK.

Arthur is halfway to the house when Spider the dog bounds  
up to him.

             ARTHUR
      Spider! Hello girl.

Moments later, Daily emerges from an avenue of trees. 
Arthur calls out as he approaches.

             ARTHUR
      Sorry, Im a little early.

             DAILY
      No bother. I was just on my way 
      back. Just bidding my son 
      Nicholas a good night. 

The two begin to walk together, Spider following behind.

             ARTHUR
      Lives on the estate, does he?

Daily smiles ruefully and gestures beyond the trees. Arthur 
looks back to see that the end of the avenue lies a small 
white MAUSOLEUM.

             ARTHUR
      My condolences, Mr Daily.  

             DAILY
      Please: call me Sam. And no need 
      for condolences. It was a long 
      while ago. 
        (re: the mausoleum)
      Designed it myself. Just for him. 

             ARTHUR
      Its beautiful.

             DAILY
      Theres a place in there ready 
      for me. And my wife. So one day 
      we can all be together again. 

Arthur smiles awkwardly, unsure what to say. They are close 
to the front entrance of the house now, but Daily stops. 


             DAILY
      May I ask you a favour, Mr. 
      Kipps?

             ARTHUR
      Arthur.

             DAILY
      Arthur. My wife... Itd be for 
      the best if youd avoid the 
      subject of our bereavement in 
      conversation. Indeed the general 
      subject of children, if at all 
      possible.

Before Arthur can speak, the door is opened by a BUTLER.

INT. DAILY'S HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL. NIGHT.

MRS DAILY, 58, appears behind the Butler, grinning broadly. 

             MRS DAILY
      Mr Kipps! Ive been so looking 
      forward to meeting you! 

             ARTHUR
      The pleasures all mine.

The butler helps Arthur out of his coat, but as he does so, 
Arthurs jacket is momentarily pulled open.

             MRS DAILY
      Good heavens, is that blood on 
      your shirt? Are you quite 
      alright?

Arthur looks down to see: spatters of Victoria Hardys 
blood on his white shirt. He rearranges his jacket.

             ARTHUR
      Oh, no I... Im fine, thank you. 
      Earlier this afternoon I -
        (he remembers not to 
         mention children)
      I cut myself shaving... I  
      apologise for not changing. It 
      seems Im unexpectedly without a 
      room at the Gifford Arms any 
      longer. Some sort of mix-up.

             MRS DAILY
      Well then you must stay here, 
      mustnt he, Samuel? 

             DAILY
      Aye. Come. Let me get you 
      something to drink. 

Daily steers Arthur towards the drawing-room. 

             MRS DAILY
      Oh but first you must meet the 
      twins!
        (calling up the stairs)
      Sarah! Emily! 

             DAILY
      My dear, Im sure Mr. Kipps 
      doesnt -

He tails off as we hear a SCAMPERING noise on the stairs, 
and two LITTLE DOGS bound down into the hall. Both wear 
immaculate little dresses and bonnets, with white mittens 
on their fore-paws, and patent leather booties on their 
hind ones. 

The overall effect falls somewhere on the wrong side of the 
line between comical and disturbing, and Arthur tries to 
hide his discomfort. 

             MRS DAILY
      Now now girls, what have I said 
      about running about?

             ARTHUR
      What a... charming pair.  

Mrs Daily scoops up one dog in either arm, cradling them on 
their backs, beaming with pride.

             MRS DAILY
        (to the dogs)
      Say hello to Mr Kipps. 

Arthur nods awkwardly. Mr Daily gives his wife a sharply 
disapproving look, which she ignores. 

INT. DAILY'S DINING ROOM. NIGHT. 

Arthur and the Dailys follow the Butler into the formal-
looking room, but anger floods Mr Dailys face as he sees: 

Two additional places - with TINY CHINA PLATES - have been 
set at the table before two infants HIGH CHAIRS.

             DAILY
        (to butler, testy)
      We have a guest, Archer. The... 
      twins wont be dining with us 
      this evening.

The Butler moves swiftly to begin clearing the tiny plates.

             MRS DAILY
      But, Samuel!

             ARTHUR
        (to Daily)
      Truly, it makes no odds to me.

Samuel sighs and nods tersely to the Butler, who replaces 
the plates as Daily and Arthur take their seats.

Mrs Daily places the dogs in the high chairs and ties BIBS 
around their necks before sitting down in between them.

TWO MAIDS step in and serve the first course. 

Mrs Daily begins to feed one of the dogs with a TEASPOON. 

             MRS DAILY
      I am glad youll be staying with 
      us tonight, Mr Kipps. Ought we to 
      have Archer collect your bags 
      from the Gifford Arms? It would 
      be no bother.

             ARTHUR
      Actually, Im without my 
      possessions at present. I left my 
      case at the house where Im 
      working. 

             MRS DAILY
      Emily! Table manners! We have a 
      guest!
        (to Arthur, calm again)
      Im so sorry Mr Kipps. Whatever 
      must you think of us!

             ARTHUR
      Its really... quite alright.
        (a beat)
      Actually you may know the place - 

             DAILY
        (cutting in)
      Oh lets save talk of business 
      until after supper shall we? Tell 
      me, how is London these days? 
      Its been a long time since Ive 
      visited.

             MRS DAILY
      Stuff London! I should like to 
      know more about Mr Kipps. Are you 
      married?

Before Arthur has a chance to reply, Mrs Daily looks 
sharply to her husband, who is looking away, stony-faced, 
feeding a table-scrap to Spider, who sits at his feet.


             MRS DAILY
      SAMUEL! I have TOLD you not to 
      feed that animal at the table!
        (brightly, to Arthur)
      Any children?

             ARTHUR
        (avoiding Dailys eye)
      A son.

             MRS DAILY
      Glad to hear it. You dont want 
      to end up like this poor sap. 
      Wealthiest man in the county, and 
      no one to leave it all to. The 
      good Lords little joke. 
        (a beat)
      Did he tell you about Nicholas?

             DAILY
      Elizabeth...

             MRS DAILY
      Thats him.

She points across the room to a portrait on the wall. A 
rather tacky, chocolate-box number featuring a little boy 
wearing a sailor suit in a pastoral setting, rendered 
slightly creepy by the presence of a heavenly doorway of 
bright white light near him, obscuring much of the sky.

Arthur looks at it uncomfortably.

             ARTHUR
      A... handsome portrait.

             MRS DAILY
      I painted it myself. I love to 
      paint and sketch.

             ARTHUR
      Well, its excellent. Youre -

             MRS DAILY
      Nicholas loved to sketch, too.
        (a beat)
      He still does.

             DAILY
      Elizabeth...

             MRS DAILY
        (to Arthur)
      Nicholas wants to draw a picture 
      for you right now.

             DAILY
      Elizabeth, no!

Arthur looks at Daily in desperate confusion, then back to 
Mrs Daily... Whose eyes roll back into her head as she 
begins to have some kind of seizure. Her arms flail, and 
she knocks her plate to the ground. Her little dogs BARK. 

Daily leaps up and runs from the room leaving Arthur alone. 

Arthur watches in mute distress as Mrs Daily blindly grabs 
for her STEAK KNIFE. A beat, then she begins frantically to 
carve into the surface of the table.

All the while, the two dressed-up dogs bark in their 
highchairs.

Momentarily, Daily returns with the maid, who is carrying a 
bottle of LAUDANUM. The two struggle to subdue Mrs Daily 
and administer it. She fights them, still stabbing at the 
table until the knife is eventually wrested from her grip.

             MRS DAILY
      No! Nicholas hasnt finished!

Finally, the medicine administered, she falls silent. The 
dogs do, too. The maid loosens Mrs Dailys collar as Mr 
Daily stands up to leave the table. He gestures for Arthur 
to follow him. 

             ARTHUR
      Is she going to be alright?

             DAILY
      Aye.

INT. DAILY'S STUDY. NIGHT.

The men sit by the fire drinking. On the table by Daily are 
a number of family PHOTOGRAPHS, mostly featuring his son. 

             DAILY
      Im very sorry, Arthur. I thought 
      some youthful company might do 
      her good.

             ARTHUR
      Please, think nothing of it. 

             DAILY
      If shed only take her 
      medication... But she believes 
      theres nothing wrong with her. 
      Says its our son, using her to 
      communicate. I take it youre not 
      one for all this fashionable 
      spiritualist claptrap?


             ARTHUR
      Tried it once. My wife wasnt in 
      the habit of ringing bells and 
      wobbling tables when she was 
      alive, so... 

             DAILY
      Forgive me, I didnt... Bloody 
      charlatans. Preying on those most 
      in need. Makes my blood boil. 

             ARTHUR
      Well... Its good to meet a 
      fellow sceptic. They seem in 
      short supply round these parts. 

             DAILY
      The locals been telling you 
      stories?

             ARTHUR
      Oh yes.

             DAILY
      Problem is, Arthur, even the most 
      rational mind can play tricks. 
      Fill a mans head with enough rot 
      and any shadow glimpsed from the 
      corner of the eye may - in the 
      mind - become a woman in black.
        (off his look)
      You not heard that one?

Daily indicates a PHOTO nearby. The same school portrait we 
saw at Eel Marsh. He points to the smiling teacher.

             DAILY
      Jennet Humfrye. She was Mrs 
      Drablows sister. Taught at the 
      village school for a while. 
      Doesnt look scary to me, does 
      she you? 

             ARTHUR
      Doesnt look like shes in black 
      either. How did she... Was it the 
      accident? On the marshes?

             DAILY
      No, no. Hanged herself.  

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

A flash back to Arthurs POV from the bedroom window.

In the tree by the cottage, the Woman in Black hangs, 
silhouetted against the sky, swaying in the wind.


INT. DAILYS STUDY. NIGHT.
Arthur cant hide his discomfort. Daily misreads it.

             DAILY
      No such thing as ghosts, Arthur.
      You and your wife, me and 
      Nicholas... we will be together 
      again. When you die, you go up 
      there. You dont stay down here. 

             ARTHUR
      Id like to believe that. 

             DAILY
      I have to. Else how would I get 
      out of bed.

INT. DAILYS HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur holds up a large pair of PYJAMAS that have been left 
on the bed for him to borrow. 

He removes his jacket, hangs it over the back of a chair 
and searches the inner pocket. Its empty. 

Quietly, he opens the door and steps out into the hall.

INT. DAILYS HOUSE - UPPER HALL. NIGHT.

As Arthur creeps down the hallway, he passes the open door 
to Mrs Dailys bedroom. At first his eye is drawn to two 
CRADLES, one empty, one occupied by a dog in a nightgown.

Then: a disconcerting glimpse of Mrs Daily sitting up in 
bed, cradling the other dog. Oh my god, is she nursing it? 

Arthur hurries past, but its too late - shes seen him.

             MRS DAILY
      Mr Kipps?

             ARTHUR
        (averting his eyes)
      Sorry to disturb you. I needed to 
      fetch something from my coat.

             MRS DAILY
      Someone close to you is ill. 
      Thats why youre still here.

             ARTHUR
      Excuse me?


             MRS DAILY
      Nicholas told me. He knows these 
      things. And he says the situation 
      is graver than you know.

             ARTHUR
      I... I see. I hope hes wrong.

             MRS DAILY
      Nicholas is never wrong, Mr 
      Kipps.

INT. DAILYS HOUSE - CLOAKROOM. NIGHT.

Arthurs coat is hanging here. He rifles desperately in the 
inner pockets. Relief washes over him as he retrieves:

Edward's calendar. He raises it to his face and closes his 
eyes, searching for the comforting scent of his son.

Then he turns the page, draws a PENCIL from his pocket and 
draws a line through the box marked Wednesday. 

He flips forward through the next page to the final one - 
Friday, the picture of himself, Edward and the train. He 
presses the calendar close to his heart, then turns back to 
the blank Thursday page and rolls it up again.

INT. DAILYS HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL. NIGHT.

Still holding the calendar, Arthur makes his way back 
towards the stairs. As he walks, however, his attention 
wanders to the open door of the dining room.

He reacts in alarm and fear at something within. With a 
sense of dread, he changes course for a closer look.

INT. DAILYS HOUSE - DINING ROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur stops cold in the doorway as we now see: 

The DRAWING, carved into the surface of the table by Mrs 
Daily. Incomplete, child-like, but easily recognisable as a 
depiction of the woman in black, a noose around her neck.

INT/EXT. DAILYS CAR. DAY.

Dailys automobile chugs down a country lane. 

Inside, Arthur sits beside Daily with Spider on his knee. 

             ARTHUR
      This is very good of you.


             DAILY      Pleasure. Been a while since I 
      felt useful.


EXT. GIFFORD ARMS. DAY.

Market day is in full swing, and the entire village seems 
to have descended on the square. 

Dailys automobile drives through the CROWDS at a crawl.   

Market-goers stop and stare coldly at Daily and Arthur as 
they pass, and those who must move out of the path of the 
car do so grudgingly. 

INT/EXT. DAILYS CAR. DAY.

The market square behind us now, we find the side streets 
deserted and silent. The automobile drives on. 

The shops and offices we pass are closed, the houses dark. 

Unsettled, Arthur looks back to see, in the window of one 
deserted home, TWO VERY YOUNG CHILDREN. They return his 
stare. 

EXT. JEROME'S OFFICE. DAY.

Daily and Arthur climb out of the car. 

Arthur knocks on the door to Jerome's office. No response.

             DAILY
      Like I said, he might be at 
      market.

             ARTHUR
      Even better.

Arthur opens the door.

INT. JEROMES OFFICE. DAY.

Daily stands lookout by the door, peeking out onto the 
street while Arthur rifles through a drawer of FILES. 

Within moments, he has produced a bundle of DOCUMENTS. He 
shakes his head in disbelief.

             DAILY
      The deeds?

Arthur unties the STRING binding the bundle and waves the 
topmost DOCUMENT aloft. 


             ARTHUR
      A legal man, obstructing the sale 
      of property... Hes insane.

             DAILY
      Jerome? A superstitious fool is 
      what he is. Just like the rest. A 
      frightened, superstitious fool.

             ARTHUR
      Frightened? Of what?  

             DAILY
      Outsiders. People who dont 
      understand the ways of Crythin 
      Gifford. 

             ARTHUR
      What ways? Youre talking in 
      riddles. 

             DAILY
        (sighing)
      Staying clear of Eel Marsh house. 

             ARTHUR
        (mocking)
      For fear of disturbing the 
      spirits?

             DAILY
      Something like that, yes. 

Before Arthur can respond, both men hear an unmistakable 
noise from beneath the floorboards. Spider barks and 
snuffles at the ground.

             ARTHUR
        (whispering)
      That noise... I heard it before. 
      From the cellar below. Theres 
      someone down there.

EXT. JEROMES OFFICE. DAY.

Daily and Arthur hurry outside followed by Spider. A quick 
check reveals that the street is still deserted. 

Arthur signals silently for Daily to stay and keep watch. 

As Daily looks up and down the street, Arthur ventures down 
the cellar steps, down to where he first saw Mrs Jerome.


EXT. JEROMES CELLAR. DAY.

Arthur tries the door. Its locked. He puts his ear to it, 
but now all is silent within. 

He puts his eye to the KEYHOLE and peers inside. 

INT. JEROMES CELLAR. DAY.

From Arthurs POV, we see a limited view of the cellar. It 
has been converted into some kind of room for habitation, 
with a bed in one corner. But it seems to be unoccupied. 

We hear Arthur breathing, but gradually we realise that 
this is not all: someone else is breathing too. 

A split second later, our view of the room is obscured by 
AN EYE looking back at us! 

INT/EXT. JEROMES CELLAR. DAY.

Arthur leaps away in distress, and at the same time, we 
hear from a SCREAM from within the cellar - the owner of 
the eye, just as shocked as Arthur. 

Arthur braces himself to look again, and sees:

A PALE GIRL, 12, scuttling backwards, terrified.  

             ARTHUR
      Wait! Dont be afraid! I mean you 
      no harm!

The girl huddles in a corner of the cellar, silent.

Hearing the commotion, Daily and Spider run down the steps.

             DAILY
      Whatever is it?!

             ARTHUR
        (low, to Daily)
      A girl! A young girl! Hes 
      keeping her imprisoned or...
        (through the door)
      Were going to get you out.

             DAILY
      Arthur -

The girl turns around now, imploring and desperate.

             PALE GIRL
      Leave me alone!



             ARTHUR
      Im not going to hurt you, I 
      promise.

             PALE GIRL
      You killed her. 

             ARTHUR
      I... I dont know who you think I 
      am, miss, but -

             PALE GIRL
      Victoria Hardy is dead because of 
      you. My Daddy told me. But Im 
      safe down here. 

             ARTHUR
      The girl at the police station? 
      This is absurd! Why would he say -

             PALE GIRL
      GO AWAY! 

EXT. JEROMES OFFICE. DAY.

A shell-shocked Arthur walks back to the car with Daily. 

             ARTHUR
      Do you think shes going to be 
      alright?

             DAILY
      Aye. As well as she can be with 
      the Jeromes for parents. 

INT/EXT. DAILYS CAR. DAY. 

Dailys car drives through the countryside.

Arthur sits beside Daily, Spider on his lap, hindering his 
efforts to leaf through the papers in the stolen file. 

             ARTHUR
      And here - look. Two attempted 
      sales by Jerome himself. Both 
      buyers from outside the area. 
      Seems he wasnt always so fearful 
      of visitors to Eel Marsh house.

             DAILY
      People find reason to believe, 
      Arthur. Its as I said before - 
      just as any shadow may turn to a 
      spectre, so any act of misfortune 
      may be taken for the work of a 
      curse. 


             DAILY
      And presto, another wise man is 
      turned to a superstitious fool.

             ARTHUR
      A curse? Jerome has suffered 
      misfortune? 

             DAILY
      All families suffer misfortune at 
      some time, Arthur. Thats just 
      what I mean.

They round a curve. The marshes and causeway come into view 
ahead... Along with a line of people - Jerome, Keckwick, 
Fisher, PC Collins, Gerald Hardy, the Elderly Man that 
Arthur asked for directions, and four other VILLAGE MEN - 
forming a human blockade.

Daily slams on the brakes and the car comes to a stop. 

Daily and Arthur catch their breath and exchange looks. 

The men walk towards the car. 

             JEROME
      Your work here is complete, Mr 
      Kipps. 

             FISHER
      We dont wish you any ill. We 
      just think its high time you 
      went home.  

             PC COLLINS
      For your own good. For the good 
      of us all. 
        (to Daily)
      Turn this contraption around, Mr 
      Daily. 

The mob stand, silent and menacing, waiting for him to 
comply. A tense stand-off.

Finally, Daily puts the car into reverse.

             ARTHUR
      Sam, no! Im not leaving! I have 
      to... All Mrs Drablows documents 
      - I cant return to London 
      without them! 

             DAILY
      Calm yourself, Arthur. 

The car continues to reverse erratically down the lane, 
away from the mob and the marshes. 

             ARTHUR
      What are we going to do?

             DAILY
      Take you to the one place the 
      village idiots wont dare follow. 

Daily changes gears and the car lurches violently forwards. 

Dailys car veers off the lane and into a field, 
circumventing the mob entirely.

The men watch in disbelief as the car circles behind them, 
back onto the path and out onto Nine Lives Causeway.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

Arthur exits the car. Daily passes him a small LUNCH SACK.  

             DAILY
      I had cook make up some supper. 
      Late tides due at eleven. Shall 
      I come for you half past ten?  

             ARTHUR
      Youre very kind, Sam.

Arthur begins to walk towards the house. Daily calls after 
him.

             DAILY
      Arthur? Do something for me? Take 
      Spider. For company. 

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.

Arthur and Spider stand by the front door, dwarfed against 
the landscape as they watch the car shrink into the 
distance.  

Arthur looks up at the house, hesitates. Then he turns the 
door handle. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM. DAY.

Standing beside the wall clock, Arthur checks the time on 
his pocket watch. He lingers a moment to look at Stellas 
portrait, as if drawing strength from it, then snaps the 
watch shut and resets the hands on the clock. 

He winds it up. It begins loudly to TICK. The house is 
coming back to life. 

Like a man going into battle, Arthur picks up the canister 
of lamp oil and fills the first of the wall-mounted lamps.  


INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. DAY.

Arthur fills another oil lamp and tests it. It comes on. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - KITCHEN. DAY.

Arthur fumbles inside the cooking range. It fires up with a 
loud WHOOF that startles Spider.

             ARTHUR
      Its alright, old girl. Its just 
      the range. Well be nice and 
      toasty soon. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. DAY.

Arthur marches purposefully upwards, carrying a JUG OF 
WATER and a handful of CANDLES. Close to the top, he turns 
to see that Spider is still waiting at the foot of the 
stair. He pats his thigh and reluctantly, she follows.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BATHROOM. DAY.

Arthur places the jug of water on the wash stand and a 
candle in the CANDLESTICK beside it.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. DAY.

Arthur pulls the burnt-down CANDLE-ENDS from a wall sconce 
and replaces them with fresh candles. 

That done, his eye is drawn to the locked door again. 

He moves to it, tries it one more time. Its still locked. 

Spider watches, head cocked, as Arthur produces a bunch of 
KEYS and tries every one. None work. Fighting to keep his 
resolute mood, he pockets them and makes off down the hall.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY.

Arthur stands in the doorway to the darkened bedroom. He 
hesitates, then strides in, though Spider remains outside. 

He pauses at the window, then grasps the drawn curtains and 
yanks them open... Relief as he sees: the branches of the 
tree by the cottage are bare. 

He looks over to the fireplace and sees that the baby birds 
in the nest are now dead. FLIES buzz around them.

Arthurs face falls, saddened by the this sight. But he 
rallies himself and gathers the papers from the bureau.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. DAY.

The key is still in the lock on the hallway side of the 
bedroom door, as when he first visited. Papers stuffed 
under his arm, Arthur locks the door from the outside.

EXT. STOREHOUSE. DAY.

Arthur emerges from the storehouse carrying an armful of 
LOGS and an AXE. Spider follows behind.

Moments later Arthur is chopping the wood with considerable 
aggression, releasing some of his pent up nerves.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM - MONTAGE. DAY.

A fire blazes in the grate. Arthur sits at the writing 
desk, Spider at his feet, the previously-scattered papers 
now in some semblance of order, in tall piles.  

Arthur studies the first DOCUMENT from the pile. Then he 
screws it into a ball and tosses it in the WASTEBASKET.

The clock ticks. 

Arthur studies a PAIR OF DOCUMENTS. His look suggests that 
finally he has found something useful. He places the 
documents directly into his suitcase. 

The fire has burned low. Arthur throws on another LOG. 

Arthur reads a LETTER. The pile on the desk is lower too. 

Another balled-up document lands in the wastebasket.

The clock hand CLICKS to the four oclock mark. It CHIMES 
four times, a nasty, hollow chime.

Arthur takes a SANDWICH and a bottle of BEER from the lunch 
sack. He opens the beer and takes a swig. As he eats, 
Arthur continues to go through the papers. Opening a large 
ENVELOPE, he finds two CERTIFICATES.

Looking closer, we see that they are DEATH CERTIFICATES. 
The first belongs to Nathaniel Drablow. 

Arthur puts down the sandwich, his appetite lost. He places 
the first certificate in the bag and examines the second.

It belongs to Jennet Humphrye.

The clock ticks.

Arthur reads, files and disposes of more documents.

The fire in the grate gutters and goes out.


The hands of the clock click into place. Ten to six. 

At the now almost-clear desk, a weary Arthur looks up at 
the clock, then back down to the remaining stack of papers. 

             ARTHUR
      Shall we take a breather? 

The dog regards him quizzically.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - GRAVEYARD. DAY.

Arthur wanders the silent graveyard with Spider. He looks 
up anxiously at the tree. Still nothing untoward. 

He scans the names on the HEADSTONES. Most have been worn 
away by time and the salty air, but soon he finds a newer 
one, marked Jennet Humfrye. He looks around anxiously. 

He is still quite alone, but he notices now a STATUE behind 
him, close by: a disquieting STONE ANGEL with a worn-away 
face. He bends to read the inscription. 

It reads: In loving memory of Nathaniel Drablow. 

The rest reads: Beloved son of Alice and Charles Drablow. 
August 2nd 1863 - December 29th 1871

Ahead, a stone path, overgrown with weeds, leads toward the 
ruined cottage. The roof is virtually gone, interior 
exposed to the elements. Arthur wanders towards it... 

EXT. GATE KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Try as he might to ignore it, Arthurs attention is grimly 
drawn by the tree. He ambles towards the back of the 
building, where it stands.

Behind the cottage, he stops in his tracks.

On the crumbling back wall is a crudely daubed message, the 
paint worn away by the years, but still just legible: YOU 
COULD HAVE SAVED HIM

Arthur stares, chilled to the marrow. O.S., Spider begins 
to BARK. 

EXT. EEL MARSH GRAVEYARD. DAY.

Arthur walks back around the cottage, and soon sees Spider, 
facing the causeway, barking furiously.

As Arthur nears the marshes, we hear the same distinct 
sound of childrens voices that he heard earlier.


But this time when he looks out toward the mainland Arthur 
sees, some distance away in the fading twilight, A GROUP OF 
CHILDREN standing motionless on the causeway, silhouetted 
against the sky. 

He begins to sprint toward the end of the drive.

             ARTHUR
      Hey!

EXT. EEL MARSH ISLAND - GROUNDS. DAY.

Where the drive meets the causeway, Arthur stops. Hes 
still not close enough to make out detail, but the group of 
small figures stay in plain view. Unsettling. Incongruous.

             ARTHUR
      Its not safe! You shouldnt... 

The sound of their voices continues. But Arthur notes with 
discomfort that the figures stay still, do not react.  

Their lack of movement, the absence of sound now... as 
Arthur squints into the distance, we see him beginning to 
doubt his own mind.

Suddenly, as if sensing - as before - that someone else is 
nearby, watching him, Arthur turns uneasily to look back 
toward the cottage. 

No one is there.

And looking out again to the causeway, the children - if 
indeed they were ever there - are gone too.

Shaking his head defiantly, Arthur turns away and starts 
back toward the house. 

             ARTHUR
      Come, Spider. Come.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DUSK.

The sun is low in the sky. Arthur and Spider walk towards 
the house, their long shadows playing across the drive. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING ROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur is hard at work, going through the remaining stack 
of papers. The fire burns in the grate, the windows are 
shuttered and the room is lit by the oil lamps. And yet 
somehow, there is nothing cosy about this room. 

The silence is suddenly broken when Spider leaps up and 
BARKS at one of the shuttered windows. 

Arthur approaches the window and slides the LOCK into 
place, closing the shutter even more tightly. 

But as he walks back towards the desk, he too can hear the 
sound that has disturbed Spider: HOOVES AND WHEELS. 

Trying to maintain composure, he crouches down and comforts 
the dog - and himself. 

             ARTHUR
      Its alright. 

The dog trembles and Arthur grits his teeth as they hear 
the awful accident play out again. The CRASHING. The 
CHURNING. The SCREAMING. Then there is silence once more. 

Arthur pats Spider, stands shakily and returns to the desk.

             ARTHUR
      You see? Its over now. 

Defiantly, he takes a document from the top of the pile, 
but before he can glance at it, he realises another noise 
is still present: an intermittent BUMPING, rumbling sound. 

Spider runs to the drawing-room door and stands there, hair 
on end, growling. 

Afraid now, but trying to suppress his fear, Arthur rises 
and gingerly opens the door, realising immediately, and to 
his great dismay, that the sound is coming from upstairs. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. NIGHT.

Arthur mounts the stairs. The upstairs hallway is in near 
darkness, illuminated only by the dim light from the oil 
lamps in the downstairs entrance lobby. 

Again, Spider remains at the foot of the staircase. Arthur 
looks back, pats his thigh. But Spider doesnt move. 

Arthur continues up the stairs alone.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. NIGHT.

In the upstairs corridor, the sound is much louder. 

It is patently coming from behind the locked door. 

Arthur strikes a MATCH and lights the candles in the wall 
sconce. Their weak light makes precious little difference. 

The noise continues as Arthur approaches the locked room. 

Standing outside the door now, the rhythmic, bumping sound 
from within is ridiculously loud, absurdly clear. 

A breath, and then Arthurs hand shoots out and grabs for 
the handle. The door is still locked fast... But, as if in 
response to his rattling of the handle, the sound stops.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BATHROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur enters. Its pitch black, the view from the window 
brighter than the room within - the tide out, the causeway 
and mirror-like surface of the marshes lit by the moon. 

Arthur strikes a match and lights the candle on the 
washstand, the view obscured now, the window glass 
reflecting the interior of the bathroom instead. 

Pouring some of the water from the jug into the basin, 
Arthur splashes his face.  

             ARTHUR
      Come on, Arthur. 

Wiping his brow dry with his sleeve, he peers at his 
reflection in the window behind the washstand. 

Then something outside catches his attention. Arthur 
presses his face closer to the window. 

EXT. THE MARSHES. NIGHT.

From Arthurs POV, we see the distant view of the marshes. 
Far away, in the previously smooth surface beneath the 
wooden cross, there now seems to be a tiny, irregular BUMP.

Intercutting, we see Arthur react in horror...

There is definitely a bump now. And it seems to be growing, 
rising out of the marshes. 

Despite the distance, it soon becomes apparent that it is, 
unmistakably, a SMALL HUMAN FIGURE, covered in mud.

Now fully risen, it stands motionless under the moonlight 
for a few moments before beginning to lumber awkwardly 
towards the house. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BATHROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur involuntarily takes a step back from the window, 
away from the approaching figure, but just then, the sound 
from the locked room begins again, shocking him.

Arthur spins around to look behind him. Hes still alone. 

Looking again through the window, the figure has vanished. 


INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. NIGHT.

Arthur makes his way down the hall, towards the noise. 

He kicks at the door. It wont open. The noise continues.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. NIGHT.

Arthur exits the house into the pitch black night, a 
LANTERN in his hand, Spider yapping noisily at his heels. 

The drive is deserted. He heads for the East of the house.

INT. STOREHOUSE. NIGHT.

In the storehouse, containers CLATTER to the ground and 
Spider yaps as Arthur fumbles in the clutter for the axe. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. NIGHT.

Arthur downs the lantern, bolts the front door and, with 
determination and axe in hand, heads for the stairs. 

Upstairs, the rumbling from the locked room continues. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. NIGHT.

This time, Arthur doesnt even stop to acknowledge that 
Spider has stopped following him. He marches on, shouting 
up the stairs as he approaches, wielding the axe.

             ARTHUR
      Enough!

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. NIGHT.

Arthur keeps going, the noise louder as he enters the hall.

             ARTHUR
      Enough of that infernal noise! 
      Im coming in there! And I - 

Arthurs words die on his lips and he stops in his tracks. 

The door at the end of the corridor is now open. 

Arthur lowers the axe in shock. Then he seizes a candle 
from one of the wall sconces, raises the axe again, and 
walks towards the open door. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - NURSERY. NIGHT.

The room is in complete darkness, but the noise continues.

Arthur steps in and, breathing unevenly, shines the small 
pool of candle-light around the room with an unsteady hand. 

A BED. A TOY-BOX. TOYS. DOLLS. Some disconcerting AUTOMATA - 
mechanical monkeys in finery, protected under glass domes. 

This is a nursery. And in stark contrast to the rest of the 
house, it is immaculate.

Finally, by the fireplace, Arthur at last sees the source 
of the noise: a ROCKING CHAIR. It's rocking. Hard, but with 
decreasing speed, as if very recently vacated. 

Arthur reaches out nervously and steadies it into silence.

             ARTHUR
        (whispering)
      Whos there?

Arthur looks frantically behind him. No one.

Spying a WARDROBE big enough to conceal a person, he pulls 
its doors open. But there are only childrens clothes here. 

Arthur picks up a small SAILOR JACKET in both hands, his 
fear suddenly replaced by a sense of sadness. 

Slowly, he now moves around the room, touching the toys: 
the army of LEAD SOLDIERS, a beautiful TEDDY BEAR. 

He turns the key on one of the automata, a MONKEY PIANIST. 
Then another, an ACROBAT. And another. Until the whole 
shelf is alive with movement and the room filled with a 
cacophony of different MELODIES.

Arthur sits down on the little bed, his head in his hands. 

Outside in the upper hallway, the candles blow out, leaving 
Arthur in darkness, but for the candle on the nightstand.

Then that gutters, too, and there is only pitch blackness. 
Arthur stumbles out of the room. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. NIGHT.

Breathless, Arthur throws on his coat, hastily unbolts the 
front door and grabs his suitcase and the lantern. Spider 
looks up at him expectantly.

             ARTHUR
      Enough. Enough for tonight. The 
      tides out, the moon is bright 
      enough to walk by...

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. NIGHT.

A light rain has begun to fall. Arthur sets out down the 
drive at quite a pace, Spider at his heels. 

             ARTHUR
      Well be home within the hour. 
      Come back tomorrow morning, in 
      daylight. Complete our work.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - GROUNDS. NIGHT.

Arthur and Spider continue down the drive, Arthur becoming 
increasingly out of breath.

The rain is a little heavier now.

East of the driveway, the graveyard, cottage and tree loom 
into view. He hurries past without looking over.

But as Arthur nears the end of the drive, he stops.

Aghast, he looks at his pocket watch. Its only half past 
nine. But...

Ahead of him, we can clearly see: the tide is now in. 

An expanse of black water lies between Arthur and the 
mainland. He is trapped at Eel Marsh House. 

He closes the pocket watch and clasps it tightly in his 
hand, tightly to his chest. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING-ROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur drains a large glass of brandy as outside, rain 
falls noisily. There is a distant rumble of thunder. 

Arthur settles back at the desk, but his earlier resolve 
has gone. He reads the first document in the pile. Then 
crushes it and throws it forcefully into the wastebasket. 

Next: A BUNDLE OF LETTERS, bound with black ribbon. The 
signature on the topmost letter catches Arthurs eye: 
Jennet. He tears off the ribbon and begins to read.

As Arthur reads, we hear JENNET HUMFRYEs voice.

             JENNET
      August 16th, 1865. My dear 
      sister, it would seem that 
      fathers mind cannot be changed 
      and there is no option left to me 
      but to give up my son.


EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE. DAY.
A hollow-eyed Jennet - the teacher we saw earlier in the 
school photograph - takes a last look back at Eel Marsh 
house before climbing into a waiting CARRIAGE.

             JENNET
      To see him become a part of your 
      household, rather than have him 
      go to strangers is, I suppose, 
      some small comfort. 

INT/EXT. CARRIAGE/CAUSEWAY. DAY.

On the seat beside her, Jennet sees a blue crocheted BABY 
BLANKET. She brings it to her face and begins to sob.

             JENNET
      But know this always: Nathaniel 
      is mine. He is mine alone and can 
      never be yours.

The carriage thunders down Nine Lives causeway, tiny 
against the lonely sky as it takes Jennet from her son.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING-ROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur puts the letter down, and begins to study the next.

             JENNET
      April 14th, 1866. I find it hard 
      to express the depth of betrayal 
      I feel at your continued refusal 
      to allow me to visit my son. 

INT. SPINSTERS BEDROOM. NIGHT.

A bleak little garret room. Jennet stumbles across the room 
in blind anger, a LETTER clutched in her hand. 

             JENNET
      I begin to believe that you are 
      doing this not for the good of 
      the boy, but to cause me pain. 

She sits heavily on the bed and tears the letter in two, 
screwing up the pieces and hurling them across the room.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - DRAWING-ROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur reacts in discomfort and skim-reads the next four 
letters in the pile with a look of equal concern. He 
swallows hard and pets Spider, obviously seeking to find 
comfort as much as he wishes to give it. 

He hesitates, then reluctantly turns over the next letter.

             JENNET
      May 29th 1871. Six long years you 
      have kept us apart, but no more. 

EXT. CRYTHIN GIFFORD. DAY.

Echoing Arthurs first ride through the town as an 
outsider, we see Jennet walk slowly towards the iron gates 
of the village school. 

             JENNET
      I dont care what you or anyone 
      in this hateful village would 
      wish for me. 

Outside the school YOUNG MRS DAILY fusses over NICHOLAS 
DAILY, 8. A RED HAIRED MAN hugs his daughter, a RED HAIRED 
GIRL. Further sets of PARENTS and CHILDREN interact. 

As they notice Jennet approaching, the adults eye her with 
suspicion and disapproval before returning their attention 
to their CHILDREN. 

Through Jennets eyes, we look from one vignette of 
parental affection to another. 

We can see in Jennets face that this bitter reminder of 
what she has been denied is killing her. But she holds her 
head high, angry determination in her eyes. 

             JENNET
      I have a scheme of my own, and my 
      beloved boy shall now be in my 
      daily company. 

INT. CRYTHIN GIFFORD SCHOOL - CLASSROOM. DAY.

A smiling Jennet stands before a CHALK BOARD. On it is 
written: Miss Humfrye.

In front of her, eleven children of varying ages sit at 
wooden desks. The children from the photograph. 

             CHILDREN
      Good morning Miss Humfrye!

             JENNET 
      My, what a lovely welcome. Im 
      very much looking forward to 
      teaching you all. Now lets see 
      if I can remember all your 
      names... One at a time now. 


She nods to the red-haired girl at the end of the front row.


             RED-HAIRED GIRL
      Polly Shaw.

             JENNET
      Good morning, Polly.

The next boy along is Nicholas Daily.

             NICHOLAS
      Nicholas Daily, miss.

             JENNET
      Nicholas.

Beside Nicholas sits NATHANIEL DRABLOW, who we might 
recognise from the portraits on the staircase.

             NICHOLAS
      Nathaniel Drablow.

Jennet breaks into a wide smile.

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. NIGHT.

Arthur climbs the stairs and studies the PORTRAITS and 
PHOTOGRAPHS on wall. His gaze moves from one to the other, 
looking for something. Over this, Jennets voice continues.

             JENNET
      Give me lodging at Eel Marsh 
      House, and Ill give my word that 
      he knows me only as his long-lost 
      Aunt, returned home to teach. 

Finally, halfway up the stairs, Arthur stops. He has found 
the photograph he was looking for. We move in close to see: 

The formal school photograph we saw earlier. The eleven 
children and the teacher we now know to be Jennet.

             JENNET
      Refuse...

We move in closer on Jennet. Unlike the serious-looking 
children, she is smiling broadly. Her hand rests tenderly 
on Nathaniels shoulder.

We continue to move in, until we see only the faces of 
Jennet and Nathaniel. Mother and son. Together.

             JENNET
      And Ill tell him the truth.

Silence now on the stairway as Arthur stands before the 
photograph, both touched by the image, and chilled by the 
knowledge of what was yet to come. 

Instinctively, he reaches towards the photograph... 

But just as his fingertips are about to make contact, the 
silence is shattered by a loud series of KNOCKS at the 
front door. Arthur freezes.

Silence. Then another knock. 

INT. ENTRANCE LOBBY. NIGHT. 

Arthur slowly approaches the door. Spider is there already, 
hackles up, a low, steady GROWL coming from her throat. 

Another loud knock makes Arthur flinch. 

             ARTHUR
      Whos there?

Arthur reaches the door. From the other side, we faintly 
hear a CHILD SOBBING over the sound of the torrential rain. 

Arthur puts his ear to the door. The sobbing continues. 
Then another knock. 

Arthur backs away, but the weeping continues until finally, 
unable to ignore it any longer, he opens the door.

...Nothing. Just darkness. And rain battering the driveway.

But Arthur has barely had a chance to register his relief 
when Spider bolts out past him and runs down the drive.

             ARTHUR
      Spider! Here, Spider! SPIDER! 

Arthur walks out into the night. 

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - GROUNDS. NIGHT.

A full-blown storm is raging now. Arthur ranges around in 
the rain, drenched, but the dog is nowhere to be seen. 

             ARTHUR
      Spider!

He keeps moving... but slows to a halt when he hears, 
louder than when he heard them last, the soft chattering 
voices of children. He stands, dripping wet and petrified.

Ahead of him, coming into view a little way down the drive, 
are a hoard of small, silhouetted figures. 

A lightning flash... and for a second they are illuminated, 
providing the closest glimpse yet of the ghostly children. 
Some look sickly, others injured. Many appear to be victims 
of drowning, their hair wet, faces bloated and decayed.

They are walking slowly toward him. 

Now he sees that among their number is Victoria Hardy, chin 
and dress stained with a long steak of dark, bloody vomit.

Arthur remains rooted to the spot. 

Another flash and now we see the skeletal silhouette of the 
nearby tree. Beneath it, the Woman in Black stands on a 
small wooden STEP-LADDER, a noose around her neck.

Once again, there is darkness. 

Then another flash.

This close, and by this light, we glimpse through her veil 
a fraction more detail than before - just enough to give us 
the nasty sense that theres something about her face that 
is decidedly not right. She kicks the ladder away.

Darkness.

Then a double fork of lightning. The Woman in Black jerks 
and writhes as she chokes to death.

Finally, Arthur turns and runs.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. NIGHT.

Arthur slams the front door and throws his back against it,  
drenched and gasping for breath.

He sweeps his hair from his eyes and looks up to see:

A single set of little muddy FOOTPRINTS. They lead all the 
way from the front door to the staircase...

...and up the stairs, into the darkness of the upper hall. 

Gripped by terror and compulsion in equal measure, Arthur 
picks up the lantern he abandoned earlier beside the door, 
and begins to follow the trail. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALL. NIGHT.

Breathing hard, Arthur stops at the top of the stairs and 
shines his lantern down the darkened hallway. 

The light from the lantern quivers with the trembling of 
his hand and throws shadows down the hall, but even so, we 
can see where the trail leads...

Down the corridor, it goes. And all the way to the open 
door of the nursery. 

No turning back now, Arthur continues down the dark hall. 
But as he nears the open door he is shocked by a burst of 
MUSIC, the kind made by the automata.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - NURSERY. NIGHT

Arthur steps inside. Even in the darkness we can see: the 
nursery has been vandalized. The bed overturned, broken 
toys and clothes scattered, everything covered in mud.

With his lantern, Arthur illuminates first one spot then 
another in jerky, urgent succession, hunting the intruder. 

On the ground, Arthur quickly finds the source of the 
music: an automaton - the monkey pianist - lies on its 
side, surrounded by the shattered glass from its protective 
dome. No longer in contact with its piano, the movements of 
its mouth, head and arms give it the grotesque appearance 
of something injured, echoes of the baby bird. 

Arthur finds the CATCH that turns it off, and finally the 
toy is still, the music silenced. 

Behind him, he hears movement. 

Arthur swings round, streaking light from the lantern 
across the wall where we catch the briefest glimpse of 
something inhuman-looking. It quickly ducks down behind a 
chest of drawers. It is small, and entirely covered in mud - 
little more than a flash of eyes in the darkness - but 
unmistakably a CHILD.

Trembling, Arthur trains the lantern onto the chest. The 
eyes peer back at Arthur. 

Arthur inches closer, his breath loud. The figure doesnt 
move. 

But just as he reaches the chest, the lantern goes out.

Total darkness as we hear Arthur stumbling out of the room.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BATHROOM. NIGHT.

The candle on the washstand has blown out, but the 
moonlight outside allows us to see again, albeit dimly. 

Arthur fumbles for a match and lights the candle...

...Revealing the child! Somehow, hes here now. Crouched 
behind the washstand.

Reacting in shock, Arthur turns and bolts into the hallway. 


INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALL - NIGHT. 

Arthur darts towards the bedroom next door and fumbles 
desperately with the key in the lock. 

Glancing anxiously over his shoulder, he looks back to see:

...The silhouette of the muddy child, casting a long, thin 
SHADOW down the hallway behind him. 

Finally getting the bedroom door open, Arthur grabs the key 
from the lock and hurries inside. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT.

In here, we can still hear the FLIES in the fireplace.

Arthur slams the door shut and scrabbles to insert the key 
and lock himself in. 

This done, he pushes the dresser across the door and slumps 
to the floor, fighting to catch his breath. 

But to his utter dismay, he now sees...

Little muddy FOOTPRINTS on the floor. 

They lead right to the bed.

And in the bed is the unmistakable shape of someone small, 
hidden beneath the covers. 

As Arthur stares, frozen in horror, we see a mud stain 
slowly spreading across the white sheet. 

Then the shape begins to sit up. 

Arthur darts to the door, struggling to move the dresser, 
groping for the key in his pocket as, behind him, the 
figure in the bed continues to heave itself upright. 

Finally, he gets the door open and runs into the corridor.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALL - NIGHT. 

...Only to be confronted by the mud-covered child standing 
right before him, blocking his path. The childs mouth is 
open, the flash of his eyes and little white teeth 
disconcertingly bright in the darkness of the hall. 

Arthur cries out and pushes blindly past the child, toward 
the stairs.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE LOBBY. NIGHT.

Arthur virtually falls down the last few steps of the 
staircase into the entrance hall, but he keeps his balance 
and dashes toward the front door.

But just as he reaches out to open it, he is scared out of 
his wits by another KNOCK at the door. 

             ARTHUR
      Leave me ALONE!!

This time, we hear a voice clearly on the other side.

             DAILY
      Arthur? Arthur! Its me, Sam!

INT. DAILY'S CAR/CAUSEWAY. NIGHT.

The tide is out now, and Daily drives Arthur across the 
causeway through the storm, back towards safety.

Spider is on Arthur's lap. Arthur strokes her and stares 
straight ahead, a haunted look on his face. 

             DAILY
      She mustve recognised the sound 
      of my engine from moren a mile 
      away, you know. Right over the 
      other side of the causeway, she 
      was. Running to meet me.

             ARTHUR
      The tide was in. I tried to leave 
      at half past nine, and it was in.

             DAILY
      Just a wash from the storm, most 
      likely... You tried to leave?

             ARTHUR
      If Mrs Drablow endured even a 
      fraction of what I have just 
      experienced, I can fully 
      understand her desire to leave 
      for India at the earliest 
      opportunity and never return. 

             DAILY
      Aye, its an inhospitable place, 
      Eel Marsh House. Specially at 
      night, Im quite sure.

             ARTHUR
      I saw them. 
        (off Dailys look)
      I didnt imagine it. 


             DAILY
      Even the most rational mind can 
      play tricks. Especially alone in 
      the dark. Just as I said: fill a 
      mans head with stories of -

             ARTHUR
      You told me about Jennet Humfrye. 
      And the boy. Yes. But why would I 
      see children on the marshes? Sick 
      children, Sam. Drowned children. 
      Children who are dead.

For the first time, we sense Dailys bluff exterior melt 
away as he reacts, slumping in the drivers seat. 

             DAILY
      Why would you say that. My wife 
      telling you tales? 
        (louder now)
      Was she?!

Arthur shrinks away from him, guilty and uneasy at having 
touched such a raw nerve. A silence, then he speaks softly.

             ARTHUR
      Whatever it is youre not saying, 
      you have to... I must know. 

Daily stays silent, staring at the road ahead as he drives.

             ARTHUR
      You knew about Jennet Humfrye... 
      That shed had a child out of 
      wedlock. That the boy was hers. 

             DAILY
      Yes I knew. Everyone in the 
      village knew. 

             ARTHUR
      Not everyone. Not the boy. She 
      kept her silence in exchange for 
      lodging at Eel Marsh House.

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

A fast flash of an image as Arthur recalls the message he 
saw painted on the back wall of the cottage. 

You could have saved him

Only now its not faded as Arthur saw it, but dark, the 
painted black letters fresh and dripping. 

INT. DAILYS CAR/CAUSEWAY. NIGHT.

The horrible truth hits Arthur.

             ARTHUR
      She was there. 

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet stands at the upper window, gazing out over the 
marshes. 

Her pale face and light clothes may be different, but the 
image distinctly echoes our very first sighting of the 
Woman in Black.

We hear the sound of an approaching pony and trap.

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

The sound of the pony and trap is muted in here. Jennets 
breath mists the glass as she gazes out with distraught 
longing. Lightly, she traces her fingertip down the pane. 
In her other hand, she holds the blue baby blanket.

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet watches as the trap rattles past the cottage and 
onto the causeway.

Over the marshes, a light mist hangs in the air.

KECKWICK SNR, 40s, sits up front. Behind him, the young MRS 
DRABLOW (who we might recognise from her portrait in the 
hall), pretty and well-dressed for a trip into town, sits 
cosily beside Nathaniel, her arm around him.

As they pass, Mrs Drablow looks up, making eye contact with 
her sister. A cold look. Then she looks away. 

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet watches as the trap moves away, her pain visible. 
She raises the blanket to her face, echoing the torment of 
their first parting. 

Then her expression changes to one of concern as she 
notices...

EXT. MARSHES. DAY.

The mist has suddenly become heavier, our view of the pony 
and trap gradually obscured as it moves down the causeway. 

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet presses closer to the window in concern, strains to 
see, as the pony and trap become enshrouded in mist.

Suddenly, the steady rhythm of hooves and wheels turns to 
the sickening, chaotic clatter that Arthur heard before. 

Jennets eyes widen as she watches in horror.

EXT. MARSHES. DAY.

The Pony and trap have veered off the causeway and into the 
marsh. The pony flails in the dragging mud, whinnying in 
panic, the front wheels of the trap begin to sink.

Keckwick Snr yanks fruitlessly on the reins, shouting in 
anguish while behind him Mrs Drablow and Nathaniel cry out 
in terror.

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet hammers at the window pane in impotent anguish.

             NATHANIEL
      Mummy!

EXT. MARSHES. DAY.

The point of no-return passes at alarming speed, the 
inevitability of the outcome clear as the trap and pony are 
pulled deeper and deeper into the marsh.

Keckwick Snr abandons the reins and turns to try and aid 
his screaming passengers.

Overcome with fear and a primal urge for survival, Mrs 
Drablow stands and jumps from the sinking trap.

             NATHANIEL
      Mummy! 

Desperate, Mrs Drablow looks back towards the trap. Its 
sinking. Then she looks back to the cottage, praying her 
sister didnt see her act of cowardice; knowing she did.

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet meets her sisters eyes in mute disbelief. Then she 
turns and runs from the room. 

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Jennet bursts outside into the mist and starts to run 
toward the causeway.

The shouts and screams persist but, as she runs, they are 
suddenly drowned out by the dreadful sucking noise that 
Arthur heard before. 

And then silence.

Jennet stops running. Her hands fall limply to her sides, 
her world ended. The blanket drops to the ground.

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. NIGHT.

A copper BATHTUB. Lit by candle and firelight, the water in 
the tub appears inky black.

In it, we see the reflection of Jennets anguished face. 
Then shes gone as, one after another, pale-coloured 
CLOTHES are thrown into the tub.    

This isnt water. Its black dye. It bleeds into the mounds 
of fabric not yet submerged, darkness spreading as it seeps 
through the fibres, consuming what remains of the light.

A STICK plunges the pile deep below the surface.

A loud flood of liquid as the stick is used to haul some of 
the clothes up again. The wet clothes are deep black. 

They are dropped back in. Violently, the stick pushes them 
down until theyre gone from view. And in the swirling 
darkness of the surface we can once again see Jennet.

INT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

Fast but deliberate, Jennets fingers push black fabric-
covered BUTTONS through button-loops on a black CUFF.   

Black BOOTLACES are crossed and pulled taut, and tied. The 
boots vanish as a billow of black crepe skirt drops. 

A heavy JET EARRING is clipped into place.

A fearsome-looking HATPIN is pushed into a MOURNING BONNET.

Hands slip into black kid gloves.

Jennet looks at herself in a MIRROR. Grief in her eyes 
still, but now also cold rage, focus. A woman not so much 
dressed for mourning, but suited up for battle. 

She reaches back for her bonnets veil and draws it slowly 
over her face. Her monstrous rebirth is nearly complete. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY.

The young Mrs Drablow throws open the curtains in her 
bedroom, and - just as Arthur did - stumbles back in 
horror. 

EXT. EEL-MARSH GRAVEYARD. DAY.

We see Mrs Drablow's POV as she moves through the 
graveyard, and hear her breathing. 

We move around Nathaniels angel statue - bright and new 
and un-chipped. We peek behind tomb stones, and finally 
head hurriedly down the not-yet-overgrown stone path that 
leads to the not-yet-ruined gate-keepers cottage.

We can hear Mrs Drablows breathing hasten as she follows 
the path around the side of the building, the one we saw 
Arthur take earlier. 

EXT. GATE-KEEPERS COTTAGE. DAY.

As we round the corner behind the cottage, we can see dark 
letters daubed on the wall. We cant see them well from 
this angle, but we know what they say.

Mrs Drablows O.C. breathing becomes even faster as a 
murder of CROWS take flight from the tree behind her with a 
loud flurry. 

We wheel around towards the tree and O.C. we hear Mrs 
Drablow SCREAM as we see: the remains of Jennet Humfrye, 
her eyes and lips eaten away by scavengers, a heart-
stopping combination of gaping sockets and exposed teeth. 
One fearless crow still perched on her, pecking. 

INT. DAILY'S CAR/MAINLAND. NIGHT.

Arthur and Daily drive on.

             ARTHUR
      And after her death... Thats 
      when the sightings started?
        (off Dailys look)
      The superstitions.
        (no reaction from Daily)
      And the Drablows left for India.  

Daily nods now. But something is still not making sense to 
Arthur, and he just cant put his finger on what it is.

             ARTHUR
      Its just that...

The car takes a right turn onto Jeromes street.


             DAILY
        (interrupting)
      What in the name... Do you see 
      that? 

Grey smoke is billowing down the street towards them. They 
slow down, the smoke obscuring their view as drive on. 

We can hear VOICES, COMMOTION, and a little way ahead, we 
can see FLAMES. Arthur peers into the smoke.

             ARTHUR
      Oh god. Is that Jeromes place?

Daily brings the car to a stop, and the two get out. 

EXT. JEROME'S OFFICE. NIGHT.

The two men walk through the cloud of smoke to find Mrs 
Jerome in her night clothes, hysterical, being held back by 
the post-mistress and Mrs Fisher.

Jeromes building is ON FIRE.

Gerald Hardy, PC Collins, Fisher and the other village men 
we met earlier fruitlessly throw PAILS OF WATER onto the 
blaze and run off to fetch more. Other BYSTANDERS look on.

             MRS JEROME 
      LUCY!!

Arthurs face reveals his horrible dawning realization. 

He rushes towards the house and down the steps into the 
thick smoke choking from the burning cellar below. 

INT/EXT. JEROMES CELLAR. NIGHT.

Arthur fights his way through the smoke, a HANDKERCHIEF 
clamped over his mouth. He pulls open the cellar door.

Inside, the wood-beamed ceiling is on fire, fed by a tower 
of flames issuing from what seems to be a sizeable BONFIRE 
in the centre of the room. 

Through the smoke and heat-haze, Arthur can just make out 
the pale girl, Jeromes daughter, motionless, in a corner.

             ARTHUR
      Oh my god... 

The girl watches as Arthur inches closer.  

             ARTHUR
      Dont be afraid... Come to me... 

He reaches his hand out to her. The girl takes a single 
step forward, eyes still trained on Arthur.

             ARTHUR
      Thats it, come on! Come to me! 

Closer now, Arthur can clearly see the source of the fire: 
the bed has been dragged to the centre of the room, other 
furniture has been piled on top of it, and all of it has 
been set alight. This was no accident. The girl did this. 

Arthur struggles to take in what he is seeing. He looks 
back to the girl, meeting her calm, unemotional gaze.

As Arthur tries to comprehend this, the girls eyes finally 
leave his and she looks to the opposite side of the room.

Arthur snaps his head round to see:

The Woman in Black. She gives the child a firm nod. 

Arthur watches in mute horror as the girl nods back... 

Then, slowly, purposefully, launches herself onto the pyre.

             ARTHUR
      NO!!

He runs forward but is beaten back by the heat and smoke. 
We share Arthurs dreadful POV as shes consumed by flames.

A beam crashes down from above and catches light. The 
ceiling is coming down. 

Arthur turns and runs for the door.

EXT. JEROMES OFFICE. DAY.

Daily helps Arthur up the stairs to safety, as Arthur gasps 
for air. 

From inside, a colossal CRASH as the ceiling collapses.

They reach street level just in time to see Keckwick 
emerging from the front door of the burning building, 
dragging a semi-conscious Jerome.

A still-hysterical Mrs Jerome and several others rush over. 

Mrs Fisher walks toward Arthur instead. She opens her mouth 
to speak, but before she can, Fisher seizes her arm and 
pulls her away.

Fisher says something to her that we cant hear above the 
noise, and she shouts something back that makes him angrily 
release her arm and walk away to Jeromes side. 

She follows, but looks back at Arthur with sorrow.

Coming round, Jerome surveys the crowd groggily, but when 
his gaze finds Arthur, his expression hardens. 

When he speaks, his voice is cracked and altered, rasping 
through scorched lungs.

             JEROME
      See what... youve... done?!

Mrs Jerome continues to scream. 

INT. DAILYS HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur removes his blackened jacket and hangs it on the 
back of a chair, then - a thought - he digs into the inner 
pocket. He is relieved to find Edwards calendar undamaged. 

It is open to the page marked Thursday. 

There is a knock at the door. 

             DAILY
      Arthur?

Arthur opens the door to find Daily holding a cup of cocoa.

             DAILY
      Just wanted to see if you were 
      alright. Brought you this, too, 
      if you want it.  

Slightly embarrassed, Daily hands Arthur the cup. He takes 
it silently and sits down on the bed, still shell-shocked. 

             DAILY
      Always used to give Nicholas 
      cocoa when things were bad.
        (attempting levity)
      I put some rum in yours, though.

Arthur puts the cup down loudly on the nightstand and 
explodes, unable to keep up this pretence at normality.

             ARTHUR
      She was there, Sam. The Woman in 
      Black. 

Daily bristles.

             DAILY
      For gods sake! You said yourself 
      the girl started the fire. Being 
      locked down there must have 
      driven her out of her mind.


             ARTHUR
      No. I dont think shed been down 
      there that long... Just since I 
      arrived. Threatening to disturb 
      the status quo... Jerome was 
      trying to keep her safe.

Dailys expression suggests that Arthur is onto something.

             DAILY
      God only knows what nonsense that 
      madman believes. 

             ARTHUR
      You heard what he said to me.

Daily stands up, distraught and irate.

             DAILY
      If you want to discuss old wives 
      tales, Arthur, find yourself an 
      old wife! 

Arthur opens his mouth to protest, but Daily is already 
gone, storming out of the room, slamming the door behind 
him, leaving Arthur stunned and alone.  

He lies on the bed, more confused and troubled than ever...

MONTAGE - 

Queasy flash cuts as Arthur remembers:

- the nursery room at the Gifford Arms the with the old 
rocking horse hidden under it's sheet

- Gerald Hardy pulling his children away from the fence

- riding past the empty school with Keckwick. This time we 
linger on the deserted building, the rusted PADLOCK on the 
gates, the dilapidated SCHOOL SIGN overgrown with ivy.

- the market day crowd with it's weathered old faces and 
not a child in sight.

- the very young children at the window, barricaded indoors 

- Jeromes daughter scuttling away from the cellar door

- Victoria Hardy and the other ghostly children lit by 
lightning in the storm.

- Daily showing him the school photograph.

- The row of graves in the churchyard. We now see clearly 
that all of them belong to children, and all share the same 
date of death - January 23rd 1872.


INT. DAILYS HOUSE - BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Arthur sits up bolt upright with a feverish gasp of breath.

EXT. DAILY'S HOUSE - GROUNDS. NIGHT.

Arthur stumbles through the grounds and enters the avenue 
of trees, the Dailys mausoleum in his sights at the end of 
it, bone-white against the darkness.

EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Arthur runs to the engraved EPITAPH, his eyes darting to 
the last line where he finds exactly what he expected: 

- JANUARY 23RD 1872. 

Arthur runs his fingers over the letters, then turns 
urgently, ready to run back to the house...

...only to find Mrs Daily standing a few feet away in her 
nightclothes, watching him. Arthur reacts in shock.

             MRS DAILY
      I didnt mean to give you a 
      start, Mr Kipps. 

Collecting himself now, Arthur faces her, determined.

             ARTHUR
      What happened to your son, Mrs 
      Daily? Your son, and the other 
      children. 

             MRS DAILY
      An accident. On the marshes.

             ARTHUR
      An accident. 

             MRS DAILY
      Yes...

             ARTHUR
      She was there tonight, Mrs Daily. 
      At Jeromes daughters side.
        (a beat)
      You know who I mean, dont you.

Mrs Daily nods. A silence as she absorbs this. And then: 

             MRS DAILY
      It was the day of her funeral. We 
      were all there. 

EXT. EEL MARSH GRAVEYARD/GROUNDS. DAY.

The VILLAGERS of Crythin Gifford are in their mourning 
clothes, gathered at the side of an OPEN GRAVE. A VICAR 
reads from the book of common prayer.

             VICAR 
      ...to mourn the passing of Jennet 
      Humfrye...

We move along the mourners, including the YOUNG MR DAILY 
and Young Mrs Daily, Mrs Drablow and her HUSBAND, the Red 
Haired Man and his WIFE. 

             VICAR
      ...he flee-eth as it were a 
      shadow, and never continueth in 
      one stay. In the midst of life we 
      are in death... 

The mourners stand with their heads bowed, not noticing 
that the CHILDREN present - including Nicholas Daily and 
the Red-Haired Girl - are silently moving, as one, almost 
trance-like, away from the grave-side congregation.

             VICAR
      ...of whom may we seek for 
      succor, but of thee, o Lord, who 
      for our sins art justly 
      displeased? 

Now, one by one, the adults notice first the departure of 
the children, and then react in wordless shock as they see: 

At the edge of the marshes stands the unmistakable spectre 
of Jennet Humfrye, the woman in black.  

The black-clad children move towards her en-masse. 

Back at the grave-side the Vicar continues, unaware 

             VICAR
      ...deliver us not into the bitter 
      pains of eternal death...

Disbelief and propriety has prevented any reaction until 
now, but the young Mrs Daily can fight her panic no more. 

             YOUNG MRS DAILY
      Nicholas!!

The Vicar looks up in shock at the interruption, but then 
turns his gaze to the marshes, along with everyone else.

The group of children are now on the causeway, following 
the woman in black as she walks toward the mainland. 


             YOUNG MRS DAILY
      Nicholas! Come back! 

The Red-Haired Man looks around, looks to his wife and now 
both start to join in the shouting.

    RED HAIRED MAN
Polly!!

WIFE 
Come back here!

             YOUNG MR DAILY
      Nicholas!!

Suddenly, chaos. Other parents begin frantically to call 
out childrens names, and swarm toward the marshes.

Now the shouting of names is supplemented by SCREAMING and 
CRIES OF DISMAY, and the parents are beginning to run.

And we see that, without warning, at preternatural speed, 
the tide has started to come in. 

EXT. MARSHES. DAY.

Young Daily, The Red Haired Man and a couple of other 
desperate fathers leap into the icy water. Still the women 
scream. But there is no longer any sign of the children. 

The sound is dipped over this mayhem.

             MRS DAILY
      Had to wait til the tide went 
      out again before the bodies could 
      be retrieved. Some were lost to 
      the marshes. We were among the 
      lucky ones. Able to have a proper 
      burial.

EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Arthur leans against the mausoleum, lost for words.

             MRS DAILY 
      Shes trapped, Mr Kipps. Looking 
      for her son, never finding him. 
      Full of vengeance towards any who 
      have what she doesnt.
        (a beat)
      And tonight she claimed another 
      soul.

             ARTHUR
      Jerome blamed me.

             MRS DAILY
      He blamed you just as he had 
      always blamed himself. 


             ARTHUR
      For what? 

             MRS DAILY
      Not listening to the others. Not 
      staying away. Ten years without a 
      tragedy, until he took over his 
      fathers business.

             ARTHUR
      ...And tried to sell Eel Marsh.

             MRS DAILY
      Took buyers from all over the 
      county. She was there, of course, 
      as she always was. Then he 
      believed. But it was too late. 
      Its always too late. 

             ARTHUR
        (dawning realisation)
      Theyd seen her. Just as I did.  

             MRS DAILY
      If shes seen, shell strike 
      before the next sunset. Within 
      weeks, they were all gone.

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ATTIC ROOM. DAY

The scene we saw at the start: The three little girls climb 
onto the window seat and stand in the frame of the open 
window, silhouetted against the bright sky.

They jump. 

EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

The puzzle pieces in Arthurs mind are falling into place.

             ARTHUR
      The Fishers daughters.

Mrs Daily nods.

             MRS DAILY
      Keckwicks son... Jeromes own 
      firstborn... Every child in 
      Crythin Gifford that had escaped 
      the first tragedy, or had been 
      born since... 

             ARTHUR
      They all died?

             MRS DAILY
      Oh its far worse than that, Mr 
      Kipps. 

Mrs Daily turns away, her breathing becoming uneven. 

             MRS DAILY
      She leads them to their demise... 

INT. JEROMES CELLAR. NIGHT.

The Woman in Black, through the flames and smoke, nodding 
to Jeromes daughter.

INT. GIFFORD ARMS - ATTIC ROOM. DAY

The Woman in Black, her back to us as the three little 
girls look up from their tea party to see her there.

EXT. HARDY FAMILY FRONT GARDEN. DAY.

Victoria Hardy crouches by a wooden WASH TUB as her 
brothers play nearby, oblivious. 

She reaches for a TIN OF LYE. Looks up, as if for approval. 

The Woman in Black stands over her. 

Calmly, Victoria tilts her head back and brings the tin to 
her lips.

EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Mrs Daily continues.

             MRS DAILY
      And at the moment of passing, she 
      lures them away from the light.

INT. POLICE STATION. DAY.

Arthur kneels on the ground holding Victoria Hardy. Bloody 
vomit stains her chin and the front of her dress.

She stares straight at him, even as her eyes take on the 
milky glaze of death. 

             ARTHUR
      No! Someone, please! Please help! 

But now we see that, unbeknownst to Arthur, the Woman in 
Black is standing right behind him, her hand extended.


EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Mrs Daily, her back still to Arthur, pats the mausoleum.

             MRS DAILY
      Nicholass body lies within these 
      walls. But hes not here.

EXT. EEL MARSH ISLAND. NIGHT. 

Lightning illuminates the wraithlike children on the marsh. 
Close, and in horrible detail, as Arthur last saw them.

EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. NIGHT.

Mrs Daily is still facing the mausoleum, panting fast now. 
Arthurs breathing quickens too, in panic.

             ARTHUR
      She keeps them with her. 

             MRS DAILY
        (her voice strange now)
      Out on the marshes. Between 
      worlds. 

             ARTHUR
      Mrs Daily... 

Arthur gently - nervously - lays his hand on her shoulder. 
She turns sharply and we see: her eyes have rolled back. 
Her hands in stiff claws. Shes having another episode.

             ARTHUR
      Mrs Daily! 

She bends and begins to scrabble on the ground. Then she 
triumphantly, maniacally rises holding a piece of FLINT. 

Arthur reaches out and tries to calm her, but she struggles 
free and begins to scribble and scratch crazily with the 
flint on the side of the mausoleum. 

He turns and runs into the avenue of trees, shouting ahead.

             ARTHUR
      Mr Daily! Sam!

EXT. DAILYS HOUSE. NIGHT.

As Arthur nears the house, he is met by Mr Daily and the 
Butler, both in nightshirts, already running towards him.

             ARTHUR
      Sam! 


EXT. DAILYS MAUSOLEUM. DAWN.

Mr Daily struggles to hold his wife while the Butler 
attempts to administer medication. Arthur stands back 
awkwardly, wanting to help too, but having to dodge Mrs 
Dailys flailing arms and legs.

Finally, the butler gives her a slug of the medication, and 
she relaxes into Dailys arms. He lifts her up and begins 
to stagger down the avenue of trees, towards the house. 

Arthur follows behind them. Silence now, just the birds 
beginning to sing as the sky lightens a little behind the 
trees.

Arthur turns to look back at the mausoleum. He stops, 
paralysed by what he sees:

On the side of the mausoleum, clearly visible now in the 
growing light, is the word FRIDAY. And drawn above it in a 
childlike style: a man, a child, a train. 

A perfect replica of the final page of Edward's calendar. 

INT. DAILY'S HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. DAWN.

Arthur knocks urgently on the door to Mrs Dailys bedroom, 
agitated, desperate. 

             ARTHUR
      Sam... I must speak with you.

INT./EXT. DAILYS CAR/COUNTRY LANES. DAWN.

Theres a purposeful air to proceedings as Arthur and Daily 
drive fast down the lane that leads to Jeromes street. 

Arthur has his pocket watch open in his hand.

             ARTHUR
      As long as the telegram reaches 
      my house no later than half past 
      nine... Theyll not leave before 
      then, Im sure.

             DAILY
      And the post office opens at half 
      past eight, so providing there 
      are no delays at the London end - 

Arthurs anger has been simmering beneath his fear; hearing 
Dailys undisguised concern brings it to a sudden boil. 

             ARTHUR
      How could you do it, Sam? Knowing 
      I had a son! 

             ARTHUR
      How could you take me to Eel 
      Marsh if there was even a small 
      part of you that feared the 
      stories were true?

             DAILY
      I never believed.

             ARTHUR
      You didnt want to. Theres a 
      difference. 

They turn into Jeromes street.

             DAILY
      I can know that Nicholas is in a 
      better place, waiting for us to 
      one day be reunited. Or that he 
      is lost. Which would you choose?

             ARTHUR
      Forgive me, Sam, but... my son is 
      alive! How could I chance that by 
      letting him come here, I might 
      condemn him to death? 

Daily doesnt reply. His attention is on something outside. 
He stops the car, and his head slumps against the window.

             ARTHUR
      Sam?

Now Arthur sees it too. He reacts in utter defeat.

EXT. POST OFFICE. DAY.

The Post office, located right next to Jeromes office, has 
been entirely gutted in last nights fire. 

INT. DAILYS CAR. DAY.

The two men sit in the stationary car. Now what?

             DAILY
      The next village is more than an 
      hour away.

Arthur looks down at his watch. First at the clock face, 
and then at Stellas portrait. He stares at it, the 
reminder of his first loss almost too much to bear in the 
face of the unthinkable prospect of another.

Daily just stares straight ahead. The grimmest of silences. 

And then Arthurs expression changes: hes had an idea. 


             ARTHUR
      We cant stop Edward... So we 
      must stop her... If we can 
      reunite Jennet Humfrye with her 
      son, perhaps shell finally be at 
      peace. 
        (off his silence)
      Im not asking you to change your 
      beliefs. Im talking about a 
      proper burial. 

             DAILY
      Arthur, if every man-jack before 
      us failed to recover his body, 
      how in gods name do you think 
      well now succeed?

             ARTHUR
      Because you have something that 
      the others never did. 

EXT. DAILYS CAR/NINE LIVES CAUSEWAY. DAY.

The car has stopped, its engine idling, and Arthur is tying 
a length of ROPE to the rear bumper. He tugs at it to test 
the strength of his knot, then gives Daily - still seated 
in the drivers seat - a nod. 

Now, holding the lose end of the rope in one hand, Arthur 
gingerly steps first one foot, then the other, off the 
causeway and onto the marsh. 

Immediately, he begins to sink. Panicking, he leaps back 
onto the causeway.

Determined, he steps off again and this time begins to run, 
his feet in contact with the ground as briefly as possible.  

Bar a couple of dicey moments, he successfully reaches the 
large wooden cross.

Even as he clings to it, however, he begins to sink. He 
waves to Daily, putting on a brave face. 

Daily waves back, but cant hide his anxiety.

Arthur is now knee deep in the marsh, and we realise that 
he is deliberately allowing himself to be drawn down.

He begins to flounder in the mud, clutching the rope, 
plunging his free hand beneath the surface and scrabbling 
urgently to feel for any sign of the pony trap.

Lower and lower Arthur goes, at a frightening speed - thigh-
deep, waist-deep, chest deep - fighting to stay calm, 
feeling around for anything solid beneath him.


Finally, his face lights up.

             ARTHUR
      Sam! I feel it! Its beneath my 
      feet!

Arthurs arms and shoulders vanish into the mud. He tips 
his head back, taking a few last deep breaths.

And finally, Arthurs head disappears from view. 

INT. DAILYS CAR. DAY.

From behind the wheel, Daily looks back over his shoulder, 
watching, desperate. 

After a short time that still feels too long, he turns 
back, shifts the gear-stick and begins to drive.

WHINES of straining protest issue from the engine. 

EXT. DAILYS CAR/NINE LIVES CAUSEWAY. DAY.

The engine continues to whine as the rope becomes taut.

At last, Arthur emerges from the marsh, coated entirely in 
mud, clinging to the rope, choking for breath. 

Suddenly, he begins to sink again.

             ARTHUR
      Keep driving!

Even from this distance the noise from the engine is loud, 
and clearly not healthy. But the car continues to creep 
forward, although we sense it can barely take the strain. 

Finally, the other end of the rope emerges from the mud, 
and we see a KNOT, tied around the brace of A TRAP. 

             ARTHUR
      Dont stop!

The wheels on the automobile begin to spin, losing traction 
as the weight becomes too much...

But with another burst of acceleration, the front end of 
the trap rises from the marsh. A nightmarish contraption, 
rotted and skeletal, silhouetted against the wide open sky.

Arthur - and, back behind the wheel, Daily - stare at it in 
horror and awe.

Arthur clambers on to it, leans in, and shouts at Daily to 
continue, but now the wheels are just grinding fruitlessly.


             ARTHUR
      Can you go any further?

             DAILY
      The pedal is on the floor! I 
      dont think she can take any more 
      weight!

But there is one last burst of acceleration...

The trap rises again... And, inches from Arthur, a HUMAN 
HEAD emerges from the marsh surface! It is alarmingly well-
preserved by the conditions in the marsh, almost mummified 
beneath the layer of mud.

Arthur startles, but composes himself and calls to Daily.

             ARTHUR
      I think Ive found Keckwick 
      Senior...

The wheels continue to spin, the engine howls and clanks 
and white smoke begins to billow from beneath the bonnet.

             DAILY
      I cant hear you! The engine is 
      overheating!

             ARTHUR
      Turn it off! And apply the brake!

Daily complies.

There is silence now on the marsh. Arthur plunges his arms 
into the mud, feeling urgently for any sign of the boy. 

Presently, we realise that the trap is beginning to sink 
back into the marsh, and the car is slowly being dragged 
backwards by its weight. 

             ARTHUR
      I said apply the brake!

             DAILY
      I have! Youre going to have to 
      hurry! 

We intercut between the car rolling slowly backwards and 
Arthur's efforts on the sinking trap until finally, with 
little time to spare, Arthur grasps something beneath the 
surface...

With effort, he hauls out the remains of Jennet's son. 

Besides his stillness, the boy looks much like the mud-
covered child we saw in the house, and Arthur struggles to 
fight his fear as he gently holds the little body.


The car continues to drift backwards, closer and closer to 
the marsh, pulled by the weight of the sinking trap. 

Cradling the boy with one arm, Arthur hauls his way along 
the rope, back towards the safety of the causeway. 

He takes a heavy, muddy step out of the marshes and onto 
the road just in time to turn back and see...

The trap, sinking back into the marsh. Without a trace. 

The rope slack again, the car comes to a stop and Daily 
climbs out. He recoils at the sight of the child. 

Arthur looks down at the boy in his arms, then looks up at 
Daily, tears in his eyes. For a while, neither man speaks. 

A light mist is beginning to descend. Daily looks around.

             DAILY
      Theres a fret brewing. Best get 
      off the causeway while we can.

             ARTHUR
      We should get him indoors in any 
      case. Clean him up. 

             DAILY
      You could do with a bit of spit 
      and polish yourself. 

Both men try to smile at Dailys attempt at jocularity, but 
find it to be nearly impossible.  

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. DAY.

The boy wrapped in his coat, Arthur mounts the stairs 
followed by Daily, who carries Arthurs spare CLOTHES.

             ARTHUR
      Youd best start digging the 
      plot. We need to be at the 
      station in an hour. Do you have 
      my clothes? 

Arthur turns to get them, but Daily is no longer following. 

He has stopped, shoulders slumped, arms limp by his side. 
Hes staring at the school photograph on the wall.

             ARTHUR
      Sam?

Daily looks over, and hands him the clothes. 

Almost immediately, he looks back to the picture again 
before finally, reluctantly tearing himself away. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BATHROOM. DAY. 

Arthur - now clean, and wearing his clean clothes, his hair 
wet - holds the boy in his arms beside a BATH full of 
water. 

He tips the boy back into the water, their position a 
poignant visual reminder of Arthurs more boisterous 
earlier play with his own son.

Gently, Arthur uses a WASHCLOTH to sponge the mud from the 
childs hair and face.

The boys eyes are closed, and as the mud washes away, it 
becomes apparent just how well the conditions in the marsh 
have kept him preserved over the years. 

Arthur stares at him with a mixture of sadness and fear.

Besides his bronzed, leathery skin, he looks like any 
regular little boy, asleep. We linger on his face, and may 
fearfully wonder if his eyes will open. But he remains 
motionless. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY

Arthur carries the boy - wrapped entirely in a clean sheet, 
face covered - into the room and lays him on the bed. 

             ARTHUR
        (to the boy, whispering)
      Nearly time now.

Suddenly, from downstairs, there is a loud BANG - the sound 
of the front door being flung open. 

             ARTHUR
        (calling downstairs)
      Sam?

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. DAY.

Arthur scrambles down the stairs and is shocked to see 
Daily sitting at the foot of the stairs, his back to him. 

Something is clearly wrong. Arthur slows and steps toward 
him with some trepidation. 

             ARTHUR
      Sam? 

Still Daily doesnt turn round. 

Arthur touches his shoulder and finally Daily looks up at 
him. His face is wet with tears.

EXT. EEL MARSH ISLAND. DAY.

The fret is thick now out here, visibility low, as the two 
men crunch down the gravel drive, Arthur following Daily. 

In the distance, we faintly hear childrens voices.

Daily stops at the edge of the causeway, and the two men 
stand silently side by side.

Out on the marshes, we can see the faintly silhouetted 
forms of the spectral children in the mist. 

Arthur touches Dailys shoulder.

             ARTHUR
      Perhaps... When she is at rest. 
      Maybe then. Maybe when she has 
      her boy, she can let them go.  

Daily nods, wipes his eyes angrily. He forces a smile.

             DAILY
      Well... What the hell are we 
      waiting for? Ill finish digging, 
      you fetch the child. 

EXT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL. DAY

Arthur steps inside, shivering from the chill of the mist, 
and shuts the door behind him. Almost instantly, he hears, 
from upstairs, the sound of the rocking chair.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALL. DAY.

The sound is louder up here, its dull heartbeat rhythm 
striking fear into Arthur. He glances at the closed door to 
the nursery, but heads directly for the bedroom. 

As he gets closer, he stops and reacts in dismay. 

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - BEDROOM. DAY.

The bed is empty. The child has gone. 

Arthur sits down heavily on the bed, filled with rising 
fear. The sound of the rocking chair continues.

His expression turns of one of total dread as he sees:

Stretched across the small section of hallway floor visible 
through the open doorway is a long, thin SHADOW. Without 
limbs or form, but undoubtedly belonging to something 
alive. Theres something deeply disquieting about the way 
it undulates, then stops. Undulates, then stops.


INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - UPPER HALLWAY. DAY

Arthur steps into the hall, dreading what hell find. 

At the far end of the corridor, the end opposite the 
nursery, stands a small figure shrouded in a sheet. 
Motionless. And then slowly twisting and writhing.

Still again, then moving. A small hand paws at the inside 
of the sheet.

The sound of the rocking chair slows.

Arthur looks to the nursery door, then back to the child.

             ARTHUR
      Go to her. 

The shrouded child writhes again, and begins to move 
towards Arthur. 

The sound of the rocking chair slows, almost to a stop. 

The handle of the nursery door turns from inside.

             ARTHUR
        (toward the nursery)
      Hes here! I want to help you! 

Arthur backs up against the wall and watches as the 
shrouded child shuffles strangely down the hallway, a 
horrible deformed stiffness to his movements.

Arthur jumps as - BANG - the nursery door is flung open. 
But theres no one in the doorway.

             ARTHUR
      I dont mean any harm! I want you 
      to be together! Take him!

He turns back to the boy, only to see:

Hes gone. In this direction, the hallway is now empty.

Arthur wheels back round in the other direction...

The Woman in Black! Somehow, impossibly, she is now right 
behind him, lunging at him! 

At this close distance, we can see through her veil, 
revealing her face in all its terrible eyeless, lipless, 
teeth-baring glory as she SCREAMS in anger. 

In abject terror, Arthur breaks away. The stairway blocked 
by the woman, he takes the only escape route now open to 
him: he throws himself over the balustrade.


INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - STAIRCASE. DAY.
Arthur lands on the stairs, falls down the remaining steps.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL. DAY.

...And lands at the foot of the stairs in the hall, 
unconscious.

We fade to black.

INT. EEL MARSH HOUSE - ENTRANCE HALL. DAY.

From Arthurs POV, we see Dailys worried face.

             DAILY
      Arthur! What happened? 

Arthur comes round groggily, sits up. 

             ARTHUR
      She was here! And the boy has 
      gone! Looking for him and never 
      finding him - thats what your 
      wife said. Jennets in her own 
      purgatory. They cant be 
      together. 

             DAILY
      But... we have to try! We dont 
      have much time left!

             ARTHUR
      I said hes gone, Sam! The boys 
      gone!

Daily looks at him, perplexed, then looks upstairs. Arthur 
follows his gaze. 

Through the open door of the bedroom, we can see that the 
shrouded body is now back on the bed.

EXT. EEL MARSH GRAVEYARD. DAY.

Arthur and Daily stand in the mist before Jennet Humfrye's 
headstone, Arthur cradling the shrouded body of her son. 

At the foot of the headstone there is now an OPEN GRAVE. 
Beside it, a pile of DIRT and a discarded SPADE. 

As we follow Arthurs gaze into the hole, we see that 
Jennet's CASKET is visible. 

Arthur hands the child to Daily and jumps down into the 
darkness of the grave.

EXT. OPEN GRAVE. DAY.

Straddling the casket, Arthur pries open its lid. 

Inside we see JENNETS REMAINS - just bones now, and shreds 
of her tattered black mourning gown and veil. 

Daily hands the boy down to Arthur, who places the child 
gently into the coffin beside his mother.

One last look, then he replaces the coffin lid. 

EXT. EEL MARSH GRAVEYARD. DAY.

Arthur and Daily stand by the now re-filled plot, their 
devastating task complete. 

Silence now, besides the wind in the trees and the strange 
calls of the marsh birds. Arthur bows his head.

             ARTHUR
      May you rest in peace at last, 
      Nathaniel.
        (pointed)
      And you, Jennet. You most 
      especially. 

Daily nods in agreement. Pats Arthur awkwardly on the back. 
Arthur acknowledges him with a grateful smile. 

             ARTHUR
      The frets starting to clear. We 
      should get to the station. 

EXT. STATION - PLATFORM 1. DAY.

The SHRIEK of a train whistle as Arthur stands on the 
station platform watching the London train pull in. 

As the train grinds to a stop and PASSENGERS begin to spill 
out, Arthur scans the platform urgently.

Finally, not far away, he spots Nanny, standing beside two 
SUITCASES, carrying Edward. 

He runs to them and takes Edward into his arms, hugging him 
close, flooded with love and relief.

             ARTHUR
      My darling, darling boy. 

A dawning sense that something is wrong, but it takes him a 
moment to notice the concerned expression on Nannys face. 

             ARTHUR
      What is it?


             NANNY
      He... On the journey - he got 
      worse. I cant wake him up... We 
      need... Is there a doctor in 
      Crythin Gifford?

Arthur gently moves Edward away to take a better look. 

The child is asleep, his lips colourless and his skin pale, 
with a sheen of sweat. He looks desperately unwell.

             ARTHUR
        (rising panic)
      No! Not here! He shouldnt be 
      here! We need to get away from 
      Crythin Gifford. If we can just 
      get away, hell be fine!  

Arthur hurries towards the BRIDGE that leads to the 
opposite platform. Nanny dashes after him.

             NANNY
      I dont understand! Where are we -

             ARTHUR
      The other platform! The train 
      returning to London arrives in 
      five minutes!

Nanny looks back at the abandoned suitcases, then runs on. 

EXT. RAILWAY BRIDGE. DAY.

Arthur sprints across the bridge, whispering to the limp 
child.

             ARTHUR
      Its alright. Were going home. 

Nanny stays in close pursuit, out of breath. She follows 
Arthur down the steps and onto the opposite platform.

EXT. STATION - PLATFORM 2. DAY. 

Arthur stands on the platform, cradling Edward, looking 
urgently into the distance for any sign of their train. 

He touches the back of his hand to the boys forehead, 
tries to suppress his panic at its temperature. 

He loosens the boys collar, fans him.

Nanny finally catches up to Arthur, breathless. 

             NANNY
      How is he?



             ARTHUR
      Hot. Burning up. 

He looks at his pocket-watch. 

             NANNY
      Will I buy some tickets and have 
      a porter fetch the bags over? 

In his turmoil, this hadnt occurred to Arthur. He nods. 
Fishes some COINS from his pocket and hands them to her. 
She dashes back to the bridge. Arthur whispers to Edward.

             ARTHUR
      Daddys going to take you away 
      from here. Youre going to be 
      fine. 

The train whistle SHRIEKS again and STEAM billows and 
drifts as the train begins to pull out of the station. 

Through the windows of the departing train, we see rhythmic 
flashed images of the now-empty platform opposite, 
interrupted by the gleaming bodywork of the carriages:

Platform - carriage - platform - carriage - platform - 
carriage... 

Through the next window that flashes past, however, we see 
that the platform opposite is no longer empty. The familiar 
flock of spectral children stand huddled together. 
(Including now the burned figure of Jerome's daughter).

Carriage - children - carriage - children...

Arthur squeezes his eyes shut and hugs Edward close to him, 
willing this nightmare away. He shouts his protest over the 
HISSING and CLANKING of the departing train.

             ARTHUR
      NO!

Arthur keeps his eyes closed, clutching Edward tightly as 
the sound of the train recedes into the distance. 

             ARTHUR
        (muttering, mantra-like)
      Not here. Theyre not here. 

Silence now in the empty station, but for Arthurs fevered 
muttering.

And then, from the bridge, the echoing FOOTFALLS of a 
womans light step. 

It could be Nanny. But Arthur knows its not. Despite 
himself, he opens his eyes and looks up.

The Woman in Black stops on the middle of the bridge and 
raises her hand.

Arthur looks down. Edwards eyes open and, with a quick, 
deliberate turn of his head, the boy looks to the bridge.   

             ARTHUR
      Edward...

The Woman in Black is holding her hand out.  

Edward, now fully awake, pushes Arthurs arms and wriggles 
energetically from his grasp. 

             ARTHUR
      No!

Edward - all trace of fatigue and illness vanished - begins 
to move fast away from Arthur and toward the bridge. 

Arthur lunges forward and grabs the back of the childs 
coat. Edward just shrugs the coat off and keeps moving.

Arthur throws the coat to the ground and begins to sprint 
after him. His far-longer legs mean that hes quickly able 
to catch up. He snatches Edward back into his arms and 
presses him to his chest.. 

Arthur looks up at the Woman in Black and doesnt look away 
from her as he begins to walk towards the edge of the 
platform.

We follow him as, with calm determination, he jumps down 
onto the track. 

He fixes his gaze ahead and begins to walk down the track.

From somewhere O.C., we faintly hear a woman SCREAM. 

Its Nanny. Back on platform two, she stands watching, 
confused and hysterical, an equally horrified PORTER 
standing by her side. 


             NANNY
      Mr Kipps!
    
             PORTER
      Sir! Sir! 

But their voices are soon drowned out by the incrementally 
louder sound of the approaching train to London. 

Arthur keeps walking, clutching Edward tightly to him. The 
sounds of the train and the shouting muted. Peace now, the 
everyday world far away.


A smile spreads across Arthurs face - a smile of triumph 
and defiance. He looks up at the Woman in Black again and 
shakes his head at her slowly.   

             ARTHUR
      Hes mine. He can never be yours. 

Without warning, the sound returns to a normal level again -  
a piercing WHISTLE, the thunder of WHEELS, a METALLIC 
SCREECH of brakes. 

A STEAM TRAIN is coming toward us at speed, upon us in a 
second. But only for a moment. 

INT. TRAIN DRIVERS CAB. DAY.

Inside, at the front of the train, the deafening noise 
level sustains as the TRAIN DRIVER, his face a mask of pure 
panic, wrestles the BRAKE LEVER with both hands.

EXT. STATION. DAY. 

Silence. As jarring in its suddenness as any noise. 

Arthur stands in front of the now stationary train, still 
holding Edward. Both unharmed. The train just feet away. 

Edward looks around, and finally up at Arthur, who smiles. 

             EDWARD
      Daddy?

             ARTHUR
      Yes, my darling?

             EDWARD
      Whos that lady?

Edwards little finger points over toward platform one.

Slowly, and with a sense of dread, Arthur follows Edwards 
gaze... And we watch as Arthurs expression of fear melts 
away, replaced by a moist-eyed smile.

             ARTHUR
      That... is your Mummy.

Arthur begins to walk towards platform one. OS, as we watch 
Arthurs face, we hear a soft womans voice. Stellas 
voice.

             STELLA
      Hello, angel.

Back on platform two we see...


Nanny, the porter, the train driver and a STATION MASTER 
crowded at the edge of the platform, reacting in horror. 

But the lips of the living move soundlessly, unheard by 
Arthur, or by us. 

Arthur looks away again and begins to walk towards a set of 
maintenance steps that lead to platform one. 

             EDWARD
      Do you have to go to work again?

             ARTHUR
      No.

             EDWARD
      So you can stay with me?

             ARTHUR
      Always.

Edward smiles and nestles into Arthurs neck as they mount 
the steps. 

The closer they get to the platform, the more strongly they 
are bathed in a soft WHITE LIGHT.

Though we dont see it directly, it becomes clear that this 
light is pouring through the archway that once opened onto 
the street outside the station, but which now leads to some 
powerful, otherworldly light-source. 

On the platform, the light dazzling him, Arthur hesitates. 
Edward wriggles impatiently.

             EDWARD
      Come on, Daddy! Mummys waiting!

Arthur carefully sets him down on the platform.

             ARTHUR
      Go to her. Ill follow. Theres 
      something I need to do.

Edward smiles at him and trots happily away. 

Arthur watches him go, then looks back over his shoulder.

On the bridge, the Woman in Black claws off her veil and 
opens her mouth in a soundless scream of dissent. 

Arthur turns away from her, then crouches down to child- 
height and holds out his hand. 

Further down the platform, the dead children wait. Lost.


             ARTHUR
        (fatherly, coaxing)
      Come with me... Come on.

Slowly, they begin to move towards him, and the light. 

The Woman in Black, still screaming silently, moves down 
the stairs of the bridge and onto the platform, her arms 
reaching out in protest.

But when she gets close enough for the light to fall on 
her, she begins to shrink back, afraid of getting too near. 
She clutches at the side of the station building, as if to 
stop herself being drawn any closer. Instead, she can only 
watch helplessly...

Like a kindly teacher, Arthur ushers each child past him. 
Victoria Hardy. Jeromes daughter. Nicholas Daily - his 
hair and clothes wet - pauses and looks up at Arthur.

             ARTHUR
      Nicholas? Nicholas Daily?

The boy nods. 

             ARTHUR
      Thank you for the pictures. You 
      knew Id be here, didnt you?

He nods again, and gives Arthur a small smile as he walks 
on towards the light. 

The three Fisher girls, holding hands sweetly, are the last 
to vanish into the whiteness. Alone on the platform now, 
Arthur looks back one last time at the Woman in Black.

A beat. And then, in a moment of humane forgiveness, he 
holds out his hand to her. An invitation to walk into the 
light and be free, an end to all of this. 

She cocks her head a moment, as if considering it, then, 
with a malevolent look on her face, she turns her back on 
Arthur and walks away.  

Arthur watches her go. Then he walks towards the light. 

We follow him, seeing for the first time the burning 
whiteness beyond the archway. 

Arthur moves into it, his form becoming less distinct the 
further away he walks, until, finally, he disappears from 
sight.  

FADE TO WHITE.

